

m
CHAMPAGNE.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
107 Kloira/fc
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDER S’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Stx-oot, Sydney,
—FOR—
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
9
Mining
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Requisites,
JLKMMB
Sawing Wood-Working Machinery
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BAND MILLS HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD.
. 1 ‘'‘'l/.\
Pitt St
Most Up-to-Date
all Pi
end for Pri
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLIPS GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THORNE’S
HI WHISKY
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
A POLICY FOE THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
j.' rice -isr iP'ess'fc Free.
Sole Wholesale Agents : EIJ YARDS DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
I
BCOBAIR.T,
ffirX
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
Watch Repairs by Post
gp
W ATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. fid.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit's!! sights. Send for catalogue.
0. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
c
to
X
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOV KG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprismo- .Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Start Dance (a book ound and can be .carried invest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondvke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can he
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Georjre-steeet, SYDNEY.
H. L.. HUTCHINSON, Manasrer.
(Mention this paper when writing.
X
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
IXT York-street, R ILDUS Y.
Branches P. Frankel & Co., EchvanJ-st., Brisbane, Q. -
H. Summers, Barrack-st.,'Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Kvsh and
Co., Oollins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter&Co., Auckland :
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch. N.Z.
u np
Tales of the System.”
NRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
F
ATR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Pride 4vo.
THE
6tvEs Absolutely Pure "Water,
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
WHISKY IS SCARCE.
iutfLAN
IS GOOD 118 FUSE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
tec in a-E,3n-A.T . . .
CASCADE ALE
XS XXZEjRIE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
ERANC
RANDY
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South. Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefullv
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
tered fo
on Most
easonabl
ies
net-
TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
various sizes supplied.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
0F RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS,
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
I
La-st of Six ”:
Tales of the Austral
Ernest Favenc. Pape
cs. By
ers. 141 pp.; 6d.
The Bulletin
Vol 21. No. 1087. j
[Saturday, December lfi, I'-00.
at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a, Newsnaner.


rjQ ,BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Being- a reprint of a large number
of articles from “The Bulletin,” in
which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and demo-
cratic policy for Federated Aus*
tralia.
Price 6dL—post free.
fl®* "Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by-
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories: ■’
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
AJiandsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s (id. post free.
A Rose of Regret:
Versus by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
doth, gilt top, silk marker 220 pp., 4s. (id,,
post free. *** A charming- presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters: y
By E. J, Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailo- verse. •
Maoriland an- Other Verses:
By Arthur D; Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post jree. %* The best book Of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis '“Steele Rudd”).' With
about eighty ih ;,st rations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent. Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post c ree., ***• “The jolliest
.. book yet printed in 'Australia.”
"The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Brose
and; Verse, by Bullet a Writers; Is. 3d.
, post free.
Tales of the Convict Sym. m:
By “Price Warung.” Toper covers, 193
' pp, ; (id., post free, ' v .
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics, jf-i Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; “d. post
- ..free. , , _
direct from The Bulletin Office .y
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for. amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
JTJST OUT!
A BOOK OF VERSES, by <« Uloola,” from The
Bulletin and other papers. Cloth, Ss. 6d. ; Paper,
ls.-6d. Times Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
£>. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
ST N G E E S
♦ and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug ...
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,' In Tine, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland-post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN S PLACE. v\ ,
THE RED PAGE.
" Castro’s Last Sacrament."
WHAT is the balance of gain or loss to the
purchaser of this book who can recall
having encountered many of the stories
in the columns of The Bulletin ? From
readers' whose opinions really count in that deci-
sion the judgment will be so unanimous as to en-
title those who don’t count —except in mere
numbers—to some degree of sympathy. The
objection of the latter must confine itself to a loss
of freshness, a point which one frankly acknow-
ledges they are justified in advancing. Mr. Dor-
rington’s merits are of . a very pronounced kind,
but their very emphasis compels you to feel at
once the force of them, and leaves little that is
new to be gathered on a second perusal. His
chief element is force—intensity in style and
vigorous characterisation; but with subtlety he
does not concern himself. lam far from saying
that the book cannot be read a second time. It
has its own decided claims to that distinction.
But it will be read solely for the sake of renewing
old impressions. Some compensation will arise in
the fact that the impressions will become deeper.
But one feels that the reader possessed with a
forgetful memory gets his compensation on a scale
that is monstrously unfair. His claim on literature
is paid as often as he cares to present it. The
gain in getting these stories in book form is
that it gives us a distinct idea of the author’s
height—of his place in literature. Their collec-
tive impression is vivid and lasting. Of the
excellence of Mr. Dorrington’s stories as they
appeared in The Bulletin no reader could . be'
ignorant; •but, separated as they were by- fairly ,
long intervals, one neglected to sum' the valud of
his work.' There need be no -hesitation now
in asserting that collectively it makes the most
brilliant book of short stories written in Aus-
tralia.
The stories are not of one pattern. They repre-
sent a wide variety in matter and atmosphere,
treated with the thoroughness of one who kilows
his trade. It is this fact of the author’s extra-
ordinary range that , grows to be insistent as one
reads. It has been printed that Mr. Dorrington
has wandered far for his knowledge of life, and
lias drawn on his experience for some of his
stories. Yet the absolutely impersonal quality of
the book is - very noticeable. That is to say, the
author employs his art to such effect that you do
not feel he is dealing with things he has seen, but
with things be knows. Who but the man; who
knows could give with such conviction the
Egyptian atmosphere—as supplied to tourists —
that surrounds “ A Blind Man’s Holiday.” “ Come
in out of the desert, Messieurs,” runs the formula
of the “ oasis in the desert of morality, ” and the
words grip you like a rice. The reason is because
they are so thoroughly in character, they add to
and depend upon the atmosphere of the situation,
and the exaggeration of the invitation responds to
the exaggerations that surround the particular
phase of life to which the “ oasis ” belongs.
It is superfluous to enumerate the merits of this
book as judged from the conventional standard.
It has a wide knowledge of human nature, a
forcible and artistic method of employing that
knowledge, and it has all the other numerous un-
exalted qualities that are common to so many
books. Praise of that kind seldom climaxes in
anything more than that a book is readable. But
Mr. Dorringtoh’s stories have other claims to
attention. They demand to be considered from
the standpoint of what is best in literary art. To
adequately criticise the book solely in that aspect
would require numerous quotations and a more
detailed analysis of the stories than can be given,
here. Their variety is insistent, but in vigorous
vitality of characterisation they present an envi-
able sameness. Black men, yellow or white, are
drawn with equal facility and artistic complete-
ness. The following (wo extracts from “The
Curing of Little Jan Tromp ” are but small ex-
amples, but will tend to show with Vhat living
human figures Mr. Dorrington deals :
The pagoda under the blue-jungled spur showed a
glimmer of light. It was getting dark, and Tommy the
cook was singing below to Typhoo Shang; Typhoo
responded with thirty-six middling verses about a girl
named Soo Lee and a number of tame peacocks. The cook
gathered himself from the bunk and said that he ob-
jected to the introduction of poultry into songs, and
wound up by calling the Emperor of China a “ cow.”
I peeped below and saw Shang feeling for his knife sor-
rowfully, and pondering the six feet of cabin that
separated him from the cook. Shang was keener than a
Malay to smell an insult. His arm went out lazily, hut
there was murder dozing in his little black eyes.
“ There’ll be no scrapping here,” I said, sharply.
“And no bloomin’ mess to clean up,” said Horace,
flipping Shang in the eye with a banana. Shang smiled
sweetly ; the knife vanished up his sleeve like a trick.
1 Lillie passenger, him bully leper,” said Typhoo.
4 What’s that ? ” said I, leaning over. “ Say it again.”
“Lillie Jan Tlomp, him leper. Me gottee bluller in
Lillie Bluck-slee, him leper too. Hide him under cabbage.
Jan Tlomp leper.”
I called to a Dago hand. “ Send the passenger to me.”
Three minutes later Mohali was standing on the bridge.
He offered me a cigar ; I put it aside. ,
“You’ve played it pretty low on me,” I observed.
“But I’m damned if I’ll jig lepers up and down the
’Pelago ; it’s an outrage on my clean schooner, sir.”
He stepped back, holding the rail, and the jewels lit up
his fingers as if he’d just taken them from a kettle of
phosphorus.
“You speak of little Jan Tromp.”
“ Of the leper,” said I, “ that you covered with a pan-
ther’s skin. But ashore he goes, first rock in the Malacca.
I’d put him over now only I fear to pollute the Almighty’s
sea. I’m sorry, sir, but I’m not running a lazaret for the
benefit of my health.”
“ Mere Caucasian prejudice,” he remarked, firing up.
“ A rose, by any other name, would smell as sweet,” I
rapped out, remembering my schooling.”
The above give more than a hint of Kipling,
and similarity in style and atmosphere with the
work of that author is present in many of the
stories. But Ido not find it produces the irrita-
tion and antagonism that the work of a mere
imitator usually inspires. That I take to be
owing to the faot that the work can be compared
on equality with Kipling’s. If anyone doubts
this he need go no farther than the first paragraph
of the first story for matter to use for com-
parison. It is not contended that Kipling is
not the greater author. The palpitating human
note that invests his best work renders his posi-
tion unassailable. Other authors whose work
these stories recall are Stephen Crane, R. L.
Stevenson and Bret Harte. The latter two are
present in only a faint degree, but it was perhaps
inevitable that a writer whose best work centres
in the vitality of his characters should show some
similarity to Stephen Crane. There is material
for comparison in the first part of “The
Hunchback’s Syllogism.” That I regard as some
of the best work in the book, though it has not the
undercurrent of subtlety so frequently present in
the Arnerican author. But the tangled web of
ettuition surging in people who cannot express
themselves is brilliantly done.
' In his word pictures, Mr. Dorrington is entirely
himself. It is not that he sees deeply, but that
lie. reproduces vividly with a wondrous economy
of words. He invests with a high value that
which in other hands would be entirely common-
place.
A mackerel cloud dappled the purple silence above
close packed meadows.
The quick night blotted out the bush. Someone with
a lantern was singing in the gully below. The southern
express thundered across the bridged valley, smearing
the darkness with scarves of flame.
The current that flung him across jagged ironstone
reefs swept the woman high amongst weeds and sea-shells
under the lee of the island.
A thin red stream leaped across her mind’s black chaos,
opening into a million estuaries that swam east and west
amid down-swirling stars.
As evidence of the excellence of Mr. Dorring-
ton’s skill take his handling of a difficult scene
A silence came that stung- him like whips, and sharp
upon it an explosion that seemed to test the limits of
sound. The blind man quaked, and clutched his fore-
head. Suddenly a gleaming cen tre-piece seemed to shiver
the black roof above him, spilling a myriad stars about
the empty darkness. One luminous disc shot down to
his forehead ; he screamed, threw up his guard, but the
flame struck him where the peckings had been.
“ Oh God 1 I can see ! ”
“ What 1 ” said Velarney. “No ! . . but it is possible,”
he muttered. ,
Drummond leaped upwards, but Yelarney caught the
frail body and held it like a vice.
“ Be still, thou jumping jack, and . . . if it is really
so . . . be glad !”
Drummdnd clutched the strong wrists that pitined him
against the parapet. -
“Let go. I can see— see —do you hear? I’ve been shut
up in darkness for ten years. I won’t move a limb, I
promise you. Let’s look up, old man ; .even through ,
your fingers I see stars ; look at ’em ! look at ’em '! Was
it the water—or you ? The doctors told me the nerve .
had been simply paralysed by that cursed explosion—a
shock might ...”
He fought to catch a glimpse of sky, but Velarney
locked him mercilessly to the roof.
“ Never mind the stars ! Poets call them stars ; they
are merely tears, frozen tears of the unhappy blest. Be
still.! ”
Velarney shook him angrily, but the hand that caressed
his face thrilled him like a woman’s touch.
“ 1 pan Stffef-how strange—l never knew you were like
this—it is not your conjuring, is it? We’ve been pals,
Velarney, and I’ve helped you a bit. Don’t take away
the light! eh? you shan’t! my God, you shan’t 1 ”
. You will do well to remember that the above
situation is abnormal, that the author has no
beaten track to follow, but has had to depend
wholly upon himself. _ And, further, it must be
recognised that the incident required a certain
elevatio.n above mere facts to make it convincing
as literature. It is extremely improbable that a
•verbatim report of the dialogue of an actual occur-
rence would be convincing. Here the author has
taken the facts of the situation, rejected some and
polished the remainder. Even so, parts of the dia-
logue remain hard—so great is the resistance of the
situation, to literary treatment. But that little
whisper of, “ I never knew you were like this,”
vivifies the scene. It could have come only from
one with a delicate perception of what is real in
literature.
But Mr. Dorrington has faults, and of these the
most prominent is his too frequent use of the
superlative note, his readiness to deal in exaggera-
tions. In “La Revanche” you have as central
incident a Frenchman setting out to murder a
German for singing “Die Wacht am Rhein.” In
“The Mother of an Invention” the chief charac-
ter boasts that her son “Never put a finger on me
in his life,” and a few pages further on the son
takes her by the throat and flings her from him—
purely evidence of his manhood. A woman draws
this heroic picture of her husband : “He carried
me out of a building once—they said that the
shearers had fired it —and the lead spilled from
the open roof on t<s his naked hands, and he
laughed—my God ! he laughed—because he held
me in his arms.”
‘Similar blemishes are not uncommon, but are
perhaps almost inevitable in the work of an
author determined on extracting the last ounce of
vitality out of his characters. It is this tendency
that has led Mr. Dorrington into the error of
taking the central figure of “The Mother of an
Invention ” out of her legitimate atmosphere. She
•is presented as a woman who has been reared in
lower-class poverty with an horizon of limitless
hard work. She is ungrammatical and speaks in
the vernacular of her class, but. there her fidelity
to her surroundings ends. For the rest you see
her sparring for literary effect, choosing telling
phrases with a nice distinction. It is in this story
that Mr. Dorrington, usually indifferent to the
ordinary tricks of the trade of fiction in building a
story, leaves too much of the framework visible.
In other stories he ignores, not always with the
best effect, that very elementary rule of the craft
of not taking the reader too much into your con-
fidence. In “The Sign of the Cross” the reader
knows in the first page of the wife’s infidelity,
instead of getting it as part of the climax. To
reserve it for that would strengthen the effect,
but would necessitate an altered construction. I
do not plead very strongly for that, as the story
is a very neat little piece of work as it stands.
As it is not intended that I should exhaust my
impressions regarding the book, this notice may
close here, without, among other things, any
examples of the excellences of Mr. Dorrington’s.
humor. Nor shall I offer any explanation, of how
the author manages to get so much out of his
characters, while dealing with them for the most
part as they present themselves to the outside
world, not as they appear to themselves. It
remains only to be said that, regarded purely as
literature, tne book represents a higher achieve-
ment than anything we have had in Australia.
But, if the stories be judged by a standard of per-
fection, there is, despite their many excellencies,
always a little to of. Yet how few
books are worthy of being judged by such a
standard! That “Castro’s Last Sacrament”
belongs to the limited category is surely a suffi-
ciently emphatic guarantee of its quality.
Q.
JOHN REAY WATSON.
Three of the tribe of third-rate story-books
wander in for notice from George Robertson Pro-
prietary, booksellers, Sydney. They can be read
without much pleasure, and forgotten without any
regret. “The Heart’s Highway,” by Mary E.
Wilkins (John Murray) is one of the more or less
historical romances that have such a vogue in
America, and are praised as masterpieces of fiction
in the American reviews. A large semi-literate
population buys them because they are “ just
out,” and nobly puffed, and there is apparently
nothing very much better to buy. Then the next
“ masterpiece appears, and they die, and bury
themselves in the heap. A certain amount of
skill and labour goes to the making of them, but
they want Life and the Breath of Genius; and
these things are rare. “Rose Island,” by
Clark Russell (Longmans) is good-enough sea-
stuff, but not as good as it might be and has
been. A shade of artificiality has sallowed
Russell’s sea-phrasing nowadays ; he has been
told so often that 'bis descriptions of waves and
ships are the real thing that he remembers his
lauded skill as he writes—and writes with more
obvious effort. Better than buying “Rose
Island” is to read “The Wreck of the
Grosvenor”again. Frank Bullen’s ‘‘The Men
of the Merchant Service ” (Macmillan) is the best
of the trio, and it can only be called a story-book
by courtesy. It aims to throw, light on the con-
ditions, qualifications, and duties of officers and
crew on a merchant sailer; and does throw.
Bullen writes readably, and his personal reminis-
. cences are interesting—frequently* trustworthy.
B. can make a lie look so truthful, or a truth look
so lieful, that one is never quitp sure whether to
add a grain of salt or a sack. His slobbered
piety, too, is so unctuous that The Spectator and
The British Weekly , which 1 like, their piety thick
and slab, cannot find words enough to praise him.
But indeed he has seen most of the wonders of the
deep, and colouring with imagination and saucing
with good emotional rhetoric, he makes those won-
ders sell large editions. Nearly everybody in-
terested in ships and sailors will be interested in
his new hook.
■ [Hm ! those three volumes don’t size up to much.
Booksellers and publishers rarely rush to provide
this page with “ review copies”; and tills particu-
lar example of b.are justice isn’t likely to encour-
age them. But there are already too-many re-
viewers busily tempering the wind of criticism to
the born duffer and the cheap puffer. (Mem. for
the unintelligent: Haven’t said or implied that
Wilkins or Russell or Bullen is a duffer or a
puffer ; though B. does puff ; and why shouldn’t
he ?.- This is no age-for the modest literary violet:
you have to be a brazen sunflower if you wislvto
he seen. All the same ——]
Writes “ lgnotus ”
Cannot sympathise, with your denunciation of Kipling,
but wish he would be more careful. His ode to the Com-
monwealth is disfigured by allusion to the “ notched
Kaikouras.” They are no more in the Commonwealth
than is Fusiyania or Table Mountain. I note these
schoolboy errors everywhere now. The Laureate,' fen the
S’African war, says it is time to' “ cicatkise thri sear.”
Surely,,if he only thought just a minute, he would re-
member that a scar' is a wound • which has' been
cicatrised. A sear is a ' cicatrix. ' But, then, if he
had thought, I suppose he would not have pub-
lished the stuff at all. As to Marie Corelli, ‘ in
“ The Master Christian/’ with her description of a ring
set in “ rose brilliants,” one does not wonder. One tells
one’s little sister to remember that a rose has a pointed
top and is generally of small value; a brilliant has a flat
top. You will say I am too microscopic, that I am looking
for defects. I reply, No. When a knife won’t cut’ l use a-;'
lens, I see the edge notched or blunt. Similarly, when a
poem or novel won’t hold me, when I get a blurred pic-
ture, I look closely and find the cause, Small
inaccuracies make the result unconvincing: I will give
you another instance. In “Red Pottage” there is a
lot of good work. But' the whole thing is based on
■an ignorance of usage which shocks'me. A husband
takes liis friend aside, and proposes they shall draw lots
who shall kill himself. The friend at once accepts the
situation, thereby at once confessing that he has been
guilty. No#, according to accepted usage, he. should
have first denied the charge, .for the woman’s sake. A
man who is charged with theft, may confess, if he likes ;
he is a fool if he does, but it is his own funeral. A man .
charged with over-intimacy with a married woman, on no'
evidence, is in honour bpund to lie. • Unless he at once
denies it, he. is an abominable cur, and forfeits our respect
instantly. In the same book a child swallows a half-
penny, and has to be held upside-down and thumped
until the coin drops out. But, if swallowed, you could
not recover it that way ; and* if lodged in the windpipe,
the child would itqt be able to speak, and say it Was
moving. These little things make the book, to me, un-
real.
A Brunswick (Vic.) doctor reports that a con-
finement-patient, when paying her account* asked
if he'gave any coupons. Our professional dignity !
N.S.W. Premier Lyne: “ Marie Corelli is high
above any writer of the present day that I know
of.” How like clings to like ! Corelli’s status as
a writer is precisely Lyne’s status as a politician
—Arcades ambo ! •
A Terrible Thing has happened. Somebody
has disinterred the fact that Richard le Gallienne
grew to manhood (if ever) as Dick Gallon, and
was known to the Liverpool youth of his epoch as
“Four Quarts.” The ladylike poet has been
forced to “ explain ” that his grandfather’s name
was Le Gallienne; that his father called himself
Gallienne ; and that Gallienne was corrupted to
Gallon. When he became a man and a poet (if
ever) he turned from the measurable to the
modish. Yet the dove-coteries,remain uneasy. >
The search for an ideal trio of “the time and
the place and the loved one all together ” brought
nothing worth print. Efforts were made by
Cynic; Lover; Eagleliawk ; E. W.D. ; 'Nowra;
Arab. G. ; R.H.A..; K.T. ; A.D. ; Ahau; J.M. ;
—and most of. them merely desecrated one’s
imaginary shrine. Thus .
Let it come—now. We are together -ALTOGETHER !
... I drink thirstily the hot lemm, . upheaved by the
mighty convulsion within her generous, glorious bosom.
... A soft murmur, something akin to pain, escapes
between the feasting lips. Then ......
And so oh—any man to any street-walker.
Little items—
Anybody know who invented the phrase “ conspiracy
of silence”? . .. . S: M. Herald advt., Nov. 24:
“ MATRIMONY.—TaIented yourig Gentleman, of good
family, good position, author of repute, wishes Corres-
pondence with preposessing Christian young Lady, under
20, of some means.” Art thou the man ?
“Alex. M.” : J?e that “cockney rhyme”
(“S.-T.S.” B. 6/10/’00): —
I should like, as . a close observer in; this respect, to
point out that, while many Scottish and Irish persons
over-roll the “ r,” as in “ corrnerr,” and the cockney, with
his “ cawnah,” eliminates it entirely—between these ex-
tremes there is a tertium quid', the inability to appreciate
which I. first 'observed in the case of fairly-cuitivated
English people who could perceive no sound-difference
whatever between: “ father” and “'farther.” The ranker
kind of cockney, indeed, not only eliminates the r-sound in
some places but interpolates it superfluously in others;
so that he was going to the “ cawnah ” aforesaid “ to meet
Maurd.” But, "outside such gross vulgarism as this, there
are very many reasonably-refined English people who are
cockneys to the extent that—like“S.T.S.”—they would
phonetically render “morn’’and “dawn” by identical
symbols (bar the first letter) and would think “or”
adequately represented by “ aw.” Let us experiment
orally. In ending the word “ cawn ” (Corn) the tongue-
tip is touched quickly and lightly against the spot just
above the upper incisors, and as quickly withdrawn ;
while in “ corrn ” the tongue-tip does not reach this “ n ”
spot until, by an arching movement of the body of the
tongue, accompanied by a forcing of air along the mouth-
roof, the tip has been sharply “ trilled ” for an infinitesi-
mal portion of time. But, in “ corn ” normal, the tongue
is rapidly retracted and raised near the root, while the
tip very slightly touches the mouth-roof rather further
back than in either of the other cases, the air being at
the same time lightly forced over the tip with just that
suspicion of vibration which Prof. Saintsbury could not
understand that the trained ear should fail to recognise.
A.M.B. remarks —
Add that Kipling’s “Young Queen’s ”, sway extends
from the Leuwin to the “ notched Kaikouras” —said Kai-
ko'uras being a range of M.L. mountaips carefully, ex-
cluded by M.L. policy from the Commonwealth domain.
“ Albyn ” wants assistance—
In 1895 I read a translation from the French in amaga.
published for the Equitable Insurance Co, I was im-
pressed with the verses, but remember them imperfectly.
Can someone supply, and name author? They com
mence —•
Kindly watcher by my bed, lift no voioe in prayer,.
Waste not any words on me when mine hour is nigh 1
Let a stream of melody but flow from some sweet player,
And meekly will I [lay my head] and fold my hands to
die,,
f.s.d,-
The Roman newspaper, Giorno, which is Gabriele
d’Ahnunzio’s oracle, announces that November, 1900, will
see the first three books of his new work, “ Laudi del
Oielo, del Mare, della Terra e degli Eroi.” The first book
contains a long poem, a kipd of “ lyrical presentation of
the poet’s life,” and the second odes in praise of Michael
Angelo, Leonardo, the old sea republics and the cities of
Italy. The third book will be in honor of the
and contains two poems, “Glauco” and “ L’Oleandro.”
D’Annunzio has also been working for a long time at a
new no'vel, the second of the “Lily” series. It is. to
appear in December. And besides all this he is just
-putting the finishing touches to a new drama, “Fran-
cesca da Rimini,”, and,,has already made arrangements
with companies who are to play it in Europe and America.
Voila ! the exuberance of the Titan and the Overman.
But, as Sir Joshua Reynolds used to exclaim, -‘‘The
quality of it! damme, what’s the quality, man 1 ”


THOUSANDS IN USE!
W. JNO. BAKER’S
Standard Sheffield Razors
Are made by the pick of the Skilled Razor Forgers
and Grinders of SHEFFIELD. Every Razor is Tested and Set
Ready for Use by my Cutters before despatch.
. THEY RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
"°, j m y STANDARD Hollow-Ground Razors, with Ivory Handles in
Handsome Silk and Yelvet-Lined Case, 21/- per Case, post free.
£ inch wide, 5/- each, Post Free.
i !! 7/6
W- JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter St., Sydney,
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Wincheombe, Carson & Co. Ltd .
Selling Agents only
Reduced Wool
Com mission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 P*er Cent, "to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
X 8 B
\
s
m
L B <>3
$8 oa
wm
S&°*
<e>
saoc
i-ais.
M SB 07
I V’ ;"g
(Bo&nanleed oof fo or boro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
l application. E3T Thousands Selling- Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
nick Simmons
HAYMARKET, SYUNEY.
Branches everywhere.
BSP THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE!
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
NOM€ OUTFIT
1 Gramophone,
24 Selected Records,
200 Needles
FOR
£lO.
Carriage Free to any Rail Station or Port.
All Talking- Machines, Records, &c., on Sale.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
IF. J. N. Oldershaw, Manatjer.
Publications.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ILLUSTRATED
■BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
m
Rare Books and . .
Books for the Married
V JjjQCsH'a Special
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
WILL ANDRADE,
“201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, tl,o Lovers' Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. Von can—the knowledge im-
parted by tliis book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets, Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFIEEN If [IN DREE tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you tire book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
ptiicss with one you love. AngloAmebican Publishing Co
Waterloo Chambers, 1.58 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tMs paper when writing.
TiICOM
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
(Jhristmas tailoring
•
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at their best during the Christmas
season. Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are essential to that end. C. G.
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He can supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will be satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 percent, under
ordinary 7 city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. ltd. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11 d. Men’s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and
pockets, 2s. 11 £d. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges, Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go.
-LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming: Wool Season
2J
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Groiver.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
WOOL SEASON, 1900-1.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES:
COMMISSION ...
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILES sent on application.
£ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
OUlO)ltM
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, Ceorge St., Sydney.
i mv hoj: hivh aooo
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HATI?.
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
OS’ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectivelj\
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pifct-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
L HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
d h
4
HII
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
j Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
\DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
■ LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,.
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
• brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and ,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted '
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
1 0
1 10
2 2
3 3 0
2 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
attachments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
. vVhen
' writing
. please
' mention
. The
' Bulletin.


TATTERSALLS.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart,
Summer C. Dec. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address
Carrington S. Dec. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
s
Brighton P. Jan. 1, 1901.
25,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name
Address .
£ t t
Anniversary H. Jan. 28,1901.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Newmarket H. march % 1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in above.
Name
Address
Australian C. March 5.
100,000 Subscribers at d.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo ahn.rAa in the above.
Name
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Cfoo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
V-'
V
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
t s&'
&
o*
*>
SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per-
haps you think you can
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way ! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
It’s in your back, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles ; all through the
body, everywhere.
k It don’t take a doctor
to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
Cherry
Pectoral
is the cure. It’s a sure cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a few
doses cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer A Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
“ H.” : I have been reading G. F. Train’s
“Young America Abroad.” This book, composed
of hastily-dashed-off letters to a Boston paper,
includes a series from Melbourne, where Train
lived for 33 months, beginning in 1853. He paid
£l5 a week for board and lodging at the Prince of
Wales Hotel, the Menzies’ or Scott’s of the day.
This hotel was in Flinders-lane, standing back
from the pathway, opposite where the Cathedral
is now. Train makes a droll mistake, gravely
saying that Lord Melbourne came up the Yarra
and founded the city.
A Maoriland undertaker’s bill presented
to the State after the funeral of a person without
assets :
1900.
June 2. For carting deceased to
burying-ground £0 6 0
Less 3/4 found in deceased’s house
and paid to us 0 3 4
£0 18
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SPECIA.X. KTOTIOE.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
ATT. POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to be then distributed.
The Amount of CASH BONUSES distributed among the participating policy-holders during the single year 1899
was £510.771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). Every Year a Bonus Year.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or through
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS—Sir J P Abbott K C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary —RlCHAßD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hilb'.er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&W Send for a
Catalogue.
SSK
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PEARS’ ANNUAL,
NOW
READY.
n
Picture
Gallery
for a
Shilling!
This Year contains a Stirring Christmas Story
by MAX PEMBERTON,
‘LOVE THE HARVESTER,’
With 22 Illustrations by Frank Dadd, R.I.
WITH THE ABOVE ARE . . . .
3 LARGE
PRESENTATION
PLATES^.
FIT FOR ANY DRAWING ROOM.
THE BRITISH LION
Vastagh.
Size 38 inches x 19% inches. Printed in Ten Colors,
BEWARE!
J. B. Burgess, r.a.
Size 33% inches xlB inches. Printed in Thirteen Colors.
MAKING FRIENDS Yeend King, r.i.
Size 33% inches xlB inches. Printed in Thirteen Colors.
Printed in the best and most Artistic Style of the
Chromo-Lithographic Art. As the whole Edition is
always sold within a few days of publication, early
application to the Booksellers is necessary to secure a
copy of this artistic and marvellous production.
Price One Shilling.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the World.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OE SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —femou, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
® Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco,Perth,W.A.&6S,K!ngSt.,Melbourne
3ST.S.W. Carriage & Sacitilery Manf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, tl 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buekhoard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S.vPDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Rolirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sunset Gate.
In truth, the half-lit life I told you of,
Its very shadows are a sweetness to discover;
Love dies if all be clear as day to love, —
Noon and the. high-road ill befit the lover.
It is composed of interwoven dreams,
A deeper deep suggests, a higher height discloses ;
An avenue it is of varied gleams,
Bordered on either hand by startling roses.
One needs a noiseless tread and gentle arm
To walk such secret ways and capture all the
prizes,
An eye for subtlety and secret charm,
An ear alert for musical surprises.
You noticed at the close of yesterday
How all your wooers—heart and mind intent on
bringing
Love tribute to you—had no word to say
Of that loud sunset and the small bird singing.
But then, just there, we touched a kindred
thought,
A glance, a flash that kindled to a revelation ;
And you were mine, and mine alone, and nought
Could bring to nought the moment’s swift elation.
It pleasured you to find the moment bring
A mind receptive to the golden hour’s revealing ;
And I ?—-well, couple close a slave and king
(The slave for me) and you may guess my feeling.
Recurs to me an unused garden gate,
From casual passers-by with leafy tresses hidden,
That once I chanced upon alone and late,
And entered with a sudden step unbidden—
And found a haunting grace in every grove
And winding way, with merry lights and fancies
winging
About the place—the gate to which, O Love,
Was that loud sunset and the small bird singing.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Straws on the Stream.
The sunlight, through the willows,
Laid patterns quaintly shaped
Across the clear, cool water
That flowed, now shadow-draped,
Now flashing ringing ripples
Like waves of thought or speech
That imitate some master
Whose height they cannot reach.
And on the bridge she loitered—
A lily framed in green—
The light on amber tresses
Throwing a golden sheen ;
And lazily, in silence,
As in a pleasant dream
We watched two spinning grass-blades
Sweep down the running stream.
Passing the bridge together
Onward they leapt and sped,
Now one to rearward lagging,
Then rushing far ahead !
One circling in an eddy,
The other for a space
Delaying in slack waters,
Then skimming on apace.
So, never far dissevered,
Yet never side by side,
They took the rapids wildly
And swung the corners wide ;
Till in a pool where brightly
There gleamed the royal sun
They inward swerved and gaily
Were borne along as one.
I turned to her and whispered,
“ Those straws are you and I.
For years I’ve travelled lonely,
And, sweetheart, you know why !
On Life’s broad, rapid river
We are as grass-blades thrown.
Speak ! shall we cling together, •
Or must I drift alone ? ”
With eyes devoid of laughter,
Yet full of Love’s grave smile,
She answered, “ Long and weary
Is every lonely mile ;
And hark ! I hear the ripples
And willows sing this strain,
‘ Drift on, drift on together !
Why must you part again ? ’ ”
Though shadows on the water
Were beautiful and clear,
Though softly crooned the river
I did not see or hear
Aught save her eyes’ shy glances,
Her heart’s fast, happy beat.
Close, close I held and kissed her
And Life and Love were sweet.
M.L.
QUILP N.


The Intercolonial Investment, [and, $i Building (Jo., [td.
14 MOORE BTREET, SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
Established 1885.
Assets £73,763
Capital paid up .. £33,958
Liabilities (exclusive of Capital) .. £17,417
Reserves and Undivided Profits .. £21,214
Directors:
Wm. McCOURT, M.L.A. (Chairman). ALEX. CAMPBELL, M.L.A.
G. DYSON. J. T. LAWLER. D. J. MONK.
Bankers : THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Auditor: F. E. McLEAN, F.5.1.A., Public Accountant.
BALANCE-SHEET FOR THE YEAR ENDING OCTOBER 31st, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Subscribed Capital.. 55,693 0 0
Capital Paid —
37,'593 shares at 15s. 28,194 15 0
18,000 shares at ss. 4,500 0 0
32,694 15 0
Unpaid Calls .. 9 16 3
32,684 18 9
Calls paid in ad-
vance .. .. 1,273 9 6
33,958 8 3
Capital Suspense Account .. 2,309 18 1
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 11,200 0 0
Dividend Equalisation Account .. 2,750 0 0
Deposits with accrued interest .. 9,372 3 4
Sundry Creditors .. .. .. 2,131 710
Bank of New South Wales .. 5,913 14 8
Balance Profit
£ s. d.
50,218 6 4
17,417 5 10
6,127 16 10
73,763 9 0
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Freehold Properties 29,998 11 6
Borrowers’ and Purchasers’ Balances (after
deducting Suspense Account) .. .. 43,610 14 1
Office Furniture and Goods on hand .. 130 17 10
Cash in hand 23 5 7
73,763 9 0
LOANS granted on approved Securities, repayable by
DEPOSITS for 1 to 3 years received at current rates,
at the Company’s Offices, 14 Moore-street, Sydney.
instalments.
Latest Balance-sheet and full information on application
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDJAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAfiLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
6ood Tailoring.
SUMMER.
JAght Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Real German Hollow Ground
wifppzqn
So**
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. W.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITXOM.
WINES 3,8 Be “ b 7 a OnhJ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/6.
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENGLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 14:5 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.,
Sydney; L. A. .Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Ha shall ; Perth, A. W.
Faequiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write, for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hail-
Tails, 5s (id to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South I Vales . . . \
Barbers ’ Supply House <
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Ofcaicsi Demand
Cameo ci&r'tt® 8
Because the Best.
Yankee Doodle at the Front!
An incident in the Boer war as related by a returned Officer.
A regiment of our Australian infantry -was travelling (as depicted in
the smaller photograph) to Belmont. At Graspan we were
entertained by the
garrison of Gordon.
Highlanders sta-
tioned there, and
when taking our
departure by rail
were accorded the
customary musical
send - off by the
garrison band,
which, on this occa-
sion, consisted of
two drummers and
a piper. As our
train moved off I
heard the cry on
all sides from our
boys —‘Yankee Doodle!!’ ‘Yankee Doodle!.!’ and there in the distance
was an almost exact representation of the Yankee Doodle tobacco brand
so familiar to' all Australians. The band after seeing us aboard were
returning back along the road to camp, and as we passed they sturdily
marched and played, whilst we, with the familiar tableau before us
reminding us so of home, cheered wildly. I instantly took out my kodak,
and, although the train was moving fast, secured a fairly good picture,
with the idea that perhaps my friends (the Dixsons) in Australia would like
to have it. On many a weary march afterwards, when smoking the army
regulation tobacco, did we long for just one pipe of the old far-off favorite.”
-
.
: ■ -'
m
*>'•
--


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1087.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1900.
Priob 6d.
||g,6|Bfe,
f f°" 1
yjM
c^fe a ' P
0-5 I f~* I
y. 5f
tyf \
0.5 & J
/m^ jjj
w if
V Yum ait (with a Capital IV)
" find sojjohJ)ARED to
\ J lkm\fouttk hlomU
\ Sutfrugefill ! *
Old-fit tymberfalme
yWK«M'T)
We re ho
I old io please
' Wmmltj and vie
Aim
A 6«JN C 7
TO
iV"
i j'
T t s E’
It seemed cruel to throw puppies fntO
water. BUT THEY LEARNED To SWIM. (Laughter.)- '/
/T „ Salkh, CLV^
( '*)M brey ' 6 , ')' i',efxAti-
, fc,r«jtp ii)P. M-5-W. «si' T'"J\
vs ?*/■ W y f w, n
\ 'sh/pc/a.i' fr/A)u/of~
y/yar /poyaz/o SAoJ/c/Js
fraoytis ty/j/7? />) £ •
v3~^ -c ?"t° 7y /%p7> /3r/f7y A nJa/cJ/fp' SJ /^cc /~P > &£'
(feorqe /(S cro/?§ h frefo-
/'*. />facj Ssf e7°J-
ZPT’i'P -~P?a<Se /t°p o*>P
X<® M?? Ooyfi y&<zc£ Kr/Ttp'cL.
<y* .
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... nk(t
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 b o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co. ,3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l , with 28. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the. subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
The Differential Tariff Idea.
_ _
Even at this early stage of Federal politics
there is a great upheaval of more or less
Jinuo politicians demanding that the Com-
monwealth shall give special trade advantages
to Britain as against the outside world in
general. The proposal has taken no definite
shape as yet, and the details require filling
in, but the central idea is that the Common-
wealth should charge lower duties on British
than on non-British goods, and by thus—to
the extent of the difference in the duty—
shielding the British manufacturer against
the foreigner afford that same British manu-
facturer Protection in Australia which he
doesn’t get in his own country. The spec-
tacle of Australia going out of its way to
afford Protection to a Freetrade country,
and the spectacle of a Freetrade country
grabbing with both hands at the benefits of
a Protective tariff while professing to have
long since seen and abjured the errors of
Protection, may look just a trifle humorous,
but that is another story. If Britain
chooses to look humorous it is Britain’s own
affair.
* * * *
Regarded as a purely business proposition
there appears to be no reason worth men-
tioning why Australia should not admit
British products at lower duties than the
products of other countries—provided Britain
is prepared to reciprocate. But Britain
must reciprocate, or it won’t be a fair deal,
If Australia fosters Britain’s products by
giving them a special advantage in its mar-
kets over the products of France, Germany,
&c. then Britain may justly be called upon
to respond by giving Australian products an
equal advantage in its markets over
the products of France, Germany, and
other countries. As matters stand at
present the benefits and advantages are
all in favor of Britain. Australia buys
more of Britain’s goods than Britain buys of
Australia’s. In 1899 the States of the
Commonwealth bought about £21,000,000
worth of imports, other than gold, from
Britain, and Britain bought about
£17,000,000 or £18,000,000 worth of goods,
other than gold, from the Commonwealth.
On paper it certainly looks as if Britain
bought more largely from Australia than
Australia does from Britain, but the several
millions worth of gold which Australia sends
annually to Britain (or to other people on
Britain’s account) towards paying interest
on public and private debts, and as rents to
absentees, isn’t a purchase made by Britain
from this country, nor is it commerce in any
reasonable sense of the term. Each of the
Australian States admits Britain’s goods on
precisely the same terms as it does those
of all other countries. Britain admits Aus-
tralian goods on the same terms as those
of other States, and levies the same heavy
tax on Australian wines and Victorian
brandy as it does on French and Spanish
wines or brandy. And each is, and
always has been, guided by purely selfish
motives. Five of the Commonwealth States
are Protective because they believe Protec-
tion pays them best. Britain and N.S.W.
are Revenue-Tariff States because they be-
lieve that Re veil ue-Tariffisin pays them best,
and for no other reason. There isn’t a
penn’orth of sentiment in the case on either
side. Foreign-trade advocates publish sta-
tistics, just as Protectionist ones do, to prove
that, by their policy, they are personally
getting ahead of their trade rivals—are per-
sonally grasping the other fellow’s money
for their own sordid pockets, and over-
reaching and ruining the other fellow for
their own sordid benefit. Foreign-traders
certainly allege that theirs is a policy of
brotherly love—but their statistics never
attempt to prove anything else than that
their policy is the best policy for grabbing
the brother’s wealth and leaving the brother
in the lurch.
* * ¥ ¥
It is necessary to point out these things in
order to put the matter on its right basis—
the purely business one. The fact that
Australia has always been a far better cus-
tomer to Britain than Britain has been to
Australia, and that the obligation has been
wholly on Britain’s side, has never evoked
the least sign of consideration in trade
matters from Britain towards this country.
Australia has met its obligations to its prin-
cipal creditor with scrupulous exactness—
and its wool is admitted to England on no
better terms than that of Argentina, which
cheerfully defaulted and left the British
bondholder on the rocks. It has shown
itself on various occasions frenziedly loyal to
Britain, and its wines and wheat receive not
one pennyworth more consideration than
those of Britain’s worst enemies—Russia and
France. It has cost Britain nothing in active
defence; and it is treated not in the least
more kindly than France, which cost Britain
£600,000,000 in war expenses. Britain has
spent enormous sums indefenceof Turkey and
Portugal—the bill for one day’s campaigning
in aid of either of these lands amounted
to more than the defence of the Common-
wealth States cost Britain in a century. And
Turkey and Portugal gave their benefactor
no aid in return, and promptly swindled her
out of much loan money to boot; yet her
consideration for them in trade matters is
quite as tender as her consideration for these
States. The U.S., which fought her in two
wars, andbrokeher empire asunder, and which
sells much to Britain and buys hardly any-
thing, gets exactly the same treatment as we
do. And it was Britain which inaugurated
the policy of taxing the products of her
colonies, and which put things on this un-
friendly basis. Under all these circum-
stances it would be interesting to know what
Britain’s share of the proposed differential
tariff system is to be.
* • * *
Obviously if it is to be a matter of senti-
ment the sentiment should be mutual. If it
is to be a matter of business the business
advantages should be mutual. If the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth is willing to charge,
say, 5 per cent, more duty on the manu-
factured goods it buys from other countries
than on those it buys from Britain, Britain
should be prepared to reciprocate by charg-
ing 5 per cent, more on the grain, butter,
wine, wool and frozen and preserved meats
of other countries than it charges on those
of Australia. If Australia charges Britain’s
manufactures 20 per cent, all round while it
charges those of other countries 25 per cent,
it is only a fair return that Britain should
charge 5 per cent, on foreign wool, butter,
meat, grain, &c., while letting Australia’s
in gratis, and should give Australia a 5 per
cent, advantage on her wine and brandy
tariff. Even at these rates experience affords
every reason to believe that Australia will
buy rather more from Britain than Britain
buys from Australia, and so long as it does
that the terms are good enough as a basis
for any fair dealing.
* * * *
But if the concession is to be on one side
only—and judging from the language used
by some of its advocates that appears to be
actually contemplated—then it should, on
the basis of figures, be a one-sided con-
cession granted by Britain to Australia, not
a one-sided concession granted the other
way about. Apart from the export of cash
which goes towards paying interest on this
country’s British debts, and which is not in
any sense an exchange of commodities, this
country buys more from Britain than Britain
buys from it in return. Therefore if one
party is to give a special advantage it should
be Britain—with a view to encouraging the
further purchase of Australian commodities
in the United Kingdom in order to make the
trade even. But as all the discussion so far
is about the special terms which Australia
is to grant to Britain, at least let Britain
give something in return, if it is only
to avoid making the business a bur-
lesque. If Australia gives special assist-
ance to Britain by giving British products
5 or 10 per cent. Protection over the
products of other countries it is bestowing
on the British manufacturer the blessing of
Protection in Australia, which is
ridiculous enough without; any other ele-
ments entering into the case to make it
worse. To protect the Briton abroad when
he isn't protected at home —to protect
a man who says Protection is a foolish
and accursed thing—to show him up to the
world as a hypocrite who grabs with both
hands at the advantages of a system which,
he is always understood to allege, has no
advantages —to profess to be kinder to him
than he is to himself—all these are remark-
able proceedings. And if, on top of all this,
Australia gives Britain this special aid and
advantage without getting any equivalent,
then, in addition, it puts its massive parent in
the absurd situation of receiving pauper re-
lief from this young dependency. And that
is still more ridiculous.
* * * *
Why the subject of a differential tariff
should have risen so violently just now,
more than at any other time, is diffi-
cult to explain. The fact that Australia
has just spent a good deal of money over a
British war is no visible reason why it should
feel called on at this special moment to
make other sacrifices for Britain’s bene-
fit. If Britain was desirous to offer some
special assistance of the kind to Australia
the situation would be more understandable.
The time is inopportune in another sense ;
Australia doesn’t know for certain yet how
it will draft a Federal tariff that will make
ends meet even without granting special
concessions to anybody, and before it talks
of sacrificing customs revenue, even for
Britain’s benefit, it should find out with some
certainty what revenue there will be to sacri-
fice. This country has to be just before
it is generous, and the necessity of having
enough money to pay the British creditor is
far more conspicuous than the need to make
a superfluous gift to the British manufacturer.
Further, if Australia does commit the
amusing folly of giving Britain this special
trade advantage without getting any similar
benefit in return, it is at least to be hoped
that Britain can supply some means of
adequately distinguishing between its own
goods and those of foreigners that have merely
passed through England’s open ports on
their way hither. And it would be well to
sit down in a cool place and reflect seriously
as to whether this special advantage is to be
bestowed on the United Kingdom only, or
on all the British possessions. If it is to be
bestowed on all the countries that make up
the British Empire—the Empire wherein
Britain itself is only a speck both as to area
and population —are all these countries to
come in on the same terms as Britain ? Is
Canada, for instance, to get a special advant-
age in this market without giving one in
return, and if so what has Canada done for
this country to deserve such consideration ?
And if it is proposed to give Britain the
advantage of a differential tariff without any
direct return, and merely by way of ex-
pressing this country’s natural love for its
parent, is it to be thereby understood that
Britain has no natural love for its descend-
ant ?
• * * *
Also, if the concession is intended as some
return for Britain’s protection, which isn’t
sentiment but pure business, it would
be well to have that matter also put on an
understandable basis. As matters stand,
Australia has supplied Britain with a stu-
pendous amount of money. A very large
number of needy Britons made their pile out
here in the golden days, and took it home to
enrich the United Kingdom, and this place
has paid exorbitant interest to an immense
number of British investors, and done much
for the mother-land in the way of supplying
a field for investment. It has paid much
more than it has received for the active
defence of the empire, and it has
done more for British shippers and manu-
facturers than any other population of its
size on this earth. If it is held that there is
still a balance owing for the passive protec-
tion afforded by Britain, then if the pro-
posed tariff concession is granted let it be
at least understood whether it is to square
the debt, or partly square it, or whether it
is a gift and Britain is to go on de-
manding extra naval contributions from
this country, just as if no such concession
had been made. If it is all a matter of
business, let the account be properly drawn
out and audited and receipted. And if it is
sentiment, at least let the sentiment be in-
telligible. Hitherto Britain has given as
good terms, in commercial matters, to the
hostile Frenchman and Russian, and the
bloodthirsty and fraudulent Turk, as she
has to Australia. If the differential-tariff
idea is to be wholly one-sided, then these
people will, upon the whole, in their deal-
ings with Britain, be receiving better terms
than Australia does. Perhaps there is no
reason why Australia should objeet to this
arrangement, but it should at all events
understand that there is such an arrange-
ment.
A Cheap and Handy State Constitution.
When the Commonwealth Government is fairly
established, the six States—so it is already freely
admitted —require something new in the way of
Constitutions. Pomp and circumstance are not
essential ; the Federal Parliament can furnish
any pomp that,may be needed, and in sufficient
quantities to supply the wants of the whole
Commonwealth. The great essential is a cheap,
useful, working constitution. It isn’t necessary
that the State Legislature should consist of two
Houses if one will do the work equally well.
There is nothing specially sacred about two
Houses, or one, or seven, or any other number;
it is merely a question of getting the work done
efficiently, and if it can be best done with 147
Houses of Parliament then there should be 147.
If Australia went by its own bitter experience it
would take the first opportunity to be done with
the bi-cameral system for good. In its history half
the time of the Assembly has generally been
occupied in fighting the Council, and the only
times and localities that have shown much results
in the way of peace and progress have been those
rare places and occasions when the Upper House
was so effectually suppressed, or so completely in
unison with its neighbor, that it ceased to have
any mind of its own. At these times it has been
really a case of government by one Chamber, and
it is a solemn fact that government by one Cham-
ber is the only kind that has been anything like a
success in Australia —not that it lias been much of
a success.
*** . * ■
Probably the reason why it wasn’t more of a
success was that it was government by the wrong
kind of Chamber. The essentials of suc-
cessful Parliamentary Government appear to
be these: There should be a certain number
of representatives chosen by the people—
the people in the widest sense of the word—
voting by constituencies. And there should also be
a certain number of representatives chosen by the
people—the same people—with the whole State
voting as one constituency. The first crowd is
wanted in order to make sure that each section of
the country will have a delegate who knows its
special features, its interests and its requirements,
and who will demand for it a fair share of con-
sideration and cash. The second crowd is
wanted quite as urgently to make sure that the
interests which affect the country at large will not
be lost sight of in the exclusive consideration of
the interests of Big Scrub or Boppy Mountain. It
is the interest of N.S. W. in general to see that
the burden of the public debt is not heaped too
high, while it is the business of the local repre-
sentative to let the burden heap up as it may so
long as Big Scrub gets its own railway out of
the next loan, and he dare not protest lest
the obvious retort should be that, in deference to
his desire for economy, the proposed Big Scrub line
has been abandoned. It is the interest of N.S.W.
at large to see that new lines are built where they
will pay best and do the most good to the most
people ; while it is the business of the purely local
man to look after getting his own line, whether
it will pay for axle-grease or not. And when
there are no men to look after the interests of
N.S.W. in general, and 125 men to look after the
interests of 125 fractions of it, and to grind each
other’s little parochial axes in exchange for assist-
ance in the grinding of their own, the interests of
N.S.W. in general have a bad time.
* * * *
The elective Upper House, as it exists in Vic-
toria, Tasmania, S.A., and Westralia, does not re-
present the State at large, for it is elected, like
the Assembly, by constituencies. The nominee
one, as it exists in N.S.W. and Queensland,
doesn’t represent the State at all; it merely
represents the various Ministries—mostly dead
and gone and forgotten —which created it.
A great part of these two Upper Houses
represents only Parkes, who is dead, and M‘ll-
wraith, who is dead also. The Federal Senate
comes nearer to the ideal Upper House than any
other. But after all there seems no reason why
the State Legislatures should burden themselves
with the pomp and glory of two Houses when one
would do the work equally well. Five out of the
seven Canadian provinces have only one House of
local Legislature, and nothing has happened there
to show that government by one House is not
perfectly feasible. No one has dreamed of divid-
ing the London County Council, or any other
municipal body which looks after the concerns of
a community as large as, or larger than, N.S.W.,
into two Houses. Why the bi-cameral system
should be a fetish, or the uni-cameral system be
regarded with such profound dread, passes com-
prehension. Both have failed and both have suc-
ceeded according to the character of the people
who ran the show; but no country which failed
to govern itself decently with one Chamber has
governed itself any better merely through estab-
lishing two.
* • • *
Therefore The Bulletin desires to suggest, for
the consideration of State politicians, that the
future State Legislatures consist of one Chamber
only—half or perhaps two-thirds of its members
elected by separate constituencies as at present,
the other half or one-third elected by the State as
a whole. Such a Chamber would represent both
interests, the parochial and the national. It
would include such men as Barton and Wise,
who can get an overwhelming vote from
the State as a whole because they are regarded
as best qualified to look after the interests of the
State as a whole, but who can only get a pre-
carious footing in any constituency because each
constituency thinks them too big and intelligent
and far-seeing and generally patriotic to sink to
the level of the local culvert, and to yell per-
sistently for a new gate-post at the local lock-up.
And it would also include such apparently
unavoidable evils as Pumpkin Smith, who looks
manfully after the culvert and the gatepost, and
nothing else. It wouldn’t be a case of one
House looking solely at the parochial aspect
of things, and the other looking solely at
the national aspect, and colliding violently
in consequence; the one House would em-
body both aspects. Nor would it be at all like
the existing State Legislatures, where one House
looks at the parochial aspect of things, and the
other looks mainly at its own interests and
those of the propertied class it sprang from.
There would be no deadlocks in such a
Legislature. The Ministry would possess the
confidence of the whole State Parliament. There
would be no more cases of a Liberal Ministry and
a big Liberal majority in the Assembly having its
work persistently undone by a Tory majority in
the Council. There would be one set of officials
the less to pay, and a va.-,t mass of dreary conver-
sation the less to record. And out of the savings
it might be possible to so increase the pay of the
legislators as to give the country a chance of
getting really good men. The present pay of an
M.L.A., when all necessary outgoings are de-
ducted, is about that of a very moderate clerk,
and the country gets about the kind of intellect it
pays for.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. “Justice” Hodges Once More.
In recently awarding punishments, at Melb.
Criminal Sessions, Mr. Justice Hodges reached a
height of absurdity that even the stolid dailies
were constrained to notice After sentencing
Howard Harrison, who killed his paramour at
Brunswick (he almost cut her head off), to two
years’ hard labor, his Honor apparently repented
of his leniency, and ladled out penalties hot and
strong. First came a lad in knickerbockers whom
Judge Hodges considered would have been fitly
punished-- for indecent assault—by a parental
thrashing, but, as the lad’s father was dead, the
Judge ordered that 25 strokes of the birch be
administered by the common hangman-and-
nagellator, with a month’s imprisonment to follow
Hodges satirically observing that this correction
would probably not be as efficacious as the
parental chastisement. Possibly not; but it
will certainly be much more so in
helping to degrade the recipient and pre-
pare him for a career of confirmed criminality.
Next, two youths, of 18 and 11), for shop-breaking,
got 18 and 12 months respectively; Mr. Hodges
telling the elder prisoner (with a previous con-
viction) that his sentence had been increased
because he (the Judge) believed he had committed
perjury while trying to exonerate his companion !
This was practically punishing a man for an
assumed crime of which he had never been con-
victed. A more monstrous abuse of justice is
scarcely conceivable! Mr. Hodges himself,
however, was staggered when a man whom he
sentenced to 18 months for indecent assault said :
“ Would your Honor make it two years, and
allow me to get some money and go out of the
country altogether when I have served the sen-
tence ? ” After considering the matter, his Honor
did “make it two”—thus making the sentence
equal to that of the practical murderer before
mentioned. It was Judge Hodges, by the way,
who last September sentenced a boy to 9 years
for indecent assault—subsequently amending the
period to 9 months !
—4.
Bursting of the Federal Capital
Conspiracy.
Attorney-General Wise, of N.S.W., recently
started shedding some new and unexpected light
upon the Federal problem. He obtained from
Mr. Alexander Oliver, President of the N.S.W.
Land Appeal Court, and published in the daily
papers, a two-column opinion re the alleged
theories of some alleged people who are stated to
have said or thought or dreamt that the Common-
wealth Constitution empowered the Common-
wealth Parliament to select a site for the capital
in N.S. W., and take possession of it without
asking the consent of N.S.W.’s State Parliament..
The Bulletin never heard of these people, but
that is a mere detail. The two-colunm opinion
sets forth, to begin with, that the Federal Parlia-
ment has to select the site, and then seek to
obtain the surrender of it from the N.S.W. State
Parliament, and that it can’t lawfully ignore
the latter body, or look at it with a disrespectful
eye. This is comforting to the purely parochial
crowd, so far as it goes, but it doesn’t go far.
For the tail-end of the opinion is to the effect
that the Federal Parliament is really boss
of the situation, after all, and can, under the
ordinary powers of land resumption, take and pay
for any site of 100 or 5000 square miles, or more,
provided it is over 100 miles from Sydney, even if
N.S.W.’s State Legislature refuses to part
with the same. That is a very bad smash
for the cheeky parochial party of which the
Sydney Telegraph is the representative—the
party which claims that N.S. W. State Parliament
has the sole right of selection, and that the
Federal Parliament and five out of the six States,
and nearly two-thirds of the Commonwealth popu-
lation, shall have no voice in the matter. The
situation is something like this :
(1) The Federal Legislature is to select a site in N.S.W.,
at least 100 miles from Sydney, and consisting of 100
square miles or any larger area, for the capital of all
Australia. There is no date fixed for making the selec-
tion.
(2) Then the N.S.W. Parliament may either agree, and
hand over the selected site, or refuse to hand it over.
(3) The Federal Parliament sits in Melbourne till the
site is selected and sufficiently prepared, so that the
Legislature can remove there.
(4) The Federal Legislature can’t make the N.S.W.
Legislature agree to hand over any site the latter isn’t
willing to hand over. Nor can the N.S.W. Legislature
compel the Federal Legislature to accept any site the
N.S.W. one is willing to hand over.
(5) If the'N.S.W. Legislature refuses to hand over the
site which the Federal Legislature selects, the latter may
cave in and c.loose another site. Or it may simply say :
“ We will take this site and no other, and the Federal
Parliament will go on sitting in Melbourne until you cave
in and surrender the site we have chosen. The Federal
Parliament will go on meeting in Melbourne for 500 years
if need be, till you do cave in.”
But—and this is where the Daily Telegraph
party falls in very badly—is seems there is another
alternative. Mr. Oliver’s opinion is that, though
the Federal Parliament must ask the State Par-
liament of N.S.W. to hand over the site which it
(the Federal Parliament) has selected, and though
it can’t make the N.S.W. institution agree to its
selection, it can, in the event of refusal, take the
site it has chosen without the permission of the
State Parliament after all. Instead of simply
saying that it will go on sitting in Melbourne till
the State Parliament comes over to its views it
may go in for a process of compulsory resumption.
Says Mr. Oliver:
If no agreement can be arrived at between the State
and the Federal Parliament, or if the State Parliament
declines to make any offer of territory, a reserve power is
vested in the Federal Parliament in the last resource of
legislating for the purpose of compulsorily appropriating
on just terms a suitable site for the seat of government.
Truly this a downfall. The Daily Telegraph
party selected Orange-Canoblas as the site for the
Federal city so that all the trade might go to
Sydney. It assured the public that N.S.W. is
sole boss of the situation because the N.S.W. State
Parliament must hand over a site before any
capital can be built, and by refusing to hand over
any site save Orange-Canoblas, it could compel
the Federal Parliament to put the capital there
and nowhere else. In case the Federal Parlia-
ment refused, and a deadlock ensued, it was even
fool enough to talk of getting the Supreme Court
to order the Federal Parliament to proceed at once
with the selection of a site (regardless of the fact
that the Constitution fixes no period within which
the choice must be made) so that the Common-
wealth Legislature would have to take the only
site offering—which was to be Orange-Canoblas.
And now it would appear that the Commonwealth
Legislature can select, say, 5000 square miles at
Bombala or Armidale, and ask the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment for the site—-and if the N.S.W. Parliament
refuses, can either take its chosen site all the same
or can just sit down where it is till the local Legis-
lature at Sydney changes its mind. After this,
the Daily Telegraph had better give up posing
as a source of public information.
A Thousand Years’ Lease.
Tasmania has just sat up in its sleep to find that
another Private Enterprise job has been worked
on a green and confiding island. Tasmania has
already been had almost every time it put its
faith in syndicates—the Main Line Railway, the
Great Western Railway, the Van Diemen’s Land
Co. and many other like shows are cases in point—
but this time it has been taken in after such a
wildly ridiculous fashion t at even Tasmania is
mad. The Van Diemen’s Land Co., which is the
beginning of the trouble, is a British curse and
incubus that dates back to 1825. It has an
immense area of land in North-western Tas-
mania, with over 60 miles of water-frontage,
and there it has mouldered and lingered, and
blocked settlement and progress by its con-
servative policy, for 75 years—and no Tas-
manian Government has had the courage or
patriotism to strike it with a heavy graduated
land-tax and absentee-tax, so as to make it turn
its land to better account or else sellout. This
co. built the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff rail-
way, and afterwards leased it to the Emu Bay
Railway Co. It is a very profitable mineral-
carrying line; in Tasmania the Government
invariably gives to private co.s the right to con-
struct railways in mining districts where there is
a heavy traffic, and makes the ruinous lines in
thinly-peopled agricultural regions itself. The
port of Burnie is on the V.D.L.. Co.’s property,
and the Government started to build a line
thither, regardless of the fact that the co. owned
the foreshore ; so the Government line stops about
a mile from the port. All goods have to be carried
for that last mile at the V.D.L. Co.’s own terms.
Burnie was made a useful port —a port to which it
was worth while carrying a Government railway—
by the expenditure of £45,000 of Government
money on a breakwater. When the Government
agreed to build a breakwater, and thus improve
the V.D.L. Co.’s property at Burnie, the agree-
ment was that the co. should, in return for this
outlay, hand over 3J acres of land, to give the
Government access by railway to its own break-
water. But though the State built the break-
water the co. didn’t hand over the land—so the
only people who can get access to the State-
made harbour of Burnie are the V.D.L. Co.
But the worst trouble is to come, for it now
transpires that the Fysh Government in 188!)
leased the breakwater to -the V.D.L. Co. for
1000 years for a single "payment of £lOOO,
and threw in a 1000 years lease of a bit of
Government land which might have given it access
to its own property. It locked itself in, so to
speak, and threw away the key. So the V.D.L.
Co. has the sole right to carry its railway along
the breakwater to the wharves, and erect cranes
and goods-sheds there, and load and unload ships
there —in fact, it owns the harbour of Burnie,
body and soul. The State certainly reserves the
right to run trains on the co.’s breakwater line,
provided it doesn’t annoy or inconvenience the co.
thereby, and providing it pays an unspecified sum
(to be fixed by expensive arbitration) for the privi-
lege ; but in practice it always would annoy or
inconvenience the co. Besides the State can’t
get to the breakwater in any case. Instead of
handing over 31 acres as agreed upon, to give
the Government access to its own pro-
perty, the co. has kept the land; it hasn’t
handed over anything, and it has a lease of
the State’s property for ten centuries for about id.
per cent, per annum on its cost. This incredible
agreement was apparently not sanctioned by Par-
liament, or by anybody in particular. The
Minister who signed it is understood to say that
he signed the document without reading it—that
he only read the endorsement on the back and
the endorsement led him to believe that he was
signing something quite different—something
about a stray dog regulation, it may be. But no
one seems to be explaining with any vigor whether
the Minister had previously agreed to this appal-
ling job—whether he unconsciously signed a paper
that he intended to sign anyhow; or whether he
unconsciously signed a document that neither he
nor any other Minister had ever heard of or
dreamt of, and which had been drawn up by some
outrageous process of fake, and smuggled among
the Ministerial documents by some person
who ought to be in gaol. That is the really
important point, and about it there appears to
be a great scarcity of information. And why
the atrocious bargain was kept a secret for 11
years is also unexplained. Now the Lewis
Government hesitates, in a small sort of way,
and thinks of trying to call in question the
1000 years’ lease of the breakwater wharfage
rights, and the V.D.L. Co. refuses to hand
over the long-promised 3§ acres till it gets the
lease fully confirmed and acknowledged—the
Government apparently can either have access,
but no wharf or a wharf but no access. And if
the Government confirms the 1000 years’ lease it
now transpires that the 31 acres which the co. is
willing to hand over is to a groat extent under
water and quite useless for railway purposes—a
good deal of it is said to be sea-bottom. In addi-
tion to all this the V.D.L. Co. agreed, 28 years
ago, to hand over to the Government a wharfage
site, so that the Government might build a wharf
at Burnie and further improve the co.’s property.
The site has never yet been handed over, and it
now transpires that it is a site on dry land, with
the co.’s land between it and the water. And
there is talk of compromising by paying
the co. £205,000 for a small" bit of rail-
way valued at £151,000, the balance being to pay
the co. for letting the State have a look at its own
breakwater. And if Tasmania isn’t by this time
tolerably weary of its V.D.L. Co. it certainly
ought to be.
A FAINT moaning sound on the surface of Wes-
tralian politics suggests the possibility of an at-
tempt to start a new boom by giving concessions
on a large scale to private land-grant railway-
builders. . Westralia, within a few years, has
raised £20,000,000 worth of gold and borrowed
£10,000,000 in addition, and it has become so
demoralised by its artificial boom that it finds it
hard to settle down to plain, ordinary conditions
again. In its biggest boom year it borrowed
almost enough to maintain its whole population
without any serious necessity for work. And now
that loans are becoming hard to get, a few
eminent wild-catters would like to create a private
railway boom in the hope of keeping the great
public drunk going a little longer. It would
require a ruinous sacrifice of the public estate
to start anything of the kind, and when it
was over Westralia, with its supply of loans
giving out, its gold supply probably diminish-
ing, its land revenue depleted through sacri-
ficing its best assets as bribes to land-grant
railway syndicates, the profits from its State
railways on the down grade, the inflow of private
capital almost stopped, and a stupendous outflow
of money for interest, would be left in a lamentable
situation. Westralia has already tried private
land-grant railways on a larger’ scale than any of
the other States of Australia; it had to prop' up
its private railways with State money ; and it has
been driven to a policy of repurchasingits syndicate
lines through the utter failure of private manage-
ment. But even while the State is negotiating
for the repurchase of the last big private railway
failure, a considerable section of its politicians is
quite willing to start the discredited policy afresh
if it can thereby keep the unwholesome public
drunk going just a little longer, and stave off the
day when it will have to face the situation in real
earnest. The policy of most Australian politi-
cians is to keep things going, by any disastrous
expedient that may come along, for their time,
and leave their children to pay the bill. And yet
this country lives in a chronic state of wonder-
ment because the new Australian generation is
not more respectful to its parents. In a general
way the new Australian generation is a great deal
too respectful to its parents, considering what the
parents have done to this country.
♦
Melbourne Argus breaks out again in the old
place:
Until it is made clear that, behind the woman suffrage
proposal, there is a majority of either the women or the
men, the Council will be justified in refusing- to sanction
it.
What a useful old gag it is ! Victoria’s House of
Landlords refused to have a Referendum to find
out if the majority was in favor of Woman Suffrage.
So the people signified as best they could by elect-
ing 70 avowed Woman Suffragists out of 95
Assembly members. And the Upper House
paper replies that this isn’t sufficient proof, be-
cause this huge majority might have been elected
on some other grounds. Nothing is con-
clusive proof as to what the people want
but the Referendum, and the Council won’t
sanction a Referendum to find out what the
people want, because it holds there is no evidence
that the people want a Referendum. So the
animal comes out at the same hole it went in at,
and goes in again by the same hole it came out of,
and then keeps on going in and coming out ad in-
finitum.
♦
Sydney’s first municipal election under an adult
and one-person-one-vote system is over, and the
dirty old Council has disappeared. Fifteen old
members are missing. Eight were defeated, six
never stood up to give the people a chance of
beating them, and one is dead. The nine members
of the old Council who have come back are mostly
reformers who, in the bad old days, were smothered
by the filth and incompetence of their colleagues.
That great practical joker, Matthew Harris,
the B.A. who talks about “yous,” has been
beaten by Andy Kelly and W. T. Henson.
It is a fearful thing for a knight and
B.A. to go down before a man in a soft
hat and with a name like Andy Kelly. The
men elected have a big opportunity before them.
They have as many large problems to deal with
as ever faced a municipal council, and the hardest
of them all is to persuade a weak-kneed com-
munity that an increase of rates is absolutely neces-
sary to begin with. With the present revenue, any
attempt to cope with the urgent questions of the
day merely means getting further and further
into the financial bog, and the heaping up of a
load of interest on loans and overdrafts that will
hang like a millstone around the necks of the citi-
zens for generations, and clog every effort to make
Sydney a pleasant place to live in. And judging
by the speeches of most of the councillors before
election, increasing the rates is the one thing most
of them shrink from. Most of them were for
raising money on debentures, or borrowing in
some shape or form, or getting cash from any-
where but the pockets of the rate-payers. And
unless the new Council has grit enough to get
right down to the policy of making income cover
expenditure, it is only a question of time till it
meets the same fate as the unclean old Council it
has just ejected into oblivion.
Picture of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly tor N.S.W.
electors to study, taken from Sydney Telegraph
of 5th Dec. : —
In regard to the transaction of its business, this has
been one of the most remarkable of all sessions of Parlia-
ment. The intelligent stranger who strolled at inter-
vals into the House to observe its procedure and to study
its men would have said that the Chamber was never
under any sort of control at all. He would have noticed
that two or three members, quite unofficial members,
took unrestricted charge of the House, dictated to the
Govt., drove the Premier into acquiescence with their
demands however preposterous, constantly paralysed
business, brow-beat parties, laughed at the Speaker,
flouted the Chairman, indulged in coarse language that
men would not repeat in mixed society, made
speeches such as no newspaper, anxious for its
reputation, would publish at all. He would have
remarked, too, that these members, who carried
licence of debate to the limits of toleration, tried,
and frequently succeeded, in making tyrannical use of
the forms of the House to defeat and hamper and bull-
doze other members. He would have heard the word
“ liar ” used as a common expression that rarely met with
notice, and less often with disapprobation. He would
have become so accustomed to the ejaculations, “ For
God’s sake,” and “ Great God,” and “I wish to God,”
that he would think they were part of the ordinary
language of the Chamber. He would have seen
the Opposition with a nominal leader, who was
seldom to be found in the House ; Ministers who, with
the exception of the Premier and two or three other
members of the Govt., rarely troubled to attend in their
places. He would have seen the Opposition so hopelessly
divided that its strength as a united body could never be
tested.
He would have seen railway and harbor proposals
rushed through the House at 2 and 3 and 4 a.m., when
not a quorum was present. He would have seen hours
wasted on trivial points of order, and discussion on bills
involving important changes in legislation, so important
that they were virtually a change in the Constitution,
severely and angrily deprecated. He would have seen
bills introduced at one sitting and passed without Copies
of them having been prepared for circulation among the
members who had to consider them. He would have
wondered why, even if the bills could not be printed, the
Minister could still find no time or inclination to explain
what was in them. And he would have concluded his
experience by witnessing the last possible stage of all-
notice being given of a bill that it was proposed to intro-
duce the same night and rush through all its stages.
These things might have amused the intelligent stranger!
If he thought they were not any improvement on vvhat
he had been accustomed to elsewhere, he would at least
have the novelty of a fresh experience and the lessons to
be derived from new methods. If it seemed strange to
him that the governing authorities of the House could not
control a few active, irrepressible, self-advertising spirits,
that the Govt, had meekly to do their bidding, that the
rules of the House were made use of to forward the per-
sonal interests and convenience of a few, it would have
shown that his education in up-to-date politics was still
in arrear.
The recent counting-out of Lyne’s Marriage Bill
(having for its object the suppression of matri-
monial agencies) in N.S.W. Leg. Council is a
well-earned slap in the face for the insolent cleri-
cal trade-union. The Bill, in fact, was an impu-
dent attempt to put back the hands of the world’s
clock and secure to the churches that monopoly of
the marriage-business which is fast slipping out
of their hands. The framers of the Bill over-
stepped themselves in their haste to protect what
it pays them to call “morality.” Even the House
of Fossils couldn’t help seeing the absurdity of
placing the superintendence of doctrine and
morals in the hands of an Attorney-General and
Registrar-General, both of whom might be Jews,
Agnostics, or anything heterodox. Nothing
can more clearly prove the humorless dull-
ness of the clerical mind than the way the
parsons of all sects, so long as they belonged
to a “regular church,” fell over each other in their
frantic hurry to put themselves under the heel of
a State Department which, for the time being,
might be expected to obliterate the outsiders.
The whole tendency of the Bill was to throw
obstacles in the way of lawful marriage. What
does it matter where, when, or how the ceremony
is performed, so long as it is lawful, and without
compulsion of either party ? If marriage is a good
thing it should surely be made as easy as possible.
Vio. Chief Sec. Peacock’s return to office was
promptly signalised by a repetition of the in-
famous practice of gaoling the sick poor. On
Tuesday week sundry subservient Coburg J.’sP.
visited Pentridge female penitentiary, and, having
diagnosed a case of illness as St. Vitus’ dance,
promptly ordered twelve months imprisonment as
a cure. The unfortunate subject had already
served one similar term for the same offence—
that of having no competence and not being im-
mediately able to work —and though she pleaded
hard to be sent to a benevolent asylum or a hos-
pital, anywhere but a gaol, the beaks treated her
as a habitual criminal and a confirmed scoundrel,
and gave her another year. Is there any other
country on earth—civilised or savage—which thus
dishonors its name? Already the province pre-
pares to spend thousands over the Commonwealth
celebrations, and the Yorks, and the returned
contingenters—while a sick woman rots in gaol
for two years, for the crime of being poor.
Pekth (W. A.) City Council has lately been asking
the Government for authority to supply electric
light and power to the city, and to give the rate-
payers the benefit of the profit derivable from the
enterprise. Perth Tramway Co. demands autho-
rity to do the same work and to divide all the
profits among the (largely-foreign) shareholders.
And the awful Government of Big John Forrest
is enthusiastically helping a Bill through Parlia-
ment to give this most valuable monopoly gratis
to the Tramway Co. —this despite the indignant
protests of Perth Council. An even more shady-
looking measure is the Hampton Plains Syndicate
Railway Bill, which is also being helped along by
the Forrest push for all it is worth. The
Forrests have persistently refused to build the
Kalgoorlie-Esperanee Bay line, which would
give the goldfields a short road to the sea,
on the ground that it would destroy the
trade of the hideously long railway from Kal-
goorlie to Perth. The Esperanee line would
pay the State splendidly, for almost all the gold-
fields trade would go over it, but it would pay by
taking business from the other State line, and
would shift the goldfields base of supplies from
Perth to Adelaide, so it has always been blocked
as a Government enterprise. But the bill now
before Parliament gives the Hampton Plains
Syndicate authority to build the first section of a
line pointing straight towards Esperanee, and
everybody has a distinct idea that the other sec-
tions will naturally follow. The wrecking of the
profits of the Kalgoorlie-Perth State line by a
State line to Esperanee isn’t to be thought o’.
But the same damage done to the Perth State kne
for the benefit of a private syndicate railway is
regarded as rather commendable than otherwise.
At present, however, the private line is only
to go part of the way to Esperanee; it is
to end nowhere in particular, and its out-
ward and ostensible purpose is to carry a
shrub or two to the goldfields under
the name of firewood. But many influential
persons are understood to be interested, and the
extension to Esperanee is probably quite safe
as soon as the co. finds that better firewood can be
obtained a little further on. Big John Forrest
has intimated that he is about to resign the high
billet in which he has borrowed so manfully for
ten years, and his last days promise to smell even
worse than his first. This is saying a good deal,
but the circumstances appear to fully justify it.
Let all men who love Liberty read Richard
Harding Davis’ powerful sketch, “ The Last
Days of Pretoria,” in Scribner’s for October.
Davis, it may be mentioned, is not a Fenian, nor
a German, nor a Frenchman, but an American
of English blood. Here are the concluding lines :
The hot, barren kopjes with their stunted cacti, the
splashing water-falls, and the twisting white river that
raced the train, all filled me with regret. They had never
looked more beautiful or more to bg desired, or more as
the sftene set for a country men would choose to call
home. The sight of the men to whom it really was
home, who were fighting for it, and who were to continue
to fight for it, stirred me with pride in them. I saw them
for the last time even as I was steaming awav from them
to another continent, to other interests and older friends.
They were jogging patiently through the high grass on
our right, and spreading out fan-wise over the red kopjes
that lay between them and Irene, where the sultry air
was shaken with the heavy vibrations of hot-throated
guns. They trotted forward alone or in pairs, each an
independent fighting-man with his rifle and blanket
swung across his shoulders, with his canvas water-bottle,
rusty coffee-pot and bundle of green fodder dang-
ling from his saddle. I knew as the train
carried us away from the sight of them that rio
soldier in pipe-ola.v, gauntlets, and gold lace would ever
again mean to me what these burghers meant—these
long-bearded, strong-eyed Boers with their drooping
cavalier hats, their bristling bands of cartridges, their
upright seat in the saddle, and the rifle rising- above them
like the lance of the crusaders They were the last of the
crusaders. They rode out to fight for a cause as old as
the days of Pharaoh and the children of Israel, against
an enemy ten times as mighty as was Washington’s in his
war for independence. As I see ir, it has been a Holy
War, this war of the burgher crusader, and his motive’s
are as fine as any that ever called a “ minute man ” from
his farm or sent a knight of the Cross to die for it in
Palestine. Still, in spite of his cause, the Boer is losing,
and in time his end may come, and he may fall. But
when lie falls he will not fall alone ; with him'will end a
great principle, the principle for w-hieh our forefathers
fought—the right of self-government, the principle of
md pendence.
iiiiif is the principle, alas, which Australian men
and money have helped to strangle. Instead of
rejoicing we should weep tears of blood.
■ ■
From letter received by a Sydney resident from
his brother (a lieutenant Ist Bombay Lancers,
now at Matao, midway between Pekin and
Tientsin).:--
Had a scrap yesterday with 300 Boxers and floored over
40 of them. I hate the work, for these men are only
tools in the hands of men our diplomatic (?) fools allow to
pass scot free, Call the Boxer rank-and-file “ inhuman ?”
Heroes, every man—according to their lights. Give ’em
.a white skin and a mediaeval name, and we’d rank ’em
with Cromwell s supporters. The missionaries brought
about the trouble, and now must we risk our useless
lives to retrieve the country’s honor and inter alia bar-
rack for their indemnity. Inhuman? Yes, of course,
they are. They expect no quarter, and get none. The
Russians called a lighter with 500 of the Talal Tug and
Lighter Co.’s men (returning from coaling men-of-war) to
land on banks of Pei Ho and butchered the lot in cold
blood . Many of these men I knew when I was quill-
driving- for the same company, And, talk about loot!
Every man in. the Kaiser's “No-quarter” army would go
away a millionaire—could he keep away from rum.
I’m fast losing my prejudices in favour of Germans.
During the bombardment of Tientsin the only non-com-
pliance with orders came from the gentlemen from the
Rhine. Japs have provedgrit y from the first. Hart (Sir
Robert- Hart, Inspector-General of Customs) or Hillier
could do better than the so-called diplomatists we pay- to
be outwitted by Russia. Old Li openly propitiates the
bear, and we know what that means. My knowledge of
Russian, Manchu, and Jap stands me in good stead. Why


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMPING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IR VINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G. Gc. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HE LI DON SPA WATER
NATURAL
MINERAfeWATER
*
Va
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore cau be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
. . . ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Pull Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
are not more Englishmen “in the know?” The trouble
is only now beginning. International jealousy is a far
bigger factor than Boxer atrocities. Russia has the
greatest say—now, as always, though she speaks in a
whisper and acts in the dark. The arrival of the Aus-
tralians took place a day or two ago, and we are glad of
colonial support, but tlie foreign officers openly say that
the Boer war must not be reckoned on too seriously. Do
you take the sending of 300 men as of any use except as
a moral lesson ? Thousands must die of starva-
tion this winter. You know what a North China winter
must mean—and all in the name of God 1
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “A Royal Pardon.”
Theatre Royal Grand Opera Season.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum “ Shaughraun.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Scarlet Feather.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Cotton King.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
That old favorite, “ Faust,” is proving the
more popular of the alternating operas at Sydney
Royal. As a whole, the new production is evenly
unexciting, although backed up with some stirring
scenery and choruses. Charlie Tilbury’s clean-
faced Mephisto sings with a round, unworn bass,
and acts in a quiet, ordinary, graceful kind of way
just as a Devil of long and gentlemanly experi-
ence would be sure to do. Lilian Coomber, as
Marguerite, is well-equipped so far as looks go,
but her clear little soprano is colorless and youth-
ful, and often ineffective. Probably the “ Jewel
Song ” gets a more dramatic and dignified treat-
ment from half a dozen local sopranos who will
never get the chance to warble behind grease-
paint. As for tenor Arens, his Faust music is
feelingly sung and with evident determination to
do his best, but the gent in brown would never
lady-kill anyone a day older than Marguerite
with his intense “ I lof thee.” His voice is strong
and robust, but not of fine quality. Lawrence
Mooney’s ringing baritone is flanked with some
good acting in his death-scene. Siebel falls to
Mary Lynne, she of the veiled contralto and the
well-displayed legs. It is these extremities which
win her a patient hearing. The great want in the
new co. is dramatic ability, and yet, even as
voices, the voices of the principals are all consis-
tently mediocre. These remarks refer to the cast
as it was on the first night. “ Faust ”is also to
be seen at intervals with Cecile Lorraine as Mar-
guerite and Salvi as the demon, and again with
Madame Slapoffski as the tempted maiden, so
there is no lack of variety in Marguerite. “ Car-
men ” commences on Saturday.
#* * *
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is closed till 26th
December, when “Australis, or the City of
Zero,” by Bernard Espinasse and J. C. William-
son, will be presented with large magnificence.
Nance O’Neil departed after a week of one-night
revivals, which were interesting in their way, but
nothing to be compared to the glorious “Mac-
beth.” To everybody with a capacity for wild
enjoyment, “Macbeth,” thanks toM‘Kee Rankin
as the Scotch king, will remain the brightest spot
in the Nance O’Neil record. It was fresh, daring,
and original. The back view of the vast hot
usurper laboring up the great stone stairway of
the Castle of Inverness to kill Duncan will be
remembered by this writer when he has even for-
gotten the Commonwealth celebrations and the
Boer-hunting contingent. And if Macbeth had
given up the struggle when half-way up the stair,
and called to Duncan to come doon and be killed
on the ground floor, his joy would have been
complete.
** * *
The Criterion version of the ‘ ‘ Three
Musketeers ” is somewhat livelier than some
others Sydney has seen. It includes the public
execution of Miladi pursued by the Red Heads-
man, also Miladi’s subjugation of Felton in her
role of persecuted Puritan maiden. Also it
includes other troubles of that much-hanged and
unappreciated woman. There was evidently some
excitement in being a married woman in those
days, when the gallant French nobleman
occasionally suspended his wife on a tree in a
public and ostentatious manner, and possibly tied
a rock to her feet to prevent her flapping
dismally in the wind. Even the King seems to
have had the headsman always waiting in
tlse next room in case he might come
in useful for the Queen. The result was
probably that Queens walked a more careful chalk-
line than they do now, or looked as if they did.
Dampier is brighter than Rignold as the French
hayseed who came to make his fortune in Paris.
Also, he is like an Australian, inasmuch as when
he loses his horse and his lady-love at the same
time he goes to look for the horse first. But
Dampier is unnecessarily ’umble in manner when
he accidentally knocks against a captain under
the impression that he is merely a man. Miss
Lily Dampier makes Miladi a rather misunder-
stood individual instead of a walking iniquity,
and the gallery resents the fatal abbreviation of
her by the man with the axe. But she is
surprisingly good as the Puritan damsel
who was “ wronged.” Besides Buller as
a hungry servant, there is a squat red
Cardinal and a yellow - legged King who is
reminded by various people that his surname is
“ The Just ” whenever they want to make him do
anything that is Unjust. He is most aggressively
Just in the scene where he orders the Queen to be
searched and personally overhauled by a male
minion in quest of incriminating documents. One
wonders if the great and good monarchs of that
period really had their wives searched by male
captains and such-like, to see if they had com-
promising or defamatory letters hidden down
their backs.
John F. Sheridan duly removed his bags
and chattels to Sydney Lyceum, where he did a
surprisingly brief revival of old “Fun on the
Bristol.” Even the good old joke of the heaving
stage vessel which took a mixed company a very
long way for a dollar is wearing out a
little. John is now doing “The Shaughraun,”
and doing it remarkably well, but no deep dis-
simulation can conceal the fact that it is also a
play that is past its first youth. The advt. says
that “The Shaughraun” will live for ever, but
this paper is half inclined to think that it is
dying already. It represents a state of things that
is becoming old forgotten history. The Irish
nation has mostly emigrated. The Saxon op-
pressor can now walk such long distances in
empty Clare and Kerry without finding anyone to
actively oppress that he has eased-off a good deal
to save the cost of boots. The informer has
largely ceased to inform for the want of people to
inform on or to carry the information to. The
peasantry that once was hanged for the wearing
of the green is doing police duty in New York,
and the Celtic Irishman will soon be everywhere
except in Ireland, and the Saxon Irishman
will be left there to inform on himself. Where-
fore the “ Shaughraun ” will soon be out of date,
for they don’t have shaughrauns in New York,
where the O’Donnells and O’Murphys are going
nowadays.
* * * *
The small lost-looking theatre down in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, bursts into represen-
tation every now and then in an erratic manner,
breaking out on a Tuesday, taking a rest on
Wednesday, and then resuming its duties on the
day following. The Royal Standard’s recent out-
burst was “ Dr. Bill.” It is noticeable that when
the tragic drama, like “East Lynne” and
“Uncle Tom” gets into grey hairs it invariably
becomes comic, whereas with farces of the “Dr.
Bill” order the process is frequently reversed.
The Standard’s “Dr. Bill” was mainly upheld
by a very serious hero with flickering Cinemato-
graphe eyebrows and a stodgy father-in-law.
“Dr. Bill” is the drama of the Locked Door
Joke made in France, and was vaguely under-
stood, when it first dawned on the Saxon intelli-
gence, to be dubiously respectable. However,
the wickedness has been gradually peeling off it
during the last few years. At the Royal Standard
there weren’t enough doors to be locked, so most
of the people had to content themselves with re-
tiring to the wings and pretending that they were
locked. Altogether, it was a repentant kind of
drama, and might almost have been written by
Rev. George Walters.
* * * *
At Sydney Tivoli Frank Leon, England's
“ Only Champion Dancer,” dances with every
muscle, and generally without music, except the
pounding of his fast and furious feet. Lizzie
Kirk, returned after an absence of three years,
owns a Scotch Presbyterian name, which seems to
overawe the audience during her worn-out witti-
cisms on the lydy who ransacks the whole shop to
match something that she doesn’t want matched.
Later on she brightens up by being partly remin-
iscent of Irene Franklin. The stage is now con-
siderably darkened when Lottie Collins makes
her appearance as a coon, perhaps because Lottie’s
lower limbs are not in keeping with the exuber-
ance and round curves of her expressive face.
* * * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson twanged his round,
unvarnished tale in the dredgeful city of Dunedin
(M.L.) for three nights, from 21st Nov., to good
biz. On 24th “Banjo” and Donald Macdonald,
brother correspondents for the same papers, gave
a joint entertainment under the much-travelled
Smythe, and met for the first time on a Dunedin
stage. Mac., by the quality of his defect— i.e. ,
his stereotyped, recitation-lilce yarns—uninten-
tionally scored off his poet-rival. He was telling
his “argument” yarn, and said, as per stereo-
type, “He was that sort of man, that when you
catch him young, sometimes becomes a poet ”
but the audience roared, and Banjo blushed.
* * * *
On its first night (Dec. 8) the “ Pinafore ”
revival drew a moderate attendance at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne. The present edition of the
Gilbert-Sullivan nauticality is attractive enough,
though the public begins to think that it has seen
‘ ‘ Pinafore ” already somewhere. Wallace Brown-
low’s Captain Corcoran looks and sounds all that
an operatic Son of the Sea ought to be. Kenning-
ham makes an apple-cheeked and tuneful Ralph
Rackstraw, and, as usual, works hard all the time.
Bathurst is convincing as the “ Bos’n’s mate,” and
displays the beauty of his voice in “We tars!”
The joke of the evening is Bos’n Hugh Ward’s
hornpipe. In fact, all the planets on the present
“Pinafore” firmament are men, while, at best,
the ladies only twinkle, twinkle like little tremb-
ling stars. Alma Skinner, who pipes “ Off to the
Rio Grande ” very prettily, looks a gentle, wistful
little midshipmite. Walking the deck, she
might easily be a small-boy ghost of Kings-
ton, or a midget edition of Melbourne’s own Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore. Carrie Moore’s appearance
as Josephine conveys the correct idea of a little
maid from school, all ready to plunge into love
with a common sailor. Miss Fy vie Dench’s Little
Buttercup is a superior, humorless person, a
teacher or sich, masquerading as a bumboat woman.
Cecil Englelieart, dark-haired and rosy-cheeked,
is a glowing Hebe in pink. Other pleasing items
are a ballet and a gushing crowd of sisters, cousins
and aunts. Lauri as the Great Admiral turns on
rather a mild tap of Porter. On Saturday (Dec.
15), “ Pinafore ” is to give place to “ Florodora ”
—its first Australian appearance. An old friend
who is not old, Miss Grace Palotta, is to be in the
cast.
* * * Hf
Bland Holt’s “Absent-Minded Beggar” has
left behind him his home at the Royal, and on Satur-
day (Dec. Bth) a large crowd rollod up to welcome
“ The Cotton King.” The revived play dishes up
the usual haw-haw villain (one Wheeler), whose
machinations, schemes and skeleton keys work the
ruin of Baker, as usual. Baker is the most ruined
and persecuted man on the Australian stage.
Being hounded from bad to worse, he is thrust
into an American lunatic asylum at last, and
escapes thence in quaint broad-brimmed hat and
Silver King tailorings, just in time to rescue his
faithful Frances Boss, in becoming brown-
holland clothes, from being squashed by a
descending lift. Baker goes home that night
without revealing his identity to his dear
one, and evidently spends the interval in per-
sonal decoration, for next day he calls at his
mother-in-law’s elect, groomed, starched, and
polished, and steps to Miss Boss’s palpitating
side, raising his glossy top-hat, with the aplomb
that marks the tile of Yere de Vere. Bland Holt
is a North Country edition of his usual stage self
—a cheeky rough-and-ready squire of distressed
humanity, and Mrs. Bland is a female Samson,
who becomes a Hallelujah Lass, and is rightly
considered a remarkably fine woman by the Sal-
vation Army captain (Charles Brown). The rest
of the co. is much as usual, and the play may be
summed up as being like the co. “ Cotton King”
belongs to a class of plays that are very much
alike; the trouble is that it is even more alike
than many other plays.
* * He *
At Melbourne Bijou Miss Abbott, the
Georgia Magnet, doubles up rash males, who pit
mere mannishness against the patent Abbott
knack. Small, perky faddists attack their
“subject” seriously, striving and straining to
master her resistance. Lumbering patriarchs
become butter-fingered and bumble-footed in their
dread of toe-trampling or shin-kicking so small an
adversary, while showy lady-killers brave out
their failure to “shift” the alleged phenomenon
by ogling and tossing kisses in her direction. Such
a small thing as a clean shave rubbed the shine off
a traditional Strong Man. Possibly an unsympa-
thetic, gimlet-eyed she-committee might succeed
in loosening the grip of a Magnetic Woman.
Daisy Harcourt’s coster items catch on, with their
references to the singer’s khaki underwear and
her sister’s twins. When this is printed, how-
ever, Geo. D’Albert, who earned only moderate
applause by the literal sweat of his comely brow,
will be off the Bijou bill, and “ Clive,” clever
conjuror and pretty youth, will also be on the eve
of flight.
#* * *
The “Scarlet Feather,” which is not long
for Melbourne, drew only two crack audiences
(one of them on opening night) to the Princess
throughout its first week and a half. During the
same period at Her Majesty’s the “Old Guard”
prospered, so the slump in the house of the
red hen - ornament was evidently not solely
due to the return of the coinless khaki
one with the failing mind. Neither can the
trouble be laid to the account of “our Nellie,”
with her delightful voice, delicious figure and
dazzling dresses. Experts describe the Stewart
contour in page attire as too beautiful for this
world. With or without glasses it’s difficult to
detect a fraction too much either of beef or bone
in the whole of the stage-boy’s dainty carcase,
though sticklers hint at a tendency to massiveness
across the back of the shoulders. But apart from
Nellie, who is the plum, the rest of the pie is
mostly paste. Tapley, singing soulfully “ Angels
of Heaven Defend Thee,” seems almost handsome
by comparison with the tame Belvwa of the long
body and short legs. Seguin, the imported
funny man, is perhaps hampered by the
dearth of laughter m the libretto, but
Lauri in Seguin’s shoes would fake up glee galore,
notably in that variety turn where, embosomed in
his harem, the frisky pill-man sings “ There are
only a hundred girls in the world for me.”
Soprano Emmie Owen, with a pretty voice, and
inoffensive, rather dainty, appearance, wears the
same frock throughout. Maud Thornton is a saucy
village belle and acts prettily and pertly, but her
voice is so weak that hearers call to mind the
rumor that the “ Scarlet Feather ” was designedly
gut on the boards as a one-woman show. Mrs.
alhaem, the comic lady, makes no attempt to
sing, but by way of compensation looks like the
weirdest frump extant.
The Fates perpetrated a ghastly joke in
Wellington (M.L.) recently. A coal-hulk keeper
named James Wilson had gone ashore one even-
ing, and after a couple of days had passed without
his turning up, his wife saw in the paper that
one J. Wilson had been run-in for being drunk,
&c. She sent ashore an ill-spared sovereign and
bailed him out, but that night her husband’s body
was found in the harbour. Poor wife ! She had
bailed out the wrong man.
Dan O’Connor, M.L.A., Australia’s only
orator, has broken out once more. Sez he, in a
letter to Sydney E. News :
The Persons who oppose the rights of woman sufferage
—are the Tomb Stones of a Vile and putrid past; they
represent the Lust and Brutality of Paganism.
The Teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ Emancipated
Women and Promoted her to the Exalted position which
she holds to-day and dignifies by her Grace and beauty
and Culture. The Church is the work of the Almighty
God—So is the State.
The Church has done her work nobly—Now the State
has the privilege of doing Justice to God’s Noblest Crea-
ture —a Woman.
Again, in N.S.W. Lag. Assembly—
“ Mister Speaker—(with a sweep of the hand) —are we
living in the straight-laced, attenuated, herring-gutted
days of George 111., that I cannot refer to the impe-
cunious intellectuality of this creature ? ”
What is the matter with Daniel ? Well, it is said
that he is very badly in love just now, and medi-
tates matrimony.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Westralian 3| per cent, loan of £BBO,OOO,
put on the market in London at par, only brought offers
of about £450,000 in all. The underwriters took up the
remainder. Westralia gets the money, of course, but,
after paying the heavy expense of underwriting the loan
and all the ordinary charges, it probably gets only about
£97 for each £lOO ; so the interest-rate is £3 12s. 2d., and
the loss on repayment will make it considerably more.
As already mentioned, it is almost certain that the W.A.
Govt, could have got the money much more cheaply in
Sydney and Melbourne—but it couldn’t get out of its old
rut, and it couldn’t realise that j ust now its credit in London
is almost as dead as Cain’s brother. Westralia last June
owed £63 Bs. per inhabitant. It will soon have the most
awful debt in the world. It produces much gold, but,
thanks to what it used to call the “ splendid influx of
foreign capital,” the gold belongs to people in England
and elsewhere—almost everywhere save in W.A. The
disease of foreign capital has fastened on W.A., and eaten
it up badly, and it has really no prospects of its own that
are decent security for a big loan just now.
* * * *
Revenue returns so far as available for Novem-
ber, 1900:
t- . Increase as
*Nlono compared with
Nov., 1900. xov., 1899.
New South Wales £960,673 £104,856
(Rents from resumed area included.)
New South Wales 946,314 90,497
(Rents from resumed area not included.)
Victoria .. .. 602,641 33,693
Westralia .. .. 259,989 26,286
Tasmania ». ... 86,733 10,046
„ . Decrease as
E ™ nu . e ' or compared with
Nov., 1900. Nov., 1899.
Queensland .. .. £314,775 £11,319
So far as the financial year has gone, the results are as
follows (figures for Queensland, N.S. Wales, Victoria,
Tasmania and Westralia are up to 30th Nov., and for
S.A. to 30th Sept., that State issuing quarterly returns
only):
Increase as com-
pared with
Revenue, corresponding
date of
1899.
N.S.W. (5 mths. to 30/11/’00) .. £4,134,588 £242,575
(Rents from resumed area included)
N.S.W. (5 mths. to 30/11/’00) .. £4,091,231 199,218
(Rents from resumed area not included)
Vic. (5 mths. to 30/11/’00) .. £3,011,141 155,16/
W.A. (5 „ „ ) .. 1,220,203 112,200
Tas. (11 „ „ ).. 963,920 105,515
S.A. (3 „ 80/9/’00) .. 626,082 11,731
Decrease as com-
pared with
Revenue, corresponding
date of
1899.
Q. (5 mths. to 30A1/’00) .. £1,847,082 £126,154
The reason for showing the N.S.W. revenue with and
without the rents from the resumed area is that these
rents are the receipts from property taken over by Govt,
but not paid for, nor has the payment been provided
for, and the expenditure estimates for the year do
not include provision for the year's interest on the
money which must be borrowed to pay for the pro-
perty. Therefore these rents are really in the nature
of a trust fund, and to include them in the year’s revenue
when the corresponding outgoings are not provided for
in the year’s expenditure is a very dubious proceeding.
Even the improvements being made in the resumed area
are not charged against the £43,000 odd already received
as rent from the unpaid-for property—they go into the
permanent debt, just as the cleaning of the resumed area
was charged to the floating debt.
The following are the respective increases of
revenue when brought to a common basis of so much per
inhabitant per annum. The N.S.W. figures do not in-
clude the rents from the resumed area. The calculations
are based on Ooghlan’s estimates of population as at 31st
Dec. 1899:
Increase of revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia .. .. £1 11 6
Tasmania .. .. 0 12 7
New South Wales .. 0 7 0
Victoria .. .. 0 6 5
South Australia .. 0 2 7
Decrease of revenue for
inhabitant per annum.
Queensland .. .. 012 7
Taking Premier Lyne’s own figures the N.S.W.
revenue, as shown above, for the five months to 30th
Nov., 1900, is £242,575 more than for the corresponding
period of 1899. The ordinary expenditure has in-
creased by £202,286, so on paper the N.S.W. Treasury
is £40,289 richer than it was this time last year.
Yet while revenue for the five months is £4,134,588,
expenditure is £4,178,865, sq the deficit is already
£44,277. And the expenditure of loan money
is swelling at an appalling rate. For the five
months to 30th Nov., 1899, N.S.W. spent £792,359 of
borrowed cash. For the five months just ended it has
spent £993,838—an increase of £201,479. And Lyne is
charging ordinary expenditure to loans quite as vigor-
ously as Reid did.
Queensland is in a much worse state than even
N.S.W. Its revenue for Che five months to 30th Nov.,
1900, is £126,154 less than for the corresponding period of
last year, while its ordinary expenditure is £183,251 more.
Therefore Queensland is £309,405 worse off than 12
months ago. At 30th Nov., 1899, it had a surplus of
£830,554 ; just now its surplus is only £521,149. Queens-
land’s interest bill falls due in two huge masses about Dec.
and June, so twice a year it gathers up a huge surplus,
which disappears again. It ended last financial year
with a net surplus of rather under £48,000, so even if the


wtfr
a
f
&
TJRINKIT
FOR HEALTH,
Andyou derive
PI^SU^E
ORIHK IT
for Pleasure
Ako You Acquire
Health
ZETZ-SPA Proprietary Limited - }
<SYDNEY>
“ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S navy cot
TOBACCO and CIGARETTES.
The Pioneer Tin Mining Co., of Bradshaw’s
Greek, Tasmania, have ordered from the Austral Otis
Eng. Co., South Melbourne, a large dredging plant for the
treatment of their tin deposits. The Plant is a very com-
plete one, and includes vertical compound engine 400 h.p.,
suitable boilers carrying 1501 b. steam pressure, and one of
Otis newest design 15in. gravel pump. The plant is to be
completed and set to work within six months.
* • * •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
The Argus of 24th October, 1900, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
affairs of the Society in all material respects are based on
a sound footing.*
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
*** ' m
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » 9
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites; They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
British brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills
Air Compressors, etc., etc.* ’
* * * •
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the Luhng ” Yanners, as supplied by Messrs W &
J. Lempnere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option ”
Melbourne.* ’
* * * ,
. M r- Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscrav
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers
pumps, flunung, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work *
* * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists
* * ♦ *
Great Boulder Perseverance : The knock-back
in the share market and partial failure of the sulphide
plant roused F. L. Gardner to make some injudicious
declarations m London. Frank said that the GB P was
simply a jeweller’s warehouse. He was ready to defy
the “ bears,” advised holders to stick to their shares and
if they were not prepared to do that he was ready to’take
the lot for £lO a share. Also published that he wagered
100,000 francs in Paris that the mine would turn out 250
tons of ore per day for the next seven years, of the aver-
age of ljoz. ; he offered to increase the wager to £lOO 000
sterling, stakes to be deposited in the Bank of England
There is a lot more of the same sort of hogwash. Writer
can’t believe it of Gardner, who, though foolish in some
things, is not such an ass as his buttering newspaper the
British Australasian, is making him out to be. ’
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 £
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-streefc,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Pa de-street
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellindon an'l
Auckland, NZ. ’
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET, J
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per ce r
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisiu.s,
Candles, etc. ’
decline of revenue and the increase of expenditure both
stop short it looks as if a deficit of £260,000 might be ex-
pected at the end of the year. If revenue keeps dropping 1
and expenditure rising at the present rate, the deficit
may easily be £500,000. And, in addition to the other
expenditure for the five months just ended
taar i cf^f 3 a iV lncrease over corresponding period of
1899 of £48,621 The Philp Govt, seems to be Sumping
down a steep place to ruin at a great rate. V *
• • * »
W estralia’s expenditure account for last month
isn t in yet, but for four months to 31st Oct., 1900
revenue showed a surplus of about £3713 over ordi-
nary expenditure. At the end of Oct., 1899, the
surplus was £102,286, so W.A.’s Treasury is
£98,573 worse off than it was 12 months ago. The great
increase of £85,913 in the first four months’ revenue was
more than counterbalanced by the increase of £184,486 in
the expenditure. Loan expenditure is unknown, but
plainly the war bill and the interest on the perpetually,
increasing debt are coming home to roost with a ven-
geance. Last year Westralia had a surplus large enough
to pay off the old deficit in full, but it only got it bv levy-
ing extra taxation. This year it looks as if the' extra
taxation would just about keep things square. Next year,
on present appearances, some more fresh taxation will be
needed.
Victoria, S.A., and Tasmania, as usual, furnish
no information about the public outgoings.
* * * *
-f'he Victorian State Land Bank completed
its fourth year on 30th June, 1900. Results so far are as
follows :
Working Expenses in
expenses in proportion to
proportion to average capital
" oth gross earnings employed Total
,une Loss. per cent. per cent, reserves
189/ £1,462 £2Ol 7 6 £2 12 2
Profit.
1898 1,608 23 17 11 1 210 £146
1899 5,551 14 17 2 13 7 6,697
1900 6,846 15 6 4 13 10 12,643
Taking everything into account this is very good pro-
gress. The reserve fund is increasing at a good rate. The
total amount now out on mortgage is £906,146, and of
this only £413 is represented by properties in possession.
The payments in arrear (principal and interest) are £B3 in
all, and the losses on sale of foreclosed properties have
been £46 up to date. Hitherto the Victorian State
Land Bank has borrowed money at 3 per cent.,
but the rate was too low to attract lenders, and it is to
be raised in future borrowings to 3£ per cent. This will
reduce the margin of profit somewhat, but in all proba-
bility the gradual reduction of expenses and the income
derived from investment of the increasing reserve fund
will make good the difference. Even if all the present
funds had been borrowed at 3£ per cent, instead of 3 per
cent., the bank would still have a margin of profit on
its existing lending rate of U per cent. It is quite possi-
ble, when its reserve fund grows much larger, and the
income from it increases, and expenses have been re-
duced, that it will be possible to borrow at 3J per cent,
and lend at 4J or even 4, but that event is some distance
off yet.
* * * *
Alderman Thomas Hughes lately made an in-
teresting statement of how the awful Corporation of
Sydney had conducted its finances, simply because sheer
cowardice prevented the aldermen levying sufficient rates
to cover ordinary expenditure :
Year’s Total
_ Deficit. Deficit.
At 31st Dec., 1894 .. ... jgig qqq
1895 ~ .. £22',957 41,957
1896 36,577 .. 78,534
1897 36,526 .. 116,060
1898 (after taking £B9OO from
sinking funds and dis-
charging many em-
ployes).. 4,300 .. 119,360
1899 (works stopped and city surplus
allowed to go to wreck) .. 2,750 .. 116,610
deficit
1900 (estimated) 47,376 .. 163,986
This year 2d., in the £ was added to the rates (raised
from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d.), but there was so much
expenditure to pay interest on overdraft and loans
and to repair damage that had accumulated
through the stoppage of work, that the biggest deficit
up to date is looming. Now it is reckoned that it will be
necessary to float another loan to pay off the overdraft
and that another 3d. in the £ rates will be required to
cover interest and sinking fund. That will make an in-
crease of sd. in the £ (Is. 4d. to Is. 9d.) in two years.
And that is merely to make good back shortages, and
leaves no surplus for keeping the city in better condition
If the extra sd. had been put on in 1894 there would
have been no overdraft, and enough income to keep
Sydney m reasonable repair. But the dry-rot of the
policy of Let-it-Slide and Put-it-off-till-To-Morrow is in all
Australian finance.
• * * *
The English, Scottish, and Australian Bank
shows a material improvement for the year ended 30th
June, 1900. It pays an increased 1J per cent, interest on
its deferred inscribed deposit stock, and gives its share-
holders a2j per cent, dividend—the first since 1892.
Dating from the E. S. and A.’s second re-arrangement,
when all the old reserves were wiped off, its progress has
been as follows
Period during which the E. S. and A. Bank
paid 4 per cent, on its terminable deposits and
perpetual debenture stock, and 3 per cent,
on its preferred and deferred incribed stocks.
T _ . Total Reserves.
Profits. Dividends. at each Date.
1897 .. £10,870 Nil £lO 870
1898 .. 6,034 Nil 16,904
1899 .. 15,411 Nil 32,315
Period during which the E.S. and A. Bank paid
4 per cent, on its terminable deposits and per-
petual debenture stocks, 3 per cent, on pre-
ferred inscribed stock, and 4£ on deferred
inscribed stock.
„„„ Profits. Dividends. Total Reserves.
1900 .. £38,465 2£ per cent. =£13,480 £57,294
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £' 4,904 ; undivided
£7018; and a sum of £3372 set aside in terms
of the cumbrous deed of reconstruction, for the repur-
chase and cancellation of deferred inscribed deposit stock.
These will, presumably, be repurchased at a considerable
discount, in which case the profit on the transaction
whatever it may prove to be, will doubtless form a further
addition to the reserves. There is also a depreciation
reserve fund of £43,487 created by the repurchase of
deposit receipts at a discount, making total reserves
£100,781.
The year’s profits are at the rate of £6 14s 7d
per cent, per annum on shareholders’ capital and reserve
fund, and if deposit interest had remained the same as last
year it would have been much higher than this, so the
improvement is a very handsome one. The reconstructed
deposits are being gradually reduced, as shown by the
filfures of the last four balance-sheets, though it can't be
said Chat the process is at all rapid:
Reconstructed
Deposits Reduction.
Outstanding.
June, 1897 £3,384,694 „
•> 1898 M 3,267,149 .. £117,546
» 1899 .. 3,218,490 .. 48,659
„ 1900 .. 3,176,074 .. 42,416
New deposits have increased during last year by £261,589
(from £1,613,924 to £1,875,513). Also, the cash -reserve
has increased from £771,967 to £899,449. Cash and State
securities are together £939,300 —equal to rather over 40
per cent, of all liquid liabilities. The great mass of recon-
structed deposits, being fixed for an indefinite number of
years, require no cash-reserve against them.
• * * •
The solid and prosperous Derwent and Tamar
Fire and Marine Assurance Co. of Tasmania, now in its
62nd year, publishes its fifth annual balance-sheet, which
covers the 12 months to 31st October, 1900. It is only
the fifth published balance-sheet, because for 57 years
the Derwent and Tamar didn’t lay its accounts before the
Eublic. The results during these last five years have
een as follows:
Total Re-
Dividend and serves at
Profits. Dividend Tax. each date.
1895 £64,354
1896 £B,lBl 16 per cent. = £7,875 64,660
1897 8,482 7£ „ = 3,938 69,204
Loss.
1898 10,780 6 „ m 2,625 65,799
Profits.
1899 8,259 10 „ = 6,250 58,808
1900 7,153 10 „ = 6,250 60,711
The paid-up capital is £50,000, so the reserves (reserve
fund £50,000 and undivided profit £10,711) are very solid
by comparison, as Australian ideas go. The Derwent and
Tamar was struck heavily in the memorable Melbourne
fire, but it is steadily recovering from that bad shock. It
is a solid and well-managed concern with a small, but
apparently safe, business, and capital and re-
serves are equal to more than 4J years’ premiums,
which is a degree of solidity not often attained
in this country. Its investments yield apparently
about 4 per cent, all round (though, as cash on current
account isn’t distinguished from money at interest, it is
difficult to say), and seem reasonably solid. Yet the fact
that, out of £117,000, no less than £73,000 is invested in
mortgages, and only £4OOO in state securities, looks
rather dubious policy. In bad times, it is the mortgage
business over which almost every co. is let in.
* * * *
Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, Westralia)
Prnflia Dividends, &c., T otal Re ;
*“«■• p,, s*
Sept., 1897 £47,387
March, 1898. .£24,048 177 per cent. =£39,312 32,123
Sept., 1898 .. 13,171 Losses written off 3,297 41,997
March, 1899.. 17,709 46,157
Sept., 1899.. 9,762 45 - 115
March, 1900.. 15,971 / 16 per cent - 6,0871 61 482
’ (Losses written off 3,517/ ’
Sept., 1900.. 16,861 / 20 per cent. = 7,6091
. ’ (Losses written off 2,579/ DB,iOD
The ordinary trade profits of last half-year were £11,861,
but in addition the Co. had a stroke of good fortune—an
intending purchaser of the brewery failed to complete
the transaction, and his deposit of £5OOO was solemnly
forfeited. The reserves shown above consist of the
ordinary reserve fund of £30,000; depreciation fund of
£16,906 ; and undivided profit, £11,249. The Swan
Brewery Co. is apparently doing well enough, though it
l S ono afc M 1 , 1 likely that the gorgeous dividend of March,
1898, will happen its way again for a very long while.
And when Westralia can float no more big loans, and the
influx of population consequently slows down, and
property values fall, and hotels are worth less than at
present, and the public has to take its beer in a more
settled state of mind, things may not be quite so
promising.
* * *
The North Queensland Insurance Co. com-
pleted, on 30th September, 1900, the most successful year
on its record, the profits being £14,064. Of this an 8 per
cent, dividend absorbed £4275, so there remained £9789
to strengthen the reserves. This is the record of the
North Queensland Insurance Co. since 1892.
Profits. Dividends. Reserves at
4 gg 4 each date.
1892 £3920 6 per cent. = £2672
1893 4668 6 „ = 2672 9107
2 » = 2672 9835
1895 3113 6 „ = 2672 10,276
Loss.
1896 p 778 Nil - 9500
Profits.
?|qo 10 j B BB 6 per cent. = 3206 16,982
isoq 4 „ 2138 15,933
™on i/nci 8 » 2672 17,435
lyuu 14,064 8 „ =: 4275 27 224
f^nH erV !«ono" SiS a of f,- se '; ve , fund > ; reinsurance
fund, £6OOO , and undivided profits, £1224. The North
?89fi e h -, a £n ? ross P re mium income in
£B2 nJ 2 ’ T? 16 m 1 2°9 ! ts S' l-088 premiums are
£15:1,687. Its paid-up capital is £53,438, so the total
shareholders funds are now £80,662. The reserves are
lar f e f ? r . a business of such magnitude,
but the North Queensland is still a young company being'
fnr uL n ltS 15 ™ - 7ear ’ ? nd has made remarkable progress
for its age. Its investments are wholly in Government
securities (£15,118), fixed banking deposits (£52,594) free-
hold property (£27,874), £l2O worth of unspecified deben-
tures, and current accounts. It keeps wholly out of the
Sadfhftit U dM e s S o.’ and S ° me day i 6 WiU P robabl .V feel
• * * *
“ Once a Shareholder ” : There is no reason tn
, bel ‘® v ® t^ a ih any development ba s occurred at the 700 ft
level, and there is every reason to think that the person
you refer to is “ bulling ” the shares person
* • *
Parliament having sanctioned the
much-discussedsteel-railscontract, the concessionaires will
now, it is understood, proceed to tackle the biggest in-
ii„h. la i Und ? r(:^ lr,g yefc attempted in Australasia, the
establishment of ironworks. They will probably need to
spend a million ere they melt a ton of ore. They are sup-
posed to have unlimited quantities of good iron-ore withm
The W ™ les of Burme or Emu Bay, on the Tas. N.W. coast.
The thing will involve, among other things, the con-
-300n On finnn f veral f steamers capable of carrying from
3000 to 5000 tons of ore each, specially designed for this
purpose and unfitted for any other, having clear decks
nn!w 1 , I . motlv e power aft, and built so that they can go
Xne in^ ae ore-binsut the jetty and be loaded with iron-
f, oe ,. In a few hours by means of enormous steam cranes.
Additional harbor-works, such as breakwater, jetties
that the e Wlll n be naeded at Kembla, though it is given out
that the co has changed its policy, so far as the terminus
iZ d ' and has decided to build the smelting-
Tacksnn son l ewbere on tbe deep waters of Port
ackson. In any case, an enormous sum will
t h o a L to nn b n e A Xpen ' de i before one steel ra il is Produced. As
25 nor !!, ?'? ,' n fcbe . contract providing for the use of
ce , nt - °f ]?cal iron-stone, for the State to insist
upon such a condition, if the concessionaries find them-
selves mistaken as to their ability to profitably obtain
such a proportion locally, would be the height of folly,
mnrZ'f reason able to imagine that they would go to Tas-
the on/lnv5 r - e f ( - fc f hU '’ '"voting themselves in fully double
riiHnn V f lfc CC : ld be ff ot ln N.S. W. ? The other con-
‘ fa D r t mor ?, important—a minimum wage for all
workers. Before this scheme was determined on a well-
fhoTh" f ? rope ? n iron-worker visited Australia, examined
ttie chief iron deposits of N.S.W., as well as those of Tas-
Sked for WaS ° n hIS reporfc that the concession was
N.S.W. dredging-returns don’t glitter as they
might. There is no heap of jam on the plate, but there
is some bread with here and there indications of butter.
Turon River, 430 z., viz., No. 1 dredge, 360 z. for 128 hours
work, and No. 2,7 oz. for 130 hours ; Araluen Proprietary,
80oz. for 114 hours ; Araluen Valley Consolidated, 250 z.
for 126 hours ; Sofala, 260 z. for five days.
* • • •
Owing to grave doubts as to the depth of silt in
the Broken Hill Water Supply’s reservoir(and therefore also
as to the quantity of water) N.S.W. Works Department
is sending up an expert to make a hydrographic survey.
The Co.’s engineer says there is 12 months’ supply for the
B.H. mines and town ; others put it at from four to eight
months. If the latter is the correct estimate the outlook
is rather gloomy. So far this year Broken Hill has had
under 7in. of rain—and yet they locally call it a good
season.
• * * *
B.H. Junction claims for the half-year a profit
of £706. On the same figures other co’s (and probably
this one too in different circumstances) might have
claimed a good deal more. For the £706 profit is arrived
at by deducting depreciation, not for the half-year, but for
a whole year, and by also deducting the expenses of the
recent reconstruction of the co. If the depreciation
charge is cut in halves and the reconstruction expenses
charged to capital account instead of to working account,
the profit on the half-year’s operations amount to £4300.
But the mine did not fairly earn that much, because the
charge of 6 per cent, for a half-year for the wear-and-tear
of plant is not enough. Nothing much short of 20 per
cent, a year will cover it. The co. has just got £25,000
of new capital, and after paying off £lO,OOO borrowed three
years ago, it has £17,600 cash and £11,700 good debts with
which to pay for the plant, etc., now being provided.
Much of the old plant is poor—a thing of shreds and
patches—and the re-arrangement ought to permit of all-
round cheaper and better work. And the Junction can-
not afford to give away much. Its milling sulphides (and
it has practically nothing else) are worth only 9'950z.
silver per ton, 13'35 per cent, lead, and 10’36 per cent,
zinc, whereas two years ago the ore averaged 10 - 720 z.
silver and 18 per cent, lead; and of the present diminished
metal contents, so refractory is the stuff, only 34'68 per
cent, of the silver and 56'07 per cent, of the lead are re-
covered. In other words, the co. can save only 3£oz.
silver per ton, and 7 per cent. lead. Nor do the surround-
ings lend themselves to cheap work. Last half-year
mining cost 15s. Bd. a ton of ore against 13s. 4Jd. in the
preceding half. As to that it is explained that the ore in
this mine takes a lot of getting-at, which is true ;
also, it is likely to continue true, but more so.
Further, the mine takes a lot of propping-up after
the ore is taken out; that is a condition which
is going to continue. Altogether, though improved a
trifle, the prospects are poor, even with metals at their
present high prices ; with a slump in them, nothing but a
most substantial improvement in the processes of sulphide
t«eatment could keep the mine going. In fact there isn’t
another mine on the B.H. line in a worse position to face
a slump.
* * * *
The big Sulphide Corporation, owning the B.H.
Central, follows Block 10, Block 14, and others with an
experimental plant designed to concentrate the zinc
“ tailings” by the agency of magnets. Much of the plant
has been imported after the plans for it had been approved
by English “ chemical engineers ” —experts of whom it is
complained there is a striking dearth in Australia.
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation, which owns the B.H.
Central mine and the Cockle Creek (Newcastle) works,
pays a div. of 7J per cent, all round —the second for the
year. Also it carries forward £52,500, as against £lB,OOO
brought forward. There are 550,000 preference (£1) and
650,000 ordinary (155.) shares ; so the div. means a distri-
bution of £72,187 10s. That, the former 7i per cent, and
the undivided balance represent a profit of about £lBO,OOO
for the year—which is not so good as was expected. The
Co. has just secured, as assistant manager, Mr. James
Hebbard, for six years Govt, inspector of mines at Broken
Hill, and before that manager, first of the B.H. Junction,
and then of the Tom’s Lewis Ponds. Hebbard began work
as a boy in a Bendigo mine 20 or 25 vears ago, made good
use of the Bendigo School of Minesj and has kept a level
head most of the time since. He is as good an authority
as there is in Australia on mine-timbering. The State, of
course, expected him to work for just about a third of
what the private co. assesses his services at for a start.
With the help of active metal-markets, a chair-
man of directors, a Melbourne board, an Adelaide board,
a managing director, a general manager, a mine manager,
a business manager, a secretary, an actieg-secretary, and
an Adelaide secretary, Block 14 made last half-year
nearly enough to pay its £15,000 in divs. Nearly
enough—it had to take £1666 from somewhere or other ;
or, not to put too fine a point on it, it increased its debts
by that much and a bit more. What would have hap-
pened if it had lost one of its managers, or if lead had not
steadily advanced to £3 a ton higher than it was last
year, present writer doesn’t know. What it costs the co.
in management he doesn’t know either. In fact, the
Block 14 people have a wonderful gift of silence. Still
they are slowly losing it. This half-year, for instance,
they actually tell shareholders what their sulphide
ore assays on an average (it is 9'soz. silver,
143 per cent, lead, and 10 T per cent, zinc),
and they also announce that the extraction at the
mill equals 69'5 per cent, of the lead and 53'2 per cent,
of the silver. True, they don’t tell yet what zinc is left
in the concentrates ; and so the figures are not a great
deal of use, after all. Nor do they say what were the
carbonates.
* * * *
The information which is dropped into the cracks
between these large masses of silence is, however, not so
very satisfactory that one would like a great deal of it
The ore handled was 75,377 tons—7o,oo6 tons of sulphides
and 5371 tons carbonates. This is 14,000 tons more than
was handled in the preceding half ; and the half’s output
was a record up to then. The gross profit for this 75 377
tons was £21,732. For this write off £7659 for deprecia-
tion of machinery and plant—none too much considering
the heavy wear and tear on mill machinery and the
remarkable rapidity with which mining plant seems
to become obsolete. This gives a true profit of £14,073
assuming that the allowance for depreciation is sufficient
—equalling a true profit of 3s. 9d. per ton all round in-
cluding carbonates. A ton of the latter is probably worth
to the co. at present four or five tons of sulphides : so the
profit from the sulphides would probably not be more
than 3s. a con. This isn’t a margin to get excited about
especially considering the very high price which has ruled
for lead lately.
Of course this does not mean that if lead fell £2
a ton (equal to about 4s. 4d. per ton of Block 14 ore)
Block 14 could not pay divs. What would happen if that
fall occurred, and supposing l no better ore-dressing appli-
ances to be available, would be that the co. would have to
abandon its policy of trying to work all the ore, and
would have to confine itself to only the richer portion. A
rise in working costs has naturally the same effect: so
that when rail and ocean freights recently went up, and
with them the price of coke and coal, the co. had to
shut down one of its smelting furnaces. From
the poorest of these ores the co.’s profit at the best of
times did not reach Is. a ton j but the average cost of
mining, milling, roasting, and smelting them has been
21s. a ton for labor only. Other expenses amount to £1
ss. a ton—for timber, coke, coal, railage, &c. The co.
gets the sprat; “ expenses’’get the mackerel. And the
co. did not even get the sprat lately, and so knocked off
treating the lowest-grade stuff ; hence, in order that the
mackerel might not be lost, the S.A. Govt, and Silverton
Tram Go. reduced the freight on this poorest stuff, in the
hope of bringing it again within the “ pay limit.” But
the smelter is still idle ; the co. says the sprat is still out-
side its reach, unless it can get cheaper water as well as
cheaper carriage. '
Long Tunnel, Vie.: “After figuring as a
regular div. payer for a great many years to the total
tune of over a million, this mine has had to return to the
call-list; £1 call per share on 2400 shares is payable this
week. The co. has no excuse for not having, during its
20 years prosperity, established a reserve fund that would
have enabled it to at least 20 months’ adversity.
Ivanhoe Junction : “ Crosscutting has been
stopped from the 200 ft level; work at present being con-
centrated on sinking the main shaft.” But why sink a
main shaft in such a hopeless position? So far none of
the Ivanhoe or Golden Horseshoe lodes show any sign of
going into the Ivanhoe Junction except at a depth of four
or five thousand feet unless they suddenly run very flat.
Boulder North Extended main shaft down
560 ft. Probably the shaft will be further deepened to the
1000 ft level." But why go to all this expense? Wouldn’t
it be better to wait until the Boulder itself had found
payable gold in the lease which takes in ground north of
the Ivanhoe ? After that comes the Central and West
Boulder and the Boulder No 1, on each of which much
money has been spent and nothing got. After these we
have the Boulder N. Extended, Lake View and Boulder
Junction, and other cats which serve no purpose but
that of wasting money.
• • • •
North Kalgurli: Late development works at-
tended with more encouraging results than for a long
time past. This mine has been another horrible disap-
pointment Because of its position—next the Kalgurli
and adjoining the Associated Northern block—it at one
time had a valuation of nearly half-a-million ; to-day its
market valuation is under £lOO,OOO. Its real value is nil.
It has spent upwards of £lOO,OOO in good mining work, is
ably managed and only wants gold to make it a success.
Again going into reconstruction. Has 25,000 shares un-
issued, but these are of not much use seeing that ordinary
shares are much under par. It will probably spend
another £20,000, and if nothing is found it will then
probably give up what ghost there is.
* * * 9
The Lady Loch, Coolgardie, after two recon-
structions, is having a fairly good time. Crushed for one
year 8431 tons for 64460 z., which gave a profit on mining
and milling of £12,291. Of this expenses in London ana
Westraha absorbed £4,235. When £1,668 is allowed for
depreciation profits are reduced to a little over £6OOO,
which will be probably applied to increasing the orushing
power, erecting cyanide plant, &c.


Com pie te
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE ..
“Orient To Pleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY
George & Barrack Sts., Sydo?y
“ARDATH”
The Highest Glass Tobacco.
Has no Equal
in
Quality
and
Aroma.
Will not affect
the Nerves.
usss-aeteos
stece«s==
pa
&
53
w
SS
!u &
we i ghl
' -£
In Three Strengths—Mild, Medium and Full.
The most
Luxurious
Form
of
Smoking,
Free from ah
scented mattei
Name of nearest agent post free on application to M. RUTTY & CO., Sydney.
Society
LEROY
LQUEUR
BRANDY
Last month Broken Hill added another to
the countless host of the tragedies of industry,
although the ordinary fool-jury found, of course,
the ordinary fool-verdict of “ suicide while of un-
sound mind.” A Swiss miner, Manni, though
only 57, had been worn out by “miners’ com-
plaint” contracted in the deep poison workings of
Bendigo ; and after losing one job after another
at the B.H. mines he was told that it was no use
applying any more —he was “ too far gone.” Then
—poor man—he went home, gave his last pay to
his wife, and passed himself out. But Marini’s
case is of most public interest because it draws
attention to the fact that neither the Miners’
Accident Relief Bill lately passed, nor Lyiie’s
Old Age Pensions Bill, will meet the cases of pre-
maturely-worn-out miners, of whom there are
hundreds, especially around the deep mines of
Victoria and the silver-lead mines and works of
N.S.W.
* * • *
During October 29 accidents, three of
them-fatal, occurred amongst N.S.W. railway and
tramway employes. In same month 16 members
of the travelling public met with accidents, two
of them fatal. Thus though the number of
passengers by tram and rail greatly exceeds that
of the railway enipioyes, the number of accidents
was 2to 1 higher among the latter. This explains
t ;e anxiety of the Commissioners to evade respon-
sibility in the case of Campbell, lately decided
against the man, which decision puts the Commis-
sioners in a degree beyond the provisions of the
Employers’ Liability Act.
A couple' of sapient J’s.P. at Caulfield
(Melb.) t’other day indicted a £2 fine on two full-
grown fiends who had deliberately poured kerosene
over a, dog and then set fire to the poor animal.
Had they simply stolen the kerosene or the dog
they would probably have got three or six, or
twelve months apiece. The most surprising thing
about Melbourne is that no J.P. has ever yet been
lynched.
* * * *
It lias not yet been noted what a blistering
was received by the more or less influential
women who had the indecency to sit in court
throughout the trial of Jimmy Governor, In his
statement to the jury the aboriginal, while setting
forth the indignities allegedly suffered by him at
the hands of Mrs. Mawbev and Miss Kerz,
naively added some remarks which were calculated
to make any decent woman pray for the earth to
open and swallow her up.
* * * *
A bench of Coburg (Vic.) magistrates re-
cently sent to Yarra Bend asylum a man who had
been arrested at the gaol gates as insane. He
was then being discharged from prison, having
just completed a sentence of three months, with
two floggings of 10 lashes each, for indecency.
Prima facie evidence that either the Victorian
system manufactures lunatics or that Victoria
gaols and flogs its insane.
Justice without mercy ! A 17-year-old lad,
at Newcastle (N.S.W;), has been sentenced to a
month’s gaol for stealing bags, worth Is. Cd. But
the bags were ti e property of the mighty A.A.
Co.
All the Sydney undertakers’ carriages
having been hired for Ist January to convey dis-
tinguished visitors in the Commonwealth proces-
sion, people are requested to abstain from dying
on 30th and 31st December.
• * • •
Trooper See—whose decision to re-enter
the ranks of the Sydney Lancers, when public
opinion was so strong against his accepting a
lieutenancy in the regiment, was so applauded a
few weeks back —has quietly re-appeared as an
officer. Together with Lyne, Jun., he suddenly
took command of a troop on parade in officer’s full
uniform, sword and all, much to the disgust of the
troopers, who had imagined that the previous out-
cry would have stopped the consummation of a
Eolitical job. If the politicians of the State
ave any more of their relatives and friends who
desire commissions in the mounted regiments the
result will be something like revolt. These posi-
tions have for years been held before the members
of the Volunteer corps as probable prizes, and
when a man who, at considerable annual personal
expense, has striven hard to qualify for a commis-
sion in his regiment finds it presented to an untried
applicant with a political pull, he can hardly be
blamed for chucking up the whole thing in dis-
gust.
Once again: Do the workers of Australia in-
tend the command of the military forces to be in
the hands of a privileged class ? Do they intend
that those forces shall, in the case of industrial
conflict, be ever at the beck and call of men of
fashion and influence, and partisans with consti-
tuted-authority-no-matter-how-constituted ? Are
they content to serve in the ranks while the pay
and the gauds and the glory and the advertise-
ment and the stepping-stones to. place are
monopolised by the sons of the rich and the
politically powerful? Is the man who has the
cheek to say ‘ ‘ Haw ” always necessarily to be
boss ? Is the Australian army to be commanded
by skill and merit alone, or are our men to
be led to slaughter by such vapid nincompoops
(however brave) as the multitude of Imperial
officers who have been the laughing-stocks of
Australians in iS’Africa ? The yarn that officers
must be men of “ social position” is poisonous rot.
“I made my marshals out of mud,” said Napoleon.
* • *
The fairly-certain K.C.M.G.-ship for the
Mayors of Australian cities during the Common-
wealth celebrations year has made the struggle for
the Mayoralties and other alleged honors almost
pathetic. Gillott, of Melbourne, was David
Syme’s nominee in the Turner Govt., and his
fears of defeat at the E. Melb. Parliamentary
election, as he was untried, made him do ridicul-
ous things in the way of choking off likely candi-
dates in opposition to him. Boulder Bill
Brookman, as Mayor of Perth, is sure of his title,
and so now is Ware, of Adelaide, who has a
column about his titled ancestors printed in the
local Register. Gillott has not paraded any
ancestors, but he gets to his handle all the same.
* * * *
Sydney Morning Herald (which isn’t
built like the worldly Melb. Argus) fought very
shy of particulars about the sensational Coning-
ham divorce-case. As for the Stirling (Melb.)
case, Granny—unlike the ribald Sydney D.T.
(which had the whole thing wired over and
served up hot) —avoided all reference to sundry
sprightly passages about curling-tongs and night-
dresses and giddy things like that, and virtuously
declined to record how many beds were in a room,
or how a Chinese witness, on being shown a photo,
of the re -pondent, ecstatically smacked his pagan
lips and rapturously exclaimed —“ Welly ni’ young
wifee ! ” All which, from the boarding-school
point of view, may be magnificent—but it’s “not
war ! ” The news-reading public is not exclusively
composed of the elderly, unmarried daughters of
ascetic clergymen.
* 9. m m
The Mari.sf Brother accused of immoral
Eractices at Stoke Orphanage, M.L., was very
otly prosecuted, but he was defended with much
RETURNED INVALID WARRIORS.
What we expected to see. What we do see.
quiet skill and eloquence by barrister Skerrett,
an ardent Catholic by the way. “The accused,”
he said at the close, “has worked at this school
for years without receiving a penny. He does not
even own the clothes he stands in. He has but
one possession—-his character. Be careful before
you take that from him.” And in ten minutes
the jury made up their minds not to take it from
him.
* * * *
Major Cameron, the returned Tasmanian,
was the one man who lifted up his voice at the
recent swashbucklers’ feast arid festivals in Mel-
bourne with the desire to talk horse-sense. At
the first feed to the officers he deprecated much of
the sickening treacle with which the Australians
were being smeared by Price and home-staying
Imperial bounders like Madden and M‘Eacharn.
“ For God’s sake don’t spoil the men with gush !”
was the burden of his plaint, and his plain home
talk for greasy flatterers hit so hard that most of
the “prominent persons” present smiled sadly
and wanly into vacancy, and seemed to wish that
something most unpleasant would suddenly hap-
pen to the man who was damming back their
oratorical sewage.
* * * *
“G.J.M.” supplies a convincing proof
that the plague-scare has fizzled out in Mel-
bourne :
Recently saw half-a-dozen rats lying in front of the
Richmond Town-hall. Evidently had been purchased by
the council, which thus stood a good chance of being
double-banked by any passing Weary Willie. And if
those rats were infected, they certainly gave the plague
a grand chance of spreading, for every wandering cur
mauled them about, and inquiring small boys took them
up and examined them minutely.
The opening of the Hobson’s Bay yacht-
ing season lias become quite a fashionable function
since the bulky Uncle Brassey lent the bright red
light of his countenance to the sport, and on a re-
cent Saturday the Bay was gay with yachts, bunt-
ing, and the liveliest youths of half-a-dozen
waterside suburbs. The most cheerful incident of
the day resulted from the overturning of a small,
ewe-necked, ten-ribbed canoe containing two
dirty, irresponsible 12-year-old beachcombers from
Port Melbourne. The kids rose to the occasion,
bestrode their wreck, and threw out frantic signals
of distress. The most gorgeous yacht of the
sivarra, manned by the most exquisite salts in all
3t. Kiida, fell out of the manoeuvres, and after
fetching-up alongside the castaways with con-
siderable difficulty, found its good offices repu-
diated. “We don’ wanter be rescued, mister,”
said the perkier of the two; “butforGor’ sake
give us a dry cigarette.”
Apparently the Victorian Crown
Law authorities strongly disapprove
of juries who acquit when a convic-
tion is expected. Ten of the twelve
who acquitted Mrs. Helene Wright
were next day called on another case,
blit the Crown ordered every one to
stand aside. It may have been acci-
dental, but
Mr. John Osborne* sec. of N.S.W. Public
Service Association, writes to The Bulletin,
with tears in his ink, to point out this paper’s
grievous error in stating (l/12/’OO) that
At last meeting of the council a long and earnest dis-
cussion as to whether it was more advisable to sweep out
the Govt, offices with tea-leaves or sawdust ended after a
close fight in a victory for the sawdust party.
The point, protesteth Mr. Osborne, “ was not tea-
leaves v. sawdust, but dry-sweeping versus wet-
sweeping, and the discussion did not occupy more
than seven or eight minutes.” It is, indeed, com-
forting to know that the P.S.A. can thus promptly
deal with momentous issues. The Bulletin
regrets having approached in so cavalier a. spirit
a matter “at the bottom of which,” according to
Mr. 0., “are Life and Death ! ”
THAT £5 FINE.
HEMMAH : “ Look at thet fool Nipper Doyle
smokin' right under the nose of thet big fat
trap."
CIRCE: “ Durn fool yerself, Hemmah Wilks — he's
doin' that ter show thet 'e's willin' ter run
eny risk ter prove his love for me."
ATRAGEDY
FOR THE BULLETIN
jTjommq .Tommij \ ''All r itfKf, mother,
I Irk acomm' 'straight alon^f.
iHjuiryi 1 wont waif another
- whatis wrong?
rftnumj c.qnC A /
Tommcj way To
Walker shouted .Serve tjou riohtlej
Jn| good beating' - Come lb me' "
OsK come calle c|oq ”
f,}~l cs,c l mother. Why was that?
[Clause our little babu| failed - ljou
jKJnow the hole down on the flat,
jDjidnt’ want" To give no trouble,
fflhouqht’ let watt' amoment'
cause
|\7Jhen Isee’d fhe (title bubbles,
J I (would know where wos
ROBERTALLE N


Only a little higher in price than other gin
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only— largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. .Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality- of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
P ace, Sydney.
Cooling ! Health-giving !
ADD A LIITtE
COALY’S FLUID
[IOYOUiRfojH OH FoOf-BAIH.
The Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Insist on haying “CoNDY’S FLUID.”
The name Condy Si Mitchell, of i.ondon, Ensrl'nd '
should be at foot of Label. '
TWare of Inferior Australian Substitutes
Merit is discoverable
vm.
m
m
only by careful comparison. We have all the newest
colours, in tan, of Ladies’ Shoes and Gentlemen’s Boots.
We ask ladies and gentlemen respectively (who have not
yet worn the Callaghan Boot) to compare our Ladies’
Brown Yici-Kid Shoes at 11/9, 12/9, and 13,9, and our
Gentlemen’s Tan Willow Calf Boots at 22/6 with any
other Boot in Sydney, and we think it probable they will
become our customers.
Callagbao Boots.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydney.
A HEAVY WARRIOR.
RETURNED CONTINGRNTER : “ O chase me girl[?]
I’m chock-full of bullets!”
That yarn (reprinted by Sydney D.T.
from a Yankee paper) about the alleged recent
discovery by a Parisienne of a uranium-compound
which, while giving a light like that of day, emits
no heat and practically lasts for ever, is doubtless
a hoax. If it isn’t, why did not the cable-liar
long ago tell us of an invention which would dis-
count coal-gas 50 per cent, and break-up all the
electric-light companies—this instead of maunder-
ing in the ample space at his command about
the doings of that eternal bore, “Sir Langdon
Bonython? ”
* » * *
Charming outflow of slush from Rev.
Roseby at the recent Sydney Sunday-Closing
meeting
Why, he asked, had the Lord’s day Act of Charles 11.
remained unaltered upon the Statute' Book? It was be-
cause they felt that they still needed it, and could not
improve upon it, otherwise the intelligence and conscience
of the English people would long ago have struck that
Act off.
Does Dr. Roseby really not know that the Act he
admires so much was passed to compel people of
his own particular sect to attend the parish
church, which they abhorred ? Dr. Roseby’s
knowledge of history evidently doesn’t run to the
fact that, when that Act was passed, people of his
way of thinking could not hold civic office unless
they attended the parish church once every Sun-
day and took the sacrament in the same place at
least once a year. Which do Roseby and 00.
value most—liberty of conscience or the right to
bind their neighbours’ consciences?
* * * *
Fred. J. Broomfield on Vic. Artists’
Society’s annual exhibition at Melbourne :
There is nothing that smites a man from Sydney in this
dead City of the Horse so much as the'absolute in-
difference, amounting almost to scorn, of everything
artistic and literary ; “ but,” says Marshall-Hall, “ admit-
ting all this, and more also, are we not great on music ?”
The Victorian Artists’ 1900 Exhibition is held in a room
in which most men would be ashamed to receive a
common, ordinary guest. It is a sort of an 11 x 8 affair,
and the exhibits number 76. Nerli, in Bulletin, l/12/’OO,
speaks, pathetically of two societies in Sydney cutting
each others’ throats. In Melb. this doesn’t happen.
There is really no society, and the simulacrum of such
society as the place boasts would not worry whose throat
was cut, throats of the members included, for they would
but drip milk-and-water 1 Broadly speaking, Art in
Melbourne is lower than Dante’s seventh-circle. A lot of
rubbish (mark well ! out of seventy-six exhibits) repre-
sents— Nothing ! McCubbin is there, and Tranthim-
Fryer, and J. Mather with a portfolio of water-color
drawings. And this trinity simply saves the show from
absolute wreck. The exhibition is predominantly
feminine—missy, with plenty of the reduced photo.,
which Mile, calls a miniature, rioting feebly on a plush-
shield.
* * * *
Melbourne municipalities already squabble
over the landing-place of the “dook.” The
M'ShieD favoured Port Melb. ; with the advent of
Turner St. Kilda bobs up. Brassey and Deeming
came that way, while Hopetoun landed at the
Port. Why not give Footscray a show ? Or why
not build a light-draught junk and bring the
Yorks up Reilly-street drain, disembarking just
below Mark Foy’s ?
Colonel Gordon
recently ordered a
march-out of the
S.A. army on
Sunday after-
noon, prepara-
tory to a sham-
fight next day.
Pious Adelaide
took offence at once, the
headmasters of both Colleges
forbidding their cadets to take part. Those
who did turn up were marched out by the
judicious Gordon to the strains of ‘'Onward,
Christian Soldiers,” which, of course, made every-
thing all right. A number of the boys left behind
joined the camp at 1 a.m. on Monday.
* * *
Melbourne is evidently convalescing of its
Jingo-fever. A man was recently caught de-
facing the specimen illustrations on news-agents’
hoardings by slashing a penknife across “ Bobs’ ”
phiz and writing insulting remarks on Kitchener’s
evil countenance. Yet he wasn t even charged
with sedition or high treason—simply with de-
facing property valued at Is., and P.M. Panton
let him go with a mere enjoinder to “get some
exercise and cool down.” Now what would have
happened to that man last May ?
* * • *
A very big crowd turned out in Melbourne
to welcome “Fire low” Price and the young men
he led home from the war, and for an hour-and-a-
half fat Colonel Tom, looking in the face remark-
ably like Widow O’Brien with a shabby khaki
moustache, and sitting his horse like a feather-
bed, was a greater and more glorious warrior than
Bobs,” Kitchener, and Red vers Buller all rolled
into one. The crowd whooped him up all along
the line, and clung to his ’onest, ’orny hand, and
hugged his martial legs with patriotic enthusiasm
inflamed by beer, and a popular impression that
Price had saved the Empire by hurling his shape-
less bulk down a steep place on top of Kruger and
the Boers was evident throughout the length and
breadth of the procession. But Tom did not sit
it out ; he succumbed to various ailments and
pressure of circumstances in Collins-st. on the
return journey, and was removed from his horse
and put to bed by sympathetic friends.
* * * *
As a pageant the procession was a chaotic
failure. The crowd simply walked over the in-
funated police at the outset, and took possession
of the thin brown line, of heroes, and after that
the grand march consisted of scraps of squads
battling along a road packed with squealing fe-
males and red, raucous men. And how the sex
did squeal! Listening for these enthusiastic,
deep-chested, British cheers that were going to be
faithfully reported in next morning’s paper, one
heard only trie squalling, yelling, and yapping of
women > an( l the abiding visual expression
left by the spectacle is that of a large, crimson,
more or less dishevelled female fighting
to get an affectionate “ half-Nelson ” on the near-
est coffee-coloured swaddie. The immense matron
was generally backed up by two or more giggling
damsels, with hats awry and hair all over the shop,
who helped themselves after the older battler had
done hugging and kissing the miserable victim.
The dus f y soldiers got very sick of the hugger-
mugger before they had worried their way through
a quarter-of-a-mile of it, and they were not always
too polite in inviting fair enthusiasts to “take,
oh, take those lips away,” nor were they particu-
larly gentle in putting aside proffered cheeks.
Returning to the barracks after Princes Bridge
was passed, all attempts to keep order were aban-
doned. Respectable citizens hoisted soldiers on
to their shoulders and, with the khakied legs em-
bracing their necks, puffed and sweated through
dust and heat with their bellowing burdens. Girls
of the factory-rat type and style simply swarmed
over the Tommies, and in one instance a howling
push of blushless damsels made a great effort to
carry a fat Tasmanian, the struggle ending in the
lot going down in a bunch, with the plunging
Boer-hunter on ton.
Two or three returned nurses driven in an open
landau by a liveried menial comprised a dramatic
feature of the Melbourne procession to the honor
and glory of T. Price. The nurses were in full
Red-cross fig, and three sick swaddies sat by their
sides, looking haggard and sentimental. The
nurses assumed the devoted-sister pose quite suc-
cessfully, and had the happiness of being the most
conspicuous item after “good old Price.” But
there were irreverent wretches who yelled, “Was
that all you captured, miss?” and inquired
if they were “going back for any more.”
With a view to improving the occasion, the Melb.
W.C.T.U. seized upon “Bobs’” message re the
iniquity of feeding returned warriors on beer, and
they prepared great posters appealing to the
uhlio to forbear. These were hung on all the
leal hoardings at considerable expense in the
nope of converting the welcome into a teetotal
function. A moving spectacle was arranged by
four boozy youths in African khaki grouped in a
limp, beery tableau right under one of the flaring
posters aforesaid, singing “Shons of the Queen”
and “Sholdiers of the Shea.”
* * * •
The most prominent decoration in Mel-
bourne, on the day of the last returned-soldiers’
“procession,” was a huge banner extended across
Collins-street with the device, “ Maote virtute
P.ueri.” This was possibly intended as an adapta-
tion of Virgil’s “Macte nova virtute puer”
( ‘‘ Be honoured, lad, for your early valour”), but
the adaptor apparently did not know that in
Latin a plural noun requires an adjective in the
same number. The Age said that this ungram-
matical atrocity was ‘‘ an old Latin greeting
happily thought out.” After all, ignorance is the
essential qualification for a Jingo.
* * * •
The maps of Westralia used in N.S.W.
public schools are guiltless of the great goldfields !
The “ Great Victoria Desert ” fills their place—
nt a kill,” too, apparently—as far as
N.S.W. Education Department is concerned.
* * » »
In a Richmond River (N.S.W.) court
t’other day defendant grimaced at plaintiff in the
box while the P.M.’s attention was fixed on some
papers. Plaintiff replied by putting his thumb to
his nose and twiddling his fingers. Not to be
outdone, defendant put up both hands in an ex-
tended fashion from his nasal organ. The alert
policeman actually noticed these things and, on
the lunars being reported, the P.M. let the pair
off with a caution.
* * • •
A N.S.W. paper unguardedly says, while
arguing that Orange is
the place for the Federal
Capital, that “ a young
lady who recently ar-
rived there added 211 b.
to her weight inside six
months.” If the writer
wishes to imply that
Orange is given to this
sort of thing the less
Australia has to do with
it the better. This
country doesn’t want
any unnaturally-swollen
girl that it can’t get its
arm round. Also, legis-
lators are nearly all
quite middle-aged and
prefer sylph-like women.
It is only the man who
is young and fresh that
doatson “armfuls.”
Mr. Panton, P„M.,
of Melbourne, his
anxiety to show his
patriotism by traducing-
the Boers, t’other day
bit off more than he
could chew. A Russian
sailor was before him on
a charge of disobedience.
Said the cross-examining
lawyer to the skipper
“ When accused was
shipped at Durban, did
he produce a certificate
showing he was in the
Boer war?” “Yes.”
Then theP.M., quite ir-
relevantly, also inde-
cently, broke in: “The
scum of the earth has
been fighting for the
Boers in this war.”
“ Quite possibly ; but
he was on the side of the
British. He was in the
ambulance corps and
was himself wounded.”
Whereupon the cock-
sure beak subsided.
A Wagga (N.S.W.) trooper—the ( gentle*
' man proudly gives his name in full—‘Writing from
B’ Africa to Wagga Advertiser, after describing
how the Church of England service was read over
the graves of a couple of the writer’s comrades by
the R.C. chaplain, Father Patrick, calmly
proceeds:
From grave to gay and that in a thrice (sic). An hour
afterwards we were burning down the farm houses in the
vicinity of the last scene. At one farm the woman was
given ten minutes to get her bedding out. An ancient
organ had been dragged out to the front of the house,
and as I rode up to direct the party under me, I found
one of our nigger waggon drivers comfortably seated at
the organ singing to his own accompaniment, “ Home,
Sweet Home,” while another sable imp was mischievously
lighting another fire underneath it. Such is an incident
of life on the veldt. These methods may be questioned,
but it is the only way to effectively punish treachery and
deceit. For the same reason the other night, when
ordered out at midnight, we proceeded in deadly silence,
with bayonets fixed, with instructions not to shoot, bub
to use bayonet and butt —and take no prisoners. We
tala no more notice of shrieks for mercy than we would
of the cawing of a crow. You won’t be able to under-
stand these things over there, but they are the correct
thing here, and the only thing to impress Boer natures.
How proud Australia should be of it all !
And here you have it again—this time from a
valorous and modest Gippslander (who also gives
his name !) :
We took possession of the Knights railway-station, and
made prisoners of the stationmaster and porter, and I,
being a corporal, was placed in charge of these prisoners,
with an escort of two men, with instructions to follow
the raiding party. Our men went off, and I followed
with the two prisoners. . . . Just then I felt a stinging
sensation in my shoulder, but I would not give in, but
gave them several shots as we rode along. I found after-
wards the wretches had sniped me from a mullock heap
on my left rear. I was going to shoot the prisoners, but
to 1113' surprise I found I had not a shot left in my bando-
lier or pouch, so I and my men had to ride for our lives.
... You may bet the Sale boys upheld the credit of the
town.
Once more: A Groperland trooper to the West
Australian (italics Bulletin’s) :
. . . A curious incident arose out of the capture of
another Boer. Colonel De Lisle was with one of the
Colonial African officers of the Border Horse, when one
of our scouts brought in a six-foot prisoner, with a long
beard. The Colonel suggested his riding back and getting
an escort to take the prisoner to the Colonial Division.
The other officer said, “ Never mind, I’ll take him.” With
that he spurred his horse, caught the Boer by the whiskers,
and galloped off.
And —— ?. And ? And now the daily press
is publishing cables setting forth how humane the
colonials always were, according to Lord Roberts !
It is only necessary to read what they proudly
write about themselves. “ Gentlemen Every-
where ! ”
• * * m
It is a genial custom in certain Australian
towns to dog any couple that may be taking an
evening ramble. Recently at Mt. Morgan an
irate swam, before taking his girl for a stroll,
armed himself with a gun, with which he succeeded
in potting a too inquisitive person who followed
him. He has now to stand his trial.
* * * »
Clipping from Kilmore Free Press
(22/11/’00) report of a meeting of the local Agri-
cultural Society:—
The secretary said the Heathcote society was moving
to have H.R.H. the Duke and Duchess of York to travel
via Heathcote and Kilmore, to Melbourne from Bendigo,
and there was another matter the society might take up
—viz., getting the Government speying expert to give an
exhibition.
Mr. Condon moved that the Government speying ex-
pert, Mr. Wilson, be invited to come here and give
instructions to those anxious to learn the business.
Mr. Lade seconded the motion, which was carried.
The meeting then rose.
It was just about time 1
LETTING HIM DOWN EASY.
“ Will your husband be jealous if he finds me here?”
“ Oh, no—he knows you are not—ah—quite my style.”


“ He’s from the Gountry.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun, of the thing i
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
I
The fervent damsels who hugged the
returned warriors in Melb. the other day, as the
latter struggled through the overwhelming crowd,
were no doubt carried away by their enthusiasm —
not for hugging but for valor. But the thousands
of smartly dressed girls who didn’t want to hug
the soldiers respected their own beauty and the
P.D. corset which adorned them. To the graceful
girl in the P.D., every day is a day of triumphant
conquest, as every occasion graced by female
beauty is a triumph for the P.D.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
Ticht^'
RUNNING
»»
5_ MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL'S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOBE TEAS have wo Eqiial
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, December 11, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
Nance O’Neil! Somehow the name suggests
hard work. Somebody says washing and ironing,
seeing brawny arms in the “ O’Neil,” and a will
to use them in the “Nance.” And truly, what a
worker ! Last week’s programme is unprece-
dented. She was Lady Macbeth on Friday,
Camille on Saturday, Lady Teazle on Monday,
La To.sea on Tuesday, Hedda Gabler on Wednes-
day afternoon, Magda at night, Queen Elizabeth
on Thursday, Fedora on Friday, Camille again on
Saturday afternoon, and at night, Magda, and
Hedda, and The Jewess, and Lady Teazle, and a
new part as a Tough Girl all combined. Possibly
there isn’t another young actress in the world
getting through such a rapid succession of heavy
emotional, exhausting star parts.
At the “ Hedda Gabler” Matinee a houseful of
women—including Madame Agnes Jansen—pon-
dered on the unlikeness of Hedda to Me. Once
upon a time it was the thing to gauge characters
by the ways of Other Women, but nowadays Me
is the only woman any stage woman is to be
com pared to. The Me Craze threatens to knock
out great dramatists’ reputations. Would Me
have married a man I didn’t love ? Oh, no!
Would Me have given a man a pistol, and urged
him to die beautifully ? Oh, no! Would Me
have burned his great work, and been rude to the
aunt of my husband, and suicided with a loud re-
port in the next room, and three people sitting on
the other side of the curtain and listening. Oh,
no ! Would Me have worn a dead-white wrapper
with a face like the second day at sea, and not a
sign of fringe. Oh, no, no, no !
Nance moves with more restraint and less back-
sliding than of yore through the part. Also, she
looks quite her worst in the first act, which argues
great things for an actress under 30—and not
under compulsion—who dares look her worst in
Act 1. Unnecessarily, too, for in this act Hedda’s
husband keeps on remarking how beautiful Hedda
is—and as no woman ever looked that in a fat,
green face, with pale hair scraped off her forehead,
and a dead-white gown, one can only assume
that Nance is not aware how she slays her
beauty. Joseph Carne, as Mr. Hedda, disguises
splendidly under a red beard, and is much easier
in his acting ; Josephine Thynne sits up all night
in a pink striped evening dress with a big black
velvet bow, in a gold wig ; and Mrs. Henry
Bracey well becomes the new bonnet of George
Tesman’s aunt.
That bonnet makes me thoughtful. Why
are male writers so unjust to their women ?
That incident of Hedda and the bonnet. How
dare Ibsen draw it ? Beautiful Hedda in a silk
gown knows it is the kind aunt’s new little bit of
millinery, bought to please her. Seeing it on a
chair, she spitefully speaks of it as some
old thing the maid left lying about. I call that
wanton cruelty—on the part of the author.
It reminds me of Thackeray, and a bit of odious
injustice ht does Becky. Hounding her down, he
loses his head and gives way to insult. Do you
remember Becky and Amelia at the ball, Becky
rushed with partners and swamped with admira-
tion, and little, pale Amelia sitting alone, a
mournful wallflower? Thack. marches radiant
Becky up to the wallflower and makes her utter a
most crushing comment on the cut of Amelia’s
frock. No, no! With apologies to Thackeray
and Ibsen there’s a limit even to the nasty woman.
Spiteful remarks about clothes are always kept for
times of provocation, not thrown away unneces-
sarily. Your nasty woman doesn’t fire her dead-
liest weapon off in time of peace ; that is to say,
when she is being admired herself.
Saturday night at Her Majesty’s, and the new
order of things, the woman’s house. A few men,
of course. But one has only to watch Nance take
her “ curtains,” only to note the smile she casts
up almost painfully at her house, to know that
smile isn’t masculine gender—engendered, I
mean. They say that the best of everything is
done for men. I don’t know. Nance gives
one the impression that her audience is all
common gender as far as she is concerned. She
was lavishly applauded, flowers and call after call,
and the house broke up after half-past 11 with a
farewell speech—the tremolo stop in that big
golden voice well out —from Nance, Kingston and
Rankin.
At the opera! Magic sound! A box at
Faust ! No low-born heroine but tasted life out
of a box at Faust. Is it not so ? And this
romantic city crowded it all the week, preferring
Parlate d’Amor to poor old worn Ah Che.
Women liked to see the clean-shaven devil with
the nice smile, knowing that black moustache and
chin-tufts are out of fashion with their men.
Everyone admires the pretty little youthful air of
fair Lilian Coomber, the round-cheeked Mar-
guerite. Her singing is also young—and fair.
Of course the tenor has not the lean and hungry
look unknown to tenors. Perhaps his likeness
to a well-known artist is the kindest comment on
his looks permissable. Miss Jansen, the dramatic
contralto, is the only member of the new warblers
to make a decided hit. She does not appear in
“Faust,” but after her gypsy in “ Trovatore” one
looks forward to seeing her again. Her reputa-
tion as a six-barrelled linguist gains from a glimpse
of her intellectual brown-eyed face.
By the way, I hear that one lady in the cast
so fetched the local critics with her ankles that
they burst into enthusiastic praise of her voice—
which is not —well, it’s a contralto, but not nearly
on a par with those ankles.
Speaking of art, friends of Mr. B. E. Minns
read with interest that Colonel Rhodes has given
him a commission to paint a portrait. Yet B. E.
M. never set up here as a portrait-painter. Also
Percy Spence is coming to draw our Common-
wealth Show for the Graphic.
Later developments of the Commonwealth re-
port that everyone who can manage it is going to
get away till the shows are over. Society finds
nothing in its line provided. In fact, women
generally are turning up their noses, and only the
country people keep their interast at bouing-
point. In Sydney, it cools perceptibly every day.
However, the crowds will be great, and I am
asked to mention that splendid seats at half-a-
guinea are available in Mr. Julius Caro’s grounds,
“ Melrose,” Queen-street, Woollahra, the pro-
ceeds to go to the Children’s Hospital.
As for those steps that the emaciated Hopetoun
has to “toddle” up—to use his own expression—
at Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, they seem to me like
a veiled invitation to “walk into my parlor” said
the Premier to the fly, for the Premier of this
State will take the place . But I musn’t go
on in this way.
Have you heard of the two new engagements—
Mr. Justice Stephen and Miss Huthwaite, Mr.
Patterson and Miss Aline Fowler ?
Not a society function has been the ecclesiastical
divorce case, but women who wouldn’t dream of
going into the Court have crowded like flies round
a photographer’s frame in King-street, where
Dr. O’Haran’s smiling portrait stands out from
the middle of a galaxy of photos, of well-known
Sydney women.
By the way, on dit that a member of the legal
profession is qualifying for a billet as clown in
Fitzgerald’s circus.
Speaking of judges, I see that Mr. Justice Owen
is one of the judges of the ode competition. His
poetical attainments rest on those verses he wrote
(when at the Bar) some fifteen years ago, on the
Anderson-Fairfax divorce-case —I mean libel-suit
—about somebody’s stocking, wasn’t it ? They
were considered very funny, as everything is
funny in court. The other judges are Mr. Du
Faur, and Mr. Alex. Oliver of the Land Appeal
Court, but rumor is darkly silent concerning any
poetry in their past. Mr. Nugent Robertson lent
an air of reality to this weird board for a while,
but now I hear he has resigned on account of tho
ode he has himself written for the competition,
and the poetry will just have to be judged by
equity and kilometres.
Last Monday Mr. Hawtrev welcomed his new
English company—come to play “A Message
from Mars ” at the Palace—in a most successful
way. Invitation cards to afternoon tea at The
Australia brought a few hundred guests, theatrical
and society. It was a big puzzle to find who was
not of the co. Every pretty girl in Sydney seems
included. Another puzzler is, what are they all
going to do? I believe some are even under-
studies to understudies, but you couldn’t read that
in their faces. They all looked engaged and im-
portant. Among the Sydney girls were Roxy
Barton, in white with a floppy black hat; Winnie
Austin, in a black and white muslin and blue
toque ; Madge Hope, Laura Hanley, Ida Wilshire,
Vera Eyeton, and Lena Brasch.
Miss Ruby Ray, the new English star, a dark,
graceful young beauty, was frocked simply in
crush-strawberry cotton and black hat. Fair-
haired Mrs. Herbert Ross was in cream and a
blue trimmed hat. Herbert Ross looks a comedian,
a loosely-knit little man in a loosely-knit mous-
tache. Their clean-cut beauty-man, Mr. Holding,
is a combination of Correze Thursby and our
own late delicately-chiselled Earl. Miss Alma
Allen, in black tailor-made, is an English-looking
figure, tall and plump, with fair hair dressed on
her neck. So far the huge company gambols
about like one happy family.
As showing how the wheels work. The wife of
the Sunday-closing N.S.W. Premier presented
the wife of the Lieut.-Governor, on the latter
lady’s departure Europe-wards by express the
other Sunday evening, with a basket of flowers.
As absolutely fresh blossoms were insisted on, the
employes of a city firm were kept at work all the
Sabbath collecting and making up the flowers.
Yet to sell flowers in Sydney on Sunday is a penal
offence.
Admirers have strolled round Mr. Fox’s pic-
tures all the week, but the red ticket hasn’t
flourished about the frames. And yet such a one-
man show is rarely (or never) seen here. I hardly
know where to begin. “ The Lady in Black” is a
familiar title, since Our Gallery contains another
of that name, and attracts one first of all.. A tall,
laughing, rounded girl with red-gold hair, and a
skin that you want to touch, so deliciously does it
round off the canvas. That’s a feature of Mr.
Fox’s portraits. They do not lean back,
lie back, or stand back in the canvas. They
come out, the flesh curves out, humanly and
artfully. You must have noticed that in his child
portrait in our Gallery, and you will observe the
same characteristic here again and again. “My
Cousin ” is a graceful female in pink ; but I like
better a little girl called “Zephyr,” with
adorable red hair and a brainy face. Mr.
Fox pays his women the compliment of put-
ting a meaning behind their prettiness. Also,
there are some tree-scapes here that go straight to
one’s heart—big green pictures with a human note
in the gum-trees, and a fine poetic feeling pervad-
ing them all.
But what is the matter with local purses that
Art inevitably snaps them tighter ? It can’t be
shrinkage, considering the wonderful goose-and-
turkey-yarns floating around, and the fabulous
prices Sydney is going to give for ducks. No.
Fashion smiles another way. She doesn’t look
towards pictures. The good old days, when nice,
fat men strolled round art-shows, and wrote cheques,
and had big pictures by local artists on their
walls, threaten a severe collapse.
Yet all the time, is there a bride who wouldn’t
thank you more for one well-signed picture than
for eleven butter-dishes? Pictures are furniture,
everything is furniture to a bride. But even on
that unexalted plane nobody gives them to her.
and the eleven butter-dishes knock each other
spitefully alongside the seventeen toast-racks, eat-
ing their hearts out among the cobwebs of the
back pantry.
I wouldn’t dream of recommending it as a
bridal present, but look at Tom Roberts’ portrait
of Henry Parkes. That was one of two or
three good portraits of the old man. Thirty
guineas was wanted. No buyer. Perhaps an
artist makes a mistake in setting out all his odds
and ends at a show of this kind. But even the
best pictures at both these one-man shows didn’t
elicit one truly respectable bid.
A friend writing from London says Lady Car-
rington does not look a day older than when she
left here, although her hair is quite grey. It is
very becoming to her. At the time my corres-
pondent wrote there was nothing talked of but
the Elections. “ The knowledge,” she says,
“ that women have of politics and the interest
they take in all public questions would astonish
some of our Upper House members who are
opposed to Woman Suffrage. It is quite usual
for wives and daughters to be beside their hus-
bands and fathers on the platform, and in one
instance, where the candidate was taken ill just
after he had begun to speak, his wife continued
and finished his speech, and subsequently carried
the election.” The same correspondent writes:
“Ellen Terry, appearing with Irving in ‘Olivia,’
looked a sad burlesque. We wouldn’t stand such
a thing in Australia. A stout, elderly lady play-
ing the r6le of a beautiful girl.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There will be a Mrs. Smiler Peacock after Ist
Jan. next, the wedding of the Man who Laughs
having been fixed for that momentous day. The cere-
mony will take place at Warrnambool, and there
is likely to be a political gathering. The Speaker
will probably be there to see that the question
is put in proper form ; but the fact that the Com-
monwealth celebrations will be taking place in
Sydney will make the wedding comparatively
quiet.
“ Tom Tatchell, co-respondent in the well-
advertised Stirling divorce-case, was for years one
of Victoria’s best tennis-players. His is the
usual bandboxy masher style of bank clerk beauty
so indigenous to Australian country towns. His
uncle represented Dunolly in Vic. Assembly for
some time. The petitioner, Dr. Stirling, is one
of Melbourne’s ablest operating surgeons, and is
a scion of the big drapery house of that name.
“In ‘The Scarlet Feather’ Nellie Stewart’s
clothes, in their way, are quite delicious. With
her first little, brown, glove-fit suit, goes a red
cap, casting a becoming glow over her cheeks,
which she is almost too careful not to over-color.
This first rig-out of Pippo’s, by the way, is giving
great offence in some quarters. The wearer looks
as if she had been poured into the brown riding-
breeches, and though there’s a knapsack
at the back, there’s no basque, sash or
sich in front to blur the outlines objected to.
Anyhow, that small suit is keeping some easily-
shocked people away from the theatre. Friends
have come home from ‘ The Scarlet Feather’ and
assured absentees that Nellie must have been
measured inch by inch for her clothes. Some
alarmists even raise a scare by surmising that
casts have been taken of the daring dresser by
female plaster-moulders, and then the models
handed over to theatrical tailors.
“ The page’s next wear is a Court suit of black
and white in which he looks larger, staider and
paler and trots out some of his jewels. Lastly
‘ Pippo,’ who is an actress in disguise, appears in
a loose robe of lace over pink, achieving a flesh-
tint effect and following all the curves of the
lady’s uncorseted figure. The lace gleams all over
with the most wonderful spangles, ‘moonbeams,’,
‘fireflies,’ ‘ blue devils.’ Round the corsage a jet
background doubly enhances the blaze of jewels.
A broad belt of diamonds round the dazzler’s
neck hangs down in one end in front, her hair is
latticed with brilliants and crested with plumes,
and a girdle of enormous turquoises completes the
toilette. Then there’s a lovely cloak, pale-blue,
shimmering with jewels and edged with fluted
pink chiffon.
“The latest feminine craze in Melbourne is to
wear the hat jabbed over the eyes & la Nellie
Stewart.
“It has not so far been noted in print that the
success of the recent Melbourne grand opera sea-
son was almost entirely a cheap-admission success.
The rich, who are supposed to have a peculiar
possession of culchaw, simply stayed away.
Being merely, for the most part, as Higinbotham
called them, ‘ wealthy lower orders,’ they prefer
leg-shows, short-skirted exhibitions, entertain-
ments which lie light on the chest after a too-
heavy dinner. The gallery folks, mostly people
whs work for a living but haven’t too much cash,
pulled the season through. The dress-circle
was consistently ill-patronised, and the gal-
lery invariably crammed with an audience,
most of whom had paid extra early-door fees,
understood the music, and were able to enjoy it
to the full. In the circumstances, it is surely bad
policy not to make the gallery more comfortable.
The cushioned, roomy, low seats ought to be there,
and the high, hard, carpeted benohes in the dress
circle.
“Mrs. W. S. Lyster, professionally known in
the old days as Miss Georgina Hodson, was a fre-
quent visitor at Melb. Princess’s when Musgrove’s
grand-opera co. held the floor. Mrs. Lyster is
not quite so young, but almost as sprightly, as
when she eloped with her William from the N. Y.
theatre, where she was the rage as Pocahontas, in
the burlesque. The story goes that the fair eloper
went off before the manager could provide a sub-
stitute, so the comedians, Walcot and Brougham,
had to rattle through the piece without any
Pocahontas.
“ The selection of one Franklin Peterson to the
Melb. University Chair of Music, vice that wicked
man Marshall Hall, has a strong Presbyterian
smell that argues all sorts of things. Though 39
years of age Mr. Peterson’s Mus. Bac., Oxon,
dates as late as 1892, and his list of qualifications
reads like those of the late despised Tomlinson.
He has a brother who is principal of a Canadian
University; another now dead, was a prof, of
Sanskrit at Bombay. As for Mr. Peterson him-
self, he seems to have gained fame by becoming
organist and choir-master to the ‘Palmerston
Place church,’ whatever that may be; and as a
final testimonial the public are told that he has
been teacher of pianoforte at the Edinburgh
Ladies’ College ! Marshall-Hall will now start a
conservatorium of his own, and there is little
doubt it will flourish exceedingly.
“ Widow O’Brien’s only chick in real life, Bertie
Sheridan by name, is a most vivacious youngster,
Stayed with his dad and mother at the Grand
Hotel, Melb., recently, and was given to amusing
the guests greatly by his anti-military views and
his smart mimicry. ‘ Would you like to go
to the war, Bertie ? ’ one admirer asked. ‘ Not
much ; I’m not taking any war, thanks. I’d
rather go on the comic-opera stage.’ Used to
give one little scene which always took his
audience immensely. Bertie being the relative
of a S’African contingenter receives a letter,
seizes the missive, tears it open with trembling
fingers. ‘Ha! it concerns my darling Tom at the
front. Thank Gawd, he is shot.’ Staggers to the
nearest seat and bursts into sobs of relief.
“ A certain Melb. solicitor got away from all his
liabilities long ago owing to the land-boom and
possibly another woman. His wife lately applied
for a divorce, on the ground of desertion. She
told the Judge that, in February, 1889, her hus-
band misappropriated some trust - money and
bolted to South America. The last she saw of
him was when he came home one afternoon with
‘ a quantity of gold,’ some of which she stitched
into his clothing or otherwise helped to conceal
about his absconding person. Then he caught
train for Adelaide, and left her to pine in grass-
widowhood all these years. Up to ’9B she corres-
ponded with him occasionally, her letters being
wifely petitions for coin or for a new home in the
land of his adoption, whilst hubby’s replies were
friendly expressions of regret that he could do
nothing to assist her. The Judge reserved his
decision, but gave it as a first opinion that there
can be no ‘ desertion ’ in the case of a solicitor who
bolts with the full approval and connivance of his
better-half. So the next family-lawyer who wants
to clear out will find his wife a less unsuspicious
helpmate than the poor trusting woman afore-
mentioned was in days of yore.
“Vic. Art Society this year held its poor little
exhibition right in the city. Just before the open-
ing, the controlling Govt, department sent word
that the show could not be held, as the exhibition
room had not sufficient egress in case of a panic
inside. After some parley the artists arranged to
alter one door, and paint ‘ Escape Door ’ on
another. The first Saturday they advertised a
piano recital. Half-an-hour after the advertised
time of the recital there were in the room a lady
and gentleman, the secretary, and the pianiste ;
after a painful pause, there remained the sec. and
the pianiste only. Very soon it was suggested to
turn the doors round, in case there should be a
panic in the streets.
“The amount paid by Vic. National Gallery
for the new picture ‘ Horses Bathing in the Sea ’
by Miss Kemp-Welch, a London painter, was
£7OO. The amount paid (also just lately) for ‘A
Bush Symphony ’ by Ford Patterson, a local
painter, was £2OO. Of course you can hardly
compare two works so different in subject and
treatment. The horse picture is a frank, bright,
vigorous, unimaginative, pleasant statement of a
natural scene —a rather fine-and-large colored
photograph. The bush picture is full of thought
and feeling, atmosphere and tone. It is a painted
poem ; it doesn’t suggest the camera in a single
inch of it. Present writer would have thought
£7OO for Patterson’s and £2OO for Miss Kemp-
Welch’s picture more reasonable. One would not
grumble much at the price paid for the London
lady’s enjoyable work, which may be worth it,
and will be very popular, but one would contend
that if she is sufficiently paid, then Ford Patterson
is grossly underpaid. Is it any wonder that good
Australian artists have to go to England to earn
bread, to say nothing of butter ? Let any
Melbourne person who cares for art make the
comparison and judge whether this comment is
not justified.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Worth Knowing!
That RAFF AN’S
Bronchial Catarrh
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best Tonic “Pick-me-ups” in Mental
and Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you
feel a Sturdiness and Firmness of Nerve, as if some-
thing had become suddenly Unbound and given its
Liberty. Hundreds of persons who have been in
search of some such reliable Remedy admit that the
Rapid and happy results following its use are posi-
tively marvellous. Affords immediate relief in Bron-
chitis, Catarrh, and Asthma. The preparation was
made by a London Physician and sold for a Fortune.
It is now being bought by the public for 2/-, or per
post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist, 3 Gangway's
Queen’s Walk, MELBOURNE.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be Che burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
- Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offiees.
AUSTRALABIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
eTDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART—93 Macquarie Street.
ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton harden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“George Reid. Australia’s yes-no-blest
son.”—Orange (N.S.W.) Leader.
After that cabled order for 2000 cases of
champagne at N.S.W. Treasury expense, they
call him “Premier Wine.”
The two knights, Harris and Manning,
who offered themselves for Sydney municipal
council, were rejected by the voters.
How the boyish G. Republican Dibbs will
kick ! In a letter to the Times, Admiral Bridge
speaks of G.R.D. as “my venerable and respected
friend.”
It is fixed that Peacock is to become Vic.
Premier when Turner goes to the Federal Parlia-
ment. He will be the youngest Premier the
State has had.
The long, lean, Vic. ex-Treasurer Shiels
is Australia’s champion tea-drinker and' never
undertakes anything without the familiar fat tea-
pot at his elbow.
Suggested in the daily press that the
capital of the Commonwealth be called “Cham-
berlain.” Good ! Then all of us can call it
‘ ‘ Judas ” for short.
Benjamin Jones, an inmate of Grafton
N.S.W. Benevolent Asylum, is alleged to have
been left property in England worth £5OOO a year,
by a childless couple who lately died and whose
coachman he formerly was.
Tommy Dalveen is n candidate for
Canoblas in the House of Representatives. For
how many constituencies has Tommy unavailingly
stood during all these weary years ! He is getting
old, and should save his breath.
[a retiring froln Sydney City Council
(probably on account of his Federal-Parliamentary
ambitions) John Norton raised high the sectarian
flag— sa M that the real object of the Reform party
was to “ return a R.C. in every ward.”
In moving the second reading of N.S.W.
Woman’s Suffrage Biff in N.S.W. Leg. Council,
Attorney-General Wise said in effect that he only
did so pro forma— he had no sympathy with the
thing. Mr. Wise was thus not the Biff’s pilot—
only its Pontius Pilate ‘ Pontius Pilate Wise.”
Yic. Chief Secretary Peacock, who re-
cently vowed that he wouldn’t marry until the
M‘Lean Govt, was turned out, found the first
official business he had to deal with on getting
back to his old quarters in Treasury buildings was
an application for the Queen’s bounty for triplets.
The Laugher is somewhat troubled at the omen.
4 "Vosa”: Colonel Proctor, a Fijian planter
in "the early seventies, was
bit of a character. He lost
a leg at the battle of
Chancellorsville, fighting
for the Confederates
when a youngster of 20.
The substitute was so
fine a piece of workman-
ship that the Colonel
danced at a Melb. ball
without anyone discovering
his deficiency. Whin he
first landed in Fiji a score
of natives scrambled on to
the deck of the steamer to
gratify their curiosity. Proctor
gave one of them sixpence to
pull the boot off his cork leg,
having first loosened the
fastenings. The Fijian put
forth his strength as request-
ed, and fell head over heels
with the whole limb in his hands.
Springing to his feet, the terrified
darkie leapt into the sea, accom-
f anied by all his companions. In
'iji the Colonel, getting tired
of travelling with a screw-driver
and oil-can in his pocket, dis-
carded the artificial leg and
went about with a crutch.
But le was wonderfully
active. On the occasion of an
accident to a boat’s crew of
H.M. schooner Alacrity, off the
coast of Vitu Levu, he swam
half-a-mile in the shark-infested
sea to their assistance,
and subsequently re-
ceived a medal from
the Royal Humane
Society for saving life.
His cotton - growing
speculations on the Ba
river came to an abrupt
end in consequence of the
discovery that his foreign laborers had been
kidnapped (unknown to him at the time) in
the notorious slave-brig Carl. All the “boys”
had to be surrendered to the British authorities.
For several years after this Proctor was captain
of a South Sea trading vessel. Getting into a row
with a Frenchman at the New Hebrides, he was
chained by the waist to a cocoanut tree for a week.
He was able to roam 15 yards from the tree, and
his own account was that he felt like a monkey on
a barrel-organ. As he knew nothing of naviga-
tion he travelled by dead-reckoning. Never
heard what eventually became of him. The
finale must have been something picturesque.
“ Potato ” Young, ex-Speaker of N.S.W.
Assembly, objects to the name of Mt. Kosciusko,
on the ground that it is Russian. And, after all,
when you come to think of it, it is really impos-
sible for a man to be any good unless his name is
Bull, or Brown, or Young.
A Sydney bookseller offers £5 for a copy
of a book of verse said to have been written by
G. H. Reid when younger and more slim. The
Bulletin has often unavailingly inquired for that
book. It just now wants it very badly indeed.
S.A. Premier Holder expects an invita-
tion to act as Treasurer of the first Federal
Ministry, whoever forms it. Yet his olaim
on the billet can’t be mentioned in the same
week with Turner’s. The shadow - turned-
sideways has been lucky to steer his Ministry
through the just-expired session of S.A. Parlia-
ment, for he has greatly suffered in prestige as a
financier during the last six months. Holder’s
Ministry was, in fact, in a minority in S.A.
Assembly almost right through the session.
Pumpkin Smith has been selected as
Foreign - Trade - semi - Protective - Revenue - Tari ff
candidate to represent Macquarie (N.S.W.) in the
Federal House of Representatives. Now what is
the possible use of Pumpkin Smith in a House
that doesn’t build culverts ?
Kitchener - Weyler, of the cruel face,
butcher of the Soudan and defiler of the Mahdi’s
tomb, takes over the S African command from the
kindly-at-heart Roberts. In a word, Kitchener
is to “ clean up. ” He may be relied on to leave
no one stone upon any other stone.
Dear Bulletin,— -Re dispute over Jimmy
Tyson’s domicile. As he was M.L.C. of Queens-
land, surely that State can claim him. Query :
Can a man be M.L.C. in two States ? He can be
J.P. in more than one, and I believe Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen was M.P. here and in Ireland, being,
Eerhaps, Sir Boyle Roche’s famous “burrd.”—
.W.
What a spectacle for gods and men (says
Palmerston M.L. Standard) will be Maoriland’s
contribution to the Commonwealth celebrations !
The Premier, 20st. in weight, in fuff Privy
Council costume, with a retinue of four male and
one female private secretaries, followed by 50
mounted rifles, 25 Maori warriors led by the
Native Minister, and a Maori pipe band !
Cabled that “before his death, Sir Arthur
Sullivan ” —original family name Solomon, by the
way—“composed a new setting for the ‘Te
Deum,’ for use after the proclamation of peace in
South Africa.” The cause of the composer’s
demise is so far unstated. Mail news will prob-
ably reveal it as a stroke of lightning or a shower
of brimstone. God surely can’t let blasphemy be
stretched too far.
J. B. Burton, Victoria’s new Mines
Minister, was 10 or 12 years ago general president
of the Miners’ Association ; that was in the days
when the one association covered Vic., N.S.W.,
Tasmania, S.A., and part of Queensland. Burton
even as a union boss was a silent man. W. G
Spence, now Labor M.P. in N.S.W., but then
miners’ secretary at Creswick and general secre-
tary of the association, had to do the talking for
the two —and did it without turning a hair.
Spence gradually drifted away from the Vic.
miners because they did not care to mix unionism
and politics ; Burton was more in sympathy with
the keeping of the two separate. Yet Burton
gets the higher political reward.
BEYOND IMITATION.
ONE OF THEM: “ There’s one thing there’s no
mistaking—and that’s a really fine figure.”
Millionaire Tyson once remarked that he
would much like to see Queen Victoria ; but when
shown the sort of dress in which he would have to
appear at court he said: “I would not put that
on if they gave me all England.” By the way,
the stories told her about Tyson made Lady
Carrington feel much interested in the old man,
whom she several times tried to meet, but all her
little traps failed.
A certain “doctor’’who
practised in Sydney some years
ago as an “eye-specialist” pro-
fessed also to have an infallible
cure for snake-poisoning, and
arranged to read a paper on the
subject before the Royal
Society. The late Gerard
Krefft, Curator of the Austra-
lian Museum at the -time, at-
tended the meeting with two
pets a brown - banded (or
“tiger”) snake and a black
one. The “ doctor” read his
paper and expatiated at length
on the efficacy of his antidote
(which, by the way, was simply
the old treatment of ligature,
incision, sucking, and internal
and external use of liquid
ammonia). He summed-up:
“ Gentlemen, I have so much
faith in my treatment that if
the most venomous snake
known could be now produced
before all here assembled, I
should have no hesitation in
allowing it to bite me.” Where-
upon Krefft rose and said:
“Doctor, I have in this bag a
brown-banded snake, and in
this other a black snake —both
in good biting-order, and I shall
be pleased to apply to your finger
whichever you may select! ” With which
he advanced towards the lecturer, who promptly
retreated, calling excitedly upon those present to
protect him from the madman. The meeting
roared with delight and the great snake-authority
beat a hasty retreat per back door, and was never
again heard of in that capacity.
How rich Tyson’s conversation was in
purely Australian phrase and allusion. To an
estate-agent who was talking to him about the dis-
posal of his property after death, the millionaire
remarked : “ Leave it to the crows and let them
fight it out.” Explained that when the dogs had
brought down a kangaroo the carcase was usually
left to the crows. Evidently the old man had a
high opinion of his heirs.
Till called to duty at Goulbnrn the other
day in the matter of murderer Sleigh, N.S.W.
hangman Howard has had no rope-work since 3rd
April, 1899. When there is no work on in his
main line he does-up the court garden and cleans
the knives and forks used—ugh ! —by Bench and
Bar. The last man he butchered before Sleigh
was Stuart Briggs, the murderer of Maggie Dutt
and her grandmother at Annandale.
A graceful compliment to W. R. Boothby,
S.A. Sheriff and Chief Returning-Officer, would
be an invitation to control the first Commonwealth
elections. Boothby, who originated voting by
ballot, organised the first election in S.A. in the
fifties, and has been Chief R.-O. for that State
for 46 years. He was a fine athlete in his day, and
played for Surrey County at cricket before leaving
for S.A. in 1853. He is now 71 years of age, but
stiff clear-brained and active.
Chaffey Baker annually banquets S.A. Leg.
Councillors and other politicians, and this year’s
dinner was attended —for the first time for years—-
by C. C. Kingston. The bitter feud that so long
existed between them happily ended some time
ago. Similarly, Kingston and Symon, who quar-
relled over the Adelaide Hospital, have been hist
friends ever since C. C. K. so loyally backed up
the Federal delegates in England.
Judge Bundey (S.A.) is in such poor
health that his early resignation is a certainty.
The kindly Bundey is the most humane and
popular Judge who ever sat on the S.A. Bench.
Insolvency Commissioner Russell has the strongest
claims to the succession, but it is freely rumored
that a prominent lawyer-politician may jump the
billet in the same manner as Way, when Attorney-
General in ’76, commandeered the C. J.-ship.
Moved by A. H. Barlow in Q. Leg. Coun-
cil :
“ That the Council will regard with loyal thankfulness
the appointment for limited terms to the office of State
Governor of gentlemen who have not hitherto been con-
nected with the social and political life of Queensland.
That this resolution be presented to His Excellency the
Governor,” &c., &c'.
A rub for C. J. Griffith, who has aspirations for
the Lieutenant-Governorship. Is there a more
unpopular man than Griffith in Queensland ?
That joyous and well-gilded sportsman,
E. Terry, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), is vigorously pursu-
ing his Senatorial candidature. He used to be
The Bulletin’s landlord, and was such a decent
landlord that The Bulletin never even thought
of shooting him ; but then he had not at that
time announced himself as a Federal candidate.
If Mr. Terry and one or two others already on the
warpath get into the Senate, that house will be as
big a joke as Sydney City Council has been.
A pleasing incident in the winding-up of
N.S.W. Parliament last week was the presenta-
tion of a watch and chain to Henry Clarke, mem-
ber for Bega, and father of the House. Premier
Lyne, making the presentation, healed the wounds
of a year ago, caused by Mr. Clarke’s disappoint-
ment at not having been included in the Minis-
try. Mr. Clarke is now verging on 80, and has
sat in the Assembly for about 35 years. He
intends to stick to the State Parliament and will
contest next general election. He and W.
MMillan are townies (Londonderry men), but
Clarke arrived in N.S.W. before M'Millan was
born. He was Postmaster-General in the Dibbs
Ministry of ’B9.
AT THE OPERA.
YOUNG DIVES: “If you were not yourself who
would you like to be?”
MISS ITHAACS (shyly): “ Well, I think I'd like
to be both of us.”
From a Maoriland paper :
Premier Seddon left Wellington on Wednesday after-
noon for Picton ; travelled to Blenheim by special train;
officiated at a banquet; left for Picton by special train ;
left for Wellington at 2 a.m. in the Tutanekai, reaching
port in time to catch the Manawatu train ; arrived at the
Palmerston Show at noon, and left for Wellington again
next morning.
293 miles odd under 24 hours, with a banquet and
half-a-dozen speeches thrown in, does not look as
if Seddon, P.C., were breaking-up. But how long
can it last ?
Printed recently in the Sydney dailies
that
The Premier yesterday received a cable message from
the High Commissioner for S’Africa stating that Col.
Maekay had been appointed staff officer for Australian
contingents at Capetown.
Now, be it noted that Mr. Maekay was sent to
S’Africa in command of a regiment of alleged
bushmen, which regiment is said to be still fight-
ing the Boers at “ the front ” while its commander
is at Capetown, 700 miles in the rear, in a snug
staff-billet. How on earth does this come about ?
No wonder Holder, Premier of S.A., is
gaunt. Though a physical wreck, he is always in
his place in the House, leaves no Bill wholly to a
colleague, and recuperates by conducting as many
as three church services on a Sunday. The last
fortnight of Parliament is generally crammed with
work ; in addition, Holder’s last fortnight was
full of anxiety, for a censure motion over his con-
cealed deficit was talked of. Yet he filled in the
Sunday between the two weeks by travelling to
and from Broken Hill (680 miles) and preaching
twice and delivering one address with the ther-
mometer at 105°.
Cabled from London Nov. 28 :
Lord Wolseley retires from the post of Commander-in-
Chief. General Sir Evelyn Wood will be Acting-Corn-
mander-in-Chief until the arrival of Lord Roberts from
Africa.
Yet these changes had been gazetted in England
just two months before ! Promptitude .with a
vengeance ! —or is the cable syndicate “working-
in ” with any of the ’Ome Army “ rings ” ? Dur-
ing the whole two months Buffer’s chances of the
billet have been freely discussed, though it must
have been well known to those behind the scenes
that there were other generals, his seniors, who
would come before him.
“Jimmy Governor,” we read in the
Catholic Press, “ was once a contributor to The
Bulletin.” Well, we don’t remember it; but
perhaps the consecrated organ had the information
at first hand from Jimmy between drinks, when
the black gentleman called in to revise the proof
of that leading article. The Bulletin has had
all sorts of contributors. It once published an
alleged poem by a Chief Justice in the same issue
containing a real poem by a man who had just
come out of gaol after serving eight years to which
he had been sentenced by the Chief Justice afore*
said. The ex-prisoner’s poetry was about hunger,
and bread, and his children; and the Judge’s
verses—he was an old boy who, at over 80, wore a
ring on his accusing digit and twiddled an
exquisite brilliant on his little finger—concerned
a slender girl with violet eyes, and Blue Mountain
flowers.
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
He comes up from the cruel sea,
Sans wife, and sick as he can be.
Strange Fate is that with which we cope
To send us this forlornest Hope 1


MACONOGHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
preserved
FISH
OF ALL. KINDS.
marmalade
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
bottled fruits
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACONOCHiE BROS., L™> LONDON
Australian Representatives—
SWIFT * CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Mr. J. Smith, manager of the Australia
Hotel, desires to contradict the rumor
that he is charging extortionate rates to
visitors during the time of the Common-
wealth celebrations. There is, however,
a very great demand upon the hotel’s
accommodation, and intending visitors
should communicate at once with the
manager if they wish to be sure of secu-
ring rooms.
J. SMITH (Late of Mensdes’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
An old identity of the N.S.W. Far West
has just disappeared. There was a time when
there used to be water pretty often in the Darling
River and the Talyawalka Creek at Wilcannia;
and in those days, too, when there were no
bridges, the inlands fattened tens of thousands of
cattle for the Southern markets. To get a mob
over a flooded stream was beyond most drovers ;
for the brutes would let the stream turn their
heads, and then the chances were they would
begin circling—and that was Gehenna! So a
bushman, a splendid horseman, J. E. Burgess, set
to work to train a cow and a bullock for the work
of leading the mob across. He speyed a cow
which had a bull-calf at foot, and the latter was
encouraged to seek liquid comfort from his mother
whenever he was in trouble. First the cow, tied
to a boat, was got to the other side of the river ;
then the sucking bullock was placed at the head
of the moo and invited to get to the cow and the
liquid refreshment aforesaid. Later on the bul-
lock knew his work even when the cow was other-
wise engaged; yet for 15 years he remained a
sucking calf. Burgess, with the help of this one
bell-bullock, crossed over 50,000 head with hardly
a loss. There is a bridge now, though, and, even
if there wasn’t, there is only an occasional
river, so the owner decided to turn the animal
into pork sausages and prime veal before he died
of extreme old age.
• * * •
“ Harry S.” to The Bulletin
De Rougemont 11. has been discovered by Sydney D.T.
in the person of Ben Bridge, Esq., previously distinguished
for his escapes from legal custody. The ingenious Ben
has obviously been pulling someone’s leg with great vigor.
He and his sable henchman, we are told, have stood
where white man never stood before. And we are only
beginning, it seems, to be acquainted with Australian
geographv and the wonders of our flora and fauna. Ben’s
“ wild Shetland ponies ” were possibly “Timors” ; while
UN CARVED.
BARBER (to party who wants to “stick-up ” a shave): “ You say you used
always to come here, but I don't recognise your face."
CUSTOMER: “Perhaps not. It's healed up since then."
as for his buffaloes, it is evident that he has either been
near the Coburg Peninsula or has dreamt he was. The
blacks in that part, however, are as a rule more fnendly
than in any other part of Australia, and the ‘ wild place
was settled before Melbourne or Perth. Indeed the
old “king” thereof, “ Jacky Davis,” speaksgood English,
and has voyaged to both China and Japan, and near
his “ Court'” still stand the stone chimneys of the huts
built by the men of the war-vessels that lay in Port
Essington 70 years ago. On the whole, Mr. Bridges
reliability may be sized-up well by his yarn that it is
common there for the chief of the tribe to knock a
Dicaninny on the head, and then tell its mother that a
snake bit it. Then all hands make out that they are
srieved over the occurrence, and, when the wail is ended,
turn to and roast and eat the body.” Of course the gins
can’t distinguish a smash on the head from a tiny snake-
Duncture ! 8 Ben also has tracked an alligator from river
to river eight miles apart, and then knew the same brute
to go up-stream 15 miles and kill a carrier s horse Ben
doesn’t sav how he identified the ’gator-perhaps he had
branded him. There are hundreds of miles of unpros-
pected mineral country in North Australia, says Bern If
he had said “thousands, that would have been about
fhe nnlv reliable item in his whole ridiculous story !
“J.A.C.”: Re clay-eating in Northern
Queensland (B. 24/11/’00). About two years ago,
travelling from Brisbane to Townsville, there was
on board the steamer a boy who had become hope-
lessly addicted to the habit (which is only a
symptom of disease and not the disease itself).
His mother had taken him to Melbourne for
medical advice, but the doctors there knew abso-
lutely nothing of the disease. (Why she selected
Melbourne doesn’t appear.) There was no pos-
sible hope for the lad, who is probably since dead.
His face had a dull, pasty look, much like glazier s
putty. A N.Q. school-inspector, who was on
board, told me he had met with many similar
cases, both among aboriginals and Europeans,
but that, while the blacks restricted themselves,
with comparative impunity, to one particular
kind of clay, the whites would, when the craving
had got hold, eat even mud off the road.
* * * *
“ Scotty,” to Gar. (8., 29/9/ 00) : —
Your 4-acre melon-patch produced 220 tons —4400 cwt.,
8800 half cwts.—733 dozen melons, giving you in 61b. per
melon for the 1-3 doz, remainder of division, which four l
allow the baby to eat. Well, for this he got £183; not bad
for a crop that needs no attendance after planting. But
the buyer got £916, a biggish corner in watermelons. 1
make no remark except that there are probably other
melon-cockies, say 50. And there are other districts than the
Hawkesbury, which would produce about, say, ±-100,000
worth of watermelons. I suppose they go frozen to
London market; but they’re not in the Year Book or
cargo lists. Another thing : a 501 b. melon is an awkward
beast to handle unless you carry him in a bag. But l
don’t doubt you, Gar —or, should it be “ Garn .
* * • *
A M.L. rabbiter made a note of bis trap-
pings for three weeks lately. Result 2219 rabbits
out of 2401 trappings; remainder being rabbits
legs, cats, ferrets, rats, small birds, 2 hawks, and
1 seagull.
* * * *
“ Tuna ” : Re “ big loads on bush tracks ”
(8., 19/11/’00). In ’94 I saw go through Mungindi,
two loads from Dareel Station (Q.) of, respec-
tively, 97 and 104 bales of dumped (scoured) wool.
“ B. R.,’
in reply to
Mac’s inquiry
(13/10/’00) re
an Australian
hermaphrodi-
tic mammal :
I have met
with the article
in question. It
was a big- nig-
ger, who lived
on a N. S.W.
northern river,
in the 80’s, and
he (or she—or
it) came about
as near true her-
maphroditism
(in externals, at
least) as the
books allow to
be possible.
Curious looking
creature it was ;
over 6ft. high,
and possessing
scarcely any
body ; arms
hanging to the
knees of an ex-
traordinary
longpairof legs,
terminating i n
enormous feet.
It lived, need-
less to say, a
strictly celibate
life, the other
niggers looking
upon it as a
being apart. A
medical friend
of mine once
bought its skele-
ton in advance
for a considera-
tion of rum and
beef, but left
the district be-
fore it had done
with said osse-
ous framework.
The creature
must be dead
by now, and
possibly some
Bulletin reader
may have an
idea of the pre-
sent where-
abouts of the
“ scaffolding ”
in question.
In Nathalia (Vic.) district recently, sheep
and lambs have suffered severely from the sharp-
pointed grass and wild-oat seeds. These seeds,
about half-an-inch long, punctured the bodies of
the unfortunate animals like so many splinters.
The breasts and fore-legs were penetrated by hun-
dreds of seeds. In numbers of cases the eyes and
ears were pierced, scores of lambs being blinded
•in consequence. When the seeds entered the ears
they worked right into the brain in many instances.
Sheep and lambs which were slaughtered, upon
being skinned were found to have their carcases
punctured as though they had been tattooed. Ex-
perienced sheep-farmers say that they never
remember such an extraordinary thing occurring
in previons seasons.
* » * *
“Jim”: Once saw two crows dealing
■with a lamb. One would peck it sharply behind,
and when it opened its mouth to bleat the other
would wrench at its tongue. Have often seen
lambs that had thus lost the tongue running
about.
Flying-foxes are numerous and destructive
on Clarence River this year. A destruction league
in Grafton recently offered Id. a claw, and paid
for 5000 the first fortnight. One man claimed to
have shot 250 with a Winchester rifle.
“Scotty, 0 ”: “H.S. (8.,
29/9/’00) is right about the depletion
of forests, The dodge down River-
ina way is to take up a 40-acre-
selection of pine-scrub and get
thousands of posts and rails, logs
and poles, all (nominally) coining
from a patch of whipsticks. it
saves splitters’ and timber-getters
licenses and dodges the police and
forest-rangers, t akes a long time
to clear 40 acres when there’s a saw-
mill near, and fencing to be done,
and firewood wanted in the town.
“ Hiram Abiff” : Re the
bringing-down of rain by concus-
sion. Firing cannon is not the
trick. I explained my views to the
Murruinbidgee squatters, but they
would not run an experimental risk.
One gave £2OOO to the Presbel-
fastenan Ghurcli at Manly, which
ought to have included rain-fall,
but didn’t. My idea is to have
ready at different points (hill-tops
for choice) some Mongollier bal-
loons, which can be made for £1 to
£5 each, and let their whole freight
be a charge or two of dynamite or
melinite in the lightest possiblecase.
These must have fuses timed to end
at different heights, 1000 to 2000 ft.
Then they must be sent up on those
awful, exasperating, tantalising,
cloudy Riverina days when we see
the rain drifting away for want of
a shock. The whole experiment
could be made for £lOO, and I think
it is a fact that if one shower was
started the rest would follow. One
objection is that, if the rain came,
they’d say it would have come any-
way, and this prophet would be
without honor.
“ Mac.” : Here goes for a strong-woman
contest. At , N.S.W., in 189,5, there
was an innkeeper’s wife, an Englishwoman, whom
I saw take a 2001 b. sack of flour under each arm,
and another in her teeth (!), and carry them about
three chains and up four steps to finish with. This
woman could hold an average man down as if he
were a six-months-old infant. Also she could bite
pieces out of a glass tumbler and chew the mouth-
ful of glass into powder. Likewise she could get
under any ordinary saddle-horse and lift it and
rider clear up off the ground. I now claim the
strong-woman stakes, by virtue of a mere “walk-
over.”
Mr. F. A. Rochfort writes from Gira gold-
field, British Papua:—
Dear Bulletin. —Bishop Stone-Wigg’s recent sweeping
condemnation of the Papuan miners for “immorality”
embodies one of those mischievous half-truths that are
worse than a deliberate lie. I have been on the field for
over two years, and excepting two women whom I met on
the road near Tamata I have not seen a single female out-
side the Govt, stockade. I don’t hold the miners up as
an example of virtue ; they are neither better nor worse
than the usual run of men leading rough lives. But what
I do assert is that however “immoral,” in the Bishop’s
sense, they might desire to be, the absence of native
women would effectually bar that. A few miners may
from time to time have misconducted themselves accord-
ing to S.W.’s views, but to therefore condemn the whole
body of men is more in accordance with clericalism than
with Christianity. Also, from S.W.’s remarks, one would
suppose the Govt, officials were immaculate, but if he
wishes to improve matters let him be honest and begin at
the top 1 It is freely reported also that some of the
mission stations are not free from blame in this respect;
and however much we may be inclined to discredit the
statement, we cannot be blind to the fact that half-caste
children don’t grow on trees in the neighbourhood of
such establishments. — Fras. A. Rochfort. Gira Gold-
field, British N. Guinea.
* » * •
A remarkable sheep was lately found in
the mountains near Horsham (Vic.) The animal
has four hind and two fore legs; all its legs are
serviceable. It has also a number of stomachs.
The other organs are well developed, and in some
instances duplicated. The sheep is in good health,
and carries a growth of about 4m. of wool*
A CRY OF WOE.
THE PEB .: “ Blime, if I on'y 'ad me best clothes
on!"
Not long ago three Afghans, en route from
Murchison to nor’-west, met an old prospector.
They thrashed him within an inch of his life, took
his two camels, and left him 75 miles from any-
where. He walked that distance to Peak Hill,
from which place Trooper M‘Donald was sent
after the Afghans, and after four days ran them
down (270 miles away), riding the same horse
throughout!
» • • *
Go on the land, young man ! A Richmond
River (N.S.W.) youth travelled south to Bellinger
River, applied to the Land Board, and unwound
all the red-tape that he was told was necessary in
order that he might obey the above command.
The board, when considering the case, looked hard
for a flaw—and found it. “ One of the letters was
not registered ! ” Application dismissed.
HE STRUCK IT BY CHANCE.
OLD DEAFFY : “ You likee white woman, John?
Kiss ’em plenty, eh, John.”
JOHN: “My wud! You wife tellee you evely-
ting.”
NOT THERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When all Australia gathers for her festival of glee,
And the wide world rocks the cradle of the Common-
wealth to be,
When pride and youth and beauty look down from roof
and rail,
And all the sunny harbor is a gleam of snow-white sail 1
Before the cheering crowd goes by, before the rockets
flare,
Let us drink one toast in silence to “ The men who won’t
be there ! ”
They are sleeping on the sandhills with the brown grass
overhead ;
They blazed the dim tracks, living, and they mark the
milestones, dead !
They opened up the goldfields, and they broke the '
virgin soil,
And they took their share of danger and a
double share of toil—
By wind-swept graves and shallow where
their whitened bones lie bare,
The men who made the nation are the men
who won’t be there !
They are sleeping in the graveyards in their
silent graves apart,
With empty arms and eager that would hold
her to their heart,
Those statesmen of the buried years, those loyal men
long dead ;
Are they turning in their dreaming to the dull tramp
overhead?
When they pin the stars and garters, when they write
the titles rare,
The men who earned the honors are the men who won’t
be there 1
WILL OGILVIE.


to
I
a
o
A
zo.
a*
£5 ss.
£5 ss.
. . THE . .
“F* 8R” Chronograph.
“The Most Extraordinary Watch of the Age.’’
THE movp" ents are on the Lever principle.
THEY ha r Hrequdt overcoil balance springs.
THEY a - • welled in 10 holes.
THEY h • • "ompensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are self-registering to l/stb part of a
second.
THEY are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about, and go with profound
accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for two years.
THEY are made in Solid Silver Oases, o. face,
at £5 ss.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-Street, SYDNEY.
A Married Couple’s Trials.
Mr. R. Spinks, of Bulli, timber contractor to
the old Bulli Colliery Co., recently gave a
reporter an interesting resume of certain episodes
in his life. “ I have had my share of trials and
privations,” said he, “but ray experience of
fifteen yearn ago, when I was working in the
mine, was worse than any. I was then attacked
in the hip by the hot, shooting pains of sciatica.
I could not sleep at night and had to lay up.
This attack eased off, but my right leg was often
numb and it pained me intensely to stretch it. I
was a victim to indigestion, which so weakened
me that I was obliged to leave the colliery.
After meals I was quite weak from pain and
oppression on the chest. I was also afflicted with
sick headaches, biliousness, and heart palpitation.
Later on I became a timber contractor, and this
exposed work caused the sciatica to spread to my
wrist joint and right knee, and sometimes I was
unable to work for days. Four years ago I read
how beneficial Dr. Williams’ pink pills were in
such cases, and I began them. I soon improved,
the pain grew less, and I ate and slept better.
By continuing with them the sciatica, indigestion,
and heart palpitation all left me, and I can now
work as vigorously at felling trees and carting
timber as 1 could twenty years ago. Dr. Wil-
liams’ pink pills have also benefited my wife
greatly.”
Mrs. Spinks, when questioned, kindly said: —
“Eight years ago I became a victim to heart
palpitation, weakness, and dizziness. Sometimes
I swooned away. My heart gave two or three
sudden jumps and seemed to stop beating. I was
always weak and tired. My husband advised me
to try Dr. Williams’ pink pills. After using one
box I felt improved, and when I had taken three
more boxes the attacks ceased. Since then I have
gained in health and strength, and can undertake
household work which was previously too much
for me. My daughter has found these pills un-
equalled for curing neuralgia.”
Mr. and Mrs. Spinks’ experiences with Dr.
Williams’ pink pills prove how beneficial they are
to both men and women. By their action on the
blood and nerves they cure anaemia, consumption,
debility, sciatica, scrofula, erysipelas, chest com-
plaints, ladies’ ailments, loss of manly strength,
dysentery, paralysis, etc. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, and by the Dr. Wiliiams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per
box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free. Send
description of your ailment and receive instruction
free.*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
OrdLer
SCHWEPPE’S DERATED
SARSAPARILLA
The rifle-shooting enthusiasm turns up in
unexpected quarters. Abdul Wade, the Bourke
(Afghan) camel-carrying boss, becoming afflicted,
has erected butts outside Bourke, and practises
assiduously. Wade, too, by the way, maintains
in his private service a Mahommedan priest, who,
mounted on the most gaily-decked camel in the
country, visits the various camps.
* * * *
“Fraw”: Pe carpet-snake’s swallowing
capacity. Once when m3 7 kangaroo slut’s six
puppies were about a fortnight old, I went out
one morning and found that a huge carpet-snake
had swallowed three of them, the remaining three
being crushed flat as pancakes.
* * * *
“ Ne’er-do-well ” on a phase of the rabbit
question :
What is “ Chas. F.” (8., l/9/’OO) giving us ? No rabbits
on a border-station in Queensland in the end of 'BB !
Why, rabbits were firmly established all along the Q.
border in ’BB, and long before the border-fence was com-
pleted. In ’B6 rabbits were seen near Mungindi and Worn-
pah. In Jan., ’B7, they were found 30 miles below Eulo
on the Paroo. In Sept, same year 17 were killed on
Yeranbah. In Jan., ’BB, they were killed on Bundaleer,
and in Feb. same year the Q. marsupial boards on the
border were authorised to expend funds in rabbit-destruc-
tion. During ’BB, rabbits were killed on stations right
along the border, east to Mungindi (I can give the num-
bers), and at the end of ’B7 so many rabbits were re-
ported in Q. that complaints were made that the border-
fence was not being pushed on fast enough. As to gaps
in long stretches —as the fence was completed, boundary-
riders (30-mile sections) and inspectors were put on and
the slightest break in the fence at once repaired. This
arrangement is still in force. “Chas. F.” says “Young
rabbits will squeeze through the mesh.” The border
fence netting is of 1 jin. mesh, and experiment has proved
that young rabbits cannot get through any mesh of less
than lfin. Also, rabbits rarely burrow under a fence
when the netting is properly sunk, though they may take
advantage of holes made by porcupines, bilbies, &c. In
short, the correctness of my contention (8., 2/6/’00) that a
properly-constructed and properly-looked-after fence is
effective, has been proved by the fact that the border-
fence has effectually prevented the rabbit-wave from
devastating Queensland as it did N.S.W.
• * * *
Talk about the siege of Ladysmith ! The
backblox settlers in Whangamomoana, Northern
Maoriland, have never during four months been
three days’ food ahead. One camp lived for a
week on sow-thistles and butter, and another
party of five subsisted for four days on 12 biscuits.
Yet M.L. Govt, sent £5OOO for the sufferers by the
Ottawa fire. Once again—“ Go on the land ! ”
* * * •
“M‘Cooey”: Be the prevalent notion
that we have in Australia only four or five kinds
of venomous snakes. Fact is, we have 68 venom-
ous kinds (six being aquatic). Of non-venomous
kinds we have 38—making 106 species in all. We
have 180 described lizards —none of them fanged,
though several species are legless and very snake-
like. All are carnivorous and insectivorous.
CHANGE THE MEDICINE, STEP-MAMMY.
“ The trade-unions of Victoria have lately made
creditable efforts to raise money for the sufferers by the
Indian famine. The people of Hindustan form a
terrible example of the effects of Freetrade. The Indian
peninsula should be the Utopia of the Freetrade Demo-
crat. A large portion of the economic rent of the
country passes into the State Treasury. British manu-
facturers have taken good care that native industries
should not be fostered. In consequence, it is said that
80 per cent, of the population of India are dependent
upon agriculture for their livelihood. In such a case
the slightest failure of the crops means destitution for
thousands, and a bad season signifies actual famine
for millions. Were Australia turned into a sheep-run,
a wheat-farm or a vineyard, her people, like the
Hindus, would be at the mercy of the elements. All
their eggs would be in the one basket of rural industry,
and when the bottom fell out of that they would be
absolutely ruined.”—Nov,.
“ Kihikatea ” : “ Fancy Free ”
(8., 22/9/’00) is misleading about Maori-
land saw-mills. The sawmill-hand’s curse
is bio’cen time. My working hours per
month for 12 months, from Oct., 99, to
Sept , ’OO :-12Bi, 1461, 941,1531,. 183
1531, 1091,170,174,152 f, 162,131. Highest
number of 8-liour days in any one month,
19 ; lowest, 7. And this mill is not the
worst of the dozen or so round about here.
You’re promised so much a day, but in
reality it is so much an hour, as you only
get paid for the time the saw spins.
Causes of broken time—breakages, wet
weather, wind, fire, rough timber, scarcity
of orders, football, drunk, and so on.
Risks are few enough, and the pay is
good enough, but the hours are too short.
Wages, 7s. to 125., an occasional fast and
skilful benchman getting up to 145., with
a premium for a certain tally. But
cheques are not payable till the 20th ot
the month following—3o days wages
being thus kept in hand.
“ Snell ” : Luck counts for a great
deal in mining, so much indeed that the
man who has no faith in his luck h&d.
better take to soldiering, or some other
comparatively safe means of earning a
livelihood. I once worked on the same
shift, and in the same drive, with two
facemen at Smeaton (Vie.), one of whom
had twice been under falls that should
have crushed every spark- of vitality out of
him. In the first, which happened at
Clunes, instead of being squeezed to a
jelly, lie was dug out afflicted with noth-
ing more serious than a broken leg. Hie
second accident came about in a Ballarat
East mine, when about half-an-aore of
mullock came away, killing one man and
burying the other in a comfortable little
den formed between a sloping cap-piece
and the side of the drive, from which he
was extracted without having suffered a
scratch. The second of my two mates at
Smeaton was killed a few months back
by the fall of a piece of reef m a stope.
That bit of reef weighed 19ozs. 1
**' * *
The Chinese burr in Cairns district
(N.Q.) is densely thick and grows 6 and
7ft. high and l|in. in stem-diameter, lhe
Chow always leaves this legacy behind
him when he quits leased land. It is sup-
posed to have been brought from China m
packing.
S A. surveyor Goyder laid-down his cele-
brated “rainfall-line” roughly at where the saltbush
country begins, something over 100 miles north of
Adelaide. Looks as if the inland division of these
great northern areas must re-
vert to stock-raising, a doubt-
ful venture, as many of the
native grasses have almost
disappeared. Wheat-growing
also is there the rankest of
speculations. The year may
be all in favor of the farmer
till the beginning of August:
then something generally hap-
pen i hot winds from the
no i tli, labbits, grasshoppers,
hail, &c. During the past five
years the farmers have hardly
made seed-wheat and flour ;
and this year the grasshop-
pers and the rabbits have
mostly div.ded the crop. And
even if the next two years’
crops should escape, the far-
mers’ creditors will mostly
scoop the proceeds.
“ W.F.H.” : Be “Peter
K.” (8., 10/11/’00) on Ballarat
lingo; that’s locally made
whisky —not the local verna-
cular. When the Ballarat
inhabitant is off the local
brand he mostly drawls drear-
ily. Ballarat people also are
mostly amateur elocutionists,
thanks to the local elocu-
tionary societies which offer
fabulous sums yearly for prize-
competitions, and you couldn’t
throw a stone into a crowd
without smiting somebody
whose speech is after the style
of Alfred Dampier in the
“Green Lanes of England.”
I never yet met a true Bal-
laratian who spluttered over
his sentences, and I famcy
“Peter K.” got his notions
from Mark Twain who made
the alleged discovery that
Ballarat invariably says “km”
for “welcome” and “kue”
for “ thank you.” Ballaraters aren’t quick enough
or that, a a , ,
Aj eXa M. :To “ Peter K.” (8., 20/10/00).
-^ ear j a j [ dogs—having once tasted grapes—
i)ecorne very f t)11( j thereof. In the claret-growing
f ]j a triots of France much care has to be exercised
t() keep pre datory dogs out of the vineyards.
* * * •
“Riv.”: Be manna (“ Uloola, ”B. 6/10/’00).
j- baye seen on the red-gums on the Murray a
golden-colored honey-like substance, which we
hoys found very palatable. It often dropped in
l ar g e blobs from the trees, instead of running
down like “ Uloola’s ” grey-gum manna.
* • • *
“ J.C.6. ” : Re that 681 b. cauliflower per-
j ur y. The largest cabbage I can swear to was
and was grown by a settler in the Maranoa
district (Q. ). Have heard of a Chinaman-grown
cabbage going 26£lb.
ACCOMMODATION—OUT THEBE.
1ST. : “I'm the newly-appointed Provisional
Teacher ter this ’ere place. Can yer give
me accommodation?”
2ND.: “ Dunno. The missus an' fourteen kids
fills the 'ouse up even ter the mantel-piece.
But if yer ain’t one o' them pertikler coves
an’ gives me a ’and ter clean out the cow-
shed we might fix yer up, providin’ yer don't
mind feedin ’ on wallaby.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
H. : Boiled down—“ Never let anybody dismiss
you, in conversation, but always dismiss them. It is
pleasanter to give a woman the cong6 than take it.”
Well, that’s an all right piece of advice for any pompous
person who is eternally thinking of his own importance
to the exclusion of all else Cecil P. : Will use “ Cate-
chism ” condensed.... Yerowie : No, it cannot be Liberty-
loving Australia which is helping a coterie of grasping
corporations to choke the life out of two brave little re-
publics. “ Australia ”is no doubt a misprint for Austria,
the ferocious Government whereof jumped upon England’s
proteg6 Kossuth Ruperto: Best on record is the
famous Red Jacket’s run (in 1856) of 2672 knots (over 3000
miles) in eight days ; though the James Baines once
covered 420 knots (485 miles) in 24 hours Strathmill:
“ Suggest alterations ? ” Afraid you’ll have to alter your
headpiece, to begin with W.E.P. : Bulletin isn’t
giving any war-puffs. It reckons itself a patriotic Aus-
tralian, and so loathes, execrates, despises the whole
business, which casts a pall over the inauguration of the
Commonwealth Kittawa : Poem with “ How sweet a
picture you do make in bed 1 ” requires a marriage-cer-
tificate to make it Moral A.W. : The earth was created
by God in accordance with a suggestion kindly made by
Sydney Sunday Times Herbert C. : Chiefly remark-
able as showing that you are yet one more of the multi-
tud? which thinks Oapt. Cook discovered Australia
Hard Pact: You haven’t struck it. The real Aus-
tralian curse is the £15,000,000 or so per annum
that goes out in interest on public and private
foreign borrowings and in absentee incomes. The
Land Monopoly Curse is pretty large, but it isn’t
yet a tenth as big as the Borrowed Money Curse
6. W. Dean: We aren’t so “ hard-hearted ” as all that.
We, too, join in rejoicing at Baden-Powell's recovery.
The world could ill spare such an advertising genius
liatoz : Story a bit old. It appeared, we are ashamed to
say, in the very first issue of The Bulletin, and it was a
shocking chestnut even then G.S. : Your methods are
ingenious but transparent; we aren’t giving any cheap
advts. to undertakers. In fact we detest undertakers ;
to us the severest pang of death would be the reflection
that our corpse was to be pawed by a ghoul whose busi-
ness it was to pretend to the defunct’s friends (if any)
that he was semi-paralysed with sorrow; also, that we
would be driven to the tomb by a vampire with a gin-red
nose who sucked a short clay pipe most of the way to our
late residence, and who would viciously whip-up his dyed
mokes after the funeral in his haste to get back to his
favorite low public-house in quest of more beer. ..Nemo :
Commercial companies are not run upon sentimental
lines. If it paid to run 21-knot (24-mile) boats to Aus-
tralia, it would doubtless be done. And, even on the
Atlantic trip, the profitable speed-limit under pre-
sent conditions seems to have been reached, as
the British co.’s consider that to build up to the
recent German-liner speed-record would cut profits
too deeply. It’s the money that talks, every time
0. Manby : Well, thank Heaven, the Federal capital can t
be called “ Victoria.” Inter-State jealousy would forbid.
. ..Pelican (and numerous others): There is no such
word in English as “ alright. “ All-right.” hyphenated
thus, is the nearest “permissible” approach to it
One of the 0.0. : Tell us—when did The Bulletin ever
seriously suggest the conferment of a baronetcy upon
anybody? When did it ever greet a title with anything
but a heartfelt jeer? And when did The Bulletin
“barrack for the swaddies as against Parliament”?
Borrio : There are lots of blacklegs in the medical pro-
fession, and the medical blackleg is just as mean as any
other non-unionist. The best men of all trades and pro-
fessions are the unionists... .C.H.L. : It is true that
“ Jack Robertson stands carved in stone on the southern
facade of the Lands Office, Sydney.” But he is carved in
sandstone— i.e., “writ in water 1 ” O.L.H.: Thanks —
O.W.Mac. : You really mustn’t take seriously the para-
graphs you read in the papers about Mme. Alva. Per-
haps you don’t happen to know who writes ’em
Proeias : And, you might have added, by what a foul
gang of blackmailers, jury-squarers, and witness-
suborners are the courts surrounded—and how rarely the
public gets even a passing glimpse of them ! But the
lawyers know them well. The Bulletin could take you
round town any morning and point you out a score of
ruffians (not including cronk attorneys) who are publicly
known to have lived fatly for years on mere legal corrup-
tion .. .. J. Wason : Can’t say exactly, but present writer
lately saw a Peninsular medal with 11 bars, for sale at a
dealer’s in one of the Sydney arcades. £25 was asked for
it Korero : It looks—well, just like a jacarandali in
flower alongside a blossoming flame-tree... .W.T. : Use-
less to re-open the question, which has been definitely
settled in accordance with the authority you quote. And
as for the people who maintain that the marsupial foetus
originates in the pouch—well, there are s ill people who
believe that the earth is flat C. Mackney :
The Bulletin utterly refuses to believe that M.L. Agent-
General Reeves “ seriously proposes the conferment of
peerages upon eminent Australian politicians.” If he
does, then he has “gone balmy.” The normal Reeves
isn’t that sort of man Alone : Real story almost
blotted out by the surrounding matter, and anyhow the
quiet, humble little person who suddenly blazes up and
knocks out the big, roaring bully is very old......
C.M.P. : The sugar used in beer-making is turned into
glucose by means of an acid, generally sulphuric acid.
Now, nearly all sulphur contains arsenic, and there is
precious little of the sulphuric acid of commerce in which
you cannot detect at least traces of that mineral poison,
which, like all other mineral poisons, is strongly accumu-
lative in its effects. (2) Peripheral neuritis is inflamma-
tion of the nerves of the extremities. It is an exquisitely-
atronising malady, and is the trouble from which, it will
be remembered, Mrs. Geo. Dean suffered after she had
been loaded up with rat-poison by her loving husband....
Oscar: Keep on being 16 years of age, but please stop
sending “poetry.” C.S. : Angus and Robertson, book-
sellers, Sydney, would get you Hobson’s “ The War in
S’Africa : its Cause and its Effects.” It is an eye-opening
book, which everyone should read Addie : Now you
are here, we may as well indulge in one verse of yours—
.... Jakmak : No time to decipher faint pencil screed
Nar. : “Dry Country” acceptable Ivan M. L. : As
there was no address on M.S. the delay in returning is
your fault, not ours E.S. : Well-written on the whole,
and with some good strokes ; but hasn’t interest enough
for its length—which is too great for Bulletin, anyhow...
A. M’M. (Rikio) : The blacks have no such cure. Failing
proper treatment, the disease will kill surely enough
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.M.T. : Mere puns don’t illustrate well R.L.M. :
Will submit to artist Fairholm : One may do
X.Y.H. : They might have emanated from anywhere.
Send us something more or less obviously of Australian
origin Plymouth Sound: Good idea. Will use
J.M.A. : Too stiff so far, but you should persevere.
Bookie subject kept for re-drawing Inkpot: We are
pretty tired of the illustrated conversation between the
two men, who, so far as appearances go, might be saying
anything or nothing to one another... C.D. J. : Neither ser-
viceable J. Smith (Mount Y.) : We want subjects that
help the artist. In the excution of your suggestion
everything would be left to the artist.
Sweetheart mine, methinks I see,
See thee coming home to me,
Feel thy hand upon my brow,
Taste thy lips, in fancy now
I smell thy feet approaching.


\ Q c i
l' C<icKeTt_ni^lS'(l°<o
L
SCOK<2? “: ;;
ds
/ j|o
£<o*7 7 *3BB^^
e"%' !
'W
THE CONINGHAM-O’HARAN DIVORCE-CASE.


l» Coniagham v. Ooningham—»a prominent? question of the day.
SYDNEY FATMAN AND ONLY ■ MOURN ER.
Hop.’s Understudy has been operated on since the new Dentistry Act come into
effect, and doesnt think matters have improved nine!,. He says it hurtaAihst «
much as ever. J ‘ '
' i,i Newsboy {at gate) •. “ Evenin’ paper ; FUaccount de great d’vorce-
case !” (Throws one in.)
Virtuous Citizen (on verandah)-. “/ haven't ordered any evening paper.”
Newsboy : “Well, yer cook has 1”
5. Which accounted for a lot of things..
4. Elisa : " Why, if they haven’t left out the divorce this
morning. How horrid ! ”
Oeoegk : « Why, you see, my deaf-, this is Monday, and ott
course the court did not sit yesterday.”
EmZA : “ Well, I begin to believe with\you that this Sunday
Closing Act is an outrageous interference with
the liberty of*the subject.”
5. Average evening newspaper proprietor
before the celebrated divorce-case.
6. The same after.
He is here seen responding to the toast of
“ The PreUs.”
SOME UNCONSIDERED ITEMS.


A. SAUNDERS,
Special shoiu of Xmas presents | Hew year gifts
A MARVELILQU6 DIfIPIiAV.
A. Saunders.
Two Hair Brushes and CJomb, Pure Solid Silver-mounted
in Silk-lined Oase, £2lss, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
A. Saunders.
Vut Crackers and Picks, First-class Quality, in
Silk-lined Case, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
A nice Xmas Present.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent.’s Dressing' Oases, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A very acceptable Present.
piiiSlill!
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Purses, Pure Silver-mounted, as
above, 15s. Similar styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 2-ss. Most Acceptable Present.
A. Saunders.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-
plated, 15s, 20s, 255.
a
Lunch Medium-size Cruet,
Silver-plated, Square Bottles,
21s ; I.arg s ze, same price.
bwm*
~ 3 «
■ . ■•> : ->' •
!\V 4>l 4?V
A. Saunders.
Match Box, Pure Silver, nicely chased,
full size, 15s ; smaller, 4s, 6s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Rogers’ Set of Carrera, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 30s. -Similar, 20s, 255, £2. A Nice Xmas Present.
PRESENTATION TEA
and COFFEE SET.
COFFEE.
A. Saunders.
Tea and Coffee Set, Beautifully Chased, Pure Silver on White Britannica Metal, Covers on Sugar and Milk, £6 6s.
Other Patterns, £4 4s, £5 6s, £7 7s, £B, £lO. A Nice Present.
II s
Smelling Salts Bottle, Pure
Silver Top, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Table Flower Stands, Silver-plated
Stand, Red Glass, 21s Pair.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s.
Pure Silver Medal, Ss 6d,
larger, 4s 6d.
Gold-mounted, 6# 6d, 7s 6d
A. Saunders.
Pebble Spectacles, ia 6d, 7s 6d and 10s 6d ; American Gold, 12s 6d ;
Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2. Price according to thickness of frame.
Fruit Knives.
A. Saunders.
Pure Solid Silver Blades, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
in Silk Case, Is extra. Nice Xmas Present.
Whisky Flasks,
Silver - plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
4 O’clock Tea Set, First-class Silver-plated, Beautifully
Chased, £4.
Other Patterns, £2, £2 10s, £B, £8 10s.
A Nice Xmas Present for a Lady.
A. Saunders.
Gent.’B Pocket Wallets, Pure Silver-mounted,
12s 6d, 158,205, and 255.
A Nice Xmas Present.
Sovereign Purse, Solid Qold,
’3ss; Chased, 40s.
Pure Silver, 7s 6d sad 8s fld.
A. Baundero.
Hot Water Kettles, Pure Silver-plated,
in four similar Patterns,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
A. Saunders.
Clock, Cabinet, 8-Day, Strikes Hours and Half, 20s.
A nice Xmas Present—one of many we have on view
Manicure Sets, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 21s.
r.'.s v.-i ew i!
lv ■
/fy
7^
L.
Serviette Rings, Two in Silk-lined Case, Silver-plated, 15s 6d.
Pure Silver, 30s
Jam and Butter Knife, Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. Saunders.
Oake Baskets, Pare Various Patterns,
20s, 255, 80s, 85s, 40s. A'Nice Xmas Present.
A. Saunders.
Sugar—Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased, 16s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Butter —Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased, all Metal, very neat, 20s,
255, 30s, and Sss.
A. Baunders.
Jam Dish, Silver-plated Stand, Floral China
Dish, 15s. A Nice Present.
A. Saunders.
Tea Pots, Pure Silver-plated, Nicely Chased,
25s and 80s. Similar Styles, 20s.
XMAS PRESENTS TO SUIT ALL.
Send for 1900 Price List.
Ml b
JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
VRailway Station/;
SYDNEY


QOMMONWEALTH CELEBRATIO
NS.
In view of the enormous influx of strangers expected in
Sydney, it is necessary for intending visitors to secure
Apartments, Hotel Accommodation, or Furnished Houses,
also Seats to View Procession AT ONCE, to avoid disap-
pointment. Visitors communicating with us can rely on
having suitable accommodation secured for them.
ALEXANDER & ROCHE, }
r
House, Estate, and Apart-
ment Agents,
Tel. 3660. 7 Gresham Street, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
BERT TIMSON. SAM is coming out.
Send me your address for him. J. R.
Rowland, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Publications.
3
MAGNIFICENT
OP
NUMBERS
ALLAN’S AOStraliao
tyftSic Books
I-*?•**
13?"
BT
tsr-
Price,
Is. each
or,
Posted,
Is. 2d
m
m
No. 27.—Favorite Pianoforte Pieces.
The Celebrated Largo
Handel
The Sultan’s March Blake
Osborne Quadrilles Olover
Santa Lucia, Barcarolle
Gottrau
Le Garde Montante
Lefibure Wily
War March (Athalie)
Mendelssohn
Dance of the Furies Purcell
No. 28.—Favorite Pianoforte Pieces.
The Washington Post
(March) Sousa
Blumenlied Lange
Andante in G Batiste
The School Cadets Sousa
Italian Mariner’s Song
Schumann
Angels of Dawn (Reverie)
Latour
Moonlight on the Lake
(March) Blalce
The Chick Waltz Mack
Wedding Bells (March)
Wyman
La Violetta (Polka Mazurka)
Faust
Sparkles (Valse Brilliante)
Sudds
Whispering of Love Kinkel
No. 29.—Favorite Pianoforte Pieces.
Country Life Sudds
Caller Herrin’ Knapton
Vida Valse Skene
Tarantelle in A Plat Heller
The Bird Valse Panormo
Le Z6phyr Harmston
Isabel Gavotte Zelman
Parade March Schumann
S6r6nade de Leuville
Write for Full Catalogue to
BLLflli
& Co. Proprietary Ltd
276 & 278
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Books on Mining, Assaying, Engineering, Ssc.
"PARK’S Cyanide Process, 6s 6d ; Beringer’s Assaying,
* 11s 6d ; Johnson’s Getting Gold; 4s ; Cox’s Prospect-
ing Minerals, 5s 6d ; Lock’s Miner’s Pocket Book, 14s;
Eissler’s Metallurgy Gold, 1,7 s ; Innes’. Centrifugal Pumps,
ss; Trautwine’s Civil Engineer’s Pocket Book, 235;
Haeder’s Steam Engine Handbook, 9s ; Molesworth’s
Engineer’s Pockei Book, 6s 6d; Wannan’s Engineer’s
Guide, ss. 6d ; Danas’ Mineralogy, 18s Od ; Trail’s Boilers,
13s ; Wellington’s Railway Location, 265. Posted to any
Address. Catalogues Gratis. J. DONNE & SON,
Booksellers, 346 Little Collins St., Melbourne
Moolis. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. Tha
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
13 IQs. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streeo, Sjdney.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION, f
Price ss. 6d., Posted.
m
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
The Australian poios’ FunrpTjissuranceloeietg [td.
T H IS SOCIETY, I, addition to —ns ... JSSSS.St— • «. ONLY OYE.OE » ACSIRAL.A
which issues Special Policies granting ineanacitv through illness to earn a livelihood.
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of ‘f m P° r n a ,^JXe3S
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through inn s .
Board of Directors : .
Hon. ?£ St'/afS-SSSSK. M.D.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual income
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET,^SYDNEY
exceeds £220,000
Write for Special Prospectus.]
OEO P. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
QUICKSILVER.
CYANIDE hud
KRIIPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY j and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Business Announce-nonts.
FOR
Indigo Serge Suits
Real Swell Suits
Do You Want
(1) STYLE, (2) ELEGANCE and (3) ECONOMY ?
These are THREE of the predominating fea-
tures of our CLOTHING, HEADY-MADE. It is
really TAILOR-MADE CLOTHING AT READY-
MADE PRICES.
I We can fit you as well as your Tailor does ;
i give you just as much style and just as good
\ materials at about ONE-HALF usually asked for
£ by Tailors. r
[ OUR SERGE SUITS
I READY-MADE, FOR MEN, are
L 208, 255, 30s, 355, 1.2 s per Suit. ,
l FOR BOYS, 17s (id, 20s, 255, 30s.
I Reliable, Perfect, Well-made; .Suits, ,
[ HORDERN BROTHERS,
i FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
l 203, 203, 207, 209, 211 P.TT ST., SYDNEY.
i (Send us your size and remittance if you
» cannot call in. No extra charge for
*: postage or carriage.)
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/S; or with Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Casa, 21/-; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to ansr part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
CONJURING
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated, Price List Post
Free anywhere.
"VV ILL A.KTDRADE,
MAGIC & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
■ I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
sole AGEsrrs:
The Result.
Craig & AITKEN, 680-682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tiib Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d.—Post Free.
1.0. F
L.B.C
&
ORDER
Registered under the “Companies
Act 1890,” as a Company, having
’ secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A. , Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 69 Vic. and 69 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The I O P gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in jb® World.
, The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
ff Al i Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on'Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
f Age ... ... ... 18 20 25 30
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd.
35 40
2s. lid. 3s. 6d.
45
4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for XIOO, X 200,. X4OO, X6OO, XBOO, or XIOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Kates.
Office
J.
for South Australia :
H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.j
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with fuU Table of Bates, &c., on Application.
DA.FTO
(LIMITED),
(liable Illawarra), uea *
SYDKTEY
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
m
\
■
MAKERS OF
s. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW ABBA”
.. BRAND OF. •
SOFT LEAD.
urcnasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Peace, SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . ■
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
(U
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Co!lFns-st., Melbourne;
4 Hunter-st., Sydney'
o~\/w\
GrO TO HELL-
IGOI.ANIt for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Naget),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quafds
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
Lon dun Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld, at the Auction Mooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Go., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—'
•'--y
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Some humorist suggests “ Lyneton ” as a
name for the Federal city. Why not ‘ ‘ Dry Dog ? ”
The senatorial candidature of Mr. C. J.
Royle, of Sydney, is smiled upon by Calico Jimmy
and Co., and it is whispered that every drummer
on the road is to act as an electioneering agent of
his.
“Mr. Charles, M.L.C., speaking against
old-age pensions, says that when a man is helpless
he should be put in an asylum. It is, at least,
more sensible than putting him in the Upper
House.”— -Australian Star.
In the Federal pageant, everything is to
give way to the soldiery. The birth of the
Commonwealth is to be marked by a mere military
S’African triumphal procession, which might weil
stand for the Funeral of Liberty.
Queensland Works Royal Commission
report (scotched through the death of the Under-
secretary) fizzled out most miserably. It was
cheap, as commissions go, only costing the tax-
payer some £6OOO. It goes without saying that
nothing will be done.
Evangelist Yarley, lecturing in Sydney,
extols Britain for freeing the S’African blacks
from Boer thrall, but “admits it to be humiliating
that the British nation seems incompetent to raise
up the inferior races,” Foul slander! The
Manglo-Saxon race always “raises up” the in-
ferior races ! Raises ’em to Heaven ! Where, for
instance, are our poor nigs ?
R. T. Yale, of Ballarat, assails the doors
of the Federal Senate, backed by the Orange vote.
Yale is a dreary, weary, wooden bore, who should
be voted down by the Orangemen in their own
interests. The Protestants of Australia can suffi-
ciently repress Papal aggression without enlisting
the alleged aid of a bigot so uninteresting that
his talk would bring wrinkles to the brow of a
brass monkey.
The R.C. common-schools in Victoria are
a failure. This is palpable through the recent
speeches of Archbishop Carr. Archbishop Carr
and the priesthood have almost given up threaten-
ing parents who send their children to the State-
schools. A leading Melbourne Catholic lately
gave two flags to his local State-schools. The
Catholic religious book-shops, in Melb. suburbs,
all sell State-school books.
The Argus, in backing one Hamilton, a
Gippsland squatter, to beat M‘Culloch, Turner’s
Upper House representative, rested the former’s
claim on the fact that he offered to raise and
equip a corps of bushmen for the Transvaal. The
offer was not accepted at ’Ome, and Yic. Govt,
paid for the cables, so that squatter Hamilton’s
patriotism didn’t cost him much. But the Argus
is the sort of paper that would ask no higher
qualification in a legislator than that he had once
carried chops to some Royalty’s lap-dog.
OUR FOREIGN NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN IMPORTED DRUNK.
“ To the detriment of local industry, but for the glory of the Commonwealth.”
What promised to be the most interesting
liquor experiment of the age has apparently been
abandoned. It was reported that the Maoriland
Government was going to try National instead of
Local Option, so that if the popular vote decided
against drink, all Maoriland would become tee-
total at the same time. Seeing that there is a
uniform tariff, a uniform marriage law, divorce
law, criminal code, and all the rest, it seems only
fair and logical to have a uniform drunk or a uni-
form teetotalism. But the Seddon Government
weakened on it, and is inclined to divide the
country into nine local-option districts. There
isn’t even to be a uniform closing hour. The
nominal hour for shutting off the beer is to
be 10.30, but the local licensing committees are to
have power of extension.
SOME AUSTRALIAN POLITICAL DEFINITIONS.
[For The Bulletin.]
M.P. : One who earnestly strives to benefit humanity
—as represented by himself !
Premier: An editor’s errand boy.
Editor : The servant of a capitalist.
Capitalist: God’s own chosen.
Lobby: The prompter’s box of the Parliamentary
Theatre.
K.C.M.G. : The shed candle that lures the leading
sheep. The rest of the mob follow, and much driving is
thereby saved.
Cecil P.
The Queensland Govt., in order to make
the granting of scholarship concessions to R.C.
colleges look more plausible, has conferred a simi-
lar privilege to certain Brisbane private academies.
These private schools are at present competing
with the Brisbane Girls’ Grammar School, and
have almost reduced that institution to a state of
financial desolation. Wherefore the Philpocracy,
in order to complete the aforesaid desolation,
ukases that State scholarships may be enjoyed in
the very institutions that are ruining (with the aid
of a body of crazy trustees) the State-supported
and State-conducted academy.
Mr. Pearse, of the Australian Pastoral-
ists’ Review, describes a recent visit to a country
where they have a Government paper currency :
In the Argentine Republic you get lldol. 50 cents for a
sovereign. Across the river you get sdol. for a sovereign,
and one dollar goes as far as the other. That is one
reason why the Argentine is going ahead so. They are
selling everything for gold, while they pay everything in
paper. The result is that the people are so wealthy that
they don’t know what to do with their money. Their
opera-house, jockey club, and so on are dreams to us in
lavish expenditure. It has always seemed to me that
people who sell for gold and pay in paper have a big pull
over us.
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer M‘Millan, inaletter
to Sydney Telegraph dated 27/11/’OO :
While we recognise the necessity of a large volume of
income from the Customs, we must steadily set our faces
against any differential system which practically means
protection.
The last four words embody an immortal truth. The
proposal to give Britain the benefit of a differen-
tial tariff in Australia is giving protection to the
British manufacturer in Australia which he doesn’t
get in Britain, and giving protection to a man
who affects to despise such a thing, and The Bul-
letin is pleased to see that the M‘Billion recog-
nises to the full the absurdity of the idea.
The Lyne Government’s eminently sensi-
ble proposal to establish State-owned electric-
lighting and power works for Sydney has evoked
a protest from the City Council, which holds that
the State is interfering with what should be a
purely municipal work. So it is. But the only-
cheap and effective electric system is one which
covers all Sydney. The Government can supply
a system for all Sydney. If the same work was
done municipally there would have to be about 43
systems, with as many separate managements,
engineers, sources of supply, loans, &c., and all
this subdivision and foolery would make it a hope-
less loss. The system which divides a second-rate
city into over 40 local governments blocks all
municipal progress.
Judge Docker (N.S.W.) opposes old-age
pensions—is afraid that the system will
“not conduce to the growth of Thrift or
cause individuals to recognise their personal
responsibilities.” Docker is a man with a prospec-
tive old-age pension himself, so, if he really feels
like that, he had better give up the evil thing.
Any Government will gladly pass, at his request,
a short Act setting forth that the usual Judge’s
old-age pension shall not be paid to Mr. Docker,
lest it destroy his self-reliance. When a man
who has got his own old-age pension (not 10s. a
week, mind you, but £750 a year) provided, and
who hangs on to it like grim death, objects to his
fellow-man getting an allowance of a microscopic
fraction of the amount, it looks mean. And, when
he says he does it for his fellow-man’s good, it
looks worse than mean—it looks hypocritical.
The Agricultural Leases Bill of Bennett,
M.L.A., enthusiastically rejected by N.S.W.
Assembly, was chiefly intended to give fixity of
tenure and some kind of a fair rent to the tenants
on the absentee-owned estates in N.S.W. The
N.S.W. absentee who lives in England acts, in
many eases, just like the Irish absentee who lives
in the same place. His rents are exorbitant, he
grants no leases, reserves the right to eject ’his
tenants at short notice, and gives no compensa-
tion for improvements. Bennett should try again
in another direction. A graduated land-tax
ranging as high as 3d. in the £ on the very largest
estates, with 50 Or 100 per cent, increase on absen-
tees, would break ud the bis estates among small
settlers, and end the absentee difficulty and the
big estate difficulty together.
RETALIATION.
WIFE: “There's my fool of a husband flirting
with old Potter's wife again! Won't Potter
just be mad when I tell him about it!”
The Turner Govt, has introduced a Bill
providing for the establishment of penny postage
throughout Victoria after next April, if it passes
the most probable result is a universal Australian
penny postage under Federation, and as that
must needs involve some loss it is all the more
reason why there should be a universal half-penny
newspaper postage to make it good. Australia
can’t afford to hump bulky dailies and weeklies to
far ends nf this continent for nnthinc • in some
tar ends ot this continent tor nothing, m some
remote regions it costs about bd. to deliver a
paper. Apropos, a deputation of three sturdy
daily-paper beggars, all Freetraders, have already
been biting the ear of the Postal Conference, on
the subject of getting themselves protected and
subsidised and pauperised by the Commonwealth,
which, they demand, shall carry their wares at
public expense, on the ground that their bogus
fiscal statistics and their unsavoury divorce
reports are a valuable aid to education.
The action of the recent Conference of
Manufacturers in formulating a proposed tariff
for Australia, which tariff it has decided not to
divulge at present, seems to have created a most
unnecessary amount of frenzy. The manufac-
turers will, presumably, present their draft tariff
to the Commonwealth Parliament, which will
accept it or not as it pleases. The little knot of
Freetraders who follow George Reid will present
their tariff, which is also a secret at present, in like
manner. The Bulletin will present its own
tariff if it feels like it. So will almost everybody
who has a tariff, and many people who think they
have but haven’t. If the Freetrade party had
published the details of its own intended tariff
and shown exactly how it proposed to raise the
necessary coin (by an income-tax of 2s. 6d. in the
£ or otherwise) then it might complain with more
reason.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner, a strongly
Freetrade organ
The Tasmanian Freetraders do not aim at carrying
their policy to its logical conclusion all at once.
None of them do, though Heaven only knows
why. If Freetrade is such a good thing, why not
have it ? If customs duties raise prices to the
extent of twice or thrice the amount of the duty,
why make the people pay two or three millions,
as the Freetraders allege they do, under a
revenue tariff, in order that the. Treasury
can get one million, when by making them pay
one million in direct taxation the Treasury
could get the same amount? That Free-
trader’s cry, “Freetrade is a good and beautiful
thing, and the short road to happiness and pro-
sperity, and you needn’t be in the least afraid to
elect us, for we won’t give it to you,” is calculated
to tire any logical community.
A •J- PT„vrn •
Acieiaiaq okiui .
George Reid commenced it, and his Freetrade earn-
P v!?v. la v ‘°. t ® rla : an jf S-A. has resulted in a challenge
which the Victorian Protectionists are certain to accept,
This is much to be regretted. There should he no parties
in the initial House of Representatives if we are to have
the administrative machine made perfect. The first Aus-
tralian Ministry should contain nine or ten of the best
administrators in all Australia, chosen without consider-
ing their political views in the least.
Almost the first thing the Federal Parlia-
ment has to do is to fix up a Protective
Tariff, or Revenue Tariff, or else decide to
have Freetrade and no tariff at all. And
at least a dozen papers are imploring the pub-
lie not to have any Protectionist or Free-
trade or Revenue-Tariff party in the Parliament,
but just to draw its fiscal policy out of a hat by
accident. In fact the public is urged to have no
party that is for or against anything, but just to
draw everything out of a hat by accident.
Complaints about the draft-
ing of Bills presented to N.S.W.
Parliament are in many respects-
well grounded. In some Bills
the very English is bad. But it
does not follow that the blame
goes to the Parliamentary drafts-
man. That official is often passed
over. Even Ministers of the
Crown do one or other of the
unemployed juniors at the bar a
good turn by feeing him with
£lO or £2O (in one case lately £5O)
for drafting an occasional Bill.
That is a sort of patronage Par-
liament is justified in inquiring
into. A badly - drafted Bill
causes the loss of whole sittings
and often prevents legislation on
the matter concerned for the ses-
sion. If drafting outside the
Govt. Department be continued
Government Bills at least should
be made pass through the De-
partment. By the way, N.S.W.
Parliamentary draftsman gets
£B5O, whereas ditto
draws £l3OO.
There is so much provin-
cial jealousy among the various
parts of Maoriland itself that it
is small wonder so many Maori-
landers take a provincial view of
Federation. The North Island
is frightfully jealous of the South
Island, while in the North Island
itself Auckland grinds her teeth
at the attention shown to Wel-
lington, and in the South Otago’s
standing grievance is that West-
land gets too much perishable
loot out of the Treasury.
Maoriland Premier Seddon on the neces-
sity for annexing Fiji :
Our own flesh and blood in Fiji are in the same position.
as were the Uitlanders in the Transvaal before the war.
They are under the yoke. It is not right that Fiji shouldi
continue to be a Crown colony
Winch seems to mean just this :
0) Q aee . n Victoria is another Kruger And only think
° f f b descriptions of that bell-toppered monster
(2) British Government is a “yoke"-and only a few
months ago Seddon was describing it as a blessing and a.
privilege.
(3) And Seddon has been spending Maoriland's men and
Money, by his own showing, to help the country which
thus Krugerises Fiji. By his own words he has been
fi hti for the tyrant and the « yoke .>>
™ . ~ ~ ~
This seems a rather tight place for feeddon.
In Westralia, as in other places, a M.P. is.
no t allowed to contract for the supply of Govt
institutions. Brother Aleck Forrest, M.L.A., is,
a par tner in the butchering concern of Fox and
Holmes, and its book-keeper, one Tadbury, was
lately a successful tenderer to supply Coolgardie
hospital with meat. Having no meat of his own
a question arose whether Tadbury wasn’t the-
dummy of Aleck Forrest’s firm. Whereupon
Brother Aleck admitted in Parliament quite
cheerfully that his firm supplied to its own
book-keeper the meat which he supplied to.
the hospital. And then Brother Aleck cursed
a t large, and wanted to know why Smith and
Mahon, of the Sun (which published the informa-
tiori about this.remarkable meat-contract), weren’t-
removed from the list of J’sP., seeing that they
were awaiting trial (and, being unconvicted, were
still legally innocent) for libel over their exposure
of the Perth Ice Co. railway swindles. (Some of
the Forrests were also in the Perth Ice Co., and
the Govt, which John Forrest bosses is doubtless
more or less responsible for the virulent prosecu-
tion ot the men who showed up that dreadful con-
cern.)
meanest thing in the way of class,
legislation which N.S.W. Leg. Council has done
for a long time was its amendment on the Old Age
Pensions Bill, making it illegal for any publican
su PP)y a pensioner with liquor. If the same
regulation was applied to all pensioners' there
wou hl be nothing much to complain of. In that
F ase tle ra f e Ji m £ „ be * o< ? I s but at least it would
>e an eq ul table, all-round foolishness, not a speci-
m®n of petty, grovelling spite against the poor
on y - w hiie the old, retired carpenter who
’, a y® ar 1S branded as an inferior being
I °, can be trusted with tbreepenn’orth
“ eer ’ 0 < *> retired Judge who gets
L/oO a year can drink himself into the
lunatic asylum with absolute Yet the
retlrec * carpenter isn’t a pauper; during his 25.
y ears of compulsory residence he had paid far
more than enough to the revenue to compensate
, a 7® ai ’ ie .gets back in his old age.
A . r , re< l >'udge is a pauper, for his contri-
butions to the revenue can hardly be sufficient to.
pay his huge old-age allowance, and the deficiency
is made up bv laying extra tax burdens on the
carpenter and "the bricklayer and their kind. This
lniw of Ho w o „.i. j r» j
VtYt a P rocl ty of the Want and Dangar and
J-'-t Launn crowd about puts up a record as the
most hoggish variety of class legislation,
Sydney Telegraph announces, for public
information, that this is the correct way to
address the Gov-General.
To
His Excellency the Right Honorable John Adrian
Louis , Earl of Hopetoun, Viscount Aithrie, Baron Hope,
e t c -> Knight of the Most Ancient and Most Noble Order
c , ross , ° f . t he Most
Knight Grand Cross of the Roval' 1 Victoria^
Member of the Privy Council : 'Governor-General of the
Commonwealth of Australia,
That’s all.


FIRST PUBLICATION XIV BOOK FORM.
Cloth gilt, price, 3s. 6d.; Post Free, 3s. 10d.
VERSES: popular & humorous. By Henry Lawson.
CONTENTS : —The Ports of the Open Sea-The Three Kings-The Outside Track-Sydney-Side-The Rovers-Foreign Lands-^ary^Lemame-The 'Shakedownonlaw Shed-The
Chimnev-Song of the Old Bullock-Driver-The Lights of Cobb and Co.-How the Land was Won-The Boas Over the Board-When the Ladies Come to “ e ea^ o^ain
Ballad of the Rouseabout-Years After the War in Australia-The Old Jimmy Woodser-The Chnst of the Never-The CatUe-Dog s Death-The Song of the. Barling River
the Mountains—A May Night on the Mountains—The New-Chum Jackaroo-Tlie Dons of Spam—The Bursting of the Boom—Antony vuia
-Rain in
-Second-Class Wait Here—The Ships that
the Mountains —A May Night on the Mountains —The JNew-Utium Jacisaroo me xionsoi opam—iub fiWmPrtn His Cultured Critics—The Writer’s
Won’t Go Down-The Men We Might Have Been-The Way of the World-The Batthng Bays-Written Afterwards-The Uncu tured Rhymer-to His UuUuwtf
Dream-The Jolly Dead-Maroh-My Literary Friend-Mary Called Him “ Mister’’-Rejected-O’Hara, J-P.-Bill and Souare Affair-A Derry o7a Cove-Rise
Man From Waterloo —Saint Peter —The Stranger’s Friend —The God-Forgotten Election—The Boss s Boots The Ca.pt whn The Davs When We Went Swim-
Ye ! Rise Ye !-The Ballad of Mabel Clare-Constable M'Carthy’s Investigation-At the Tug-of-War-Here’s Luck-The Men Who Cotneßehind-lhe Days When we went swim
ming—The Old Bark School—Trouble on the Selection—The Professional Wanderer—A Little Mistake—A Study in the JNood-
chase—But What’s the Use.
May also be had in two parts (“Commonwealth Series”), Is. each; post free. Is. 3d.
-A Word to Texas Jack—The Grog-an’-Grumble Steeple-
* *
Commonwealth Series.
Stiff Picture Covers, 1/- each ; post free, 1/3.
Popular Verses. By Henry Lawson.
First publication in book form.
Humorous Verses. By Henry Lawson.
First publication in book form.
On the Track: New Stories, By Henry Lawson.
Seventh Thousand.
Over the Sliprails: New Stories. By Henry Lawson.
Seventh Thousand.
While the Billy Boils: Stories. By Henry Lawson. First Series.
Illustrated.
*
While the Billy Boils: Stories. By Henry Lawson. Second Series.
Illustrated.
Australian Bushranging. By Charles White. The Early Days.
Illustrated.
Australian Bushranging. By Charles White. 1850 to 1862.
Illustrated.
Snowy River Series.
Cloth Gilt, Gilt Top, 5/- each; post free, 5/5.
The Man From Snowy River, and other Verses. By A. B. Paterson.
Twenty-second Thousand.
When the World Was Wide, and other Verses. By Henry Lawson.
Tenth Thousand.
Where the Dead Men Lie: Poems. By Barcroft H. Boake.
32 Illustrations by Mahony , Lambert and Fischer.
Rhymes From the Mines, and other Lines. By Edward Dyson.
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems. By Victor J. Daley.
Billy Boils Series.
Cloth Gilt, 3/6 each ; post free, 3/11.
While the Billy Boils: Australian Stories. By Henry Lawson.
Illustrated by Frank P. Mahony.
On the Track and Over the Sliprails: Stories. By Henry Lawson.
Over 6000 copies sold in six months.
Australian Bushranging. By Charles White. Prom Early Days to 1862.
50 Illustrations.
History of Australasia : From the Earliest Times to the Landing' of the first Governor-General of the Commonwealth.
By Arthur W. Jose, author of “The Growth of the Empire.” 250 pages, with 70 portraits, illustrations,
and maps. Stiff Picture Covers, 1/-; Cloth, 1/6; postage, 4d. [Ready in January, 1901. J
For the Term of His Natural Life. By Marcus Clarke. With a Memoir of the Author by A.
autograph portrait and 14 full-page plates of places mentioned in the book.
Cloth Gilt, Gilt Top, 5/- ; post free, 5/5.
B. Paterson,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
And at all Booksellers, Stationers, News-Agents and Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
OYER
6,000
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
AND
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USE
MTIOin GISHIEGISTEIS
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 PITT STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
“No more experimenting with cheap grade cycle
tyres for me. I’ll have DUNLOPS next
time.”
ORDER
DUNLOP Tyres
And see that you get them.
They excel all others for
SPEED, COMFORT & RELIABILITY.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OP AUS. LTD.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY:
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
KT.S.W.
Iflont deplete D.4H.C°'>[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . •
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
e^s
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United J|ustralian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITER
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Oollins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required ivliere not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
'-THE-'
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23/4/’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : 11. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Tuondon Office: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.l
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
May market, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
file Bank of Barth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Hern Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
PAID-UP* CAPITAL and RESERVES
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Sbipplng.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 15, 1 p.m.
Tyrian, Friday, Dec. 21, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Friday, Deo. 21,1 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Tyrian, Friday, Deo. 21, 1 p.m.
Takes Cargo for Transhipment to
s.s. Time at Melbourne.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 16, Ip.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Dec. 18, 6 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 22,1 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 15, 2 p.m.
I Leura, Saturday, Dec. 22, 1 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuerh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, CxccCitorS,
AND
Ags*Ky Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH ;
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
T DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, 14 th JANUARY, 1901, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 3J per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
- LJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
TTrE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s. !
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle:— |
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*SP*R*TY
W*LL C*M* T*C*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. E. Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900: “lam happy to inform you that the lady’s
watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. . . . My wife
would not part with it for a fiver.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
♦
V.TS
OLD
RNs
SUNBU
FIMg
”*1
<s>
CHA
<5?
'V
>1
&.C
£^Vr
s
H
Y
p Uo P
Fetors k
Now Ready,
By ALBERT DORRINGTON
Castro’s Last Sacrament
4a. 6dL post free.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ishay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th January.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, RUNIC, SUEVIO and AFRIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
■ via AMERICA. TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
A. AND A LINE.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE, by those Magnifi-
cent New Twin-screw Steamships, each of 6000 tons and
8000 horse-power. Built expressly for the service by the
Oceanic Steamship Company of San Francisco.
Under contracts with the Governments of New South
Wales, New Zealand, and United States, the steamers of this
line leave Sydney and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Hono-
lulu, and San Francisco every three weeks, as under : -
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of EUROPE,
UNITED STATES and CANADA at LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS BY ANY ROUTE.
The waters of the Pacific are proverbially smooth, the
weather mild and pleasant, and the ports of call frequent
and interesting. The overland journey is surpassingly
grand, full of novelty and variety of scenery, and the
trains veritable PALACES ON WHEELS, with all the
comforts of a first-class hotel. Add to this visits to the
Greatest Cities of the American Continent—Chicago, New
York, &c.—and intercourse with the most enterprising
and invent! ve people of the age. All this and more is
only part of the itinerary included in ordinary through
tickets, and can be accomplished without extra charge,
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to UNION STEAMSHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.
Equitable Building, George-street, next G.P.O.
3XT. 30. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
UUOIV.IMICI CVCIJ OIA. VVtit:tvs.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO , 7 and 9 Bridge-street
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Ziegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of th? wise and buy the Bed;.
Cheapest, and Most stylish CLOTHING in Australia
Fit Oil
PHOPJUKTA Y I.IMITKD,
262 & 254 Hinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station!
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from. ’
Our Suit to order at 4£s. is
marvellous value; made from
»U wool Tweeds,Vicunas.or fast
color Serges; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished
A splendid Suit to order from
any class f material, £3 3*. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s*
Clerical Suits, to measure. £5,
Bjding Brepclies, 255.
Biding Habits. Ac.
i We supply ready made. Men’s
1 capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 255.
f Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette 3<is.
Excellent tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. IDs. <Jd.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
guita, 19s. «d. White Drill
Trousers, 10s. Od.
Khaia Suits, shrunk, 12s Od.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sues,
<»s. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. «d.
Travelling Trunks, Ba s and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs, £s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirt*, new
designs, ss. <jd.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. fld.
So!t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hat*, 4*. 6<*- Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants.
Is.Od,
all shapes and colors.
White Shirts to mcuure. Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
4Js. Sd., 9s. tjd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for anv
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress ” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
A. Rose of Regret:
Vaises by James Hebblethwaitk.
SUpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANOE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping a-t Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
December 14.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
December 15. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wairego, Friday,
December 14.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C,
_'oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR. PASSENGER LI
NlO.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 via Bris
bane Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelmde S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
Por Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Ageiits, In Bridge-
at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIA..
VICTORIA ...
ROME
HIMALAYA...
Commander. JSydney,
| Noon
I
6901 1. Reeves
6527 E. Crewe
5545 J. Cowie, R.N.R.
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R.
CHINA ... 8000 T. S.'Angus
. |Deo.
■ Dec.
. (Jan.
Jan.
... Feb.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDOi*-Smgle, 138 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return f7l 10sto tl2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pons
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Man-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
trahajgxchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at. MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
i/uuncu no uoiiiou) ) mulct, wiiijictj
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo's [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Faresjindjrreights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP a.” line.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
-...v. —tvcie specially uuui lor one eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID‘|luiraith, fl)‘Eacharn& jjo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OP STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
c ,.-^'° r Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Kates and Freight Quota) ions, apply
M Ilwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
- Melbourne address-467 OolIin”tet reCt, _


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH EFFE^
GENUINE REMEDIES NERVEsf UVER^ILEsJetc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEM
AWAY^FREE,
THE ALFAMNE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as' nu-
merous
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
.. • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
~A lfaline'Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr R&SSHIUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills - Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for . oughs, Colds, « oiismnption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo iderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Bassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BIIIS 11A \~kT~3O9 Queen-street (near Creek-street).
jlf EL BO V LNE : 150 Boarke-street (opp. Eastern Markets)<
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
>, Z. 7 WEL L l Tiff TO S' : 01 Lambton Quay •
PERTH : Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
~jZ A LG OORL IE: Hannan-strcet (next Lintlell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
PUEMANTLE : Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s tour finger on tht inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps y ur knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated : the same with the ankles, round which the skm
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa k Vo. may have attended various hospitals and had
media! advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I < AN
CITRt ,(>U. 1 don't say i erhaps ; but I Wild.. Because
others have fai.ed is no reason for not now being cured,
i end at once for
Aid ERTS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiU.fi,
wlreh ate a ccitain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Km e, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Turn urs. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Jfec. Price, in Great Bri ain, 1/J|d. per b x. Prepared by
AI BERT, 70; Earringdon-strcet, London, Ki gland.
Agentt •El l. OTP B Syd> ey Purchasers should
look in the registered tr ,th- mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.een la. el ou ach-box. vßegu. copyright).
fringes,
Ufttuml Curl/, from 8/8 eaefc
PLAITS and TAILS,
gtlln. long, r>/8. all real hale.
CUTTINGS ® COMBWGi
(•orlied up, i/6 per oz.
\Ve are the cheapefctfu Agp
troll a for all Hair Work,,
Send Color of Hair,'
W. H. Wigz«fl>
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-stroot,
SYDNEY.
Cablo Tram will stop at Door
Send stamps for full Prioe LI»V
rntgopt attention given to Country OiG*nt
Medical,
Dr. Boxwell’s
PILLS.
v ON-I’OISONOUSi HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
1N xiV'E. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing 00., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
a COMMON SENSE EAR DIIUM.”
THE
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Puts Sore Eves. Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. l&d.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
ea,ch.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE
Oantion.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
■7k
m
m.
C
m
7'o\
YVe grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Relts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE!.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkeet, SYDNEY.
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .-—STEPHEN BREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,-
lor my invaluable little pamphlet.
ALCOHOLISM!
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering- EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food withoub
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. gd. each of all Drug -
Stores.
Sole Makers. BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
J- out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posied, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John . Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me. imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Si'll
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address -L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
The Kail of Wasted Things.
At the Castle of Men’s Sorrows, in the Hall of Wasted
Things,
Are broken old betrothals, and old betrothal rings,
And long-forgotten kisses, and old letters never sent,
And heartstrings of young lovers that faithless ones have
rent,
And long-since-burnt-out passions, and the fires of wasted
T - loves, _ ' ,
And cast-off maidens’ ringlets, and pairs of maidens
gloves,
And smiles that men have treasured and sweet glances
gone astray,
And broken words of lovers, and hours of many a day.
Now with these I’d fain deposit some few things of my
own—
Some paltry, wasted trifles that someone has outgrown ;
This tiny, battered locket, and this bit of gem-set go.d,
And the love I’ve left unspoken, and the love I may have
told ;
May they He and be forgotten, where the grey-robed
Angel sings—
The Angel of Oblivion, in the Hall of Wasted Things.
AMER.
According to Icto and Cold Storage,
“ dealers in the North of England state
that there is something radically wrong either
with the way in w i on the r dibits are brought to
the depots at Sydney, Melbourne, and Maori land
ports or with the treatment received after arrival.
Losses through this cause have been so serious of
late that difficulty is being met with over the in-
surance question. Dealers consider that the
damage is done before shipment, and say the
Sydney shipments are the worst.” 1 lus in spite
of all the gvs about the way the Agricultural
Departments are fostering “one of Australias
most promising industries. Canada, by the way,
is pushing this trade energetically, and with her
advantage of a six days’ trip against one of as
many weeks it’s time the aforesaid Agricultural
Departments woke up.


HE SUFFERED FOR TEARS.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE.
Mr. John Kerr, 161 Church-street, Camper-
down, writes:—“l wish to inform you that for
a number of years I was a great sufferer, caused
by biliousness, frequently being laid up a week
sometimes a fortnight, at a time, constantly
taking medicines, and seemingly deriving no
benefit. A friend advised me to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial. Did so, and after
taking them for a time found myself getting better,
and now for the last two years I have only lost
X da f- I B * lll keep them by me, and occasion-
ally take a dose, which keeps me right.” Strong
proof he speaks after being cured two years. Dr
Morse s Indian Root Pills positively cure bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, head-
e Ll ( !iT and c S k^T yC u mp - laints ’ piles ’ Pimples,
and blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. ljd. per bottle or six bottles 6s 6d Sole
proprietors, The W H. Comstock Co! Ltd
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney
thereon 1 * amber bottles ’ and the full name blown
THE FEDERAL FLAG
VICTORIA’S CHOICE
OUT OF 8000.
T £M*lb. Herald Prize Pesigo Federal Flag
WILL BE FLOWN
On SATURDAY, the 15th inst.,
From the Flagpole of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE CO., 385 George St.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN N.S. WALES SO THAT
THE PEOPLE OF SYDNEY MAY JUDGE OF ITS MERITS.
When you come to see the Commonwealth Celebrations
' 7 1 Make up your mind to take a British
RED BIRD BICYCLE 8
Branches in all Colonies.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
64- King: Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Quarter-mile swimming premiership of N.S.W.
at Sydney this (Saturday) afternoon looks like supplying
a hot tussle between boy Dick Cavill and Bob Craig!
Lane and Hellings (just home from the old country) are
unlikely starters, and may not be “fit ” at all this season.
Kumor mentions a “ dark ’un ” in the person of one Read
(who has never competed before) as likely to upset cal-
dilations, but writer won’t stand rumors—especially
swimming- rumors. Reid was a pro. until a couple of
weeks since, when the A.S.A. dropped the lily-white
mantle of amateurism over him—which recalls that both
the swimming and athletic governing bodies of the
Mother-State have done a heap of off-hand whitewashing
t Probabl y it’s their idea of celebrating the advent
of the Commonwealth.
* • * *
World’s furlong premier swimmer Freddy Lane
will be seen “on the job” this afternoon at E. Sydney
s gaa ' „ J he - V ’ ve bi] led him to “ lower W. J. Gormly’s
120 yd. record, for he did have one till someone found that
the old Sydney Natatorium was something short of the
length the Swimming Association officials had measured
This caused all W. J.’s “bests” (many of them ex-
cellent, even allowing for the discrepancy) to be wiped
out. English top-notcher Tyers, when an amateur, six
years ago, covered 120 yd. in 1.18, but the baths were only
20yd. long, hence the performance didn’t go. A year
earher English pro. Nuttall set up 1.18 2-5. Fred Lane
should succeed in his mission, first of all because there’s
"O Gormly “ record ” to lower, and secondly, because
lSOyd. is so rarely swum that there’s been less likelihood
of anything out-of-the-way being done at that distance.
* * * *
Sydney, Rand wick and Coogee swimming
clubs first-class handicap,” restricted to swimmers
capable of covering 100yds. in 1.14, brought most of the
Mother State s best sprinters last Saturday. Dick Cavill
Vnn j P 3-sths, and on that looks a good thing for the
100yds. premiership at Bathurst, Boxing Day. “ Mud”
Bishop also figured in the race, but will need to improve
much to have a chance with boy Dick, who may account
for champions Lane and Hellings, just back from ’Ome.
The race revealed that Sydney has several more swimmers
than were previously known able to do round about 1.6.
* » * •
Judged b y the weakness of the opposition in
the Half-mile Championship of N.S.W. in Sydney t’other
d&y, Eick Cavill looks like having things his own wav in
all the season’s big plums. He won from “go ” and 'left
a margin of about 60 yards ’tween himself and the second
man at the finish. The watch showed 12m. 42 3-ss.
The Australasian best (12.40) was put up two years ago
by Dick s elder brother (Percy), now in U.S. Had Dick
been asked he could have wiped this out, His time in
last year’s Half-mile supremacy was 12. 53 1-5.
* * * *
W. B. Coates (plunging premier of Australia)
essayed, at Coogee (Sydney), Saturday, to eclipse the
record (61 ft. 6£in.) —his own—for a plunge from a “ take-
-H- with a time limit of 60sec. He covered
hut exceeded the minute by ssec. It’s odds
on that, had he been stopped when the 60sec. elapsed,
his object would have been achieved. The performance
won t count, though ’fcwas manifest that the judges were
to blame. Pierre Stapleton, of Bathurst (N.S.W.), some
days before, was credited with having done better than
Coates’ record by putting up 67ft. 2in. in 54see. This in
fresh water, too. As there were no Swimming Associa-
tion officials present the performance will not be allowed,
but Stapleton intends having another cut at it on Boxing
Day—the occasion of Bathurst swimming gala—when all
necessary arrangements will be made by the swimming
governing body. Writer feels convinced that Stapleton
will repeat the feat and, perhaps, do a bit better. He is
built for the game—over 6ft. high and weighing in the
neighbourhood of 17 or 18st.
* * * *
News by latest ’Ome mail tells that Shoalhaven
(N.S.W.) sculler Jem Wray has (since Towns settled him)
taken to swimming. Having 15sec. start he (last month)
easily got away with a 60yds. open handicap. At latest
dates Wray was in a mile “ rum-tum ” sculling handicap
on the Lea. He won his heat easily. Englishman Barry
did likewise, but had to give Wray'lsec. in the final, the
result of which has yet to come. Considering Wray’s
sprinting powers Australian rowing men will be puzzled
to know why *•' 'hould get a start from anyone over a
mile.
* • « »
First leg of Sydney Amateur Sailing Club’s
supremacy was decided Saturday under “ mixed ” con-
ditions—a stiff nor-easter followed by a strong southerly.
Only three—Gloria, Mr. A. E. Cutler’s Bunyip and Dr.
Elliott’s Meteor—finished, and in that order. Winner
was well nursed by Fred Doran. Mercia turned “ turtle ”
off Shark Island and Yankee carried her rudder away at
the lightship.
* * * »
Sydney P.J.Y.C. “outside” race didn’t come
off on Saturday. Course was to have been five miles to
windward of South Reef. ’Twas found impossible to get
a steamer to follow, and arrangements were made with a
fishing party to moor the rounding flag, but subsequently
no one seemed to know whether it was placed due north,
north-east, or east. Isea and Bona opened North Head
and gave it up : none of the others got even that far. To
writer’s view, Saturday’s occurrences demonstrate that
our 30-footers were never designed for “ outside” work-
smooth water is more in their line. A mild north-easter
early, hardened considerably later, and then came a stiff
southerly just as the last two yachts got in—which was
very fortunate for them.
♦ * * *
Present indications are that whilom world’s
champion sculler Jim Stanbury will be in the biz. again
ere long. He is training from Rose Bay (Sydney), and,
'tis said, will line up for the all-comers event at Anniver-
sary Regatta. Tressider, the Hunter River (N.S.W.) man,
is looked upon as a sure winner, but Jim (provided the
greater part of that 2 or 3st. incubus of tissue can be
shunted in time) may upset the pot.
» » » *
The extent to which Victorian property has
deteriorated was evidenced by the recent sale of the late
W. R. Wilson’s estate, St. Albans. It went for £14,000
and will probably be cut up into allotments. Had that
alleged “moral” (Kinglike) won Caulfield Cup, his
owner would have been the possessor of St. Albans now,
and it would have remained a first-class breeding estab-
lishment, with Bill of Portland still bringing in £lOOO a
year as interest on that IOOOgs. he cost. W.R. bought
St. Albans from Mr. J. Crozier for £75,000, and subse-
quently sold it per medium of a “ Tatt’s.” sweep, after-
wards re-buying at £23,000.
* * * *
As showing what a profitable venture the St.
Albans estate might have been for a syndicate, ’tis said
that the late W. R. Wilson, in stakes alone, cleared
£38,209 in five seasons, while fees from mares during the
same term topped £4OOO. Then there were the many
thousands realised by stock-sales.
* * * *
The evidence of Kensington Racing Club
Secretary O’Mara before a Parliamentary select com-
mittee t’other day, that alleged Sydney Turf Club is no
club at all, surprised nobody. Most people suspected it.
All the public could ever find out about this mysterious
thing was that Mr. T. S. Clibborn filled the office of secre-
tary and meetings were held at Randwick four days in
each year—two of them being Anniversary Day and
Queen’s Birthday. What connection there is ’tween the
S.T.C. and A.J.C., and what arrangements the former
makes with the latter for the use of the leading N.S.W.
course will probably always remain a close secret, for no
one ever vouchsafes information on the subject. If, as
has been hinted, the S.T.O. is run by a syndicate of pro-
minent A.J.O. people, then why it is more favored in the
way of dates than most other clubs would be interesting
information. ’Twas this sort of thing that caused trouble
in Q. recently, and brought the objection that in the
allotment of dates ordinary clubs should not have to con-
tend against a syndicate composed of men sitting on the
committee of the body which apportions those favors.
Goldsmith (winner of Q. Cup on Monday) is a
gelding by The Jeweller. Mr. P. Talty gave 300 gs. for
him in Sydney eight months ago. Last year’s winner
(Amor) humped 9st. 21b. Goldsmith had Bst. 31b up.
Divy paid was £5. Owner’s share of the stake (500 sovs.)
is £350.
♦ * * *
“The Cambridgeshire pot boiled over,” writes
Thb Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ England only
getting third to France with her eye ‘ wiped ’ by Ireland
in the owner, breeder, trainer, and rider of Berrill, a ‘ rale
Oirish ’ horse. He, like Irish Ivy last year, started at 20’s,
and won easily. Of the Australians, Sverla (Oxenham)
got 12th, with Cutaway and Australian Star anywhere
afterwards. The latter, after his time with The Grafter—
who was scratched—was reported to be The G. at 7.10 in
the race ; 17T0 must have been meant. Many of the Aus-
tral gee-gees here had better go back, for they’re so
shockingly handled that they cannot expect to pay their
feed bill."
“As the best of good and the worst of bad,”
writes Thb Bulletin's London correspondent, “ reaches
Australia with the scar of the English trade-mark still
r a T.,. u P°? * presume ‘doping’ is just about to
fertilise at Randwick and Flemington. As this artistic
turf accompaniment—Yankee of course—has just
excoriated the track here, disturbing the Prince, Lord
Durham, and Rothschild, this is what you may expect.
Doping is simply pumping or capsuling arsenic,
strychnine, or sulphuric ether into a ragged outsider
before he goes to the post so that at the ‘ go ’ he goeth
like greased lightning. Formerly the hypodermic
syringe was used for doping, but as the slight puncture
on the horse was traced by keen vets, the drug or tonic is
now given in a capsule. The American turf warns off
dopers’ just as it bars the electrical spur or whip.
Doping does not improve the breed of the horse —the cant
excuse for racing and absolutely ‘ footle-dozes ’ the
handicapper."
“ Rothschild says (continues our correspondent)
that at present there is no positive proof that there are
dopers here, but the “ extraordinary improvement made
by horses trained by Americans has led to the supposition
that some unknown and mysterious treatment must have
been adopted to effect this rapid change in the form of
certain horses.” At Gatwick I heard one of the talent
say, concerning a fairly well-supported “ no-possible-
hope, when the start was delayed, “It’ll all have
fizzled out if they don’t hurry off.” Meaning the drug
would have evanesced. So it did, and the doped nag ran
to his true form—an emphatic last.
“ Gun ” : Canterbury (Sydney) races on Satur-
fairly bristled with incident. Shops complain that
they haven t had such a knock over a Saturday afternoon
meet for months. Rejoice (first favorite—2 to 1), and
Ocean Boy (3 to 1) in Stewards’ Mile were “ sent up ” for
12 months, together with jocks L. Want and M‘Gee, and
lessee and trainer (T. M‘Carthy, jun.) of Ocean Boy.
First leg of a reputed red-hot double (Gamebov arid
Urosslake) —“gone” in all the shops a week before—
went amiss, for he couldn’t do better than run third to
Galhna (who bobs up now and again when the market is
good) and Gollan’s much-watched “sure thing,” Irene.
Two nags that have been entered for weeks, and often
brought up to the course and scratched at the eleventh
hour, were “on it ” on Saturday, but got pipped,
whereat there was rejoicing in punting ranks, as
shops have made a nice pile out of these,
and clubs have gathered in a goodly sum through
entrance fees. Dick Wotton’s costly Cordon in the Park
otakes carried another pile of his owner’s money* but
went down badly to Mr. “ Teddy” Knight’s long-waited-
for Canadian, which, judging by the way ’twas backed
on the course and m town, must have brought jov to the
stable. Winner of the Park Stakes (Habet) pVobably
would:n t have got there had anything like the majority
of the big field been trying. A week before he “ran
out in the straight at Moorefield j and, when looking all
over a winner, another week previously cut a similar
caper. On the last occasion, however, he ran as true as
could be, which fact sets one thinking. Niagara-Melody
5-year-old gelding Whirlpool did no good in the Flying
Handicap, but saddled up and, after a hot finish with the
second favorite—Tam O’Shanter—won the Shorts (same
distance) by half a length—well backed down to 7 to 2.
Wlnrlpool was bred by Mr. Bill Forrester and sold for sgs.
because there was no room for him at Warwick Farm.”
Writer knows heaps of stables that would give Whirlpool
all their room now.
* * * *
Tasmania has a coming Samson in young Stag-
pole, who lately coached himself up to attack Sali’s record
of elevating a 1041 b. bell from shoulder to arm’s-length
above 15 times. Sali accomplished this in Victoria 13
years ago, but Stagpole failed in the 14th hoist. All
things considered, especially the youngster’s age (16) the
performance was a great one. As ’twas Stagpole’s first
public show, nervousness probably affected him ; he’ll do
better next time—if he doesn’t burst a heart-valve. Stag-
pole pere is an instructor in gymnastics, and trains his
boy on the Sandow system.
* * » *
Yankee files tell of marvellous performances by
U.S. flier, M. W. Long. At New York A.O. Games (Sept.
29) he won the J-mile supremacy on a circular track from
100 others, in 47 4-sths—a small fraction under world’s
record. Five days subsequently, at New Jersey, Long
improved on this and set up new world’s figures (36 2-sth
42 l-sth and 47sec. respectively) for 350yds., 400yds. and
440yds. When ’tis considered that the 440yds. feat repre-
sents little more than i 0.1 sec. for each 100, the extraor-
dinary nature of the achievement will be better under-
stood. The late Lou. Myers covered 300yds. in 36 4-sth
sec. 19 years ago, and this stood intact (though assailed
often) till Long’s great run. Previous best for 400 was
Downes’ ,43sec., accomplished in ’9O ; and for the quarter
straight Wendell Baker’s 47|sec., at Boston in ’B6
*•» ' «
Said that that recent much - boomed but
comparatively little-patronised billiard match between
Britisher Roberts and Australian Weiss panned out
poorly. Gate (all told) didn’t reach £6OO. Weiss got £194
of this, and with the balance Roberts, as arranged, had
to meet all exes., so that he’d probably lose on the thing
especially if that £5OO stake be taken into consideration
•*» * »
Clever Australian bantam top-nofccher Bert
Weekes—who on Saturday night at Golden Gate A.O.
(Sydney met Billy M‘Kell—paid the penalty of gofng out
of his class. M‘Kell was stronger, could punch harder,
and carried close on a stone more brawn—judging bv ap-
pearances, though he only confessed to 51bs. The battle was
hot and fast. Billy made the pace throughout, but Weekes
evaded well, and frequently gave as good as he got, till
a heavy bash on the point in the ninth round made him
easy game ; he went clean out in the tenth 3min. Excite-
ment ran high from end to end, and the place was so
packed that many spectators sat on the floor immediately
under the ropes. Just after that jolt in the ninth round,
a general metee looked imminent for a while. Jack M'Kell
(Billy’s brother) intruded, and was, ’tis said, struck by Jim
Barron, one of Billy’s seconds. Then ex-novice Jim
Farrell moved as if to give M'Kell some advice, but the
latter evidently misunderstood the intention and shot out
the right, flooring Farrell. Weekes showed marvellous
grit and took a heap of stoush without wincing. Two or
three times he had M‘Kell sick but weight and power beat
him. Match was billed as for bantam supremacy, but
winner owned up to 41bs. over that class limit, hence the
title remains with the vanquished one.
* * * *
The recent very one-sided glove battle at Gaiety
A.O. (Sydney), between the miner-bruiser Dan O’Connell
and one-time acrobat Snowy Sturgeon, provided the un-
usual spectacle of the skilful man (Sturgeon) fighting foul
right through, and the rough ’un behaving with scru-
pulous fairness in the tightest situations. O’Connell
should have got the money in the sixth round, when
Sturgeon threw him savagely and heavily. The thing
was so plain that the timekeeper ceased counting, but
referee Seale said “fight on.” O’Connell got an awful
battering, and stood it till the knock-out punch settled
him completely. Sturgeon went to bed without a mark.
Tis to be hoped O’Connell will turn the game up now,
and follow some more legitimate occupation. The mines
or anything else would surely be better than playing the
part of a chopping-block, which seems to be Dan’s posi-
tion, for he can get none but the best to take him on.
Third and fourth raters are not having any of the sturdy
but slow-moving Irishman.
* • * *
Heavy-weight pug-mill at Melb. Democratic
Club this Saturday night between Sydney Tim Nolan and
Melb, Tut Ryan looks like proving desperate. Both
favor close quarters, hence they’ll be at it from the jump.
Tim says, “ I’ll bate 'im, shure ; lave it to me;” but
writer entertains a different view. Tut is an older
general and a lot cleverer than Nolan, whose methods are
crude in that he depends mostly on his capacity for
taking punishment and his ability to land effectively
when a good opening offers. A fight between Nolan and
Peter Fehx is on Sydney Gaiety A.O.’s list for nextmonth.
lhe brawny Milesian has his hands full. Should he get
past Ryan his chance with the lathy black (if the latter
fights at all) would not be bad.
* * * *
“ Old Timer ” : Re Bulletin’s recent suggestion
that Australian bruiser Billy M'Carthy might have been
among the thousands of victims of the Galveston (Texas)
calamity. News comes now that, though they lived in a
street fronting the wharves, he, his wife, and four young-
sters were all saved. Writer remembers M‘Garthy work-
ing" for Peter Jackson at the old U.S. Hotel, Kent-street,
Sydney, so as to learn the game, and also recollects him
being matched with Peter’s pet pupil, Bill Smith (now in
America), when the clever black thought it a “moral”
for the last-named, yet Mac. won in 11 rounds. M‘Carthy
was the gamest pug. Sydney ever produced—he’d tackle
anything. He had mills with Paddy Slavin, “ Buff ”
Costello, and Mick Dooley in their best days, was the first
to take Fitzsimmons on in America, and is the only man
who can say he knocked out old “ Ironbark ” Jimmy
Burge—which he did per pivot (“ La Blanche ”) blow at
Broken Hill.
• * * *
“ Lord Durham,” writes The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent, “ has just ridden the draught mare,
Cronks in General and American Cronks in Particular ”
over the Jockey Club and the Transatlantic riders. And
hasn the made the chips fly 1 His letter to the Times
mentions the riders by name—Sloan, Martin, Rigby, L.
■Rein—gives instances of their foul riding, and stinginglv
smites the great Jockey Club for allowing such goings-on
Sloan was suspended last year for disobedience at the
post, this year reprimanded for unscrupulous riding dis-
qualified for boring and bumping, and suspended atDon-
,caster for unfair riding—not a bad record ? Of course the
Murkans say the Britisher doesn’t like being beat: that’s
true enough, but the ‘ bunco-steerers ’ and swell sharks
from the States behind these ‘ boys’ are more than enough
to put bad ideas into the head of even a Tommy Hales.”
* • • »
, P ictu re is presented (through challenges in
late U.S. papers) of a fighter, just 21bs. over the light-
weight limit (lOst.) and sft. lin. high, challenging for
money any one of the heavyweight top-notchers (Jeffries,
Sharkey, Ruhlin, Corbett, or Peter Maher) without re-
sponse. The defiant one is the “ Barbadoes Demon ” and
stunted giant—gorilla-like Joe Walcott. Reason of the
gage not being taken up is that Walcott owns abnormal
physical advantages in reach, strength and stamina, and
so would always have a winning chance until completely
knocked out. Then there’s the ridiculous look of a
heavy weight meeting a lightweight, and the always-possi-
ble likelihood of the former going under to the ourang-
outang and being crushed completely out of existence by
the load of ignominy such a happening would heap upon
his reputation.
* * • ,
Another round of Sydney electorate cricket
competitions ended Saturday. Bilowell (of international
fame), for Central Cumberland against Glebe, was in fine
bowling fix. In the opening innings he did the “hat
trick before one run went down against him, and
finished with 6 wickets for 20 to his credit. The second
effort saw him secure another half-dozen wickets at a cost
of 23 runs. Twelve wickets for 43 will probably top
everything likely to be recorded this season. It took
only four balls to get his first three and eight the next
Veterans Bannerman and Sweetman came to the rescue
for N. Sydney against Paddington when the first-named
was m senous trouble, and played out time, with the
neifcher Bi<l e could claim any great advantage
N. Sydney now leads with 6 points, Paddington (6) comes
next, while Waverley, Sydney, Redfern and Central Cum-
berland (2 each) are bracketed together.
* * * *
This year’s Austral is being run on a new plan.
Of the 10 initial heats the winners go into the final
at once. The 10 “ seconds ” then run, the first three
getting into the final; then the 10 “ thirds,” the first two
also having a further chance ; thus leaving 15 in the
final. This is a scientific way of obviating the throwing-
out of two out of three men with good chances who may
happen to be drawn in the same heat—besides making
the final more open.
* * * *
Gallant plugger Bilmartin, who won eight out
of the nine races he started for on the first day of the
Austral meeting, got one of his peculiar fits of contrari-
ness on Saturday ; and, because he thought the M B C
people had put too many good men into his heat,
promptly cut off his nose to spite his face and scratched
himself. Although the winner, from 220yds., put up
rf?° rd time, Bill would have certainly had a chance, for
M Donald was left alone on the back mark, and with decent
assistance would have probably caught the field. Bill
afterwards met the Bendigo crack, Morgan, who has been
slowly but steadily improving dc.ing the past two years
and in the run home was beaten oy that thick-set person
Morgan by the way, was the only man to finish ahead of
Hill on the first day of the meeting 1 , and in every other
event he ran second to the iron-jawed Yank. Last Satur-
day Martin came to the front again in the ten-mile scratch
and won hands-down. As the M.B.C. meeting now
stands, every race that has been decided up to the present
has been won either by Martin or Morgan. The latter
having qualified for the Austral, stands a long way the
best chance of the back-mark men, having two tip-top
pacing-machines in Forbes and Body close handy. There
is, however, a 40-yard-gap between" Body on 40yds and
A. A. Middleton on 80, and this will take a lot of cover-
ing. Worse still, Middleton’s nearest man is Macgibbon
on 150, so, barring accidents, all cycling experience indi-
cates that from Middleton back the competitors might as
well retire. The race would seem to be between Ohamp-
ness on 210 and O’Callaghan and Stapleton on 220
* * » *
In reference to the £2O offered by the Dunlop
Tyre Company to the person who sends in to the com-
pany the most suitable name for the second grade tyre
they intend placing on the market, to meet the existing
demand for a good wearing tyre at a low figure. The
company states that competitors can send in as many
names as they choose, the only stipulation being that the
names are to be sent in on separate slips of paper.
A pitiful thing is the compulsory sealings
down of two shafts at the Greta (N.S.W.) Col-
liery, on account of the fire raging below—
although it is known that five men—two of them
married and two others brothers —are entombed
below. Of course there is not considered to be
the remotest chance of the unfortunate fellows
being still alive.
Judged on the principle that a newspaper
gets the sort of letters it wants, Sydney Daily
-Telegraph is doing its “darnedest” to advocate
the claims of N.S.W. Premier Lyne to be called
on to form the first Federal Ministry. In one
letter it is argued that the appointment of (anti-
rederalist) Lyne is the only “constitutional”
course, and that Barton was only appointed
Federal delegate to England through the grace of
Lyne aforesaid. Another letter (from a pushing
attorney) says:—
In the honest and able work to uphold the rights and
prestige of N.S. Wales Premier Lyne has merited the con-
ndence of its people, and there is no hesitancy when I say
that were a poll taken of the electors to-morrow the Pre-
mier would be considered the fittest of all those sug-
gested as head of the Federal Ministry, both on Consti-
tutional grounds and those which show that by his merits
he deserves the honor.
Then we are to assume that it is “ the electors ”
(of N.S.W., not of Australia) who are to be con-
sidered re the appointment of the Federal Pre-
mier Were the selection left to the electors of
the Commonwealth there are at least a dozen men
who would come before the present N.S.W
Premier.
In the great Coningham-O’Haran divorce-
has been so violently exciting Sydney,
the (Protestant) petitioner—a one-time well-known
cricketer, formerly noted for his good bowling
and the queer pranks he used to play in the field
—sued for divorce from his 32-year-old R.C. wife,
Alice Stanford Coningham, and claimed £5OOO
damages from the co-respondent, Very Rev. Dean
Denis Francis O’Haran, a 40-year-old R.C. clergy-
man, who for years has been the secretary and
right-hand-man of Cardinal Moran. The alleged
adultery was averred to have been committed in
various semi-public apartments within the pre-
cincts of St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, of which
co-respondent has long been administrator.
VV hen the case commenced petitioner seemed an
utter wreck ; the loud, nerve-destroying talk of
Jack Want crumpled him all up, and he shook
like a reed in the wind when that Q.C. glared at
i m ' r w , as not , under cross-examination very
long’ before he admitted that he had occupied the
Sal ? e i r( j 0 ™ as his wife ’ and P aid that lady’s board
and lodging, after her alleged misconduct was
known to him. The immediate result of this was
to leave him without a solicitor, and the bottom
seemed to have dropped out of his case. Then
deserted by his counsel, the nervous wreck of five
minutes before pulled himself together, and set
himself resolutely to battle with the redoubtable
lawyer on the other side. Petitioner called Mrs.
Oonmgham. Mrs. Coningham came, tall, wrapped
in the memory of something that had once been
very alluring, and appearing as if she had just come
through a long illness. She proved to be a
witness of phenomenal nerve and memory. She
looked round the court with large, dark eyes that
glittered with excitement, and told her “tale of
shame in a simple, straightforward - seemii g
manner. Jack Want long and searchingly cross-
examined her, but failed to disclose any serious
holes m her symmetrical story. She admitted
that she had borne an illegitimate baby at
Brisbane when she was 17 years old, but
declared that to be her only fall up to the lime
at which she alleged she succumbed to the impor-
tunities of the co-respondent. Mrs. Coningham’s
examination-in-chief was a curious sight, and
one the like of which has rarely been seen
m a court of justice—the nervous, broken-
down-looking husband questioning the faded,
hollow-eyed wife who swore so circumstantially to
her own downfall. She was practically her hus-
band s only witness. Dr. O’Haran gave an em-
phatic denial to all Mrs. Coningham’s allegations,
and with respect to several far-back days named
by her as dates of clandestine meetings between
called evidence tending to show that
at the times in question he was otherwise engaged
at places far removed from the cathedral. He
was cross-examined at great length by petitioner,
who disclosed considerable ability as an amateur
counsel and put a variety of much-resented ques-
tions apparently designed to elicit the admission
that a Roman Catholic could sin at random so
long as he went to confession and procured
absolution. The case, which abounded in details
calculated to absolutely enthrall cooks and their
mistresses, to say nothing of men, boys, and
boarding-schools, and which were fully set forth
m the daily press, had not concluded when The
Bulletin began to print.
Don’t Hesitate.
There is just one thing to use if your stomach,
“ ver or kidneys are “out of order,” and that
one thing is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Ihe supposition is that you want a prompt cure
and a lasting cure. That is why Dr. Worse’s
Indian Root Pills are recommended as the one
thing for your condition. They cure promptly,
perfectly and permanently. One of the thousands
cured gives strong proof.


ss
&
9>
■s
Refreshing
Results • .
are obtained
by smoking
I
* \n\ x _
Derby Tobacco
DERBY WINS RESPECT.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE QUEENS-
LAND.
1900. No. 218. MrTJUSTICE COOPER.
Between ABRAHAM MOYLE, Plaintiff,
and MARY JANE MOYLE (wife of
the said Abraham Moyle), Defendant,
and GODFREY (commonly known as
Tom) HEYWOOD and R. PEARCE,
co-Defendants.
To GODFREY (commonly called Tom) HEY-
WOOD.
TAKE NOTICE that Abraham Moyle the
abovenamed plaintiff has commenced an action
against Mary Jane Moyle, R. Pearce and you m
the Supreme Court of Queensland by filing a
petition on the sixteenth day of November 1900
and issuing a writ on the same day by which he
claims a dissolution of his marriage with the said
Mary Jane Moyle And further take notice that
the Court has dispensed with personal service of
the said writ and petition on you and has ordered
this notice to be published twice at intervals of a
week in the Sydney Bulletin and the St. George
Standard and that the publication of this notice
shall be deemed to be substituted service thereof
on the last day on which the advertisement
appears And you are required to enter an
appearance to the said writ within twelve days
from that date And further take notice that
within twenty-one days after the time limited for
your appearance you must file your Statement of
Defence herein otherwise the said action will
proceed against you as for default of appearance
as appears by the endorsement on the said writ.
BOUCHARD & HOLLAND, Solicitors,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
Town Agents for Wm. Geo. Mayne, Solicitor for
Plaintiff, Roma.
NOTICE.
The inspector - general, south
AFRICAN CONSTABULARY,
PRETORIA, is calling for
TENDERS FOR SUPPLIES
FOR SIS FORCE.
Full information can be obtained at the office
of the Chief of Police. Please also see Public
Notice Board.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor * ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
Hall-marked Uhased
Silver Eau de Cologne
Bottle, 16s.
18c. Diamond and Opal
Heart Ring, £5.
5-stone Opal Ring, 30s,
355, 40s, 455.
6-stone Diamond Ring,
£5 to £2O.
Diamond and Sapphire
i-Hoop Ring, £5 to
18c. Diamond and
Pearl Ring,
Diamond and Opal Ring,
£6 to £lO.
5-stone Diamond, J-hoop
Ring, £ 3 10s.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
wVKTiri EPHONE 3490.
Silver-mounted Glass Hair Pin Box, 10/0
18c. Diamond and
Pearl Ring, with 6
Diamonds set in
shank, £l2 10s.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle
245.
Silver Baby’s
Rattle, 8s 6d.
With Coral,
Hall-marked Silver
Cabinet Photo Frame,
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Silver-mounted
Scissors, ss.
Larger 7s 6d to 10s 6d
Suitable
Hall-marked Silver-Mounted Shoe Pin-
cushion. Price 6s ; others 7s 6d to 12s.
Silver-mounted Manicure Polisher, 7s 6d.
Others 8s to 10s 6d.
WWWF
Silver Thimbles, Is 6d-
„ Dorcas, 2s 6d, 3s.
f
Silver Matchbox, ss.
Othe’B, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
RING OUT THE OLD.
RING IN THE NEW.
18c. Gipsy Set Diamond
Ring, £4 4s.
18c, Gipsy Set 3-stone Dia-
mond Ring, Price £2 :
Larger Diamonds, £3 15s.
18c. Snake Head Dia-
mond and Sapphire
Ring-, Price £2 10s.
15c. Australian Dia-
mond Band Ring, 35s
%
\is.
15c. Mizpah Ring, 27/6
15c. Opal Band
Ring, 32s 6d.
9c., 22s 6d.
15c. Curb Ring, 27s 6d.
15c. Band Ring, 218.
9c., 10s 6d.
Mr- A. A. ROBERTS
(A Fellow of the British Optical Association)
Has done nothing for many years past but test sight.
Practice combined with previous study and train-
ing gives the best possible results.
Fairfax & Roberts ,
Optical Rooms,
23 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
Sight-testing Free.
Glasses at London Cash Prices.
All Advertisements
For the cure of kidney disease bring to mind
Warner’s Safe Cure, whether mentioned or not.
We have often read, “ Watch the kidneys,” and
these words naturally bring vividly before us the
only world-wide famous specific that has stood the
test for twenty-one years—Warner’s Safe Cure—
although the advertisement may refer to another
remedy. The public knows there is but one
remedy upon which to rely when attacked by
kidney disease, and all these advertisements of
others but call Warner’s Safe Cure to mind.
Mr. E. T. Jones, who is an agent for the Rover
bicycle, writing from Sydney on 14th August,
1900, says : “ 1 have much pleasure in testifying
to the excellent qualities of Warner’s Safe Cure.
I have, until quite recently, been a resident of
Western Australia, my occupation being that of a
bicycle agent, but, owing to my health giving
way completely, I was compelled to leave that
colony and take a sea trip. I came to Sydney,
but felt no better, and was instructed by a doctor
to give up cycling, which I reluctantly did, but
felt just as bad as ever. One day I was asked by
a friend if I ever took medicine for my liver and
kidneys. I said ‘ No,’ and did not think the liver
and kidneys could prostrate a man as I was
prostrated. Anyway, after a great amount of
gersuasion I took one bottle of Warner’s Safe
■ure; and it worked wonders. I then purchased
six bottles, the last of which lam now taking. I
can, and do, honestly recommend this wonderful
Warner’s Safe Cure to anybody suffering from
liver or kidney trouble as my case was considered
to be incurable; and lam thankful to say that I
am stronger and feel better than ever I did before
in my life, and am riding my bicycle with
marvellous energy.”*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIP 3
Mattai-asse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hnl]-<losen, free Ini post throughout
A nstmlin.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
At Poverty Point.
Your mummer is ever the prince of egoists. Tenor
Kenninghamcontributes to the Argus some reminiscences,
interesting enough, of Arthur Sullivan, who lately died.
“ He wrote the tenor part in ‘ Ivanhoe ’ for me, in which
I made my first appearance in opera,” says the flutey
Charles. He wrote it “ for me,” observe. If there had
been no Kenningham, there had been no tenor part in
Ivanhofe, and Maurice de Bracy might have been a basso,
or a baritone, or a fat contralto in ironmongery tights.
“S.”: D’Albert, Rickards’s latest importation from
’Ome, is a young man with a giggle, who works the
“patriotic” gag to death. His picture of the lemon-
colored-kid-gloved Bwitish club Johnnie, the tired officah
fellah, dontcherknow, who hangs about his club.doocedly
bored by the devilish difficulty of—haw—living, when a
fellah has to breathe with such demned regularity, but
who, in the face of the enemy, becomes a lion of valor
and a worker of horrid prodigies, spreading dead and
desolate Boers over kopjes and veldts, is intended to
arouse all our —haw —bettah feelings, and amaze us all
over again with the phenomenal resource of the British
character. But we have just been reading “Smiler”
Hales (and a few hundred private letters from the front)
on the same awful officer, and know him for the ape and
imbecile he so often is ; so Mr. D’Albert’s efforts in the
cause of Imperial expansion fall like a cwt. of dough on
to the floor of the floorless pit.
“ The Bohemian Girl” affords an admirable illustration
of the efficacy of prayer, which should commend it to the
clergy. When the Count hears his beloved child scream,
with the fatuity of fathers in opera he starts singing
frantically about the circumstance, and then invites his
friends and followers to flop whilst he warbles a long and
laborious baritone prayer. While he is busy with his
melodious supplication of Providence to look after the
blessed “ cheild,” Devilshoof sneaks through the praying
crowd, bearing the heiress off to his woody fastnesses.
That is about the only gleam of humor the opera displays,
but there is just a suspicion that it is not intended to be
taken hilariously. Which is a pity.
Arthur Sullivan was an effusively-loyal snob and per-
sonally most generous. Gilbert is a ferocious democrat
and careful of the bawbees. Sullivan knocked down
hundreds of thousands of pounds, the fruits of his in-
spired labor. Inspired—for such music as “The Lost
Chord ” can never die.
Freely stated in London that Oscar Wilde was the real
author of “ Mr. and Mrs. Daventry,” a very near-the-
knuckle piece first produced and fathered by Frank Harris,
of Saturday Review fame.
“G. H. Snazelle,” writes The B.’s London correspon-
dent, “ goes southward shortly with a great cinemato-
graph show of a 1 Life on the Ocean Wave,’ picturing
the land-lubber youth’s first intro, to the Navee and his
• roll onwards.’ It’s a very fine display" indeed, and as
‘ Snazzy ’ is also taking some of the very choicest and
latest cigar stories—in tins for preservation sake —with
him the Austral summer nights will never be too long.”
Nellie Stewart undoubtedly owes most of her good
looks to her dad. Dick Stewart is one of the handsomest
old men in Melbourne. His white hair and regular classic
features would make him a good model for any artist.
S.S.—“Zero” (P. P., Dec. 1) talks of Geo. Rowley
coming out to Williamson as “ Mr. Hilda Spong.” There’s
a mistake hereabouts. Rowley married Australian Ethel
Haydon. Hilda has not yet bestowed her name upon a
man creature.
In a recent leader about Musgrove’s Opera Co., now
performing in Sydney, S.M. Herald harps absurdly on
the phrase “high opera”—a perfectly idiotic variation
upon the customary designation of “ grand opera.” In-
deed, considering the pitch adopted, “ Muzzy ” is giving
us, if anything, “ low ” opera.
Nance O’Neil has favored Scotch ears by shading away
the “i” in “ Glamis,” but M'Kee Rankin and Jimmy
Atholwood “split the ears of the groundling,” with a
loud “ iss ” for second syllable.
Antoinette Trebelli (now Mdlle. Dolores) starts her next
Australian tour in Sydney about the middle of April.
When she last wrote to manager Tait, the bewitching
songstress was holiday-making in her native France.
Nellie Stewart first appeared on the stage at Melb.
Royal as a boy in the comedy of “ Saratoga.”
Musgrove’s revival of “ Bohemian Girl,” with a dis-
tinctly feeble Devilshoof in Gilbert King, set the|old-
timers thinking of Farley, who seems to hold the Aus-
tralian record for a fine basso rendering of the character.
Devilshoof degenerates from picturesque melodrama to
puerile low comedy, and only a tall man of good voice
and striking personality can make the part go for much.
The Carl Rosa co. in England has never had another
basso to equal Snazelle as Devilshoof. Snazzy, 25 years
ago, played the fiery young gipsy to the life, and was
perhaps a little too imposing. He bossed the show.
Bland Holt has put some paint on the frontage of
Melb Royal, and added three electric lamps to the out-
side illuminations. And the auditorium, it is said, is to
be made trim and flealess.
+,
What an amazing thing is the assurance of
Dry Dog Reid. Last Monday night the man who
kept heavy protective duties on a multitude of the
largest N.S.W. industries (on sugar, tobacco, wine,
beer, biscuits, confectionery, jams, jellies, preserved
fruits, newspapers, &c.) got up on his two ridicul-
ous brief legs at Sydney Town Hall and told the
people all over again how he had had the
courage to introduce Freetrade in N.S.W. and
how N.S.W. had prospered under it. Reid never
had any courage worth mentioning. He is the
Man who Ran Away from his convictions as soon
as he was put to the test. He is the boss back-
down man of cornstalk politics. It is a case of the
person who bolted for his life at the beginning
of the battle coming back and presenting himself
with the Victoria Cross when the shindy is over,
and the motto on the cross is : “ Presented to Me
by Myself for the Valour which I said I displayed. ”
The Bulletin is still waiting to find the Aus-
tralian Freetrade statesman who believes suffi-
ciently in his own doctrine to try it. When it
meets that man it will be so badly astonished that
it may even turn Freetrader itself.
Skilled masseur (Swedish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. Young man ;
testimonials and references on application to
“ Masseur,” Bulletin Office.— Advt.
Stated in a Cape paper that De Wet had
announced his intention to fight to the death, as
all his sons and three sons-in-law had been slain
by the British, and his wife and one daughter had
died broken-hearted within the year.
That strictly moral family paper, Melb.
Herald, recently allowed a correspondent to
advocate a state of society in which women who
prefer single-blessedness might “ indulge in
maternity in the single state, without the
responsibility of—and the disgust of—living con-
tinually in the society of a man who generally
forgets manhood on entering the bonds of sacred
matrimony.”
Incredible and cruel as it may seem, it is
nevertheless true that one morning last week both
Sydney daily papers published the subjoined
“ poem ’’—from the pen of Judge Docker
Judging by this, Mr. Docker would be in his
S roper element as obituary poet to the Sydney E.
Tews advertising-department ; or as bard to a
memorial-card agency. He is simply wasted in a
Judge’s wig. By the way, we have never known
anv real poetry to come from the bench ; lots has
co ae froth the dock. But never any from the
Docker.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete—one of the
features cf the approaching Commonwealth festivities—
should command the ready support of all. The object is
good, the price of tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided- three concerts in Sydney Town
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. Vf. Moffltt Burns, hon. sec., 36 Oastlereagh-st.*
It is proposed to establish along the
Anglo-Australian steamer route wireless Marconi
telegraph-stations, so that messages may be sent
at any stage of the voyage.
Part 2 of Mr. Charles White’s “History
of Bushranging,” dealing with Frank Gardiner
and others of his time, and containing various
portraits and other illustrations, is just published,
and is advertised on page 21 of this issue.*
A big sensation was recently created in
England by the court-martialling of Artillery
Lieut. A’Beckett, on the extraordinary charge of
having stolen ss. (two marked half-crowns) of
canteen money, while his accuser, a master-
gunner, was looking at him from about a yard
away. Accused, a son of Punch A’Beckett, was
honorably acquitted ; but the matter won’t end
there, as the accuser has demanded a court-martial
in turn.
BACK FROM THE WARS AGAIN!
Back from the wars they come,
With trumpet-sound and drum,
Across the rolling main.
Australia’s heroes true,
Australia welcomes you
Back from the wars again.
Back from the wars at last 1
Safe from the cannons’ blast,
Safe from the leaden rain.
For these their country’s praise ;
For these the victors’ bays,—
Back from the wars again.
But some may fight no more,
For they are wounded sore
Or racked by fever’s pain.
For these their country’s care ;
Honor the scars they bear
Back from the wars again 1
And hearts are aching here,
And falls the widow’s tears,
Who waits and weeps in vain ;
For in a distant grave
Sleeps many a soldier brave
Who comes not back again.
Sleep well! their country’s pride,
Who for the Empire died
On Afric hill and plain.
Australians, honor those
Who fell with face to foes,
And come not back again.
But welcome those who come
With trumpet-sound and drum
Across the rolling main,
Australia’s patriot sons,
Safe from the Boer guns,
Back from the wars again !
E. BROUGHAM DOCKER.


In Westralia the ticket-of-leave system is
»till in full bloom. This is something like the life
•f the released prisoner in W.A. :
Every ticket-of-leave holder is obliged to exhibit his
ticket to ‘ any person ” who may require it. The comp-
troller can assign a ticket-of-leave man to a certain dis-
trict, and he cannot leave it without permission. The
ticket-of-leave man when travelling is required to report
himself at every police station by the way; he is not
allowed to be out after 10 o’clock at night; he cannot
obtain employment without supplying to his employer
his register-number as a prisoner, and the resident
magistrate is_ to confirm the engagement and its terms.
Further, he is not to leave or change his employment
without the consent of the R.M. ; and he is not allowed
to work on his own account without permission. An
engagement for employment cannot be terminated by the
ticket-of-leave man, but the employer is allowed to termi-
nate the engagement, and “ return the ticket-of-leave
holder to the service of Govt., by forwarding him to the
nearest depot or police station.”"
These are 10 of the regulations, and there are 50
more of the same kind. Yet the old Westralian
objects to being called a “groper.”
Concerning a queer street-episode :
Dear Bulletin.— Waiting for a friend the other day in
Bundle-street, Adelaide, outside a jeweller’s shop, I saw
a ten-seconds’ tragedy. It was the most compressed
tragedy in my experience. A young and extremely
pretty woman entered, and presently I saw the shop-
assistant lift from the window a tray of scarf-pins. When
he replaced it I saw that the handsomest had been taken,
and presently the fair purchaser came out looking in-
tensely happy. “ A newly-made bride !” I reflected, but
all at once the girl’s face turned ashy white, and she
stared with horror and incredulity at a passing cab, in
which were seated a man and a woman—the latter hand-
some in a big, bold type. He was gazing into her face
with a look of fatuous admiration. When they had
passed the other drew herself up with a shiver, and —
seeming to become suddenly aware of the little parcel in
her hand—with a gesture of despair and misery threw it
into the gutter. As she turned away I was curious
enough to follow her, and was not surprised to see her
turn into a chemist’s shop. They sell things there be-
sides golden hair-wash—things that are good for the
young woman who has just seen her husband worship-
ping a bulky yellow-haired woman in a cab.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN & IMPORTED WINES.
Unlimited Supplies in Cellars, 241 Pitt-street, Sydney, and in Bond.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous hemeoy for.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ;* and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BBIWARIiI OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Repot t
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
m FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
I is the only Medi-
-1 cal Institute in Aus-
tralia with a bona
. fide capital that stands
behind their guarantee and
is evidence of a faithful
perform nice of all their
| contracts'.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
iVo one should hesi-
\ fate t > consult us, as
i consultations either
\ b 7 letter or in person
j are f/iven fit HE Ol
[ CHARGE.
i 400-PAOE MEDICAL WORK POBT
j [RHE ON APPLIBATTCN.
HEALTH
•'C •
fill
v-v
f&mg.- '?>
H
ATI
tH?
*Bl^
StSMfcfe* ;>\ r r-
p*
i§s J
SSBB
i*
s*s|
■ 5' : ■ ;
SMi
aJsURCCAL INSTifyTE, VIGOR M^J^.
HI
IC-.i
g»H.-•# • : '§-
:
W &*¥■■ <;. ; -V, 'ir
Ml
H
,f
-
ralf'ji- ,\ -. ■ .; .■ ■. ■-, , :
; ■? ■ I i '
»fe jR
SPECIALITIES .*
Heart,
Kidney,
Liver Affections.
Rheumatism,
Sciatica,
Epilepsy,
Gout.
Gravel,
Bladder, and
Spinal Affections.
Blood <k Skin Diseases
Rupture and Riles
Cured without
Operation.
Nerve and Brain
Complications.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government Medical Boards of New South Wales
Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain and America Open to Inspection. 1
Medicines forwarded to all parts of Australia—CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
For privacy Patients may address “F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
F oorj : -r are rejected.
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
P*r oontinuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “ Regimen for the
Obese ’’ Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
One “ Lux,'’ writing to Sydney Tele-
graph, proposes that all hotel bars should be
without fronts —should be wide open to the street
like banana-barrows or coffee-stalls—so that the
public can see .people drinking. This publicity
would, it is thought, be a great safeguard against
drunkenness. But why not also compel clubs to
have no front to the premises, so that the Fat
Man can be seen drinking, as well as the Lean
Man and the Ordinary Man? And as this kind
of publicity might lead people to carry the liquor
home and absorb it secretly in their own
dwellings, it becomes obvious that the family
which proposes to drink a jug of beer
on its own premises should go out into
the street with the liquor in its hand,
and ring the dinner-bell hard to draw
attention, and then consume its unpreten-
tious refreshment in public. If publicity
will dimini-h drunkenness and other sins, by
all means let us have publicity. Some good
might even be done by a law whereby a man twice
convicted of wife-beating should have the front of
his house taken out, so that thereafter he must beat
his wife publicly or not at all. But after all it is
just possible that the bar front isn’t so much for
the sake of seclusion as to keep the dust out of the
beer, and if it was done away with the thirsty one
would drink behind a mosquito-curtain quite
unashamedly. The curtain wouldn’t hide the
view much, and it would keep the bricks and
brown paper out of the liquor when a southerly is
blowing, and probably that is all that the drinking
public wants.
Died recently, in Fulham workhouse,
London—of previous starvation, drink, and gene-
ral wretchedness the late Madame Sainton-
Dolby’s brother, George, once intimate friend and
factotum of Dickens—author of the breezy book,
“Charles Dickens as I Knew Him”—and fre-
quently referred to by the novelist in the most •
affectionate terms. It is said that there remains
a valid insurance of £3OOO on the unfortunate
man’s life, and people are asking how it was that,
while the premiums were kept duly paid, the
miserable insured was allowed to sink into such
abject poverty.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
piniples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Gunner ” : Re N.S. W. military examina-
tions :
Before the current N.S.W. Military inquiry, General
French said—with regard to the fact that certain officers
had not passed exam, for the rank they hold—that he
thought “ there was a little margin left to the Comman-
dant.” Presumably a “ margin ” that allows the General
to favor certain persons. That is not discipline, however,
and every soldier, from the General to the youngest re-
cruit, is or should be equally subject to the discipline. In
the produced list of unqualified officers there are some
curious specimens of favoritism. A Major and Brevet-
Lieut. appointed in ’9l, held his rank 6 years and hasn’t
had time to qualify by exam. A Major appointed 27/4/’9B
—2years—not qualified. A Major appointed 1/1/’94, 6
years 10 months —not qualified. That’s a pretty good
margin. What is the exam, worth anyhow ? Has anyone
ever seen a copy of the papers set at former exams. ? Copies
of papers for ’Varsity, Public Instruction, Public Service,
and all other exams, are to be had, but the military keep
theirs secret. Why ? There are some queer stories about
the questions sometimes asked. One of those at the last
exam, (in Oct.) was —“ What are the duties of a sergeant-
cook of a battalion ? ” There are no “ sergeant-cooks ”in
Australia. Now, the questions for Gen. French to answer
are: 1. If these exams, are anything but a sham, why
doesn’t he compel all, without distinction, to pass
them before getting commission ? 2. Why does he not
follow the example of every other examining-body and
make the papers public, so that candidates could see
what sort of questions they are expected to face?
Till these queries are publicly answered, it is reasonable
to infer that this secret exam, is a howling sham.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
A Blood-Purifying and Life-Giving
Drink.
U3H031H3 in uauiofn ‘usili iu
Removing; all Pimples and
Blemishes of the Skin. . . .
8
FAMOUS
SARSAPARILLA
Containing FOUR TIMES the Medicinal Properties of the ordinary Sarsaparilla.
To be obtained by the SINGLE DRINK at every Hotel and Refreshment Room. All Chemists—
Is. 6d. per bottle. Insist upon being served with MORTON’S. Take no otheb.
FISHER & COMPANY, Manufacturers,
PHARMACY, 337 CEORGE-ST,
Nearly opposite
Ceneral Post Office.
Order through Tooth & Co., J. T. & J. Toohey, Waverley Brewery, Australian Brewery,
Elliott Bros., Aust. Drug Co., any Wine and Spirit Merchant or Wholesale House.
ON SALE at Anthony Hordern & Sons, Lassetter’s, Civil Service Co-operative Society,
Pattinson’s, &c., &c.
DR. C CiARKSOKT’S RLRCTRIC BELT
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a healthy condition,
and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 year’s study and experiments.
It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger than any other body appliance
made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with renewed energy,
and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dyspeptic, Weak in
Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital parts, the combined treatment of Electricity
with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIG ORATOR will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on
the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price— ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL
or
WRITE
OWL
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND STREETS, SYDNEY.
A Good Thing to Take
EVERY MORNING AND BEFORE EACH MEAL.
IT MAKES YOU EAT/MAKES YOU STRONGS'.
Unintoxicating, yet Containing more Sustaining Power than
Alcohol or Spirits.
Awarded Gold Medal at the Royal Agricultural Show, Sydney.
a /«\
n
v\
IN
it"
EXT
AIOK
wm\\
rv.
Tfye Co njtyot) wealth Priok.
Prai)k by tbc 6reat Conprpoowealtf?-
MIGHTY ((
ALOK
(TBADE ZM^JE^IEC)
FRESHLY PREPARED FROM THE CELEBRATED AFRICAN KOLA NUTS (COLA ACUMINATA).
FISHER & COMPANY’S Famous TONIC.
Ask for “ALOK” Usual or Extra Bitter.
IT IS PREPARED IN BOTH FORMS, EACH CONTAINING THE SAME THERAPEUTIC AND
WONDERFUL VIRTUES.
MIGHTY “ALOK” IS RECOMMENDED BY DOCTORS,
MIGHTY “ALOK” is Drunk and Praised by Madame ALBANI, the Queen of Song;
HENRY BRACY, Esq., Actor-Manager;
J. L. JACOBSEN, Esq., Champion Chess Player of Australasia;
W. MARTIN, Esq., Champion Cyclist.
THOUSANDS MAKE IT A DAILY DRINK.
PUBLIC NOTICE
will be known as “ ALOK.”
To frustrate Base Imitations, FISHER'and COMPANY have Registered'
the word “ALQK” as a TRADEMARK. In the future their famous,
and Original Tonic (freshly prepared from the Celebrated KCMUA NUTS),
Any Bottle without this word cannot be the GENUINE ARTICLE.
•** Thousands of people drink what they think to be our Preparation, but being only an IMITATION, they
derive no benefit. Insist on being served with “ ALOK.” ’
“ALOK” IS A DELICIOUS, BENEFICIAL, AND APPETISING DRINK IN THE MORNING
AND BEFORE EACH MEAL.
*** FISHER and COMPANY have expended over £20,000 in placing their Famous Tonic “ ALOK ” on the Australian
*** Market. Imitators spend comparatively nothing, and care not what they sell, so beware of IMPOSTORS and
*** IMITATORS.
FISHER AND CO.’S MIGHTY “ALOK.”
For Reviving the Fiver and Brain and Restoring Vigor,
The Most Successful “ PICK-ME-UP ” known. It makes the weak active and strong. Sad men and women are
made cheerful and happy. Cyclists, Singers, and Public Speakers “swear by it.” During sultry and oppressive
weather it is a great boon to the ladies. Thousands of ladies drink it when shopping in town.
The Talk of the Town. The Drink of the Season.
U n i n toxicat i n gf.
It is an Unequalled Remedy for all Stomach Complaints. A little taken every morning with Soda Water keeps
the Brain, Liver and Kidneys in perfect order.
SCIENTIFIC EXAMINATION OF MIGHTY “ALOK” BY THE MOST EMINENT AUTHORITY IN AUSTRAT I \
DR. A. HELMS, M.A., F.C.S., CONSULTING ANALYTICAL CHEMIST. ’
Messrs. FISHER and CO. 8 Bridge-street, Feb. Ist, IS9B
Gentlemen,—l have examined your preparation, Mighty “ ALOK,” and find that it contains, besides Kola Nut
only pure vegetable drugs having well-known Tonic properties.—Yours faithfully, A. HELMS ’
GUARANTEED NOT TO CONTAIN QUININE OR IRON, OR ANY INJURIOUS INGREDIENT.
Mr. J. L. JACOBSEN, Champion Chess Player of Australasia, forwards unsolicited the following Testimonial'
which speaks for itself : School of Arts, Sydney *
Dear Sirs.—-As a cure for brain, weariness and lassitude I have proved Mighty “ALOK” a Marvellous Tonic. A
dose before commencing enables me to endure the arduous strain of match-play with little fatigue. I consider'it a
boon to brain-workers, and heartily recommend it to all Chess Players. J. L. JACOBSEN.
To be obtained at EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT ROOM,
with Soda Water, at 6d. per Glass.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST- ASK YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE,
2s 6d ana 4s 6a.
Manufacturing Pharmacy, 337 GEORGE ST.,.
Nearly Opposite the General Rost Office.
Melbourne Laboratory, 407 COLLINS ST.


TO * DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Look-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. .Large
bottles Is. everywhere. #
The attention of our readers is drawn to
the advertisement on page 21 of this issue
announcing a new volume of popular and
humorous verses by Henry Lawson. A glance at
the contents of the volume there given reminds us
that many of his best pieces were not included in
his first volume, “In the Days When the World
Was Wide.”*
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that the new grain is now arriving in considerable
quantities and that many lots which the owners desired
to dispose of “ ex truck ” have been sold on arrival at full
current rates, Numerous consignments on which owners
wished to have the advantage of three months free storage
have been housed, the owners hoping that at the end of
that time, values will be more tempting than at present.
Millers are still operating with considerable discretion,
while shippers are desirous of doing business at rates
quite on a relative parity with London values. Japan is
just now a buyer, and the leading representative here
is prepared to do business at ruling rates. Quota-
tions : Last season’s grain, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 7d. for prime.
This season’s prime, 2s. 6d., pinched, 2s. 4d. to 2s. 6d.,
and chickwheat 2s. to 2s. 2d. per bushel.*
The Proprietors of Condy’s Fluid, of
Goswell Road, London, England, are now placing
on every bottle of Condy’s Fluid a most useful
Book containing instructions from Veterinary
Surgeons of the highest standing for the treatment
and cure of ailments affecting Horses, Dogs, Cats,
Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, Poultry, Pigeons, Cage
Birds, Gold Fish, etc. Condy’s Fluid is really a
Magical Remedy for suffering animals, and this
book will be found extremely useful. All should
buy a bottle of Condy’s Fluid and <■ refully read
this Veterinary Book which is now attached to
every bottle.*
‘HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR.
She very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves) Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full desctiption and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
V m i 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 476 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Hoiborn, London, Eng.
-3
S 3
Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up ? ”
Certainly, my dear, if you use Edwards’ ‘ Harlene.'"
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
m
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
COMMONWEALTH PROCESSION
THE
Victoria {arracks grand Stand
SAFETY, CONVENIENCE and COMFORT
Ensured by supervision of Government and Municipal Experts.
Every Seat will commaxidl a Fall View,
EXTENDING FOR OVER A THIRD OF A MILE ALONG
OXFORD STREET.
AT EACH SEAT RESERVED TO ITS PURCHASER AT
POPULAR PRICES.
FRONT ROW (Carpeted), £l. 19.; SECOND ROW, lOs. 6d. 5 UPPER SEATS, 7s. 6d.
Booking Plan Now Open.
*** Intending Country Visitors should forward Postal Notes or Cheque and secure by post.
W. PRITCHARD & SON, Queen Victoria Markets, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
CRITERION
Lessee and Manager
H E ?, "? AJEBTY ’ S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
The Theatre CLOSED for preparation of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
1900 CHRISTMAS ANNUAL. 1901.
Re-opening on
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
when will be presented, for the first time on any stage,
an entirely new and original up-to-date
. , PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled
AUSTRALIS, or THE CITY OF ZERO.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
SATURDAY, DEC. 15, and EVERY EVENING,
Henry Pettitr’s
° y a 1 T* a r d o n.
First time in Sydney for seven years.
THEAT R E, SYDNEY.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
Conn, The Shaughraun,
Supported by an Augmented Co.
43T POPULAR PRICES.
“ TH E NEW BARMAID”— XMAS.
DICKARDS; TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS
Gigantic Success of the Great English Prima Donna ’
MISS ADA WINSTON WEIR.
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWERS Mr HARRV
GRAY, SUSIE ANDERSON, SAM LA MFRT
HOWA STELL H A A RANpI’r E - S ,^; IVAN - FLORR?E an T d
t.i . KONGER, and all our Great Co.
Plan at Paling s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importation,
MR. GEORGE D’ALBERT.
wmTmmM eCe | tion of ALBERT WHELAN and WILI
WHITBURN. Re-appearance of FERRY, THE FROG
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of THE TMRfi
HAYTORS (Frank, Edie and Arthur); and all our Great Co
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove
Business Manager .. ■■ Mr. Harry Musgrove
LAST WEEK of MISB NELLIE STEWART
and
"T"!fcLC3 Scarlet Jt?
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreservec
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 25.; Amphi
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s. P
Theatre royal, Melbourne
Sr»l a T.ooann AT—.— ■,
Sole Lessee and Manager
Bland Holt
THE BLAND HOLT SEASON
EVERY EVENING.
LAST SIX NIGHTS of the Absorbing Productioi
The Cotton King*.
Popuiar Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Pla
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNI
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY EVENING, DEC. 14, Last Night of the We
come Revival of H.M.S. PINAFORE.
SATURDAY, DEC. 15, First Time in Australia thelfo
Musical Comedy, FLORODORA.
Now in its second year at the Lyric Theatre, London.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Famil
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’Dance,
«c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
approved by the medical profession.
H.G. ROOT,aB, Endslelgh Gdas.,LONDON.
susNUM/Vvi
Weak
Men.
There is nothing- like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
hut be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
SDUCEfIH
LANGSTON’S
Recently dis-
covered Cure for
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy. Can be given
SECRETLY. No failures. Treatise and all informa-
tion regarding this Marvellous Remedy, Free. Cures
Guaranteed. Prepared only at the Laboratory
ef SURGEON LANGSTON, 68 Russell St., Melb,
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Beits
a,nd all Instruments for.the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogue*, Par-
b'eular*, <ke.
DENYER BROS. i Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Unconscious on the Floor.
I purpose to write, or rather edit, a short chap-
ter in the history of a woman’s life. There is no
romance about it, yet those of her sex who fail to
read this plain tale will miss something which
may easily be of more value to them than all the
novels that have been published in a twelvemonth.
Most of the story will be in her own words, the
present writer merely adding a line or so of
comment, for the sake of clearness, should it be
needed. The whole is the substance of a state-
ment made by her at her home at Bank, Barnard
Castle, about a year ago, and originally intended
for public use. The paper having been for some
time accidentally mislaid, it could not sooner
appear in print. The woman referred to is Mrs.
Mary Jane Canham, well known in Barnard
Castle.
It seems that one day, nearly or quite ten years
ago, a friend entered the house and found Mrs.
Canham, lying on the floor, perfectly unconscious,
and entirely alone. What had struck her down ?
“The little I have to tell”—so Mrs. Canham
says—“ begins in the Autumn of 1889. It was
then I commenced to feel weak and poorly. What
ailed me I didn’t know. The strength went out
of me, and I felt heavy and tired. I took no
interest in my work, or in anything else; all
things, no matter how trifling, were an anxiety
and a worry to me ; my mind had lost its tone.
“ I had always been a good eater, but now I
had no wish or desire for food. My family would
say, ‘ Oh, do try to eat something; you will feel
better.’ To please them I did try, but it was no
use. After eating there would be a feeling of
weight and pain, and then it all came up again.
No matter how simple and plain the food might
be, the result was the same; I could not keep it
down.
“Sometimes the pain in the pit of my stomach
and in my back was so great I could neither sit
nor lie still; I rolled on the floor in a distress I
have no power to make you understand.
“After a while my kidneys became affected,
and the secretion from them was thick and often
mixed with blood. I was then attacked with
gravel, and suffered horribly from it. One day,
when I was in the house alone, I had a dreadful
spell with this complaint, and for a long time I lay
unconscious on the floor. Once I passed a large
stone in such agony that I thought I should die.
“By this time I was so weak and run down
that my limbs trembled and yielded under me
when I tried to walk. When out of doors I was
in fear of falling prostrate in the road.
“Then, occasionally, I would be seized with
dizziness, and things appeared to swim around
me; and often, in crossing a room, or even in
standing, I was obliged to hold on by some article
of furniture. All the details of my sad experi-
ence, if I could remember them, would make my
story too long; and you would weary of them
anyway.
“ It will be enough to say that I lingered along
in misery for nearly three years. Neither medical
treatment, nor the medicines I heard of, and used
of my own accord, did me any good.
“It was in August, 1892, that my niece said
she knew of remarkable cures that had been done
by Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and strongly advised
me to try it. I answered that after the medicines
I had already taken, to no purpose, it wasn’t likely
this one would help me. And I think it was a
reasonable conclusion.
“ Nevertheless there was a spark of hope in it,
and my husband got me a bottle from the Co-
operative stores in Bridlegate, and after I had
taken the Syrup only a short time I felt better—
yes, very much better. I could eat something
without pain or sickness, and began to believe I
might yet get well
“I was very badly off, remember, and when I
say that even Mother Seigel’s Syrup, took nearly
or quite two months to cure me, you will admit it
to be a wonderful remedy. But it did cure me—
which is the point I want others to know of.
Since that time I have been well and hearty.”
This case was a combination of chronic and pro-
found indigestion, with kidney and bladder
troubles, such as are the despair of the best phy-
sicians, and form the hopeless processions to the
hospitals.
Yet Mother Seigel’s Syrup soon overcame it,
and gave this woman back to the world of healthy
and happy people. Recollect it when the dark
days come to you or yours.
A successful surgical treatment of con-
sumption is reported from Madrid, where a lady,
it is said, had her chest and left lung opened by
Prof. Molle, who treated the tuberculous portions
of the lung with antiseptics and cautery—the
result, to date, being a marked progress towards
recovery.
At South Melbourne, t’other day, a man
was fined 10s. or 24 hours for indecent behaviour.
It was his 61st conviction ! Probably the 62nd
sentence will be two years and a flogging. And
the law calls this sort of happy-go-lucky arrange-
ment a scientific system.
A Melbourne constable was, t’other day,
told by Chief Commissioner Chomley to resign or
take the sack. Of course, he resigned. He had
merely written the name of a J.P. at foot of a
summons, apparently to save himself the trouble of
hunting up a “beak” in the flesh. Now, the
common civilian person who commits forgery (this
was certainly “wilful,” if not “ corrupt ”) gener-
ally gets more than the sack.
And now we get from England some more
irritating blather about “ Sir Langdon Bonython”
of S.A. Self-Advertiser and his dreary doings,
how he has been inspecting certain schools—and
so on. Why, simply because this Bonython man
happens to be one of the press-cable ring, should
his dull, drab commonplaces be inflicted upon us
at breakfast ? To the devil, says the public, with
self-puffing nonentities who inspect schools at the
other end of the earth, and then seek to bore Aus-
tralia about it at ham-and-eggs time.
Six thousand copies of Henry Lawson’s
“ On the Track and Over the Sliprails ” have been
sold in lesadhan six months. Messrs. Angus and
Robertson advertise the various editions of this
book on page 21 of this issue.*
The “hat” suicide is spreading. Mel-
bourne had a short and exciting run of pre-
meditated corpses who left notes in the lining of
their hats stating the reason why they did it.
Then Sydney had the hat without the corpse.
Now it has the hat with the corpse. The latest
case drowned himself at Coogee, leaving the usual
statement in his hat to the effect that he was dead,
and that the remains were there or thereabouts.
Then he left the head-garment on the rocks and
dropped himself in. He was a friendless bailiff,
aged 64, and given to drink, and when a bailiff
reaches that age he has mostly outlived human
sympathy.
Looks as though Port Fairy (Yic.) is a
somewhat Irish electorate. The four candidates
at the recent election were William o‘Brien,
Bryan o‘Loghlen, Martin Bourke, and James
Duffus.
“ The Presbyterian Church of Australia ”
—first fruits of the Federal spirit. Under the
new caption go the Presbyterian churches of
N.S.W., Vic., Q,, S.A., and Tasmania. So runs
the official record. But where are the Westralian
Presbyterians ?
“Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
The denizens of Melbourne slums do not
get many chances of enjoying the beauties of
nature. The other day, however, 55 covered
waggons conveyed 1200 men, women, and children
to the annual picnic of the Latrobe-street Ragged-
school, held near Sandringham. Liberal amuse-
ments were provided and the crowd was as orderly
in its way as a fashionable garden-party. As
Walter Besant would have said, the scene was a
more cheering sight than any results of the teles-
copic philanthropy which expends itself on un-
sympathetic Chinamen or inhabitants of savage
lands who enjoy life best when left to their own
devices.
Harland and Wolff, of Belfast, are building
for the White Star Line a steamer of the enor-
mous capacity of 20,000 tons—3ooo tons bigger
than even the huge Oceanic. Apropos, the big
Atlantic liner, Campania, which lately ran into
the 1200-ton iron barque Embleton, in a fog off
the Irish coast, cut the unfortunate “wind-
jammer” so clean in two that the halves sank on
each side of the steam-monster. And this at nine
knots, or much less than half-speed !
S.A. Register thus seeks to prepare Ade-
laide for Mayor-elect and publican Ware’s Com-
monwealth-celebration title. The thing is evi-
dently printed to show that Ware has been used
to titles, and is warranted to wear his as if he had
grown up in it:—
THE MAYOR’S ANCESTORS.
James Ware (author of the history of the Ware family)
was descended from a noble and ancient family in York-
shire, which flourished in the name of Roger de Ware,
Lord of Isefleld, and a baron of Parliament in the reign of
King Edward I. Many of that family under the name of
de Warr, de Warre, and le Ware, were in succeeding
reigns summoned to Parliament as lords thereof. James,
the younger son of Christopher Ware and father to our
author, was liberally educated, and when he came to
maturity was sent to push his fortunes in the court of
Queen Elizabeth, where he soon distinguished himself in
such manner as to obtain the favor of the great men then
at the head of affairs. He accompanied Sir William Fitz
Williams, who was sent over to Ireland as lord deputy, as
his secretary. In a journey to England he was honored
with knighthood by King James I. Sir James Ware was
born in Castle-street, on November 26, 1594. And so
on, &c.
The childishness of it all !
One of Lord Hopetoun’s postillions has
been injured. “ Postillions ” in Australia I Ye
gods !
Printed that Toby Barton has promised
to stand for the Federal constituency which in-
cludes Orange town and district, the site already
selected by Sydney Calico Jimmydom as the
Federal capital. The successful candidate for
this electorate will not necessarily be a Protec-
tionist, or a Freetrader, nor will he be a guardian
of the Constitution. He will be simply and solely
a barracker for the capital, first and last, and
when returned will be expected to advance the
“claims” of Orange in a loud voice and to
advance them often. As Barton aims at a high
position in the Commonwealth Parliament, and is
more than a mere possibility for the very highest,
the squabble for the capital should be beyond him,
and it is satisfactory to have his assurance that he
has not yet selected a constituency.
Intending visitors to Sydney during the
coming celebrations are referred to Alexander and
Rochets advt. on page 19.
The Melbourne Herald prize design
Federal Flag will be flown from the Massey-
Harris Bicycle Co., 365 George-street, on Satur-
day, the 15th instant. It was designed by Mr.
F. Thompson, of Melbourne, and selected by a
committee of judges out of about 8000 designs sent
by competitors from all parts of Australasia. The
flag has the “Jack” in the corner, representative
of the British Empire. The six red bars beneath
the “Jack” show the six federated colonies, and
the Southern Cross (on the Red field for Govern-
ment or Military, and Blue for Naval) the Aus-
tralian Emblem.


The Brasaey Guree is getting outside the
family, Lord ami Lady Tom recently drove over
and fatally injured a W-yoar-old lad at Bridge*
water, ‘England,
The subscribers to Melbourne Women’s
Hospital renew their agitation for the removal of
the invidious placards, " Married ” and “Single,”
put over the beds in that institution.
Great Weakness and Anaemia
An Interesting Case
And a Perfect Recovery.
The Case of
MRS. SARAH DILLON.
(by oor own reporter.)
As our reporter was one day pursuing his
usual mission, involving the collection of
items of interest to the reading section of
the community, he happened to hear of the
remarkable recovery from weakness and
continuous headaches of Mrs. Sarah Dillon,
who was then residing at 5 Norton-street,
Surry Hills. He accordingly called upon
that lady, who cheerfully offered to give
him all the information he desired.
“ My case must have been a particularly
interesting one to the doctors who attended
upon me,” began Mrs. Dillon, “for the very
simple reason that they were of the opinion
that I was beyond the scope of medical
treatment. I can assure you it is exceed-
ingly dispiriting to be told by your physician
that your condition is the natural result of
old age creeping on, and anything he
prescribed for you could not possibly do any
good. And it is especially so for a woman
like myself, who had previously enjoyed the
best of health. I had never before that
time known what it was to have a day’s
sickness, excepting as a child, when I met
with an accident to my hand, which soon
got all right again ; but I do not call that
sickness. And then to be suddenly
conscious of an ailment which was gradually
drawing all the vitality from me, and to be
told that nothing could be recommended by
my doctor to cure me, you can easily
imagine how despondent I became.”
“What were the symptcu&s of your
malady, Mrs. Dillon?”
“Well, I cannot very easily describe them
at the commencement of my illness, because
they were altogether too complicated. I
knew that my blood was not in good order
on account of the alteration in the colour of
my complexion. My lips assumed an un-
healthy paleness, and my eyes became dull
and heavy. Icannotsay that Isuffered a great
amount of pain, although very frequently I
would become possessed of a sickly feeling
which left me languid and extremely weak.
It would have given me a great amount of
relief if I could have slept when I retired to
bed at night; but even that luxury was
denied me, for I would turn in feeling so
jaded and worn out that I felt quite sure of
getting a little repose; but I was invariably
disappointed. As a result, it was almost an
impossibility to get up in the mornings, and
when I did manage to do so, after much
perseverance, I was too weak and exhausted
to stand. During the day I would be
afflicted with a feeling of a drowsy languor,
as though everything taking place around
me was no interest or importance; and the
next development in my failing health was
something entirely new 1 had never
before known what it was to faint; but now
it was a frequent occurrence for me to go
right off without any apparent cause, and
when I regained consciousness I would be in
a depressed state of mind for a long time.
It was enough to frighten any woman at my
time of life to experience such threatening
indications of a general break-up of the
system; and when I tell you that my
appetite had abandoned me altogether, you
can understand how dejected I was. The
most tempting food failed to make me eat,
and the robust appearance I had so long
been proud of gave. way to a condition of
emaciation J The sight of fodd was a source
of trouble to myself, as my inability to eat
was an additional reminder that I was
gradually wasting away. And the hopeless-
ness with which I thought of the future was
brought about through the doctors’ opinion
that there was nothing in the way of
medicine which could possibly restore me to
health. The idea of being in a state of such
utter abandonment occasioned me no end
of worry and anxiety, which, I’m sure you will
agree, was quite natural. No matter how ill
a person may be, I think they can always
keep up their spirits to a certain extent if
they are following out a course of treatment
which will encourage them to believe that
their health may ultimately be regained.
But in my case I was apparently left without
a chance. However, I made my mind up
that it would be foolish to continue in such
a state of misery without making an effort
in some direction, because I did not think
anything in the way of physic could have the
effect of making me worse, my condition
then being so forlorn. By a stroke of good
luck I secured the right remedy at the first
attempt.”
“How were you so fortunate?” enquired
the reporter.
“ It was through listening to the advice of
a lady friend of mine, who had benefited
through the same medium, that I was so
favoured by Dame Fortune. She strongly
recommended me to try Clements Tonic,
assuring me that if I did so there would be a
decided change for the better in a very short
space of time. It was with a certain
amount of doubt and misgiving that I con-
sented to give it a trial, although it was a
pleasure to think that there was something
which might have the effect of recuperating
my wasted system. I was really too
dejected to place confidence in any medicine;
but I sent for a bottle of Clements Tonic by
way of experiment, and, would you believe
me ? I felt myself improving after the first
few dose*. Day by day my appetite gained
ground, and I was soon able to sit down
and enjoy a comfortable meal. The old,
worn out, despondent feeling of weakness
entirely left me, and the vigorous blood
that now ran through my veins had such a
stimulating effect upon my spirits that I
soon became quite cheerful again. The
racking headaches from which I had
suffered were but a memory of the past; and
I can tell you they used to be very severe
indeed. They never attack me now,
however, for I continued taking Clements
Tonic till iny vitality was thoroughly
restored, and my health is now as good as
ever. I think in a country like this, where
the heat is so oppressive in summer,
Clements Tonic is a grand thing to have in
the house, and I always have it on hand
during the hot weather to take as a stimu-
lant. I believe that is why my strength
keeps up so well.”
“Do you give your consent to the
publication of this interview ? ”
“With the utmost pleasure. I owe my
recovery exclusively to Clements Tonic, and
now I always recommend it to my friends.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Sarah Dillon, of 5 Norten street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
Receiving- any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her pre ;i nt
Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations
in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
art.
Declared at Sydney, this 30th day of July, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
CHAS. E. WIGZELL, J.P.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT ’
IP
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT 15,. 1N FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION
■See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at tile ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Business Announcements.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
&
Soda Water, Id. per do*.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
Ko skilled, labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
« To the Daylesford Mineral Water 00.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. — Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.” - ,
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says; _“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“ Machine great
success.” , _ , , ,
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says “ Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.” .
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Go.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin /
Nasal Ointment, only ■”/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE.
Wonderful , Mysterious , Fascinating •
I teach you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perform astonishing feats, and
produce fun by the hour. Gratifies
every ambition, and brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my large
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FKEE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once. Address—
Prof. R. H. Barraden,
79 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstke & Truman* of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all '
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TKUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
Batb Cabinet
(Best A merican Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/“, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Business Announcements
PHOTOGRAPHY
is easy Photography. It is
mastered by anyone in a few
minutes, and no dark room is
required for changing films.
Kodaks from
ss. to £7 15s.
KODAK
Send for Illustrated Price TAst, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at T oi'don, Paris, Berlin, Brussel-, Vienna,
St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y. ’
GOUT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what “ false economy ’’ is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless—there is no
other word for it —in the purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time.” False
Economy 1
The “ HERZ ” Shoe i
Has a reputation for Quality and *
Durability which the makers are (
jealous to maintain. /
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S,
TJSZE3
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
V
*
*
!WTENT LEATHER BOOTi
GLAZED KIDSU
m
ROYAL NAV/
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing fo:
HARNESS LEATHER A i t
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers oi
Unrivalled EMBROCATI3II,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing?,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper?,
Boot Shop?, Saddlers, etc


CHRISTMAS and NEW YEAR PRESENTS.
The Question is not whether you can afford to buy, but whether you can afford not
to buy from us. Our Prices help you to Economise.
No. E 9809.
Gold and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
£1 12s Cd.
No. E7058.—160t. Gold and Pearl Set Heart and Spray
Braoelet, £8 15s.
No. Ess99.—Saw Pierced and Silver-plated Belt Clasp, 6s.
No. E 9040.
Gold and Fine
Pearl Scarf Pin,
£1 7s id.
No. E8349.—9c. Gold, Extra Strong
Brooch, Safety Catch, 10s 6d.
No. E64lB.—Silver-plated Glass-
Lined Mustard Pot, with Spoon,
10s 6d.
No. E 9305.
Gold and
Turquoise Scarf
Pin, £1 Is.
No. .EB5lO. —9ct. Gold “Lucky Pig” Expanding
Bracelet, 11s 6d.
iv.
No. E 2359. —Pretty Silver-nlated Sugar and Cream on
Tray, £ 1 7s 6d.
No. EB7BB.
Gold Peail and
Ruby Scarf Pin,
£1 2s 6d.
No. E7551.—9ct. Gold Bell Brooch, with Hexagon
Out Amethyst Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 200 A.—Set Links,
9c. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £1 15s.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E 5721. —16c. Gold, Elegant Bird Brooch.
Whole Pearl, £l l6s.
No. 201 A.— Set Links,
9c. Gold, £1 Id ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 115 A Design 9c. Gold Brooch,
set Two Fine Amethysts.
Grand value, £1 6s.
No. E9422.—Cut
Glass and Silver-
Mounted Salts Bottle
4s.
No. E 9425.
Silver-plated Glass Lined Salt
Cellar with Spoon, 6s 6d.
No. E7072.—-Solid Silver 6-Bell Child’s Rattle, Ivory
Handle and Ring, 12s 6d.
No. 353.
Silver-plated Candlestick,
8s 6d.
No. E 6534.
Solid Silver Manicure Scissors, Curved
Steel Points, 7s 6d.
No. E 9424.
Cut Glass and
Silver
Mounted Salts
Bottle, 3s.
No. 118. —15c. Gold Brooch, set Sapphires and
Rubies, £ll2s 6d.
18c. Gold, 5 Fine
White Diamonds,.,
£5 5s ; 2 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires or Rubies,
£3 10s.
Stud, 9c.
Gold, 4s;
15c., 5s 6d.
Silver, Is.
No. E3005.—9c. Gold Bar Brooch, 6s 6d.
Plain Solid Silver Bar Brooch, 2s.
No. 165.
15c. Gold, Diamond
and Euby King,
No. Oil.—Real New Zealand Greenstone and
9c. Gold Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. 170.—18 c. Gold,
5 Fine White Dia-
monds, £8 10s : 2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, £5 10s.
No. ISO.—Ladies’ Ste .ling Silver Card Case,
superb Engraved, Gilt Inside,
in Morocco Cas s, £2 ss.
Gentx man’s size, £1 17s 6d.
o. 269 A of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Scissors,
Cuticle Knife, Nail File, and Polisher, in case, £llos.
3 Pieces in case, Special Value, 14s 6d.
w
No. E97ol—Solid Silver Cigarette Case, Match Box
and Amber Cigarette Tube in Morocco Case,
£llss.
smm
xn
No. So2A.—Pair Gent’s Military Brushes,
Solid Silver, in Case, £3 3s.
Pair of Lady’s Brushes, and Comb, Silver-
backed, in Case, £4.
No. 141 A. —9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. 184A.—18c.
Engraved Keeper
Ring, £1 7s 6d.
Lighter, £1 Is.
No. 149A—15c. Gold Band Bracelet, Set Fine White Diamond, £5
9c. Gold Plain Band Bracelets, no stone, £1 ss, £llos, £llss. £2.
No. 178.—18 c.
Wedding Ring, £1 Is.
Heavier, £1 ss, £llos,
£llss.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s 6d.
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box,
10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6d; 9c. Gold, £2 10s.
Others in Silver, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d. Gold-mounted, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s Cd.
No. 259 A.—Solid Silver Cigarette Case, Elegantly
Engraved, £1 7s 6d ; plain, £1 ss. Size Biin. long,
2jin. wide. Undoubtedly the best value we have
ever been in a position to place before our cus-
tomers. Plain Solid Gold Cigarette Case, £ll 10s.
Engraved Solid Silver, Gold-mounted, £1 ss,
£1 12s 6d, £2.
No. F 414.— Handsomely-Embossed Best Quality Silver-
plated Salad or Prize Bowl, 71 inches high, £5 6s.
No. E 3234.
Serviette Clip. A
most useful little
invention. Silver,
3s 6d ; plated, Is.
We have a nice lot of Pretty Silver-plated Ash
or Pin Trays, 8s 6d each.
All Goods Sent Free on Receipt of Remittance. Write for Catalogue.
STEWART DAWSON AND CO
London, Melbourne,
Auckland, Perth.
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A PLEASANT REMEDYforOIGESTIVE DISORDERS
qjl'tJTfipLJ
as
IT TT
!
;i > :
m
ini:
H-*
I KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
I
ft'
s
m
+w
m
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
it/,
p |VV,/
L?
m
* —London: l
41, FARRINGOON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTJLE
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
Kutnow’s Powder contains all the curative properties of
the most noted European Health Spring's, and is a certain
and pieasant remedy for all the stomach, liver, and
kidney disorders for which sufferers seek relief at
these springs.
Kutnow’s Powder is a refreshing, purifying, and palatable saline aperient.
Kutnow’s Powder is composed of the curative virtues of the salts found in the noted health springs of
Europe.
Kutnow’s Powder is an ideal liver medicine, in that it cleanses, strengthens, and increases the action of
the liver.
Kutnow’s Powder relieves uric acid troubles by dissolving the acid formations and expelling the dissolved
products from the system.
Kutnow’s Powder remedies biliousness by thinning the bile and promoting its flow into the intestines.
Kutnow’s Powder dispels insomnia, low spirits, nervousness, and headache by removing the impurities
that poison the blood, nerves, and tissue.
Kutnow’s Powder prevents languor by assuring the perfect digestion and assimilation of the food.
Kutnow’s Powder precludes loss of appetite by keeping all the digestive organs in a healthy state of
activity.
Kutnow’s Powder is used in most of the leading hospitals of Europe.
Kutnow’s Powder is constantly prescribed by many of the leading medical practitioners of this and other
countries.
Kutnow’s Powder is entirely free from any lowering, drastic, nauseous properties.
Kutnow’s Powder has been recommended by practically all the most eminent medical authorities.
Kutnow’s Powder has been more highly and generally commended by all classes of people than any other
medicinal preparation.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
See that the Registered Trade Mark, <* Hirschensprang ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “8.
KXJTNOW & CO., Ldare on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on ii KUTNO W’S, ’’
and firmly ref use any substitutes ; they may be ivorthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS—.
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A —.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld„ 853 Broadway, New York City.
The Rhyme of Sudden Jerk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Editor the Emperor is of cable, comp, and
proof—
The architect creates the house from damp-course
unto roof—■
The Czar he is the Lord Most High of Cossack
and of Russ —
And the gripman of the dummy-car—he hath his
will of us !
But none have such authority—strong, stern, and
absolute—
Authentic and immutable o’er man, and mine, and
brute,
As he who sits in majesty to hear the miner
sue—-
The Warden of the sultry mining - field of
Girofloo.
Now, when you want to lease a claim (the regula-
tions say)
Thou shalt peg ’twixt dawn and sundown, and
identify the day
With a statutory statement that you’ve carried
out the Act—
(And the statement may be fiction—but some-
times it is fact).
Thou shalt mark thy datum “Number One,” and
run each boundary line—
Thou shalt dig at every corner peg “ L ” trenches
as a sign—
Thou shalt post thy written notice of intention to
apply,
And sit down in exemption till the boom comes
by-and-bye.
The land was full of weariness, for the mining
“experts” came;
They talked of dykes of elvan, and of diorite the
same,
They laughed at garnet rock, and they on stock-
werks put a slight;
They wept because there were no schists—they
sneered at eclogyte.
There was one who’d been a draughtsman, and
such pretty plans he drew !
With the crosscuts all in carmine, and the drives
all tinted blue,
And the shafts outlined in yellow and the stopes
in Indian ink —
But all he knew of mining would have driven
a man to drink.
Yet he’d drawn some plans in London, and some
Hooleys saw them there ;
And they said “What pretty plans they are—
how well he draws a square !
We’ll appoint him as our expert, and when we get
a mine
He’ll make such lovely plans of it in tint and
black and line.”
So they sent him to Australia with geranium-lake
for freight,
And he came to represent the Anglo - Yiddish
Syndicate.
(And he saw one mine to please him and he swore
by it—and God;
And now that great mine’s twenty stamps are
singing “Icliabod.”)
There was an hydraulic crank who called red
oxides “ paying-dirt ”
And who sneered at any mining not transacted
with a squirt—
And a third, who disbelieving good news could
not resist;
And who got uncertain tucker as a profess’nal
pessimist.
’Twas optimism made the world all fit for man to
live—
But this “ expert ” just existed by indiscriminate
negative—
And ; ’f ™ ore s P ecs are wrong than right—his
Ao seemed not a sin—
An< l£ 'w/T “ N °”
man wasn 1 ln ’
So these “experts” sampled Garnet, and they
. turned down Chillagoe;
And they said Ihese shows are surface blows;
And-“ the abandoned ’cause there
An dTt * Collins found the
The^udde/Jerk was big and rich-blue and
green carbonates-
And fibrous malachite by tons—the country rock
was slates—
(And the “experts” loved slate country—near as
much as they loved schist—
The sluicing crank—the draughtsman—the pro-
fessional pessimist.
Ban Collins had his one man’s ground—’twas
cheaper than a lease ;
(If a n engine cost a bob Dan hadn’t money for the
grease)—
But he’d got a fortnight’s tucker and he’d done a
little work,
When the “experts” came from Herberton to
criticise the Jerk.
His crazy old prospecting shaft some twenty feet
he’d sunk;
And the “experts” opened whisky, and they
tried to make him drunk,
While the Indian-inking artist brought his know-
ledge into sight,
And said “ That ore that’s in the sink is called
chalcotrichite—
Capillary crystallization of red oxide,” and much
more—
Dan Collins said he’d keep the claim, and they
could name the ore.
They offered him a tenner, and sprang four times
the price,
And waved a note for fifty pounds (their manners
weren’t nice).
But Collins drank their whisky, and refused to
sell his claim,
So they pegged him in on every side and beat him
at his game ;
And, when they’d gone he lost his nerve, and
wished that he had sold ;
For his bullion was his energy—their brains were
just their gold.
He cursed his luck until he knew the curse’s text
by rote ;
And in his curse he stopped and bent—he’d found
the “experts’” note !
The wording of the note was terse and unto the
effect
That the Q.N. Bank had fifty pounds the holder
could collect.
And Dan was flushing hot and cold and trembling
in the legs—
But the trembling didn’t stop him shifting all the
“experts’ ” pegs.
He left the range next sunrise, and by curlew-
time that night
He had walked to Buffing Billy’s, and he circled
from the light,
For in Puffing Billy’s shanty, talking wildly of the
pegs,
Was the draughtsman, badly needing a search-
warrant for his legs.
And while the sluicing crank talked schemes to
dredge the Sudden Jerk;
And the professional pessimist rehearsed his holy
work
Of keeping the investor out of mines of eclogyte—
Dan walked sturdily unto the Warden’s office in
the night.
The sheoaks in the gullies struck him gently as he
strode,
Grey shadows of the night-birds came upon the
ghostly road ;
The night—o’erfilled with pity—draped the shafts
that looked like scars,
And through it went Dan Collins up the range
and in the stars.
For miles the track sped upward and the air was
soft as moss;
And through and up sped Daniel till his head was
next the Cross ;
And over and down the range’s scarp, by springs
that night new-born,
Until the town roofs whitened to the lifting of the
morn.
He made his application for the “ experts’ ” lease
that day—
And their fifty paid the charges, and the balance
went astray ;
(For Dan was able-bodied at the rum when it was
red,
And for seven nights thereafter he was carried to
his bed).
And when the experts came to town, and found
Dan had applied;
Thej' sneered some more and then began the
country to deride;
They objected to the Warden, but “ the weight of
evidence ”
Was on the side of Daniel, and the experts’ “lame
pretence
At objecting ” met dismissal —for stern and abso-
lute,
Authentic and immutable, o’er man, and mine,
and brute,
Who in equity and majesty doth hear the miner
sue —
Is the Warden of the sultry mining field of
Girofloo.
The experts wept their weep for schists—they
sneered at eclogyte,
And left the town disgusted in the Southern
coach —by night.
But Daniel “ optioned out ” his show and three
shifts started work—-
Now ! four one-hundred tonner smelters flame at
Sudden Jerk,
And open-cuts three hundred deep show oxides
red as blood—
And two chains wide they tear her tripes while
glows the smelter rud.
“A conscience grows from great success”—all
men for long have known—
And Mister Daniel Collins reaped what plain old
Dan had sown,
And his conscience being uneasy he confessed him
to the priest
Expecting, for a penance, half a little hell at
least.
But the Father spoke him soothingly, and said,
‘ The note to find
Was very wrong—but ’twould be worse to leave
the coin behind ! ’
And the Sudden Jerk’s in better hands than if
they’d held the mine ;
And the way ye walked the long day through and
the long day’s night was fine !
And then they stopped half-way up on the track,
though they were horsed aright,
And they sneered at the blessed country-side, and
they scoffed at eclogyte.
No man to leave three ‘ experts ’ in the mud
could well resist
The sluicing crank, the draughtsman, and the
professional pessimist.”
“And now” (said the man who told me this)
“ it’s time I went to work—
I keep the time for the surface-hands and the
slagmen at the Jerk.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
One member of Vic. Bushmen’s corps in
S’Africa got hold, for a little over face-value, of a
remarkable curio in the shape of an old Boer Re-
public £l-note, which, as bearing the signatures
of Pretorius, Joubert and Yiljoen, will be sale-
able in London at a very high price.
Concerning London larrikinism :
The “Hooligans” are on the war-trail, writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, and in ten days have
killed and maimed more persons than the Governors from
and including their initial murderous carnival. Yet the
doings of the two blacks down-under have been pointed
at and emphasised as sky-signs of Australian lawlessness.
Here, practically in London’s heart, not a mile from St.
Paul’s, boys, men and girls are shot, mutilated, or kicked
to death by gangs of boys of 17 to 20 years. Tire
“ Hooligans” go about in mobs, armed with cheap revol-
vers, knives, and weapons equal in effect to “ slung-shot.”
The “ Rocks Push,” the King-st. (Melb.) “ Forty Thieves ”
under Tippoo Hayes, and the “ Carlton Rorties,” com-
pared to the “ Hooligans,” appear merely romping lambs.
The “ Hoolies,” revolver-armed, kick men to death, brass-
buokle-belt the life out of some youngster—or shoot him
as they did a boy this week, stoush the teeth into the
face of a young girl, and stab indiscriminately. Sydney
ex-Police-Supt. W. E. Lenthall, in an interview, advises
arming the London police with revolvers, but I am afraid
that wouldn’t stop it. Too many woman-hearted P.M.’s
here ; and though the tactful and good-tempered London
police are the finest street police in the world, they’re too
well off to go looking for “ scraps.”
A petitioner for divorce told Judge Hood,
t’other day, in Melbourne, that he had been mar-
ried in ’63 and had lived happily with his wife for
31 years, but one morning in ’94, on returning
home for lunch, he found her removing the
last of the furniture. “ What,” said he, “ are you
shifting?” “Yes,” said she, and that was all
that passed. She went away then and remained
away permanently, leaving him nothing but the
keyhole. He was perfectly friendly with his wife
on the morning she went off, and could give no
reason for her abrupt departure. Apparently she
just hired a van and packed up the furniture —his
furniture —and passed away, and he was too tired
to ask her where she was going, or whether her
departure was permanent, or anything. He wrote
to her once or twice, but she took no notice. He
knew of no cause to keep them apart; it
was just a case of aimless, negligent drifting,
and unless some contrary current set in and forced
them together again, they would probably con-
tinue to drift through the next century. But
Judge Hood declined to swallow the simple,
casual tale, and this derelict of a side-wind,
so to speak, will have to wander alone for the rest
of his days unless he can persuade the old lady to
drift back again.


STRAIGHT Tfll.lt
BY SYDNEY PEOPLE
ABOUT
.. DOAN’S ..
Backache Kidney Fills.
))JJ
WJ
S\
W
'm
’ t- 7 :
VWffl
&
m
./a
-fr
o
m
V
"l,\
<<
vj
§?§£
SS>
/
/
Heard in Trains, 'Buses—Everywhere and Always DOAN’S.
When incidents like the following occur here in Sydney, and
Sydney men and Sydney women relate their experiences in a
Sydney paper for the benefit of Sydney people, the genuineness
of the statements cannot be doubted. They have the ring of truth
about them that there is no getting away from.
Here is the case of Mrs. Fred. Russell, 7 St.
Andrews-street, Balmain: —“My husband has
been bad three or four years with kidney trouble.
He was such a sufferer that he could not stand up
straight, and all his movements were fraught with
great pain. Unable to sleep at night, he used to
try all manner of positions, and would get up next
morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed.
The best position for him to lie in was face down-
ward, but he would soon have to change that.
Sometimes the pains were a lot worse than others.
To stand up straight was worse than hard work.
When well (before he got bad I mean) he used to
do heavy work, but he had to give up, his back
having well-nigh crippled him. He went to hos-
pitals one after another; and when they failed to
give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all
manner of remedies advertised, excepting one.
We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments
and other things for outward applications
but he was still as bad as ever after using
them—aye, worse. It is now over 12 months
since that lucky day when we got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
King-street. At that time he was unable
to sit down or lie down, and when he walked he
held his back all the time. His pains were fright-
ful. Well, the first few does of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills rid him of those terrible pains, and
after a time he became much improved. In all
he took six boxes. Then he left off the medicine,
and has taken none since, and that is over six
months ago. A few days ago he said to me, ‘ You
never hear me complain of pains now; Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.’ ”
Then there is the case of Mrs. Spear, of 32
Goodsell-street, St. Peters, Sydney, who suffered
for a good while with her back, a constant dull
ache about the kidneys, who was at last cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
And there are the cases of Mrs. Gregg, 9 En-
more-street, Newtown ; Joseph Grieve, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills ; Mr. E.. Hansen, 41
Rosser-street, Balmain ; Mrs. F. May, Excelsior-
street, Woollahra; and hundreds of others, all
cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, of illness,
the full facts of their cases have already been
published in the Sydney papers.
WHY?
AND THEY ABE ALL SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Is there not food for reflection in the above, for anyone who is ill ? Do other medicines publish
in Sydney straight out, honest statements from Sydney people ? No; they publish names of people
from some far away town.
Why?
Be Sure You Get DOAN’S, The kind your neighbors endorse. Don’t accept
a substitute. All chemists and storekeepers sell them at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or if you
cannot obtain them locally they will be sent on receipt of price by Foster-M‘Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-st.,
Sydney, Sole Proprietors.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Eveb have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoids, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound dan
gerous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratah, Orange-street,
Randwick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged 10 years,
was cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the disease
at school. It affected her scalp, which was terribly
inflamed and all broken out, which irritated her
terribly. She obtained some of Doan’s Ointment
at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, and after
thoroughly washing the child’s scalp applied it.
The result was the scalp entirely healed in a few
days, and left no scar, much to their joy.
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Eczema—and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and 1 will be only too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, or will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-M‘Clellan Co. 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
Quatrains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rest.
When, spent with fight, the swordsman drops his
brand
And his green laurel-wreath grows wan
How good it is to clasp with pallid hand
Thy poppy red—Oblivion !
Philosophy.
Life is a web with many broken ends;
Then why, 0 friend, be sad ?
Good is not near so good as it pretends }
Bad is not half so bad.
The Others.
The Coming Men —in shoals come on,
The Men Arrived—I know them well.
But what of Those who’ve Come —and Gone ?
Let publicans and sextons tell.
Death.
Pale lies the Bridegroom, pining sore,
Then, in that hour of hope and fear,
There comes a knocking at the door,
A voice that cries—“ The Bride is here ! ’
Finis.
Faith shuts her eyes,
Poor self-deceiver !
The Last God dies
With the Last Believer.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Our New Selection.
II.— STARTING AT SADDLETOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Saddletop. Dad looking older; Mother ditto.
Hal tall and womanly; Dave a big, bony man,
bearded and more reserved than ever. Joe ap-
proaching manhood; broad-shouldered, sturdy,
full-faced and irresistibly droll; he was our own
comedian, entertained us often, and gave us pains
in the side by “taking people off”—frequently
Dad and Dave, in their absence. The younger
ones all “stretching out,”—and—no more babies.
Our new selection was a piece of magnificent
country ; twelve hundred acres, all rich black soil
10 to 15 feet deep; permanent water and a
Government well outside the fence; a wide fringe
of heavy timber at the back ; plain in front, and
grass ! —we used to lose the horses in it.
The house was new—a stately palace, after
Shingle Hut; five rooms in it; weather-boarded ;
floor-boarded ; iron-roofed ; lock and key to every
door ; kitchen, and a thousand-gallon tank. And
such water ! we never knew the taste of real
water before. No charcoal; no ashes ; no traces
of a drought; no doubtful flavor of any kind
about it, and no having to scrape a scum off when-
ever we boiled some.
And Dad was proud of the selection. He was
pleased with our prospects altogether, and talked
of the progress the district was making.
* * * *
Saddletop was a rising place. A branch rail-
way-line was coming to it—it had been coming for
twenty-two years. Farmers from South Australia
were there—men who, ’twas said, knew how to
farm ; who understood all about soils and silos,
and worked on scientific principles. They were
settled along a deserted gully where nothing but
burr and thistle and nut-grass grew, and whenever
it rained hard they would retreat in disorder to
highland, with their wives in barrows and their
beds and things on their backs.
There was one farmer from Victoria ; he knew
something about selecting. He came and rooted
the trees out of his land and put in wheat, and
watched it grow for a while; then went away one
morning and never came back.
A number of old pioneers were there, just be-
ginning to do well after 30 years of toil and
struggle—the difficulties and dangers and innu-
merable hardships encountered by them but
faintly comprehended.
Up dry gullies and blind gullies, hidden away
behind ranges and rocks, were selectors who hoed
holes in the long grass and dropped pumpkin-seed
into them, then went away somewhere and came
back with a horse at the end of a long rope, which
they handled and broke for somebody while the
crop was growing.
There were a few of a species who, in wet
weather, stood all day long in their doorway with
a wet bag on their shoulders, gazing out philo-
sophically on the pelting rain, and when it
wasn’t raining they went away with a blanket and
looked for shearing.
A weird, silent ‘ ‘ hatter ” was there, whose hair
penetrated his hat and who stitched patches on
his pants with a packing-needle and string—the
strange man who lived under the range away from
everybody, in a bark hut propped upon the down-
hill side by a stick—the man who avoided all
human society—whose hut contained harness,
flung on the floor, and scraps of greenhide and a
greasy table with sapling legs driven into the
ground ; who sat anywhere on the floor and took
his dinner off a tin plate placed on his knees, and
asked questions of his watchful dog, and told it
things while the birds of the bush came round the
open door and hopped in and out unmolested ; the
man who never grumbled, whose happinesses were
the silences and solitudes of his surroundings,
whose God was Nature and whose only hell the
toothache.
The selector of regular movements was there —
the methodical man who caught the same old
horse each morning by gladdening the steed’s
heart with the sound of the same few handfuls of
corn rattled in a dish, and always went some-
where. His form was known in the district miles
off. He was a clock to those working in the
fields. They told the time of day by him as he
passed along,
There were people there, too, from the town ;
broken-down “swells” who professed hatred for
the bush and were always going back to the city
—but never started ; polite people who wouldn’t
drink tea out of a saucer; who loved flower
gardens—and grew one geranium in a tin ; whose
daughters declared all the young men around
rouuh because they neglected to lift their hats,
and who came out in holland riding-habits be-
cause they were cheap, and said they were all the
fashion in town.
There was one man who regularly employed
men —who possessed everything necessary about a
farm and 'stored his hay in sheds, and drew
cheaues. He was the squire of the district. He
always travelled to town by train, first-class, and
never said “Good-day” to the neighbors, except
in moments of absent-mindedness. He might
have been worth a thousand pounds ; people often
called him a millionaire and it never worried him.
It made him less absent-minded. He met Minis-
terial parties and influential visitors to the district
at the railway-station, and drove them in a buggy
to his house, and entertained them, and showed
them over the farm, and filled the “special cor-
respondent ’ with inspirations of his (the squire’s)
own enterprise, and ideas about “prosperous
selectors,” and a “district with a future.”
Scattered about in remote places were average
selectors—the plodders; men who poked along
leisurely and reared large families and took re-
verses as cheerfully as they took pills —men who
placed large stones and heavy fencing-material on
the roof to keep it from flying off when there
was any wind (the roof kept the stones from fall-
ing through and shattering the dinner-table when
there was no wind); men who reckoned they could
make money and save, if only the seasons could be
relied on and they had no interest to meet.
And, some distance from each other, a small
school, surrounded by gum-trees, and two un-
painted churches of battered, warlike appearances
raised their heads. The “heathen” school-
children battered them. They frequently quar-
relled over religion on the way from school, and,
as there was no one to read the Riot Act to them,
wrecked each other’s churches with stones.
* * * •
We were not long at Saddletop when we became
acquainted with these people. Many of them
came to welcome us to the district —some to borrow
things.
Miss Wilkins and Miss Mulrooney were among
the first to come. They came one bright afternoon
when the air was fresh and the sky was blue—
when the birds were singing and the butterflies
fluttering—when Dad and Cranky Jack were
trenching for fruit-trees, and Dave and Joe plough-
ing on the plain.
They slid off their horses at the fence surround-
ing the house, and laughed. The laugh was to
attract attention. They stepped on to the veran-
dah and curtseyed, and said it was a “lovely
day.” Mother invited them in. They hesitated
as though time were precious, and Miss Wilkins
said, “We can only stay just a minute, Mrs.
Rudd. ” Then they sat down and poked out the
toes of their boots from under their habits, and
looked through the corners of their eyes at every-
thing in the room, and didn’t go away till dusk.
Miss Wilkins was a stout person, fat and flabby,
and owned to being five-and-twenty. She had
owned to five-and-twenty for sixteen years. She
laced tight, too, and fancied herself thin and
shapely, and Polly Palethorpe and Annie Hayes
(both jammed into one wouldn’t equal her fat)
were objects of astonishment to her.
Miss Mulrooney had a figure, and was only 28.
She had seen some town life, too, and was one of
those who wore a holland habit. There were
hints of vanished finery about her—she was hard-
up, in fact, and strove to conceal her poverty by
putting on airs.
She sat and drank tea and ate scones and fresh
butter with much gusto; praised the provender
every time she reached for more; asked mother
if she made the scones herself —as if she would
call in a traveller or get Dad to bake them !
Miss Wilkins talked to Sal about a dance
that was at the Rise, and Jim Murphy
courting Nor ah Fahey, and old Fahey chasing
Jim with a gun, punctuating her conversation
with loud, cheerful shrieks ; and Miss Mulrooney
told mother in tired tones how hard it was on
them all to have to rough it in the bush after being
so well off in town, used to their carriage and ser-
vants. (Her father, the story went, had been
employed by a lawyer in Brisbane as confidential
clerk. He used to open the “ private ” door when-
ever a client came, which was nearly once a
month, and inquire in a respectful tone of the
empty chair if he was engaged; then hand the
client another chair without making a noise and
steal out into the street to find the lawyer and
drag him in by a back way. She assured mother
(and mother, good soul, believed her and felt
deeply for the family) that she didn’t know how
they would live at all only for the little money
papa was still receiving from the business in town,
as there was nothing at all to be got out of farm-
ing.
And as they talked and drank more tea the
schoolmaster’s wife and Mary O’Reilly and Miss
Perkins approached the house. Miss Wilkins saw
them through the window and whispered to Miss
Mulrooney. Miss Mulrooney fidgeted and was
uneasy. But, recognising the horses fastened to
the fence, the schoolmaster’s wife and Mary
O’Reilly and Miss Perkins turned their heads
away and rode past. They weren’t speaking to
Miss Wilkins or Miss Mulrooney.
» * * *
Gray (the “squire” of the district) came one
morning; he merely looked-in because he hap-
pened to be passing. But he wouldn’t come
inside—that would be making himself “ too
cheap.” Ho stayed in the yard and talked with
an air of superior knowledge to Dad.
“What do you want with a thing like that?”
he said, pointing to a new three-furrow plough.
(He was a stale Conservative who wouldn't see,
and regarded everything new with contempt.)
“To plough with, and save time and labour,”
Dad answered.
“ Save your grandmother ! ” Gray said ; “ I’ve a
couple of single-furrows over there,” he went on,
indicating his farm, “ and I guarantee any of my
men ’ll turn over as much land in a day with any
one of them as you will with that.”
“ Well,” Dad said, “ send a man along with one,
an’ we’ll see.”
“And plough your land for you ?—Yah ! ’’—and
Gray went away.
And Sam Evans came, and stood on the
verandah, bashfully turning an old hat round and
round in his hands, and wouldn’t step inside
because the place was clean. But Barney
Ballantyne would. He said it was “cheaper
sittin’ than stand in’,” and sat down on Sal’s hat
that had been left on a chair, and told Dad lies
about wheat-crops, and he chewed tobacco, and spat
squares and circles till they evolved into carpet
patterns on the cleanly-scrubbed floor.
Many others called, and in due course we
returned their visits; we mixed with them in
their homes, mingled with them abroad, shared
their successes, their prejudices and sympathies,
joined with them in song and sorrow in these new
surroundings, and among new friends and true
friends we faced the vagaries of fortune afresh and
commenced a new life.
STEELE RUDD.
According to a Sydneyite on the staff of
the British general in China, only the Japanese
and the British are treating the natives with any
consideration. The cruelty of the Russians he
describes as fiendish. “Villages are destroyed,
and I cannot write about the fate of the poor
inhabitants. These foreign ruffians think of
nothing but loot, and sable rugs worth probably £5O
are often sold for a few bottles of beer.” The
Russian, be it remembered, is at bottom an Asiatic
himself!


(f
I Gained Flesh Rapidly.
99
If You Are Run Down, Losing Strength, Are Greatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
S
&
m
i
s*
i
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
kL I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my System when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal weight.
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it. ”
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
... -v . ' ;
Gives Yigor to the Nerves. '
AYER’S PILLS act gently; they cure constipation.
SOI
•ffl*
Ptxrvue
Seh-SewC?, 1
BJUMNGDOK.WtM
LONDON.
Ei'TF.
fet
■
w
m
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING)
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chrombs. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted,for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and. Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post'.
•Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
■Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every' Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s l Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide : simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
Jlow to Dance, new work. Is posted,
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How, to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
EVERY Man His Qwn Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.- 1 SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the. numerous .SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of winch can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
NO DECEPTION.
Peopessor : “Now, ladies and gentlemen, I Trill show
you a simple and easy trick about which there is
no deception, and one that all may learn with great
advantage to themselves. In one hand you take a
glass of water, and in the other a few BEECHAM’S
PILLS ; you place the pills upon your tongue and
take a sip of water. The pills will do the rest.”
“STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»<
MAORI LAM P : ai)d Otbcr Verses-
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shilling's (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
sal Remedy for Acidity oi tae Stomacn,
eartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
[DfNNEFORDSi
IMAGNESIA,
wm
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The best remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
Ask for Borin irtg ton's
and see thatyou get it.
COLDS. „ _
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.


Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
■3SOH
|in. x 3 PLY RUBBER.
0 GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
455.
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50a.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
PERDBIAU & CO.
270 G-eorge
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
I S TM E ORIGINAL ... .
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTH INGYOK COMPOUND,
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and
Street
TANGYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best.
Sole Representatives in Australia
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED . .
geitnis, Tears & (Jo.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
BTOCKB CARRIED
sypNcy
MELBOURNE
PERTH *»
COOL6ARPIE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOK THE LAJHE&
C. IFI!EIiT3'E?.X!OG-!Hj &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 yOJUv MltluiOl’, StfDNEJT
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /rom all the colonies promptly
or
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL-—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST— SUPPER.
03XTES THOUSAND PEOPLE ....
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
HERE’S A. SHOlntT STORY. .... * •
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased animals for some
months past. THIS MILK IS BEING SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case;
there are many, alas ! too many of a similar nature.
IIffSFBOTIOsir OJj’ I>A.IRIEI3 J&.TSTT2 OA.TTLB ....
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as well as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugii at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. &I. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis—or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself. , , , • „ ,• ..,
The F.F. and I. Coy., Ltd., is the only Company who has an Inspector in its regular employ. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us ; but if you want to rear
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
U. Pateson,
Manayer.
in.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have in Stock—
Morris Dredging Pumps, Knowles Steam Pumps,
Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagle
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers,
Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Bullock Diamond
Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’
Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore” Feeders, Huntington
Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and
Laundry Machinery, and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
isa
' .
■ts
:
■;
"5M,7
mt
m
*
pJS
MiM
mm
rm
&'r-
mm
. . BEST IN THE WORLD
‘"Grand Prix’ Exposition U'niverselle
PARIS; 1300.
MACHINES^ IN STOCK
AND TO ARRIVE
For every purpose known to the
Woodworking Tracies.
Estimates given for Complete Outfit for Saw Mills, Planing Mills,
Carriage Building Sliops, etc.
AGENTS: H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
General IVlachinery Merchants,
Representative in Queensland:
C. P. CAMPBELL, 12 Creeli-Strcet, Brisbane.
M ptre A3NQAS
$. FREEMAN' # SONS L«^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPKCI Af/TIKS:
TIED
72>
mH
mx
> co
-
■
of HI
Gy:
S.O
GO.
Cl
