

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
Cadbury's Cocoa
The Standard
The Lancet
<3r. W
107 Street, Sydney,
Mining
and Contractors
'EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’
’ Plant, Engineers’ and
AND GENERAL ironmongery. new
Sawmill Machinery,
Mining
Exquisites,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
a
IWcLArEK’3 Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
WINE!
VINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST INE
AUSTRALIA.
&3T- Send for Price List
, Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C% 5 Pittstreet , SYDNEY.
uo.e Agents for <l. & \ . McLARaN, Leeds, England, Makers of Stcs.m Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTCN’B Portable Horizontal and Vertical Stoam Engines;
EtmD.ENrs Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNEB’B Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
THORNE’
That’s All!
il
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
I{ TA 1 NABLIi. AT ALL HQTK I. S AN I) LICENSED GROCERS.
jp
HOBART
adley’s Orient Rotel
TO MSLSOURVE VISITORS.
\V IM I 11 1,1 ’.VGEORGE NOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, SJs. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
p
cull.
/
co
Oj
A M USKM KKT for OLD and LOU KG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different
, co.niprißinsr Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Sby?tj Dance (a book Around and can be carried in vest
Boo H of Conjurinar Tricks, Kiondyke Grub (which
s * oarB lauKliter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
v4|fc?nen in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
asTonislnnent of ail), Wizard Fish ({jives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
instructions enclosed).
TJtis splendid Packet posted to an} r address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 Georjje-street, SYDNEY.
X
U. L. HUTCHINSON, Man.^r.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER)
■
™ E LTIN C
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
IX7 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. F'rankel & 00., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q,;
H. Summers, Burack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter &Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
./RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
71AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
J 2nd Edition. Pries 4/G.
« WILFLEY TABLE.
The Best Ore Concentrator in the World.
N. CUTHRIDCE LTD., Agents, 71 C!arence-st., Sydney; Melbourne, Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
; ; 111 1 1
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
TEACHER’S
HIGHLAND
CREAM
WHISKY
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THIS GKK,:E.A_T . . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEE4 TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 219 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“Wealth of Nations”
T. C. Williams Co.’s
Manufacture.^
TOBACCO.
BEST IMPORTED DARK TOBACCO IN THE MARKET.
IPg~ TRY IT ! TRY IT ! TRY IT »
à
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue arid Miriatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
89g FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
. THE WORLD-RENOWNED
B diswan ■ Lamp.
ISWN4 .w^\
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthies*
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARB SQUARE, SYDNEY. *
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st, Briebaae,
The Bulletin
Voi 21. —No. io-84 j
[Saturday, November 24, 1900.
Fpp”'s +r ;nri at the Genera! Pest Office, FhHnav. for Tr' i nsTn*ss i *on fav "Pos* cs a Wawena-ner.


file Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Verses-. *■
By .Albert Dorrington (“ AlbaDorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350. pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. fid. post- free.
A Hose of Hegret;
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
Xo. IT. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free. - -
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvte. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post'free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adam's. Buckram, gilt
top ; os., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis ( ‘ 1 Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood ; (is. post-free. “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
itSTSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
■
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Ed.wards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane
Hudson’s _
Jujubes
jror
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
Iolss
.-. 'J'J
IN TINS, IS. 6d
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 anj> 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
The Nineteenth Century .
IT has been noted that the men who best repre-
sent philosophic thought in England have
not hesitated to express horror at England’s
endeavour to crush the independence of a
weaker nation in South Africa. Erom Herbert
Spencer downwards they have hung their heads in
shame as the news of bloodshed and pillage came,
of crops and homes burnt, women and children
driven shelterless along the roads—in the name of
Freedom and Civilisation ! And now a thinker
whose repute grows steadily from year to year,
Havelock Ellis, has written “The Nineteenth
Century, a Dialogue in Utopia” (Grant Richards)
to satirise the complacent ignorance which sees in
the successful brutality of the epoch abundant
proof of its grandeur and glory. His little book
will doubtless be wasted on the ruck of readers ;
but here and there he may find, even in England,
those who will realise the force of his reasoning.
He imagines two men of a century far in the
future discussing the achievements of the century
which is just closing: one questions, and the other
responds. And these are some reflections from
the mirror which Havelock Ellis holds up to us.
• • • •
THE WAY THEY MAKE WAR.
We take it as a matter of course, says the Man
of the Future, that the community only exists for
the benefit of the individuals composing it, other-
wise i we should have no need of communities.
They regarded it as natural that the individuals
should exist for the sake of the community. In
the nineteenth century a State was a matter of
life and death, so that every individual was
forced to be a slave to the State ; and at the will
of the officials, who happened to be in charge of
the. State departments, he could at a moment’s
notice be hurled against the cannon of some other
State, whose members —though they might easily
have been his bosom friends—were equally ready
to slaughter him.
You must remember that the love of killing and
being killed had been developed in their blood
and in their traditions for thousands of years, at
least as long as humanity had lived in States, and
until the more ferociously militant elements had
killed each other out and human energy had
been turned into other directions it was bound
to go on. Indeed, it went on beyond that
time, for whereas at first the persons who made
wars themselves fought, at a later period those
who made wars never fought, so that you could,
conceivably, have a condition of things in which
two nations were at war and yet every individual
combatant might prefer to live at peace with the
man whom he was killing or who was killing him.
Even in what they called their democratic com-
munities ware were never made by the men and
women composing the State, but by mere officials,
paid for the purpose and safe-guarded from any
danger of being killed. The officials were aided
by the journalists, whose occupation would have
been endangered by the assurance of peace, and
were heartily supported by the lower orders, who
knew that they themselves would never be called
upon to fight. For as at Rome the rabble
clamoured for bloodshed in their circuses, so they
still yelled, two thousand years later, in their news-
papers for another nation to be slaughtered and
its liberties extinguished.
THE USE OF TRUE RELIGION.
Christianity arose under the heavy hand ot the i
Romans ; it flourished under the heavier hand of
the English, having in the meanwhile undergone
a most extraordinary transformation. If we look ,
minutely into the matter we find that at this
period it was the ferocious northern races of Eu-
rope—the most radically unchristian of all—who
chiefly propagated Bible. The spread of
Christianity in Europe coincides with the deve-
lopment of the barbarian peoples of the North in
the progress of conquest. They found it an ad- ]
mirable instrument in crushing and pacifying
weaker peoples. There is no evidence whatever
to show that their own adhesion to it, except in
case 3 of isolated individuals, was more than
-nominal; there is ample evidence to show that
they expended enormous energy in preaching it
to other people, and in thrusting it on to the
races they subjugated. They looked at the matter
in what they considered a practical spirit, and it
seemed to them perfectly natural that—for the
benefit of other nations—the wealthiest and most
insolent nation of that time should be specially
devoted to preaching the religion of poverty and
meekness. There was no disguise about this, and
the king, the hereditary chief of their armies, was
at the same time the supreme head of their
Church.
One can imagine with what immense satisfac-
tion the English and allied races, who had pil-
laged, slaughtered, even exterminated, the most
feeble and fragile peoples in all quarters of the
globe, carried with them a Gospel which bade
men, on pain of eternal damnation, never to resent
being robbed, and always to turn the cheek to the
smiter. It is difficult not to believe that they
were themselves the inventors of a Gospel so
obviously suited to their purposes ; there is, how-
ever, no ground for this supposition, though it is
certainly true that the Stringent and everlasting
penalties with which they threatened those who
resisted the Gospel had never existed in the
minds of those who had really originated that
Gospel. When they had crushed some small
nation they always presented it with a large stock
of Bibles, which were printed and published by a
national fund established for this purpose ; and as
all sense of humour had been killed out of the
conquered race, the Bibles were generally ac-
cepted thankfully, whether in order to save their
souls, or to obtain a free supply of waste paper,
was not always clear to those who supplied the
Bibles.” . , . . ,
" I understood that it was their industrial pro-
ducts rather than religion that they were really
anxious to thrust on other races.”
“ They were closely connected—the Bible and
shoddy clothes —by which they meant clothes that
were so bad and ugly, or so unnecessary, that no
one would put them on except under the stress of
extreme poverty or at the point of the bayonet.
Thus it was that Militarism, Christianity, and
Commercialism all worked together in the service
of the State.”
“ But were not the so-called civilised countries
also Christian ? • .
“ Nominally, yes. That was necessary m order
to give prestige to the beliefs they imposed on con-
quered races. But they never allowed themselves
to be unduly influenced by Christianity. As a
religious life, Christians accepted a Gospel which
they never obeyed ; as a religious faith, they held
three creeds, all of which they knew to be apocry-
phal.
the mode of government.
Although in those days matters of government
and international politics had an importance
which wte can scarcely conceive, it was never the
custom for any country to seek out diligently its
wisest men and induce them to undertake the
conduct of difficult affairs. On the contrary, any-
ope who would push himself to the front was
allowed _ a free hand. Consequently, instead of
the destinies of a nation being placed in the hands
of its best men, any pert young scion of nobility,
any pushful manfacturer, or idle barrister, was
allowed to direct the fate of a nation. Naturally
the most pugnacious, the most thick-skinned, the
most hypooritical, often the worst scoundrels,
under such a system were bound to form a large
proportion of the ruling men. In the nineteenth
century it was possible to set the three greatest
nations of Europe at each other’s throats in a
disastrous war, merely to satisfy the piq.ue of a
small-minded diplomatist. It was possible to in-
tensify the animosity of races merely to please a
clever politician, conscious that the incurable de-
fects of his nature shut him off for ever from
the gratification of his ambitions, and devoured
by secret rage, thirsty even of infamy.
One would have imagined—if in ignorance of
the ideas of barbarism—that the quarrels of
nations, being of far less vital importance than
the quarrels of individuals, would earlier come to
be settled by legal procedure; for whereas the
fate of an individual may often be involved in a
personal dispute, it could only have made the
slightest difference to any individual whether, for
instance, one European nation or another acquired
some waste tract in Africa. Yet, as ever hap-
pened, nations were sunk lower in savagery than
the individual constituting them, and nations re-
garded right and might as synonymous for some
time after individuals had ceased to do so. When
we consider that nations were merely artificial
units formed (by unscrupulous politicians) for the
purpose of terrorising each other, and that the
whole object of a nation—however virtuous the
individuals composing it might be presumed to be
—was to cheat other nation's, we can well under-
stand that any conception of international
morality was impossible. In the nineteenth cen-
tury, whenever a Government by chance effected
a generous or even just action—if that were pos-
sible—towards another nation, the whole people
clamoured for that Government’s dismissal and
disgrace ; but if it succeeded in hoodwinking,
forestalling or robbing another nation, the whole
people'recognised at once the wise and statesman-
like policy of the Government.
For instance, early in the nineteenth century
there lived at the extreme end of South America
a race of people, wholly untouched by the outside
world, who had yet attained to a high degree of
culture of their own. They possessed a complex
and elaborate language their oral literature,
poetry, and folk-lore was of the highest interest;
they had carried an ideal of courtesy, democracy,
and reverence for mental superiority to a point
still unknown to the Europe of their time ; they
were naked in spite of the cold, and lived on
whale-blubber, and their simple implements were
more efficient under the conditions of their life
than the most complicated machine-made articles.
European visitors were of course impressed by the
degradation in which these people lived ; they
were “savages of the lowest grade.” So the usual
English missionary was sent out. With great
energy he rapidly converted them, clothed them,
built houses for them, with the result that in a
few years they all died of consumption and
meumonia. A people that from time immemorial
lad had a free and independent life was,
under the influence of European civilisation, re-
duced by the end of the nineteenth century to a
mndful of broken-spirited individuals in a mis-
sion house, and the missionary was left the pious
task of gathering together the records of their
culture. The same experiment had already been
carried out, with the same results, in almost every
quarter of the globe ; and one can but admire the
dogged persistency of these Europeans, their blind
Faith in themselves, their sublime indifference
to facts.
“ MORAL FORCE.”
Moral force was a form of militant pugnacity
arising in somewhat abnormal persons whose in-
herited fighting instincts had run into what was,
on the surface, a more social channel. Suppose
that the morally energetic man saw some of his
neighbours doing something he happened to dis-
like, such as going to particular places of worship
or amusement, taking particular fbods or drinks,
reading particular books, or looking at particular
pictures—instead of simply refraining to follow this
example and illustrating the truth of his opinions
in the only way in which they could possibly be
illustrated, by the beauty and excellence of his
own life, he would fight society at large in order
to force the other people to do what he thought
was good. It seemed perfectly natural to him
that whether they had his tastes, or whether they
had not, they should act as if they had. Or,
again, supposing he thought that something was
necessary to be done, it never occurred to him
just simply to do it, and so win other people by
the quiet beauty of his deed to follow his example,
but he would expend vast energy in preaching
to the other people to do it; the special institu-
tions of the press, the platform and the pulpit
were largely kept up for the convenience of these
people.
The English of the nineteenth century seem to
have imagined that they were gaining that empire
of the world. They never seem to have realised
how idle that dream was in face of the fact that at
the very same time their birth-rate was falling
with immense velocity. Their own disappearance
seemed to them as far-off an event as the outcome
of the slow action of denundation in breaking up
their island into a little archipelago of Palaeozoic
rocks.
But it was all “progress.” They were the
dupes of catchwords, and often imagined the pro-
gress lay in the abolition of various institutions
cherished by their forefathers, simply because they
had forgotten the real significance of those insti-
tutions. Thus the men of the nineteenth centuy
prided themselves very much on their hatred of
slavery, and considered themselves greatly
superior to the Greeks and Romans who had
accepted the institution of slavery. They rarely
or never asked themselves what slavery meant,
nor inquired very minutely what the benefit was
which they had conferred upon their own miser-
able masses by giving them a freedom which at
best meant merely servitude with payment in
money instead of its equivalent in the means of
living, and at worst meant the freedom to starve
and die. -
* * * © *
These extracts give the trend of Ellis’s book.
He shows what a crude and futile thing civilised
life is for the majority of the civilised; and how
far we are from the death of the ape and tiger.
He writes sanely and soberly, yet with a cer-
tain grim incisiveness—as of the “civilised”
people “ who never killed their young unmarried
mothers until they had first forced them to
destroy their babies,” or the “ civilised ” age
“ when not only was Jesus regarded as God’s Son,
but, as the most revered English poet of the nine-
teenth Century approvingly declared, Carnage was
‘ God’s daughter.’ ” And his book will reach and
influence, like other books, only those-who are
fitted to be influenced by it; and will be swept
away like a straw on the seething flood of ignor-
ance and brutality which represents by far the
greater portion of human life in Ellis’s era.
The Australian in the Tropics.
As to the Australian in the tropics, Frank
Henty writes from Chillagoe, N.Q.: —
From the point of view of one who has lived on the
inland Q. plateau for a year, N.Q. children, compared
with the well-fed Southerners, seem poor creatures. It
is not that they do not get enough to eat; the food is
there, but milk and vegetables are always scarce, so that
from birth onwards the N.Q. child seems not to be pro-
perly nourished.
Small, yellow-skinned children ; long, gaunt children,
with purple-rimmed eyes and colourless lips; coarse
children, pale and hard-featured ; wiry, fleshless children,
with freckled faces and blue noses —all shrunk-shanked
and wizened and “dog-poor.” That’s what the young-
sters are in this part-of N.Q. ; they have been born here,
or lived here most of their lives, and are soon used to
fetch and carry and slave, and they do not show up, well
against Southern,children of the same class.
And the child fathers the man ; for the full-grown
Queenslander who has been here for many years presents
a faded, battered appearance ; he has a sallow skin, not
burnt healthily by the sun, but blotched and seared and
bloodless. The “ imported ” white always loses flesh on
his arrival, whether he can afford it or not! If he has
little, he runs to less, and is easily affected by wasting
influences. After serious fevers, flesh is not easily
regained, and its restoration js in no way assisted by the
diet available. The new arrival, in most cases, suffers
also a loss of virile vigour ; his desires are easily con-
quered—unnaturally so; and he is subject to weakening
sicknesses of a passing nature. Work is often inter-
rupted bv periods of utter enervation : and much sleep
seems necessary, for the man who works goes to his bunk
at a very early hour. .
A strong-minded man may prosper here, if he is fortu-
nate, and keeps his health ; but it is not strong-minded
men who come across from the coast. They are a loose,
purposeless crowd—men who easily become careless and
ambitionless ; or, if they have ambition, it is a poor sort
and rings hollow.. Then, another drawback. The death-
by-beer list at Townsville is, as everyone knows, a long
one ; drink is just as serious a matter inland, for we can’t
dp without our beer, whether there’s strychnine in it or
not. People who “ know anything ” regard this adultera-
tion business as the First. Evil—and so it is.
The adventuring Southerner who comes here to make
money clears out after a few months, if lie is lucky >
if he is not, he rots where he is—and sooner or later takes
to beer-excess. - These are personally observed facts ; I
write of the working-class ;. I have not exaggerated ; and
I am not a pessimist.
* » * *
“Mitty” writes from Mackay—
Saturday night, after working all day among the
sugar-cane. . .
The end of Dr. Ahearne’s address is a plea for coloured
labour in the tropics; and by coloured labour I
opine he means the kanaka, as do the majority in
the North. And at the beginning he raises the
question whether or no the white man in the
tropics has “ overstepped the bounds of his habitation.”
Well . . . it might be called a penalty to sacrifice a huge
frame for lithe hardiness ; but this is only Nature accom-
modating man to the climate he has to live in.
So long as a man can do a good day’s work; resist
fatigue; become refreshed by his night’s sleep; and be
able to go to his work day after day, it cannot be said
that he is deteriorating. This the North Queenslander is
well able to do. Compare North Queensland’s vital
statistics with those for the rest of Australia, and it Will
be found that the North Queenslander lives the
average age—rigors (?) of climate notwithstanding.
N.Q. can show as large an ' amount of work
done per head of white population as any other
part of our continent. It may be said that it was
the pioneers who did the work. They certainly, began if ;
but their sons keep it going ; and who will say that these
are not doing it well '!
Big body-measurements are not the sole aim of the
human race. They may be desirable ; but if they cannot
chime with the: climate they must be done without.
The average kanaka does not reach the N.Q. white native’s
standard of body-development. The kanaka cannot out-
work the white ; and any employer of labour in the North
will bear testimony that the kanaka is the best of all
the coloured people for work.
I know the kanaka ; I have worked side by side with
him ; I have been working alongside him to-day. The
kanaka is at his working best in his third to sixth
year in Queensland. The.crushing is his idea of “big
fella work.’ K.ll ’im grass”— i.e., hoeing among the
cane —i s nothing. He generals out the slack season ; and
he is a good general.
And yet during the crushing (the cane harvesting) I
have never seen the white man who, when he gets into
the work, and is any way willing, cannot- overtake the
Kanaka. And for clearing country, all kinds of rough
and axe work, the Kanaka does not compare with the
native-born white. Taking into consideration the amount
of work done by white and black, and the pay they re-
ceive for it, the black man is cheaper than the white ;
also he is surer, for he has to work under not less than a
six-months agreement. Hence the yearning desire of the
North Queenslander to keep his black boy. But man for
man, and wages for wages, even in the hottest parts of Aus-
tralia the white man would be preferred.
Mark this: if the Federal Parliament can arrange the
great agricultural industry of the North (for it is an in-
dustry of national import to Australia) so that the sugar-
growers will get not less than five shillings more per ton
for their cane, the Kanaka and all other coloured gentle-
men can go. And N.Q. scrubs will be cleared and in-
habited by a prosperous white population ; and will prove
to the world that the Tropics were’ made, for settlement
not by any one particular race, but by any of all the
races of the Earth who choose to settle there.
Writes E. Wilson Dobbs —
I have read “Castro’s Last Sacrament” with much
interest. It is undeniably powerful, graphically and
dramatically, striking both the historic and histrionic
note, and emphatically epigrammatically written. I
thus regret that—from a perhaps too hypercritically cor-
rect artistio standpoint—the shockingly startling but
certainly olever climax to the stirring story giving book
it's title seems to me to be anachronistic, if not incredi-
ble. As a young student of Church (polity I naturally
recollect reading that the year A.D. 1263 witnessed the
cup being withheld from the laity in the Western or Latin
Catholic Church sacrament. '
I am, of Course, aware that in the Eastern or Greek and
Russian Church, they do administer the Holy Eucharist
in both kinds. There are also, I know, a few curious in-
stances in which the original practice continued in the
(Roman) Catholic Church. The King of France always
took the cup. The Bohemians extorted the use of it
from the Pope ; and in one of the Bohemian churches
two chalices remain which were carried at the head of
the Hussite armies. The laity in England were long con-
ciliated by having unconsecrated wine ; the Abbot of
Westminster always administered the cup to the King
and Queen at the coronation ; and in the three northern
churches of Jarrow, Monkwearmouth, and Norham it was
given till A.D. 1515.
I am prepared to allow besides that the cup is not abso-
lutely withheld from laymen even now, being sometimes,
I understand, given in cases of sickness—though extremely
rarely. And its retention is not from the laity, as such, so
much as from all, whether priests or laymen, that are not
actually officiating. It began, probably, like the denial of
the Communion to infants, from an apprehension lest the
chalice should be spilt in going to and fro, or lest the
sacred liquid should adhere to the beards or moustaches
of the bristling -warriors of the Middle Ages. With the
justification of its general omission, as a polemical point,
lam hot now concerned. Suffice to say, I consider It is
so generalli / omitted in the celebration of the (Roman)
Catholic Sacrament.
The reply may be—“ But Castro belonged to the
Eastern Greek or Russian Church.” Then Father Lynch
must have also belonged thereto, which appears less
likely than that some special indulgence by the (Roman)
Catholic Church had been granted to Castro. Yet even
then would not the priest have had to first participate?
And how was it that he escaped being poisoned ? Or is it
that Julia as a reincarnated Luerezia, out-Borgiaing the
Borgias, was also a sorceress—somewhat after the style
of the sorcerer Simon Magus ?
■ . ‘ \ O. _' ■
Ethel Turner writes, in “.Three Little Maids,”
another of her pleasant stories about children.
Those who have been interested in the series
which “Seven Little Australians” commenced
will find the new book equally charming with the
old. ; ;
Artist Tom Roberts decides to go to England—
“it may be better; and it can’t be worse.” And
as a parting shot lie holds a picture show at
Sydney 'Society of Artists’ Rooms, and exhibits
many examples of his dexterity and versatility.
His scope ranges from yellow Australian land-
scapes to portraits, and back l?y way of ideal
heads to purple landscapes of Maoriland’s South
Island. There is water-colour, oil, and pastel;
there are subjects, for all tastes, and prices for all
pockets. And a picture of old Newcastle pier,
at only 7gs., seems to hold more softness and
sympathy than anything else in the room.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charged
for Selling Wool J
2 k per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents rMiy
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OE YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYiSMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 For Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
Su&raofeed
oo
B
Cs
S5 O< *
lo break or burr).
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
cc&ck or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
BRIAR
idick simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
IST THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
a
NOM€ OUTFIT
1 Gramophone,
24 Selected Records,
200 Reedies
FOR
£lO.
Carriage Free to any Rail Station or Port.
All Talking Machines, Records, &c., on Sale
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
IF, i T. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
Publications.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
w CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
à
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LIUSTRATED
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
m
Rare Books and . .
Books for the Married
Extra Special
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
WILL ANDRADE,
'2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
pavted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
potters* and FI-FTEEN HUNDRED tit bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. (id. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the boolc by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
piueas with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co
Waterloo Chambers, 458 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tins paper when writing.
TRICOLOGy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
üblishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
. EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. C. T. DAYIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter—
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.” .
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
IAPILLARINEJi
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra „
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS:
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680*682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
2J
o
o
This i
our Only Charge to the Groiver.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~Td WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Wooigrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE. ■
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION | per Ceat.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising; Cataloguing, etc;), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and Over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of NEarsupial Skins held. Weekly.
Regd.
LAWRUS
! J
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TORE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
«»
ouzm/id
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
1>
V*
V
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers—fl\. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Uu
m
mudr
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
i
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmenr, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUPPER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life ban
be restored to you. These beautifully andperfeotly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insorpnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, GiddinesSv General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old* are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, Comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands* 1
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attainments 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carnage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Eleetrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, HoUart.
Newcastle 0. Dec.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares
in the above.
Name
Address
SUMMER C. Dec. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address.
CARRINGTON S. Dec. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£
Brighton P. Jan. 1,1901.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name ; I
t • ■ \
. " ' / i
Address -
V :
__shares in the above.
s
s
Newmarket H. March 2,1901.
1100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me__ shares in above.
Fame -
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care ;>Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
1. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
— 6iVc B«St Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
X
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarerice Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways Of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
fiyiD
" R£C°mi<KC
IriviOifTiofl
AdDlTpd,
fcrVous
AGE
A
Why do you
sit calmly and
just let your
hair all fall
out or get
gray and do
nothing to
stop it ? Is
this common
sense? Not a
bit of it. No
need of losing
your hair in this way. And
there is no need of your look-
ing old before your time,
either. The hair may be
pres erved
and made
beautiful
by giving
it the food
found in—
It always
restores
H&in
visor
color to gray or faded hair.
Your hair may have all the
dark, rich color of early life.
Then why not have it so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
* 6 DOWKIDGE’S’’
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SFECIA-Ij wotice.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
ALL POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to be then distributed.
The Amount of CASH BONUSES distributed among the participating policy-holders during the single year 1899
was £510,771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). Every Year a Bonus Year.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or through
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS—Sir J P Abbott, K.0.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman ; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary —RlCHAßD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
v- Hvvm^fV
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 103.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SW Send for a
Catalogue.
á
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For (I)ore Than Qne Hundred Heirs
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition Such a record could not he
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kiuds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOOOULL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT Bagot Rd.Suhiaco, Perth,W.A.&6B.King St.,Melbourne
U.s.w. Carriage & Saddlery Manf
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company
SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 4.5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
' 3-Spring Sulkies, 4.7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, jell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every des> ri.ptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder.’ HARNESS and S\DDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Itedfern Railway Station).
OIIK 81'KCIATj \o. 2
£8 18/6
â
Delivered at any Wharf er
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Presidential candidate Bryan lately ad-
dressed the Irish Convention at Chicago. Said
someone : “ Mr. Bryan’s proper name is O’Brien,
the descendant of kings. “ No,” adroitly replied
Bryan, “ I’m none of that. My ancestors never
turned their Bryan into O’Brien. They stuck to
Democracy.”
The British unionist is woefully behind
times in some matters. At the 33rd Annual
Trades Congress held at Huddersfield, Ben Tillett
moved in favor of the passing of a Compulsory Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act and the appointment
of a Judge and Court with power to enforce awards.
The proposal was defeated—246,ooo unionises
voting for and 939,000 against.
The already-commenced erection of the
Shell Transport Co.’s depot at Williamstown,
Melb., for Borneo kerosene, promises permanent
employment to at least 200 persons. In a few
weeks'the first tank-steamer will be on the scene,
and business commenced. This Co. will have a
long pull over the Yankee Standard Oil Trust, as
it will ship, in bulk and case, the stuff here in
sizes to suit all classes of consumers. It will also
have a big advantage in the matter of coal-
ing facilities for return voyage.
Gallows and Ghoul.
We have dropped our Father Adam, we have sunk
our Mother Eve,
We must record have and reason for the tale we
now believe ;
And the story of the Serpent with his crooked
ways of guile
We’ve consigned it to the heathen who is gullible
and vile.
But we’ve still a precious heirloom from the peer-
less days of old ;
There’s a remnant that we cherish as the miser
hugs his gold :
We are clinging, clinging warmly—though the
days are getting cool
To the Jolly Jolly Gallows and her Merry Merry
Ghoul!
Through the dreamy dusk of Ages she has pushed
a bony arm,
O’er the heads of nodding nations she distils a
subtle charm;
In her noose so neat and natty there’s relief for
every pain,
There’s a cure for every heartache and a balm for
every brain ;
And she stands beside the Churches who ignore
her presence nigh,
A demure and shabby sister— who can also point
on high;
She is chapel, she is preacher, she is pedagogue
and school,
Is the gentle Madame Gallows with the merry,
merry Ghoul.
She’s a being most unlovely, yet we prize her
presence so
That, although we sometimes jeer her, we can
never let her go;
We may lose a King or Kaiser, we may drop the
Lord a-lee,
But we may not break the tether to our ancient
Family Tree;
For we wot of grim forefathers in the nation’s
morning-tide
Whom she dipt within her bosom at the moment
when they died,
And for this and other favours in the bitter days
of dule
We uphold the jolly Gallows and her merry,
merry Ghoul!
She’s the queerest old conveyance to the gleaming
Golden Gate ;
She’s a curious sort of cradle for a drowsy human
pate,
For she rocks you back and forward till your
paltry troubles cease,
And she whispers to you gently: “Weary
human, be at peace ! ”
And a dreamy opiate-shudder sends a thrill
through ev’ry vein,
And you tread the air so lightly in your flight to
bliss or bane—
He were worse than blind blasphemer, he were
mere deluded fool
Who could breathe a breath of slander on the
Gallows and her Ghoul.
In our progress to perfection, in our march to
yonder goal,
There are many means of lifting puny body into
soul;
But the one we pin our faith to when all other
methods fail
Is the noosing of the Savage to the Harlot in the
gaol;
For we count the sinner shriven to his black and
bitter core
When she gives her kiss of quittance, and she
bids him “ Sin no more ! ”
Oh, a brace of guides romantic to the brink of
Lethe’s pool
Are the jolly, jolly Gallows and her merry, merry
Ghoul!
We are losing (I repeat it) what our fathers once
adored,
But we clutch our gentle goddess with her neck-
lace made of cord ;
And beside the burly flogger, with his bonny legal
■ flail,
We’ll enshrine her and entwine her in a temple’s
lofty pale.
She’s a lass that’s always laden witli a fruit about
to fall,
She’s a ladder up to Aidenn, she’s a drop to Sheol’s
hall,
She’s the Rock our creed is built on—she’s the
symbol of our rule —
Is the jolly, jolly Gallows and her merry, merry
Ghoul !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


FOREIGWT stamps.
SETS.—2 Orange Free
State, surcharged V.R.1., Is ;
11 Canada, including Map, 6d ; 50
2s ;15 Russia, 6d; 8 Sweden
Official, 6d ; 16 Roumania, 6d ; 6
Luxembourg, 3d ; 9 Canada Duty,
6d. Packets 50, Different, Is ; 100,
2s 6d. Gibbons’ Stamp Catalogue,
, , 2 Parts, 4s 6d. Stamps Purchased.
D?DON we 1 1 46 U StVlen k n^ e^-' B:ratis - CHARLES
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
gr
mrnm?
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 189 S edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-street, Sidney.
yne Australian Widows’ fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
the usual forms of*Assuraiice, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
». case oTpermanen^iim^.pacit^throiJS'h thr ° U * h '° ear " * liVeliho ° d
it c- . Board of Directors :
Hon J°H ('AR ENVVICK ’ MD > M L -° > Chairman;
"■ CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
"ted Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
WrtfteSp^WP r „'s"l C ,T 263 OEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
prospectus.; GEO. p _ MURNIN> Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £,900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DJESfY COMFJETIXIOW.
WINES **• “ b£* °*> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
£ood Tailoring.
SUMMER.
lAgtit Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
. TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
" A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style,
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
JIT
14/6.
ã
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENGLISH BOOTS. NO BETTEB MADE.
76a PITT ST., near Union Bank,
and 318 GEjDRGi: ST., .near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
‘JSllenburgs* Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “Allenburys ”
The “Allenburys”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life
Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
Or'catcsi Demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best*
Yankee Doodle at the Front!
An incident in the Boer war as related by a returned Officer.
. - ...
*A regiment of our Australian infantry was travelling (as depicted in
■» the smaller photograph) to Belmont. At Graspan we were
mm
• v - v :>
C%v
„ ’Mhisijjt i
»,*
iS»MSWs«Wi»
: :
-' r ‘ „ * * -,
*
■f
entertained by the
garrison of Gordon
Highlanders sta-
tioned there, and
when taking our
departure by rail
were accorded the
customary musical
send - off by the
garrison band,
which, on this occa-
sion, consisted of
two drummers and
a piper. As our
train moved off Ij
heard the cry on
all sides from our
boys ‘Yankee Doodle!!’ ‘Yankee Doodle!!’ and there in the distance
was an almost exact representation, of the Yankee Doodle tobacco brand
so familiar to all Australians. The band after seeing us aboard were
returning back along the road to camp, and as we passed they sturdily
marched and played, whilst we, with the familiar tableau before us
reminding us so of home, cheered wildly. I instantly took out my kodak,,
and, although the train -was moving fast, secured a fairly good picture,
with the idea that perhaps my friends (the Dixsons) in Australia would like
to have it. On many a weary march afterwards, when smoking the army
regulation tobacco,, did we long for just one pipe of the old far-off favorite.”
• “'~*zrr?T —h
' ',. V M Wy>l t ..pT--.-. —-*-•;
■ '
tK^X') \* v< rB. v V '''. ♦, "; B V
.
:
ISll
■MiM
■ - Bill
-1
;■ :■•■«
:
i
. ;v
■
■


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 21.—N0. 1084.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1900.
Price 6d.
PPREMIER LYNE (loq.): “THERE, TAKE THEM; BUT YOU MUST WEAR A PETTICOAT OVER THEM,”
(N.S.W. Premier Lyne will give women the suffrage, without the right to sit in Parliament.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... &1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xhe Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with portage added where required -
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good, idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i. 6. , any picture which has to be re-drawn will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Comhul.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—-R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
\vostaqe on Interprovincial Newspapers , the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with Ss. Sd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland l
Owing to the imposition of postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special 1 hynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth: The
Federal Premier.
When Governor-General Hopetoun arrives
as Chief Ornamental Figurehead for Austra-
lia he will naturally “send for” someone to
form a Federal Ministry. That individual,
if he can get together any kind of a Ministry,
will presumably be Premier until the first
Federal Parliament meets. Then it will be
for the Federal Parliament to either confirm
llopetoun’s nominee in his office, or to eject
him and signify in the best way it can who
shall be his successor. The Premier that
Hopetoun appoints doesn’t necessarily
matter much, for until confirmed in his office
by Parliament he is a mere stopgap. But
the Premier that the first Federal Parlia-
ment either appoints or confirms in his
position will matter a great deal. The man'
who holds the chief office in the Common-
wealth for the first three years or so will have
unique opportunities for making or marring
Australia. He should be the best organ-
iser that Australia possesses, for the whole
departmental machine has to be created.
Many a second or third or tenth-rate man
has held office and done well enough
because he inherited well-organised de-
partments and good departmental heads,
and had sense enough to be guided
by their experience. But no such
man will do adequately for the first Pre-
mier of the Commonwealth, for he has not
only to start without departments to assist
him, but also to create them. He should be
a man with an enormous capacity for work,
and for getting work out of others, for the
labour of rightly constructing the machine of
Government will necessarily be enormous.
He needs an infinite capacity for detail, and
a comprehensive grasp of large things as
well He requires to be an admirable
financier, for he doesn’t inherit a fiscal
system ; he has to create one. Many a
man can go right in his finances when he
inherits a ready-made system, yet cannot
make a system. Also many a man can in-
herit a workable system of finance, and can
go wrong even then, through inherent
crookedness and a lamentable incapacity to
even stand by intelligently, and he could
still less be trusted to create a new system.
On the one question of taking over and con-
verting the State debts a good financier
might save Australia £20,000,000, while an
inferior one might make a loss of £20,000,000.
Then in addition, the first Federal Premier
requires to be a good democrat, for demo-
cratic as the Federal Constitution is, it can
be surreptitiously perverted to the ends of
Toryism by a Tory Ministry, or even by a
Democratic Ministry which hasn’t the cour-
age of its convictions. That first Ministry
has to fix the Federal franchise ; to resolve
whether the Commonwealth shall endeavour
to take over the railways and make them
a really national system, or whether they
shall remain the five disjointed hostile
fragments they are now ; it has to keep out
niggers and Chinamen or let them in ; to
decide whether the Federal capital and the
surrounding area shall be the people’s pro-
perty for ever and a great source of public
revenue, or whether they shall go to enrich
boomsters and syndicates ; to decide
whether the Northern Territory—which
will presumably be handed over to
the Commonwealth Government —shall be
jobbed away for a song to foreign boodlers
and land-stealers, and Vines and Bottom-
leys, or preserved for the people by a wise
system of land legislation ; and also, if it
decides in the latter direction, it has to make
that wise system of land legislation.
• * * *
Then it has to evolve a wise tariff out of
chaos and a good excise system out of noth-
ing in particular. It has'to start the Com-
monwealth on a spendthrift and downward
career of borrowing and financial destruction,
or it has to know enough to see that it is
best to do without borrowing, and also to
know enough to know how to do without
borrowing. It has to decide for or against
State banking, State note issue, State life
assurance ; to make a sensible law dealing
with life assurance in general in order to
prevent its people being fleeced by bogus
companies ; and to settle questions of land-
tax, graduated land-tax, income-tax and
absentee-tax. It has to deal with huge
labor problems and Old Age Pension prob-
lems, and problems about bounties ;
to construct a Federal capital, and do other
things without number. Merely by reason
of the necessity for making the law uniform
on many points the first Federal Ministry
must deal with an immense number of
matters ; and according as it deals with them
wisely or unwisely, in a progressive or a
Tory spirit, so will it start the whole Federal
legislative system along the right path or the
wrong one. And the first Federal Ministry
will be, to a great extent, a reflex, for good
or evil, of the first Federal Premier. Aus-
tralia never attempted a more tremendous
problem than when it set itself to consider
the question of selecting the first political
head of all Australia.
• * * *
And yet, with all this depending on the
issue, and despite the fact that an incapable
Premier might easily, in three years, involve
Australia in a hundred million pounds or
more of needless loss merely by starting
things the wrong way, there is hardly a word
to be heard about the necessity for selecting
the best man for the position. About the
empty foolish vanity of grabbing the posi-
tion for the man from “our State,” quite
regardless of his capacity, plenty can be
heard at every street corner. About the
claims of this man or that man, because he
is the Premier of the oldest State, or
because he has been in some billet longer
than some other man, plenty of whirling
eloquence can be met with in daily papers
and public-houses. The Scotch George Reid
is recommended, not because he has a single
qualification for the position, but because he
suggested the Federal Convention which met
at Hobart in ’95. Edmund Barton, because
he was a noble, persistent and eloquent
advocate of the principle of Federation, is
said to have an indubitable claim on the
billet of chief Federal organiser, administra-
tor and financier —this despite the fact that
no one ever knew Edmund Barton to
possess a semblance of financial ability, or to
have any administrative capacity worth
mentioning; and his polished periods are
held to give him a right to steer the demo-
cratic constitution from his own Tory
standpoint. The very ordinary and unex-
citing Lyne is also said to have claims. Ris
abilities are of the dull, wooden routine order
only, but he is accidental temporary head of
the “ mother State ” and it is alleged to be a
point of honor that the mother State should
force its casual adopted Tasmanian on
Australia, even if he should run Australia’s
affairs to wreck. There are also claims based
on the fact that somebody will insist
on having the Federal capital close to
Sydney, and the claims of somebody who will
look after the Calico Jimmy interest, and the
claims of almost everybody except the man
with the one qualification that counts for
everything-—the man whose record points to
him as the best and strongest combination
of good democrat, good organiser, and good
financier.
• * * *
No politician has a claim based on any-
thing except fitness for the position. The
politicians who represent the oldest State,
or the youngest State, or the biggest State,
or the smallest State, or the State with most
people, or least people, or the heads of the
driest or the wettest subdivision of the Com-
monwealth, should all be tested by that one
test, and no other. The newest or the
oldest Premier are both alike—even J ohn
Forrest, with the longest continuous term
of office, and the headship of the biggest
State, has no more lien on the billet of Oilier
of the Commonwealth than any other man,
unless he can show the necessary quali-
fications. The politician who repre-
sents the most populous or the
largest State has no more prescriptive
right than the one who represents
the most populous or the largest con-
stituency. The Premier of the oldest
State, and the oldest Premier, and the oldest
inhabitant in the Benevolent Asylum stand
exactly on a par, unless they can show
special fitness and special ability. Aus-
tralia, it is true, owes a special debt to
Edmund Barton as a most conspicuous,
untiring, and unselfish advocate of union.
Barton has a claim on the best billet that
Australia can give him and that he is quali-
fied to fill, and the well-paid life billet of
Federal Chief Justice might be that billet.
But he has no claim on any position that he
isn’t qualified to fill—neither the chief com-
mand of the military forces, nor the control
of the navy when Australia has one, nor the
Federal Premiership. All that Australia
knows of him as a practical administrator is
that he was Attorney-General for about
two years in two rather unsuccessful Minis-
tries, that he has never been suspected of
any special financial ability, that he was
never a Premier, that he never con-
spicuously identified himself with any demo-
cratic measure except the Commonwealth
Bill, and that he never organised any-
thing in particular. Even with all his
ardor and eloquence for the establishment
of the Commonwealth, he never fought for
the democratic features of the Common-
wealth Bill as many others did. And it
would be a poor reward for all Edmund
Barton’s services to put him into the pre-
carious billet of Federal Premier, to be
ejected probably in a few months with a
wrecked reputation through his utter un-
suitableness to the position. It would be
just as kind to reward the Federal, services
of that able and intensely-practical financier,
George Turner, by appointing him Poet
Laureate to the Commonwealth at a high
salary, so that his name might be handed
down to public derision as the worst bard in
this or any other country.
* * * *
George Reid, the most utterly-disginoed
financier in Australia (bar only Duncan
Gillies, of Victoria), and very nearly the
most incapable administrator in Australia to
boot, and certainly the most ridiculous
political clown who ever attained high office
in this country, has already appointed him-
self leader of the Foreign-trade party in the
Federal Legislature. His claim on the posi-
tion is that he is the most unscrupulous pur-
veyor of unreliable Foreign-trade statistics
in these States ; and that he was for five
years a Freetrade Premier without daring to
practise the faith that he said was in him.
If there is a Foreign-trade Federal Ministry
at any early date he will probably be its
leader, despite his financial and administra-
tive incapacity, merely by reason of his
clowning, his imaginary statistics, and his
readiness to sacrifice the interests of all Aus-
tralia to those of a few importers. And in
the meantime, having no immediate visible
chance himself, George Reid is cheerfully
willing to back up the claims of either Lyne
or Barton (Lyne for preference) to be the
first Protectionist Premier of all Australia.
His anxiety to select the leader of the Pro-
tectionist party, and to select a leader who is
likely to associate it with administrative in-
capacity, administrative failure, and financial
muddlement, is truly touching. Reid
is in the position of Napoleon before
Waterloo demanding the right to nomin-
ate the commander of the opposing army.
Reid’s plea is the imaginary right of
the man from the “Mother State” to
have the highest Federal office, quite re-
gardless of his fitness. And it is an especially
wily plea in more ways than one. Not only
is he cheerfully prepared to saddle the Pro-
tectionists of Australia with the least promis-
ing leader that has any reasonable hope of
getting the position, and to associate Protec-
tion with administrative and financial in-
capacity, but to create dissension in the party
by inducing theN.S.W. Protectionists to de-
mand that their State shall supply the Protec-
tionist leader while the other ones furnish the
bulk of the Protectionist following. In all
his career of dodgery George Reid never
looked so artful as in his readiness to
saddle his enemy’s incapacity on the Pro-
tectionist party in general, to associate the
party with his enemy’s failures, to select a
nice, easy antagonist for himself, and inci-
dentally, to uphold the claims of N.S.W. to
the Premiership, whereby George Reid, of
N.S.W., has all the better show for the re-
version of the Premiership later on.
* * * *
The first essential, as already mentioned,
is to get the best combination of good
administrator, good financier, good fighting
Democrat and good Protectionist for the
Federal chieftainship. If the N.S.W. Pro-
tectionists allow themselves to be saddled,
and try to saddle all Australia, with an in-
capable and unprogressive leader, merely
because he comes from their own State, and
allow their policy to be associated with in-
capacity and Toryism out of mere parochial
prejudice, so much the worse for their cause
and for Australia. If the N.S.W. Democrats
allow themselves to be saddled, and try to
saddle all Australia, with a chief whose
financial and administrative incapacity will
make the democratic programme synonym-
ous with failure, insolvency, and confusion,
so much the worse for their cause and for
Australia, and so much the better for the
Fat Man party, whose tools they will
thereby become. N.S.W. has got the
Federal capital, and the naval and military
head-quarters, and the Governor-General, and
the Commonwealth celebration, and it can get
the Federal Chief-Justiceship for the asking.
It can also get a fair share of the Federal
portfolios and other billets. But seeing that
there are such enormous chances for the
first Federal Premier to make or mar Aus-
tralia’s fortunes, and that the difference
between having a brilliant financier and able
democrat or a mere ordinary politician
may easily amount to £100,000,000, and
THAT N.S.W. MUST STAND A LARGER SHARE
OE THIS LOSS THAN ANY OTHER STATE, N.S.W.
can’t afford to put any but the best available
man in the position. It is possible to pay
too high a price for the questionable honor
of having the Scotchman Reid, or the Tas-
manian Lyne, or even the cornstalk-born
Edmund Barton in the position.
* * * *
The reasons why The Bulletin has per-
sistently nominated C. C. Kingston, of
South Australia, as the most fitting person
to be head of the first Federal Government
have no relation to the part of Australia he
comes from, or the size of the State he
represents, or any considerations outside
himself. Even the fact that he is an Aus-
tralian does not weigh in the least. King-
ston’s claims are these : He was always a
good Federationist, and fought hard for
Federation as far back as 12 years ago, while
George Reid was still clowning it in the
sloughs of Provincialism, and when Lyne
was the same anti-Federalist he is now. He
is the one living Australian Premier who
has fought fur the democratic cause every
time and all the time. He was six years
continuously in office as Premier of
South Australia, and office, which has
corrupted so many good democi’ats,
left him the same consistent Liberal
as before. He has been constantly
thwarted by an immovable, property-elected
Upper House, but despite the ruin of one
scheme after another, he has never wearied
or lost heart. He drafted and tried to pass
a comprehensive Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion law before even progressive Maoriland
had got that length. He has fought con-
stantly against cheap alien labor. He passed
a valuable Employers’ Liability Bill, and
was practically the pioneer of this kind of
legislation in Australia. He originated the
famous graduated land-tax and absentee-tax
for the breaking up of big estates. He
created a State Land Bank, and originated
the measure for the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement. He has been
a good and consistent Protectionist, an
opponent of sweating, and an advocate of
Old Age Pensions, the minimum wage, and
the leasing principle as opposed to the sale
of State lands. In the Federal Convention
he fought with the tenacity of a big man with
a square under-jaw for every democratic fea-
ture in the Commonwealth Constitution. And
he is the only—absolutely the only —con-
sistent and fearless democrat in Australia,
who has also proved himself, during a long
term of office, a respectable financier, an
able administrator and organiser, a tireless
worker, and a man whose sympathies with
the poor don’t deteriorate in the glare of a
salary and a portfolio.
* * * *
These are the reasons why The Bulletin
nominates Kingston as the best possible
Federal Premier in sight. By electing him
as their leader the Protectionists will not only
get a Protectionist, but one who will asso-
ciate Protection with the most advanced and
intelligent Liberalism. By selecting him as
their leader the democratic party will not
only choose the best available demo-
crat, but the only prominent Aus-
tralian democrat who is reasonably
certain, by virtue of his past record, to
associate their cause with that of honest and
capable government, and not make it
synonymous with administrative failure. Of
course Kingston may degenerate as so many
other good democrats have degenerated, but
at all events he is a long while about it.
Among the man with the good record who
may degenerate some day but who shows
no signs of it as yet, and the man with (he
bad record who may improve but isn't likely
to, and the man with no particular record
who may very improbably wake up in his
declining years, there should be no hesitation
about choosing the first.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pro-Chow Jingo Traitor.
The recent enthusiasm of Queensland Premier
Philp on behalf of Britain’s enemy, the China-
man, and his impassioned demand that that
enemy shall still be allowed to pour into Queens-
land, and his general attitude of fervid Chow
eulogy, are rather curious features of Australian
“ loyalty.” Philp, be it observed, isn’t an isolated
case. The Tory party in Australia lias been the
head and centre of the late vast outburst of
Jingoisip, audit has yelled the reproach “Pro-
Boer” with awful fury at everybody who was
even suspected of not being gory enough in his
mental attitude towards Britain’s comparatively
humane and respectable white enemy in S’Africa.
Yet the same party is the head and centre of the
Chinese cheap-labor movement—and has been all


through the treasonable friend and coddler and
practical supporter of the brutish yellow man,
whose deathless hatred of Britain so lately flamed
out afresh in Asia. Consider the relative merits
of the situation :
(1) The Boer and the Chinaman both disliked and
despised the Briton. The difference was that the Briton
dwelt in peace and safety in Boerland. In proportion to
the number of British residents in the country the crimes
committed upon British subjects in the Transvaal, and
also the unpunished crimes committed on British subjects
in the Transvaal, were less than those committed on
British subjects in Australia. The Chinaman’s hostility
was of a different kind. It amounted to about this : that
in many parts of China merely to be a Briton was almost
equivalent to sudden death.
(2) The Boer and the Chinaman each wanted to shift
the Briton out of his country.
(3) The Boer Government started the shifting process
with an open and honest declaration of war. The Chinese
Government commenced by inciting mobs to ferocious
murder.
(4) The Boer treated his British prisoners with a
humanity beyond even the ordinary customs of many
civilised nations. There is nothing in his war record to
compare even remotely with such horrors as those of
Andersonville prison in the U.S. civil war, or with many
more like episodes, among civilised white races. And
the Chinaman burned bis prisoners over slow fires, and
dragged naked white women through the streets with their
breasts cut off, and led white men about still alive with
hot cinders in their empty eye-sockets.
(5) The Boer never endangered the Empire. He re-
presented a population of 150,000 (or, including his fellow-
countrymen in Cape Colony, of perhaps 600,000), men,
women and children all counted. There weren’t enough
of him to make one good-sized British city. And he was
cut off from all prospect of assistance, and could raise no
international complications. The Chinaman has en-
tangled Britain in complications with Russia and France,
has set Russian aggression going again in Asia, and has
awakened a new and stupendous Eastern problem of
which no one can see the end.
Unless anyone proposes to set up the absurd
theory that the Briton is a most ungenerous
individual, and never forgives the enemy who has
beaten him iii a fair fight, the attitude of the
Jingo-Australian is unaccountable, except on the
lowest and most mercenary motives. All over
Australia men have been discharged from their
situations, been despised, cursed, furiously-
denounced in the Jingo press, and assaulted in
public-houses, on suspicion of having some slight
sympathy for the open and brave and humane
white enemy. And meanwhile frantic Jingoes
have kept their own countrymen out of employ-
ment that they might favor and patronise and
coddle Britain’s brutal and underhand yellow
enemy. While they denounced any kindly feeling
for the handful of white men fighting against
stupendous odds, they have spoken kindly of the
representatives of the yellow hordes who fried
their own countrymen and country-women alive,
and have eulo lised their alleged virtues, and have
bought vegetables and furniture from Britain’s
enemies, and declared that Australia shouldn’t be
so narrow-minded and prejudiced as to seek to
exclude the people who burn out the eyes of our
British fellow-subjects. And Premier Philp has
publicly declared his intense admiration of
Britain’s enemies, and asked Australia to en-
courage them, and not one Jingo of them all
has called Philp a traitor to the empire. By tacit
consent the great aggregate Jingo has decided
that cheap labor is better than loyalty, and better
than the interests of the empire ; and that the
empire’s bitterest enemies should be patronised
and supported as against good British subjects if
they will sell the leprous vegetable even |d. a
dozen cheaper than a white man can sell it at and
make a living wage. The Jingo’s patriotism
seems to be a pitiably thin surface coating at the
best.
Turner, the Solvent Democrat.
George Turner comes back to be Premier and
Treasurer of Victoria after an absence of barely
a year. The alleged Liberal Government of
M‘Lean and Shiels died, as everyone expected,
of its unlucky alliance with Duncan Gillies’s
Tory faction. Its leaders were undoubtedly
Liberals by instinct and intention. But they
were kept in office solely by the votes of the
Gillies reactionaries, and they could carry no
legislation save such as the intensely Conserva-
tive Duncan approved of. Under these circum-
stances there was no permanent or durable hope
in them. Only Isaacs and Peacock of the old
team come back with Turner. Of his new col-
leagues the most notable is that good Democrat
and brainy politician, Labour-member Trenwith,
who deserved his portfolio a dozen times over
before it came his way. Victoria, by calling back
Turner, has shown that for once a good man is
appreciated in his own country. No Premier that
the State has ever possessed has put up a better
record under such hard conditions. And Turner
might have been a more showy and better-adver-
tised democrat than he was but for his anxiety to
pay his way. He is probably as ready and willing
as Lyne of N.S.W. to pass an Old-Age Pension
Bill, but he isn’t equal to the O’SuLLiVAN-esque
device of passing the Bill without providing the
money at the same time, and through his anxiety
to make sure of having the money, instead of
trusting to loans or to chance or Providence, he
has lost a good many opportunities to make a
name for himself. Turner may be described as
the almost solitary representative of a new class
of politician, so far as Australia is concerned—the
Solvent Democrats. Australia knows the Insol-
vent Tory well enough, in the shape of Gillies
and his kind ; and it knows the Insolvent Wob-
bler, in the form of G. Reid ; and, unless Lyne
and Co. speedily find some new sources of revenue,
it is likely to find in them striking examples of
the Insolvent Democrat. Turner is the other
kind of Democrat, and, though it is necessarily a
slower kind than the one which isn’t limited by
sordid considerations of cash, it deserves en-
couragement, if only for its rarity.
Some More Foreign-Trade “Facts”
of G-. Reid.
As a general thing, when that very remarkable
apostle of shoddy, ex-Premier George Reid,
advances an alleged fact or an alleged set of
figures in support of Freetrade, that alone is very
powerful evidence that the alleged fact or figures
are wholly untrue. His career as a Foreign-trade
apostle has been one long and disgraceful bowl-
out. When he presented to N.S.W. Parliament
his famous list of the comparative prices paid for
Government stores in Freetrade N.S.W. and Pro-
tectionist Victoria, the Victorian Government
promptly convicted him either of being a very silly
man and easily imposed on, or of wilfully presenting
bogus and sham information. That exposure
would have shamed any man save one with
the moral hide of a book-fiend and the im-
perviousness of a Chow diplomatist, but George
Reid was apparently not ashamed in the least.
He was bowled-out trying to meanly slander the
late Protectionist Government of N.S.W. with a
garbled list of its Civil Service appointments, and
there is no reason to believe that he was in the
least degree ashamed even then. In his late
Freetrade campaign in Victoria and S.A. he
poured forth sensational “facts” about the evils
arising from Protection, and so far every one of
these alleged “facts” has proved, on reference to
published state statistics and other authorities, to
be disgracefully unreliable. And now some more
of the fat man’s inaccuracies have just come back
from being audited. Said G. Reid :
When Admiral Pearson inspected the Naval Brigade of
Victoria, he touched Che serge in which the men were
clad, and found it was nearly all cotton shoddy. This
was the serge supplied under a Government contract to
the defence forces of Victoria. Admiral Pearson said :
“ I can get genuine honest serge for the price you pay for
rubbish.
According to this report, it would seem that
Dry Dog Reid didn’t actually say that the
shoddy serge was manufactured in Victoria
under the Protective system ; he merely
implied it, with a mean little dodge and im-
plication, by sandwiching in the remark
among other wild statements as to how shoddy
and high prices and Protection went together.
And it now transpires in a casual way that the
serge which was objected to was imported duty
free by the Government (all the things that a
Government imports for its own use are practi-
cally duty free, for it doesn’t pay duty to itself).
It was the Freetrade article that was shoddy, and
Dry Dog Reid is the apostle of Freetrade and
shoddy. He also became cheerfully hilarious on
the subject, of starch, alleging that the article
which sold in Sydney at 3gd. per lb. cost sd. per
lb. in Melbourne. The Bulletin can show any
enthusiastic. Freetrader who likes to call at its
office the price lists of the biggest Sydney grocer
and the biggest Melbourne ditto, with starch
quoted at a minimum of 4d. per lb. (by
the single pound) in each case, and Lav-
ing shown them to Mr. Reid, if he will
drop in, it will be pleased to tell that gentle-
man personally that he is a man of erratic
character and a comparative stranger to fact.
The same stout person’s allegations that the
protected match-industry of Victoria only em-
ployed 32 persons and the average wage paid
to male workers was 18s. a week caused the
production of evidence to the effect that the em-
ployes numbered 72 and the wages for male
workers (largely boys) averaged 30s. per week.
And his statement that Trusts, the curse of the
protected United States, are impossible in
Britain under the benignant influences of Free-
trade, has led to a great overhauling of Britain’s
manufacturing and commercial Trusts—the
Shipping Ring, the Salt Trust, the Chemical
Trust, the Cotton Trust, the Wool-dyers’ Com-
bination, the Thread Trust, and other like bless-
ings. In a general way George Reid is worthy
of his cause, and his cause is eminently worthy
of Ananias —a gentleman whose death seems to
have been wrongly reported some time ago in the
Palestine daily papers.
4.
Por the Grlory of the Empire.
The war. correspondent (Bert F. Toy) of Perth
(W.A.) Morning Herald tells some stories about
the burning of Boer houses by the British troops :
Before the first house on the right, as I turned
into the little street, piled in a confused jumble
was a heap of those articles that go to make the
humble home a home. On a trunk, and leaning with
her face buried in her arms on a machine-stand, sat a
woman garbed in black. By her side, one hand resting
on the woman’s shoulder, stood a girl of 18, stiffly erect,
with lips closed tightly together, and face flushed angrily
red beneath her sunbonnet. Tommies, their pockets and
haversacks bulging with loot, their faces abeam with
pleasure, flitted hither and thither. One rushed from the
house with a violin-case under his arm, and while yet he
was strapping it to his saddle a vicious tongue of flame
shot out from under the eaves, and a cloud of smoke
sailed skyward. The girl said something low-toned in
Dutch; a deep sob shook the machine-stand, and a
youngster of three who had hitherto wandered about
silently wondering, broke into merry laughter and clapped
his baby hands with glee as the flames wrapped his home
in their hellish mantle of red.
I passed the sergeant in charge of the squad of Tommies.
“ I’ve been ordered to burn the lot,” he said, waving a
hand along the street; “ By God ! it’s heart-breaking ! ”
The second house was large, of brick, somewhat pre-
tentious-looking, with white plaster pillars supporting- its
broad wicker-furnished verandah. A glance at the little
group of females at the door told the high-class Boer, re-
fined, educated. A trooper swaggered up—“ Ten minutes
to get out what you want!- -then down comes the
shanty ! ” Understanding barely a word of English, the
women guessed the import of the speech. No outcry, no
reproach nor protestation ; the mother and her two
grown-up daughters silently turned and set about re-
moving what they valued most.
The air of the large sitting-room breathed comfort.
Soft carpetings, furnishings in carved oak, piano, music-
stand, engravings, and paintings, book-shelves and silver,
glass and plaster ornaments everywhere.
The troopers ransacked every room in their quest of
portable plunder. The women worked on silently. Were
it not that his soul is one of those little things that
Tommy leaves behind him ere entering the enemy’s terri-
tory, the souls of those Tommies would have shrivelled to
nothingness that day as the women passed them to and
fro with eyes of freezing disdain, a carriage that may only
be termed superb. As I looked on. telling myself that all
this must be, that as things are we must* war on the
women to bring the men to subjection, I wondered how
often such opportunity is given Englishmen to look so
“small.”
Did I say they had all left their souls behind ? Wrong.
Two wheeled the piano out the door and manoeuvred it
down the steps into the garden. Their comrades bent
on them a withering cross-lire of ribald sarcasm for their
pains. That was enough. No more aid for the women
until the sergeant looked in and saw the daughters
struggling from the bedroom with a heavy, brass-bound
trunk. “D it all, man !” he said, “give those girls
a hand with that box ! ” As they relinquished the trunk
to the men, the elder girl smiled slightly and bowed her
head in unspoken thanks to the sergeant. Hard as he
tried to keep a grip on his feelings, I heard the non-com.
mutter, “Gad ! I can’t stand it!” and he disappeared.
The mother had collected a number of shelf orna-
ments and dainty little knick-knacks on the table,
intending to carry them out together. A trooper,
after pocketing a silver trifle, ought a corner of the
tablecloth, and swept the lot with a crash to the floor.
Without a word, nor even a look of astonishment, the
old lady stooped, picked up the articles still unbroken,
and walked out with them. But how strange is the
nature of woman ! She had that day seen her household
gods defiled, her bedroom sacked, even a fist thrust
through the pictured face of her husband as it scowled
down from its frame on the dismal scene, without a pro-
test, without a quiver of the lip. But when Atkins
took up her little work-basket, with its collec-
tion of cottons, buttons, cloth scraps, and bits
of unfinished work, and made as if to throw it from
the window, she rushed across the room with a low cry of
anguish, and tore it from his grasp.
And so it went on, the man laughing, smashing, curs-
ing, overturning, and the woman silently working their
way back and forth. Then the fire-brand.
The sight of the house.in flames broke the self-restraint
that had been in its way magnificent. They formed a
pitiful picture, standing there in the shadow of the smoke
column--two daughters trying to comfort the mother ;
and, while yet they tried, their own tears fell fast on the
grey hairs of her whom they sought to cheer.
On the way to my mount there had to be noticed a girl of
15 or 16, ddicately moulded, leaning against the door-post
of a barn, and weeping as though her heart would break.
As I looked, a tall, weli-set-up trooper went by. The girl,
evidently mistaking him for an officer, approached him, and
between her sobs struggled with her English to make a
complaint. The reply she got was an insult foul and
brutal. The actual words were so many meaningless
sounds to her —but she knew she had received a rebuff.
She sank to the dust at the man’s feet, with that peculiar
half sob, half moan, that tells the depth of feminine
anguish has been sounded.
Protest—then or later ? Cui bono? Besides, being
called “pro-Boer” in a military camp is unpleasant.
A box of ammunition in a burning out-house commenced
exploding. I looked back as the shots rattled out above
the crackling of the fires, and saw rushing helter-skelter
for their horses the squad of Tommies who had so lately
swaggered through the dwellings. They mounted in
feverish haste, and spurred up the road in the direction of
the column.
Before a house stood the sergeant, cursing, and calling
them to return, while leaning against the garden wall
were half-a-dozen rifles, unheeded in the flight!
The women in the shadow of the smoke column were
smiling through their tears.
Victoria’s Alleged Manhood Suffrage.
The most noticeable points about Victoria’s recent
election were the abnormally large number of
voters’ certificates issued, also the success of the
Labor Party and the defeat of several professed
and alleged Conservatives, including a Minister.
The Tories, with their usual perspicacity, have
promptly set the first down as cause and the two
latter as effect, and are now wailing piteously
about the iniquity of allowing a vote to the thrift-
less person who has moved his goods and chattels
within the last 12 months. It may be admitted
that certificates permitting holders of electors’
rights to vote before they had time to be enrolled
were very frequent, but that proves nothing be-
yond the fact that the ordinary citizen is a casual,
negligent person who seldom troubles to see if he
is enrolled until it is too late, and also that thou-
sands of persons had been disfranchised who had
a perfect right to vote for the districts where they
resided. The rolls used at the election were in no
case less than six months old. In some instances
a year, while in a few even two years had
elapsed since they were compiled. The most
fearsome protest against allowing the resident
citizen to vote in his own district came from
Rev. Wade, of North Melbourne, who remarked
at a public meeting, in the kindly fashion so
common among the alleged followers of the
Homeless Carpenter, that he “wasnot proud of the
result of the election in N. Melb., because they
were defeated with the assistance of a multitude
of men who did not reside in the electorate, but
lived in boilers on the wharves and on the seats in
the parks, and whose highest ideal was free drinks
as long as they could get them.” But the
preachers of the gospel of Poverty are great
worshippers at the Shrine of Property, and if a
man hasn’t any money their dead certainty that
he spends the cash he hasn’t got in drink is very
remarkable. The real trouble in the business is
not the issue of so many thousands of voters’
certificates, but the leaving off the electoral roll of
thousands of names, all over the State, of persons
who are legally entitled to vote. Melb. Argus
has made a great outcry about this matter but
has said not one word about the plural voting
iniquity that still prevails after a fashion in
Victoria, where the man with property in several
electorates can vote in any one of them he pleases,
while the ordinary citizen can only vote in
the electorate he lives in. It is a well-
known fact that the Conservatives only succeeded
in retaining their hold of the seats at Albert Park,
South Yarra, and two or three other electorates
by bringing in reliable Tories from St. Kilda,
South Melbourne, and other districts where Con-
servative votes were hopeless or uncalled-for. Not
only does the Act want amending so as to
allow a citizen to vote for his residential
district only, but the system of roll-making
badly requires re-arranging. If a man but
move across the street, though still remaining
in the same electorate, he is disfranchised for six
months, until the new rolls are made up, while,
should an election happen immediately thereupon,
hp is practically voteless for twelve months ; and
it is always the poor man, the worker, the ordinary
individual, who is thus disfranchised. Fatman,
even if he removes and is thus disqualified, has
generally a property vote in some other electorate
that he can use. The simplest plan is to
compel every man and woman to register
on reaching 21, in the same way as births
and deaths are registered, and to place
them then on the roll of their residential elec-
torate, transfers to be made as needed, coming
into force within one month. Immigrants to
enrol within 12 months and after six months of
arrival. All names to remain on the roll as long
as the elector votes, failure to vote to cause
omission of name, same to be re-enrolled only on
re-registration and payment of a fee, except when
ommission is caused by illness or something simi-
larly unavoidable. This, with voting-by-post,
would do away with a lot of the chicanery exist-
ing under the present Victorian voting system.
<4
Mr. Henry Cary Dangar, in the discussion on
the jlefamation Bill in N.S.W. Leg. Council,
argued that a person who considered himself
aggrieved by anonymous statements or comments
in a newspaper should be enabled by law to find
out the name of the actual writer of the article.
“ The public should have an opportunity of get-
ting at the writer,” said Mr. Dangar —“he might
be a man of straw.” Now, surely the only ques-
tion, after all, is as to the justifiableness of the
article complained of; the identity of the man
who wrote it is quite apart from the argument.
Suppose it were written by a ten-times convicted
felon just out of gaol, it might nevertheless be a
good article and true, and in the public interest;
yet disclosure of the name and status of the writer
would unjustly prejudice the newspaper. If
under threat of gaol a newspaper once disclosed a
writer’s name without his consent it would utterly
lose the confidence of its contributors, and if
writers felt that they were not absolutely pro-
tected by the editors of the newspapers to which
they wrote, but were penally liable, many a burn-
ing grievance would go unexposed and unre-
dressed simply because of the curiosity of people
like Mr. Dangar and their desire to adopt the
often-effective and often-illogical and noxious
ar umentum ad horn in urn,. As matters stand,
when a journal prints an article it adopts same as
its own and is responsible for all consequences.
Which, in the public interest, The Bulletin
trusts will remain the case.
They are still talking in Westralia about how,
when the Perth Ice Co. frauds began to come to
light, some highly-placed individuals, who must
surely have had better information about the size
of the discovery and the amount of the disastrous
shortage which the co. would have to refund than
mere outsiders, sold their Ice Co. shares for £2 or
so. The shares dropped to about 10s. when the
trouble became more widely known, and the people
on whom these highly-placed individuals so oppor-
tunely passed their shares are left in a large hole.
The situation is worse even than it looks, in this
way : In all probability the Perth Ice Co. would
never have made the profits it did, nor paid the
dividends it did, nor would its shares have reached
the price they did but for the co.’s fraudulent pro-
ceedings. When this source of profit was cut off,
the fall in share-values was likely to be permanent.
The old shareholders who sold out got the profits
made out of the co’s illicit doings. They sold at
prices which were largely based on the public
impression that these profits were honest and
permanent. And if the people who bought from
these highly-placed individuals have, in addition
to losing a great part of their purchase money, to
pay calls to refund the illicit profits of which the
highly-placed individuals got the benefit, they are
likely to make remarks. They will probably
want to know to what extent the highly-placed
individuals were aware, through their official
position, that something had burst, and whether
they used their official knowledge as a means of
passing their losses on to their confiding fellow-
creatures. Even in Westralia a portion of the
press has become almost disrespectful to some
highly-placed individuals over this matter.
—♦
Thebe is no sense in N.S.W. Leg. Council’s
amendment of the Defamation Bill, to the effect
that an editor must disclose his contributors’
names under a £SO penalty, if magisterially called
upon. If an article is offensive, the offence is in
the publishing, not in the writing; all the libellous
writings in the world could not be libel till pub-
lished. That is law and sense too. News-
papers satisfy law and sense in putting up a
responsible publisher for a target. Anonymous
writers cannot be charged with any responsi-
bility ; that is transferred to the publisher.
What a publisher prints, that he approves and
endorses ; and if there is guilt, he is the person
guilty. He is the libeller, since the fact of his
publication constitutes the libel. No matter who
loads the gun, he fires it. It is true that a com-
pulsory signature of articles, or a compulsory
disclosure of authorship, would tend to make
some scribes more careful what they write.
Many a leader-writer and par-writer makes, on
the publisher’s responsibility, attacks which he
would not put his name to. But this is a point
of journalistic ethics not for legal decision ; and
the Leg. Council’s new clause attempts to over-
set a sound law-principle.
At last meeting of Melb. Board of Works a com-
missioner named Turner attempted to get ahead
of Chairman Fitz Gibbon by proposing a letter of
condolence to the Queen on the death of a certain
Prince Christian Victor. This shows to what an
awful condition of mind the Board has been re-
duced by the humourless loyalty of the son-of-the-
Gibbon. The aged “White Knight” has been
guilty of so many unprovoked and ludicrous
grovels that disciple Turner, doubtless, thought
to earn a character for zeal in the good cause by
his absurd suggestion. But the Board, suffering a
dyspeptic recovery from Cup Week, seemed of
opinion that Prince Victor’s decease in Africa
was not a “very extreme case” for official
grief in Melbourne, whereat Commissioner
Turner protested. “Surely the Queen's
grandson is near enou<jh to our hearts. If
not, I don’t know who is.” There was a time
when The Bulletin would have heaved the word
“Hypocrite” at Com. Turner’s wooden head,
without pausing to ask if he had consciously
deserved it. After twenty-odd years’ reflection
on the babblings of such people—people whose
alleged reverence for the Crown is, perhaps, a per-
fectly genuine result of newspaper teaching—this
journal entertains a strong doubt as to whether
their greasy gush is not perfectly genuine, so far
as they know. Com. Turner gets his sentiments
re the Queen and Royal Family from the daily
press. He has been imbibing all his life the doc-
trine that .“subjects of the Queen” invariably
sorrow or rejoice with Her Majesty, until now his
heart is, for all he knows to the contrary,
really touched by the news that a young
“Prince of the Blood” (of whom he had
probably never before heard) has died of
enteric fever in South Africa. Or he be-
lieves that “the heart of the Nation” throbs
for the Prince’s grandmother in her bereavement,
and he reckons himself a representative specimen
of the Nation. Therefore he gets up at a Board
meeting to express the general regret, not to say
poignant grief, he has read of in the Argus.
“Loyalty,” as displayed by a Com. Turner, pos-
sesses no sense of the ridiculous. In fact, the
only sort of loyalty capable of self-criticism feels
a deep and bitter hatred to the newspaper grovel,
verbal and pictorial, whereby the fiction of the
people’s personal regard for their Sovereign’s
relatives is alone maintained. The individual
voter, forsooth, doesn’t think it necessary to even
affect regret at the death of an M.L.A. whom he
has helped to put in the position of a law-maker.
Then what, in the name of Constitutional govern-
ment, has loyalty to do with the deceased grand-
children of a hereditary figurehead ?
4.
At G-ympie (Q.), the other day, a young fellow of
respectable character was charged with rape.
When proceedings began the Senior-Sergeant
staggered the Court by announcing that he had no
evidence to offer. Pressed by the P. M. for an ex-
planation, the officer said that the case had
simply been trumped-up by prosecutrix and a
man then in Court. Whereupon the P.M.
launched into a furious diatribe against the cus-
toms of a country in which an innocent’s man’s life
might be put in danger by the malicious state-
ments of an unprincipled woman. Cases of this
kind, however, are of almost daily occurrence,
and so long as the law doesn’t prosecute the per-
jured prosecutrix they will, presumably, keep
occurring, and the female liar will still get her
victim hanged occasionally. How is it that there
isn’t one Attorney-General with sufficient decency
and honesty to give up being a tacit accomplice
in perjury and conspiracy and attempted murder,
and energy enough to prosecute the woman who
trumps-up this kind of false accusation? The
Crown Law Department, which invariably lets
her go free, no matter how badly she is bowled
out, must surely have a profound love for the
dirtv-minded female, else it wouldn’t thus abro-
gate the criminal code in order to let her pursue
her foul amusement with impunity.
♦
In his recent lecture on “Soundness of Mind”
before the Vic. Health Society, Dr. Springthorpe,
of Melbourne, fell foul of the existing legal
definition, and stigmatised the law methods in
criminal matters as based upon mediaeval meta-
physical notions—to the neglect of the physical
aspect of the case as known to modern science.
Public opinion in this respect is moving
slowly, but it is moving; and the time is not far
distant when jurors will have to abandon the
antiquated presumptjbn that ability to distinguish
between right Und wrong necessarily
involves the power of abstention from
criminal acts. And when, as in Deeming’s case,
there is also an obviously abnormal general men-
tality, the chances are that we are hanging a man
for what he could no more help than he could the
color of his eyes or the name of his great-grand-
mother. The position that, even so, it is better
to hang him out of the way has, at all events, a
certain brutal logic about it; but the notion
that because a man is not an absolute howling
lunatic he has proper control of his actions is not
only quite outside possible demonstration but is
directly in opposition to the bulk of scientific ob-
servation—to say nothing of the plain man’s
everyday experience.
,—4.
Monger, M.L.A. (Westralia), arose recently to
propose that Private Enterprise should be allowed
to construct railways which Parliament refused to
deal with as State undertakings. And if Private
Enterprise will build any railways which the
State doesn’t care to tackle, and charge the
same fares and freights as the State does,


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
m
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
69., Queen Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PRICE 25/. TO £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
HELIDON SPA'WATE
A NATURAL
M f N l R AWAT r «s 1
&
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and and
Copper Matte Bought
. . . ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Heqular Supplies tinder Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manaqhr.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
and give as good accommodation, and work
its men the same hours for the same wages,
let Private Enterprise signify the fact in
the usual manner. But the trouble is that
Private Enterprise wants to tackle only the most
promising lines, wants the State to pay almost the
whole cost of the work in land, wants authority to
charge far higher rates than the State does, and
to pay any scale of wages it pleases, and then
asks the State to lend it the construction money,
and to guarantee its loans, and when it under-
takes to build its line in two years it calls the
State a thief and a breaker of agreements for
grumbling when four years pass and the job is
hardly commenced. And people named Mongrel
or Bungle or the like persistently ignore that
aspect of the case.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “Macbeth."
Criterion “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde."
Theatre Royal “A Trip to Chicago."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Corbett-Jeffries Oineograph
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
_ , f Grand Opera Season (Last night.)
Princess s (“The Scarlet Feather,” Nov. 26.
Her Majesty’s “ The Old Guard.”
Theatre Royal “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
A laboriously fat Macbeth, and a very
satisfactory Mrs. Macbeth, and great piles of
battlements and scenery and blasted heaths, and
a really brilliant Macduff were the most conspicu-
ous features of Shakespeare’s old Scotch tragedy,
as revived on Saturday night at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. It is long since the Sydney morning
penn’orths were so unanimous about anything
as they have been in falling on M’Kee Rankin’s
vastly corpulent usurper. Certainly he does not
look agile enough to snatch at a crown, though, on
the other hand, Duncan was a slow king and easily
overtaken. When people on the stage spoke of
the prowess of the bulky gentleman whose pon-
derous sittings-down and breathless gettings-
up were so conspicuous, the Saturday night
gallery smiled audibly. It was an age when a
general was supposed to wrap himself in iron-
mongery and furiously plug his country’s enemies
in the forefront of the battle, and M ‘ Kee Rankin
looked unfit for the part. And yet there were
no visible reasons why Macbeth should not
be fat if he wanted to. Then, as now, they
howled in all shapes in the front rank of war,
and no one really knows what shape Macbeth was.
It is also said that the very large, hot man who
labors through the part at Her Majesty’s is in-
effective. Certainly he is husky, and breathless,
and at times monotonous (as the result of being
breathless), and he gets upstairs rather ponder-
ously to slay the sketchy Duncan, and gets down-
stairs again, with blood on his hands, after a,
somewhat sidelong fashion. And yet there is
absolutely no evidence that M‘Kee Rankin isn’t
the truest exponent of Macbeth that Australia
has yet seen. If Macbeth was large, elderly,
breathless, hot, and rather monotonous in his
speech, then Mr. Rankin is the best Australian
Macbeth up to date. If Macbeth was a small,
reedy, shrill man. with large,turned-in feet, then
the real exponent is still being waited for. If
there never was any Macbeth, then it is simply a
question as to how an imaginary man, who is
imagined to have done certain things that have got
very much mixed-up, ought to have looked, and
the writer’s opinion is that he might have looked
anyhow. This paper decides that it rather likes
Mr. Rankin’s Macbeth, and it will like him still
more by next week if it wants to. It is weary
to death of tall, thin kings, and a fat king
puffing on an ill-gotten throne pleases its fancy
for a change.
* * * •
Miss Nance O’Neil is more like the
traditional Mrs. Macbeth—the handsome, hard,
ambitious, stormy woman that everybody sup-
poses her to be. And from the standpoint of the
conventional Mrs. Macbeth she is eminently suc-
cessful. She is stately and passionate; and there
is great dramatic force in her acting—in the som-
nambular scene more especially. Possibly she is
leagues away from the real character; if there
ever was a Mrs. Macbeth she was probably
enough a little, thin, smooth, -colourless woman,
with a low voice, and pale, thin eye-brows, and a
bilious eye; but anyhow Miss O’Neil is very like
the Mrs. Macbeth that the public has learned to
demand. But the character who really blew
Saturday night’s audience off its feet was
Thomas Kingston, as Macduff. After one of
his scenes he was called for five times in
succession. In the popular view, Macduff was
two-thirds of the show in himself, and Mrs.
Macbeth was the other third. Joseph Carne
makes about all he can of the unimportant
Malcolm, a low-spirited young man who has lost
his kingdom; and Plimmer’s Banquo is suc-
cessful while he lasts, but then that unhistori-
cal gentleman has little to do and leaves early.
There are 16 scenes in “ Macbeth,” and
wherever there is a chance to heap up lavish
scenery it has been done. Macbeth’s great, grey,
windy castle of Inverness is a stupendous pile of
apparent masonry, and the banqueting hall where
Banquo’s ghost snatches the only vacant chair is an
imposing pile of ancient architecture. The bare
rooms wherein the ladies of that period led their
unlettered existence are said to be historically
accurate—the writer doesn’t know, because he
wasn’t there. There are no kilts; the characters
are attired in a species of Danish costume about
which this paper offers no opinion. But the
general aspect is one of magnificence, and if the
public isn’t satisfied with Williamson’s version of
“ Macbeth,” despite the excessive girth of the
usurper, then the public is hard to please.
* # * *
No extra coherence has been added to the
song-and-dance show of Johnny Sheridan, at
Sydney Royal, since last week. That rampant
man-woman who goes to Chicago and aims her
carpet-bag at her son-in-law, on a wrongful
suspicion that he has struck her daughter with a
club, probably fills some kind of public want, but,
unless one has exactly that kind of want, Mrs.
Johnny Johanna Murphy touches no responsive
chord. Mrs. Johanna Murphy is the newest
alias of the old Bridget O’Brien, but when she is
invited to state her front name Johanna says
promptly that it is Bridget, so the new disguise is
too thin to even keep out mosquitoes. During
the few minutes in which the alleged story holds
together, before it dissolves into a variety show,
Johanna’s son-in-law achieves a sudden drunk,
and a door falls on Alphonso Napoleon, the foot-
man, with Johanna in her nightdress on top of
the door. The airy advt. says that Johnny’s
show comes “trip, trip, tripping along,” but it
doesn’t trip much. It rather arrives heavily with
much laborious luggage. And quite half the com-
pany is a weary thing to look at and hard to bear.
* * * *
The long-deserted Sydney Lyceum re-
opens on Saturday for a six-nights season with a
biograph or kinematograph of the Corbett-Jeffries
fight m 23 rounds, and the unreal shadow of
various other proceedings wherein man uncouthly
battered his fellow-creature for lucre. The advt.
says that the new show is a “ cineograph ” and a
“ stereopticon, ” but The Bulletin wouldn’t like
to call any fellow-mortal’s show actionable lan-
guage like that until it was certain that it had just
cause.
* * * *
At Sydney Criterion the “Black Flag,”
in which the banner aforesaid does not wave at
all, but is merely alluded to, is notable as con-
taining the worst stage law heard of up to date.
It is the usual tale of the two brothers. The
younger brother is understood to be the villain
because he is gentlemanly and educated—also his
kid gloves give him away ; and the good brother
doesn’t work and won’t wear a collar and a tie,
and spends all his time in mending fishermen’s
nets for them. He is also stated by a grateful
sea-toiler to have “looked after his missus when
he was away,” whereat the light-minded Sydney
audience laughs. It has known so many people
who looked after other men’s wives while the
other men were away. The bad brother disguises
himself in order to bash the old man with greater
safety, and the good brother is promptly put in
Portland on the sole evidence of his sweetheart,
who saw the bad brother stealing away in the good
brother’s clothes, but didn’t see his face. A
lad of eighteen, however, recognises the bad
brother putting the incriminating clothes in
the sea, but his evidence isn’t taken as he
cannot read or write. Later on, the bad brother
is obliged to help somebody out of Port-
land prison, because somebody threatens to tell
things that will incriminate him in the matter,
and show forged bills which he keeps in his shoe.
All through the play the evidence of somebody is
understood to be of overwhelming importance,
and the bad brother risks imprisonment and dis-
grace in trying to get him out, but finally, when
the convict does produce the incriminating docu-
ment from his shoe, it turns out to be nothing at
all, and things have to be put right by the intru-
sion of the 18-year-old waif who was killed in the
previous act, but who now comes forward with
the information that he has since learnt to read
and write, and consequently his evidence will be
taken at the next trial !
* * * •
Alfred Dampier takes the part of the hero,
and John Forde is good both as the man in Portland
and as the escaped convict struggling through a
green sea badly joined together, with an irrele-
vant Grace Darling coming to the rescue. The
usual weary gang of chained convicts remove
stones in barrows, and as heretofore the comic
convict is allowed to cheek the warders and bump
against them ad lib., while the tragic convict is
severely reproved for merely tying his shoe-lace.
* * * *
Ernest Sullivan was billed this week to
sing something mystically entitled the “Flower
of Dublip ” at Sydney Tivoli, but it turned out to
be our old friend Jessie, who is described as blos-
soming in Dumblane. Black Melba has been added
to the programme ; she has wonderful sustaining
ability, and for delicacy and clearness of tone she
is the feminine counterpart of her departed coun-
tryman, Wallace King. Howard Chambers may
be summed up in a non-committal fashion as a big
man with a big voice. Harry Gray, otherwise
“ Little Tich,” seems likely to be a Tivoli favour-
ite, whether in the long pink robe of the aspiring
lady vocalist or lost in his own loose black suit
with a large and painful sunflower in hi 3 button-
hole. Lottie Collins introduces three new songs.
“Off to Paris with Papa” is merely the Girl on
the Ran Dan Dan, with some of the Ran taken
out of her. But her tale of the sad fate of the
bicycle couple strikes the note of novelty.
* # * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson had good houses in
Tasmania, and would have had even better had
he played down more to the local Jingo unintelli-
gence. That “The Man from Snowy River,”
while buttering “ Bobs ” and Tommy Atkins,
neglected to belittle the Boers, was counted
against him in the ticket offioes after his first
night.
** * ♦
Refreshing to get a protest from veteran
Steffani against what may be called the Cant of
Wagnerism. Wrote Signor Steffani to Melb.
Age :
It is not my desire to carp at the account given by your
musical critic of the production of “ Lohengrin,” but as
an Italian I wish to protest against his flippant mention
of the honored names of Donizetti and Bellini. Most of
their melodies, which would be absolutely ruined by a
too elaborate harmonisation, or orchestration, have, at
least, this merit—they touch the heart of high and low,
of gentle and simple, of poor and rich, of educated and
uneducated alike. And this is Art.
Steffani, the educated Italian schoolist, strikes
the true note of popular opinion, the note which
always was, is, and ever will be called “vulgar”
by the self-elected illuminatii. With these the
cant term of ridicule for old Italian melodies is
‘ ‘ sugary ” —as though the charm of sweetness
in music, literary sentiment, champagne, or what
not, were a mere ignorant craze of the past two or
three generations. Nothing can be good, they
think, unless it be dry and repellant to the
majority. They remind one of an incident in
“Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,” where the heroine
is hesitating between the choice of “illicit ” love
and duty to Mrs. Grundy. Mrs. Grundy, repre-
sented by the passionless sister of a curate, has
almost converted the Ebbsmith woman to pro-
priety when some strains of sweet Italian melody
appeal to her senses. “ l)o you hear that? ” asks
the woman with a heart. And the curate’s sister re-
plies snortingly, ‘ ‘ Love-music! ” Her contempt for
the “sugary” music is very characteristic. She
is a young person who has taught herself to
believe that spiritual culture abhors all things
pleasant in nature and art. She would have
no music that wasn’t ultra-Wagnerian, no
champagne that didn’t strike acid to the
palate, no books nor pictures that could stir the
feelings of persons less superior than herself.
Superiorness seems to demand of its professors a
capacity for shutting their ears to facts. Doni-
zetti and Bellini wrote music which has survived
in spite of the absurdity of the libretto and the
weakness of the operatic system with which it is
identified. Wagner made attempts at popular
melodies, but they failed for the want of some-
thing. He gave them a finer chance to grow
upon popular taste, insofar that he improved
vastly upon the Donizetti form of opera, but the
airs lack warmth and passion. The barrel-organ
man knows them not. Superior people speak of
barrel-organ tunqs as though there were no differ-
ence between “A Bicycle built for two,” which
delights ’Arry and ’Arriett for six months, and
the sweet operatic airs which have been popular
for half a century, and are still going strong, and
will go stronger than ever when the composer of
the future lifts them bodily from their old places
and dumps them down in new operas.
** * *
“The Bohemian Girl,” fifth and last on
the list of “serious” operas at Melb. Princess’s,
was wisely restricted to three performances, all
which will have happened before this week’s
Bulletin appears. One attempt at Balfe’s old
“ Girl ” would have given sufficient evidence that
the new orchestral pitch doesn’t agree with her
constitution. The main charm of Balfe’s music
is its simple brightness, and in the lowered tone
this brightness is considerably lost. The choruses
have been more effectively sung by amateurs
under the old conditions. Of the principals, too,
it may be said that they were not stronger in the
aggregate than the Vic. Operatic Society people,
who achieved a more than respectable render-
ing of “The Girl” at the Bijou some two
or three years ago. Miss Janson as the
Gipsy Queen took honors, also the sing-
ing of Salvi as Thaddeus was capital. For the
rest Miss Lilian Coomber’s sweet young voice
made her a fairly interesting Arline, the Devils-
hoof and Floresteinof Gilbert King and Leumane
were passable, and the Count Amheim (Lawrence
Mooney), who filled his part in an old English
comedy coat and knee-breeches, was a pictorial
failure. Moreover he didn’t smash the record in
“ Heart bowed down,” though the orchestral in-
troduction and accompaniment to the tenderly
depressing air were things to remember. It goes
without saying “The Bohemian Girl” was
lifted into importance by the scenery and fixings,
otherwise it would not have looked a grand opera
in any particular.
* * * *
To-night (Thursday) will see the last of
“ Lohengrin,” with probably Madame Slapoffski
as Elsa. Madame Slap, sang the part twice last
week (Miss Lorraine being indisposed) and shone
to advantage therein. On Friday a final perform-
ance of “Carmen,” the trump card of the season.
On Saturday a programme of selections.
* * *
Nellie Stewart and “ The Scarlet Feather ”
are due at the Princess’s on Monday, 26th, and
they will boom for three weeks. The boom can
be taken for granted, seeing that Melbourne has
talked little else than “ Nellie ” for the past two
months, and is anxious to greet her once again.
Joe Tapley (formerly of “The Vicar of Bray ”
and other operas) will also make his re-entry in
“ The Scarlet Feather.” New names on the bill
are Miss Emmie Owen, Mrs. Calhaem, Charles
Sequin, and Maude Cole, all from London or
thereabouts. It is understood that “The Feather”
has been reconstructed since it was heard in the
Big Smoke.
** # #
Philanthropist Hassan, together with
Yussuf, Abdallah, the Sultan, and all the various
pearls of sundry harems, will come to an end at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Friday. “ The Rose of
Persia” is not an opera of the revivable type,
therefore any intending patrons who have waited
a convenient opportunity to dote upon the ballet
had better rush in and dote immediately. On
Saturday manager J.C.W will trot-out “The Old
Guard ” for the first time in five years.
** # *
Nothing has occurred to damp the valor of
Bland Holt’s army in S’Africa. Six nights a
week the gallant somebodies come forth from an
armored train and get shot at 10 paces by the dis-
graceful Boers, although there is no valid reason
why they shouldn’t stop in the cattle-trucks and
pot the enemy at their leisure. But this is not
the most unaccountable incident in “ The Absent-
Minded Beggar.” The appearance of a plump
Boer in Ladysmith at a time when bare tucker
was half-a-crown an ounce is a point that calls for
explanation ; also, the present scribe wants more
light on the subject of Jan Stoompf’s guilty
passion for Miss Ross, which doesn’t seem to be
conducted on sound business principles. The
other night, Bland Holt’s 30 horses stampeded
through the back-door into Little
and were not recovered in time for theN.S.W.
Lancers to carry Pretoria by a flank movement.
So the warriors entered Pretoria on foot, and the
triumph of Lord Roberts was less complete than
usual.
** * *
George Musgrove sheds the light of his
bell-topper on Sydney this week, but returns to
Melbourne before the production of “Scarlet
Feather.” Harry Musgrove comes along in busi-
ness charge of the grand opera co. They will
open the season with “II Trovatore” as they did
in Melbourne. The treatment of Verdi’s popular
old opera, particularly the “Off to Our
Mountains” duet by Miss Janson and Salvi, is
relied upon to establish a reputation for artistic
up-to-dateness.
m* * *
Every Saturday night at Melbourne Royal
when the curtain falls on the “Absent-Minded
Beggar ” there are 290 people waiting to be paid
for their week’s work. Bland Holt is quite too
modest an employer of labour. None of his ad-
vance advts. claimed credit for more than 200
employes “on the stage,” whereas the whole 290
are assembled at treasury time.
** * *
At the Bijou the recent arrival from Eng-
land continues to trill the weird lay that reached
his heart, and to spin his yarn about Mafeking,
notwithstanding a public tendency to feel abashed
at any further mention of Baden-Powell’s picnic.
Billee Barlow’s last nights seem to be lasting
long, but the show has taken on several turns
which were not there a week ago. The Haytors
are back for a week, also young Clive, green and
nervous at present, is doing Dante tricks for the
first time in Melbourne, and Albert Whelan’s
mimic is new to the Rickards audience, or some of
them. Whitburn, too, was announced for reap-
pearance on Monday, and the heai’t of the Bijou
always warms to Whitburn, especially when he
sings the ragged ditty of the lone oyster that got
left in the stew through the cook’s strange over-
sight.
** * *
The circuses have gone from Melbourne.
Wirth Bros’, went silently away in the middle of
last week, and the Fitzgeralds departed reluc-
tantly for Gippsland on Sunday or Monday after
finishing up their three weeks’ season with a
burst of crowded attendances. Rhodesia, the
juggling lady, was out of the bill for a fortnight,
but the fair invalid resumed dutv on Saturday.
The Wild Cat Column.
Some more Government expenditure accounts
have come in. and this is how things are looking with the
four States that publish regular statements of the
public outgoings, as compared with the previous financia l
year up to same date :
Increase Increase
of of expen- ln 'P™ ve '
revenue. diture.
N.S.W. (4 months) ..£108,721.. £53,340.. £55,381
(Rent of resumed area not included.)
Decline.
S.A. (4 months) .. .. 11,807.. 21,139.. 9,332
(This is an amended return just published.)
Westralia (4 months) .. 85,916.. 196,857.. 110,941
(This is an amended return just published.)
Decrease
of
revenue.
Queensland (4 months) .. 114,835.. 170,643.. 285,478
The N.S.W. Premier is the only one of the four who
charges his war-hill to the floating debt and (so far as
concerns ordinary revenue and expenditure only, and
saying nothing of £119,407 increase in loan expenditure)
things are better with him than they were at
this time last year probably, to a great ex-
tent, on account of this. But the other three provinces
pay their war bills as they go along, and evidently the
military glory is coming home to roost. South Australia
is £9332 worse off and Westralia £110,941 worse
off than they were at this time last year. And
Queensland, where the expenditure has increased
through military glory and other things, while the re-
venue has declined because Tyson couldn’t die over again
this year, is £285,478 worse off in its accounts than it was
at this time 12 months ago. Truly the bill has begun to
arrive right enough ; and it is about time to put on soma
new taxes.
* * * *
The great N.S.W. wool co. of Harrison, Jones
and Devlin, Limited, contrives to show a very successful
year up to 30th September, 1900, despite the slump in the
outer covering of the sheep, and the six months’ complete
cessation of wool sales. This concern has been a dividend-
paying one all through the bad times, chiefly because it
never loaded itself up with a huge debenture liability. In
addition to paying regular dividends it has steadily


aea</.£<« g «- « as r - , c iH Ci'3i‘
£><» sc. n c ro ■ tjaiS'c
a P «5pgPSPS
r*\; , j ~ j ‘ **■ y ; ra <t> J _»
i-* *•*
s --2 «, :c, oc oc oo ao ft <5 oc. go :c gc A eg
8llls§ s i
::::;• ; : 2;;;:;; ;
UuHtCf H 1 »— 1 ICMh M >K
it-» to co ct oo co Ob Sicoo p ao
w -i-*'-! hits a ~j eioaiioitei.
f-f-IWC, — j’ Vl p c cr -1 — CO X to
f-O a« to>“ oa Co o *- u f
►0
3
E»
V
>- -* r- < *-» ~ —
-i -t -.1 -1 - r -1 < -J < --i
.:—v-<»— <b*~*3r-'-.- n. - m*~ o-o—— -—
op? ”8
T i T 2 v *i
I&I& s|
: It ll il II ll : II : II ii i ii ii ii li
Cti oo u 0©66£& M
' i -, -i *-* -wo m © «; © PC o o'o
v- »* ai i «• l- o c- - w o o © © o ©
© c o © o o © ©< o &
s
<
s
3
a.
cc
£
CC IO WWHJ- M r-* ►— —* *—• —
iv: o CP - r c. © CO to ro t-c— ►—
CC CTI p O © p .X -3
Total Reserves
at
c : L -. > W U *- tv -w tc Cc
v> CT - I - CM © C* tv M j: H c c 5
>s- -3 (*, IV l-p CM t<; ic e; — M o t- 1
Each Dale.
&
in r
3
ugIHK IT
fCRHIHTH,
Anbyou Derive
ORIHKIT
cor Pleasure
AhoYou Acquire
Health
THt
GREAT
AUSTRAIIAN
NATURAL
MINERAL
kWATER.
zetz-spa Proprietary Limited
SYDNEY.
'Cepe if
Famous
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY AND WAR OFFICE.
par
“ THE FINEST -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. & Co., Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents: I, Rutty & Go,, Sydney,
The Insurance News, London, August Ist,
1900, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society : No one can read the report of this office without
being impressed with the determination therein mani-
fested that the business shall in every respect be placed
upon the soundest and safest basis.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table
installed at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate,.and tailing-waste show-
ing very little values ; and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Zinc Shaying-s, •Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and RACKAROCK.
Ny. Markv/ald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney'; 6S Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NX.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. Jambs’s Buildings, ’
113 WILLIAM STREET,
EV! el bourne.
Buyers of all hinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide cf Potassium (98/100 par cc
pure), Bleaching: Powder, Mining: Requis. os!
Candles, etc.
written down its freehold property to keep pace with the
slump in Sydney property values, and has constantly
built up its reserve fund. A peculiarity in its accounts is
that while there is now a reserve fund of £62,500 and a
large undivided profit balance, the management still
retains among its assets the paper item, “ Goodwill,
£40,000.” This should certainly be written off out of
reserves, and in the figures shown below it is written off
and only the net reserves (those represented by visible
assets) are shown. Probably the goodwill is worth much
more than £40,000, but so is the goodwill of the Bank of
New South Wales for that matter, yet the B.N.S.W.
doesn’t reckon any’ such paper item among its assets :
Written Deficit
off (goodwill not
t>~. Freehold reckoned as
Profits. Pro t Dividends. an asse t).
1891 .. £21,390
1892 .. £13,129 6p.c. ■= £6,000 14,261
1893 .. 14,235 6 „ = 6.0C0 6,026
Reserves
(goodwill not
reckoned as
an asset).
1894 .. 18,969 6 „ ■= 6,000 £6,943
1895 .. 22,957 £9,513 7 „ = 7,000 13,387
1896 .. 13,628 5,000 8 „ = 8,000 14,015
1897 .. 18,177 5,000 8 „ = 8,000 19,192
1898 .. 13,120 2,500 8 „ = 8,000 21,812
1899 .. 14,424 4,000 8 „ = 8,000 24,236
1900 .. 12,741 2,000 8 „ = 8,000 26,977
The management reckons it has a reserve fund of £62,500
and an undivided profit of £4477, total £66,977. Present
writer, deducting the £40,000 goodwill asset, reckons that
Harrison, Jones and Devlin has net reserves of £26,977 —
reserve fund £22,500, and undivided profit £4477. Even
these are very handsome in proportion to the paid-up
capital of £i*oo,ooo. Either way the co. has paid hand-
some dividends all through the bad times ; has written
£28,013 out of profits off the paper-value of its property
(reducing it from £179,513 to £151,500); has further
strengthened its position to the extent of £48,387 ; and
has reduced the mortgage on its property from £llO,OOO
to £78,000. This was all done in nine years, and as they
were nine very lean years it is something to be proud of.
* » * *
The National Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
of Maoriland closed a very prosperous year on 30th Sep-
tember, 1900. The 12 months’ earnings were £25,388, out
of which a dividend of 12£ per cent, absorbs £12,255. This
compares with some previous results as follows :
Total reserves
Profits, at each date. Dividends, &c.
1893 £111,566
1894 19,395 110,855 off’ =
1895 16,981 111,007 = “gf
1896 16,740 110,793
’ I Written off 2,248
1897 15,229 111,316 15 per cent. = 14,706
1898 8,845 107,907 12£ ~ «* 12 254
1899 20,028 115,681 12/- „ = 12,254
1900 25,388 128,814 12| „ = 12,255
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £80,000; re-insur-
ance reserve, £32,993 ; and undivided profit £15,821 ;
total £128,814. There is a very material increase in
business as well as in profits, the net premium income for
/our years being :
1897 .. .. £86,406 I 1899.. .. £95,120
1898 .. .. 91,998 | 1900 .. .. 102,264
The interest earnings are £9086, equal to £4 7s. Bd. per
cent, on the actual investments at the end of the year,
which seems to suggest that the assets are fair value for
the amounts set against them. Altogether the National,
after retrograding slightly for five years, has pulled up
remarkably in 1899 and 1900.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) ended a most prosperous year on 30th Septem-
ber, 1900, the profits being £16,184. An 8 per cent, divi-
dend absorbs £3OOO ; £12,500 is added to reserve, makingits
£37,500 ; and the other £684, added to previous balance
of £1563, leaves £2247 to carry forward. Some years ago
the Colonial Mutual Fire Co. took the advice of those
“ experts” who allege that fire insurance can’t be made
to pay unless there is a “ wide diffusion of risks ” and the
business is spread over a large area (wherefore State fire
insurance, being confined to one country, must neces-
sarily be unprofitable). So it spread its business to
Europe, and, like many’ other companies which took the
advice of these “ experts,” it struck a great disaster. In
1891 it found itself with no reserves and accumulated loss
of £l9,9ll—equal to more than half its paid-up capital.
Since then, by grit and good management, the payment
of moderate dividends, and the abandonment of the dis-
astrous expansion policy, it has pulled round in a mar-
vellous fashion. The record is as follows :
Accumulated Dividends
Profit. Loss at and Losses
Each Date. Written off.
1891 .. .. £19,911 .. Nil.
1892 .. £4,110 .. 15,801 .. Nil.
1893 .. 7,139 .. 8,662 .. Nil.
1894 .. 8,192 .. 470 .. Nil.
Total Reserves
at Each Date.
1895 .. 8,584 .. 6,114 .. Written off £2,000
1896 .. 8,790 .. 13,029 . 5 per cent. = 1,875
1897 .. 8,848 .. 18,627 . /Written off 1,000
( 6 per cent. = 2,250
Loss.
1898 .. 3,956 .. 14,641 .. Nil.
Profit.
1899.. 18,922 .. 28,563 .. /Written off 2,000
’ (8 per cent. = 3,000
1900.. 16,184 .. 39,747 .. /Written off 2,000
’ \8 per cent. = 3,000
These are signs of a remarkable recovery, and if the
Colonial Mutual Fire Co. doesn’t follow the dreadful
example set hy’ the Victoria, and begin to sacrifice solidity
to 30 per cent, dividends—if it tries to build itself up as
the principal Maoriland companies have done, and keeps
its dividend down to 10 per cent, till it has accumulated a
reserve of £250,000, and departs from the generally weak
and shaky’ traditions of Australian fire insurance—there
is a great prospect before it. Above all things, it is to be
hoped that it won’t fall into the foolishness of selling out
its business to any English co., as so many other fire
offices have done. It is too good a business to sell.
* * * tr
The Colonial Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Co. presents its 32nd annual report—a very hope-
less-looking annual report indeed—for the year to 7th
Sept., 1900. It certainly looks as if this old-established
concern was on its last toe ; not that there is any cer-
tainty that it is so—but the directors have invented a
patent variety of balance-sheet which, in its anxiety not
to supply information, contrives to make things look that
way. This is how things are, by the management’s own
showing:—
Earnines Working Loss on Total
Expenses. Property. Outgoings.
1897 .. .. .. .. .. £1397
1898 .. £412 £696 £9827 £10,523 11,508
1899 .. 101 660 .. 660 12,067
1900 .. 100 648 .. 648 12,615
The management calls the accumulated loss £13,620, and
professes at the same time to have a reserve fund of
£loos—which comes to the same thing as shown above.
The paid-up capital is £48,000, so over one-fourth of it
has admittedly vanished. The apparent abject poverty
of the income really arises from the weird method of
book-keeping adopted by the Colonial Permanent. In-
stead of including in its income the whole revenue received
frorn £85,000 worth of investments, and in its outgoings
the interest on £52,000 of deposits and mortgages, it
simply shows that the interest income (whatever it was)
was sufficient to pay’ the interest outgoings (whatever
they were) and leave £77 to the good—that and £23 com-
mission making up the visible income of £lOO. By this
ingenious obscurity the management contrives not to
tell the shareholders what rate of interest their proper-
ties yield, or what their prospects are, or anything worth
mentioning. And it also contrives to make affairs look
needlessly awful. If the balance-sheet was drawn up in
the ordinary way it would possibly show that there was a
deficit of £548 on an income of £2500 or so, and that
isn’t nearly so hopeless as showing a deficit of £548 on an
income of £lOO.
* * * *
The profits of the Westralian Bank (Perth,
W.A.) which have shown a slightly’downward tendency
for some time, commenced to rise again for the half-year
ended 24th September, 1900. The record for the past few
years is as follows :
The half-year’s profits are equivalent to £8 10s. lOd. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ capital (£100,000)
and reserve fund (£200,000). During the past half-year
deposits have increased by £ll3,72o—from £1,509,716 to
£1,623,436. The reserve of cash (£584,092), bullion
(£128,284) _ and Government securities (£35,600), or
£1,047,976 in all, is equal to over 57 per cent, of the en-
tire liabilities to the public—a most remarkable record
such as is equalled by no other banking institution in
Australasia. The Westralian Bank has certainly made
remarkable. progress in the last handful of years. As a
casual side-issue—the holding of Government securities is
only £35,600. Even if these are all Westralian securities
it would appear that the Westralian Bank, despite the
very large amount of loose cash at its command, doesn’t
invest at all enthusiastically in the securities of Bigjohn’s
Government.
* * * *
The City of Brisbane Building Society, a small
concern founded two years ago, presents its second
balance-sheet. It is a rather prosperous balance-sheet—
in a small way ; and the concern appears to be growing.
There is one curious book-keeping process about this
institution. At the end of its first year it showed a
reserve fund of £5 10s. though where the reserve was
transferred from didn’t appear. Reserve has now grown
to £8 15s. 6d. though the additional £3 ss. 6d. appears to
have been transferred from no visible place. The concern
started with a debit of about £42 for necessary preliminary
expenses, and has progressed thus :
Dividends and Deficit at
Profits. Dividend Tax. each date.
£42
September, 1899 £6O 5 per cent. = £36 18
„ 1900 123 5 „ = 108 3
The Society’s way of putting it is that it has still nearly
£l4 of preliminary expenses to write off, and against that
there are about £ll of reserve fund and undivided profit.
It has £3178 paid-up capital and £1729 of deposits, and
seems to be commencing to get along.
* * * *
C.H.O. : Should regard them as a good enough
investment at the present price.,
* * * •
Great Boulder Main Reef : “The shrinkage in
value of the shares to-day was the subject of much com-
ment here (Kalgoorlie). Careful inquiry elicited the
statement that ‘ covering ’ was responsible for the drop—
not unfavorable developments in the mine, which con-
tinues to look well in the bottom level.” Rot! “ Cover-
ing ” means the buying of shares, and how can the buying
of thousands of shares bring the price down ? This, like
the bulk of Westralian mining news, should be read up-
side-down.
* * * *
Associated Northern, W.A. : “Estimated as
the result of recent development work alone this mine
has 60,000 tons of ore in sight, which the co. figures out
at £l2 per ton, or £720,000. The manager adds, ‘1 am
under-estimating this and not allowing for very rich
values. No doubt the tonnage will be double,
and we can safely say we have £1,500,000 in
sight.” It reads well, but share prices are very-
inconsistent with the statement. The market valuation
to-day is a quarter-million less than before these so-called
wonderful developments were made. History oft re-
peated has shown that it is usually a mistake to* estimate
either tonnage or values from winzes, rises, &c., in the
ore-bodies. Sampling may represent these correctly
enough, but when the ore is stoped and the full width
excavated it is generally found that the average is lower
than the sampling on which its value was based. Reason-
able, too, that this should be. Nine cases in ten a winze
is put down in the best part of the lode, and as a rule a
level, in an ore-body which extends on each side of it, is
driven in, if anything, the best part of it.
* » * *
Perseverance: Last month’s return from the
mine’s huge sulphide-plant even a greater disappoint-
ment than the first; 4928 tons by amalgamation, and
from cyanidation, 4088 oz average of 16dwt. Mgr.
per ton ; 350 tons concentrates smelted for 7900 z.
Admitted that the previous month’s treatment-costs were
295. 4d. per ton, which, with mining and other incidental
expenses, brought the total up to at least 50s. per ton.
“ Taking the intrinsic value of the gold at £4 per ounce,
a profit of only 14s. remains, equal to a gain in round
numbers of £3500 per month —against which, however,
the items wear and tear of machinery’, depreciation of
plant-values and bank interest, are to be considered.
So far, bad fortune has dogged the managerial footsteps
in the local treatment of sulphides. Many difficul-
ties, chiefly mechanical, had to be faced, and although
it may take time and money to correct these faults, share-
holders who may be content to wait will doubtless reap
the benefit of patience.” Something must have happened
for such a cold-blooded statement to come from Kalgoorlie
for publication in the eastern dailies, but nothing is said
about the extraction, and it is impossible to get at the
true state of things without. If the extraction is as
good as the public has been led to expect, then the Per-
severance cannot maintain the anticipated average of
ISOZ. to the ton for its sulphide zone, and if the average
is brought down to loz. the shares are not worth half
what they were a month ago. If, on the other hand,
the plant is greatly at fault it will undoubtedly
be remedied in time. Much better have a good mine
with a poor plant than a magnificent plant with a poor
mine. Alas 1 the chances are that both are at fault, that
the average value of the ore will be from 20 per cent, to
30 per cent, less than estimated, the result of sampling
levels and winzes instead of stopes; that the cost of
treatment will be 20 per cent, to 30 per cent, more than
estimated, and that the extraction will not be as great as
expected. Ore values may improve or they may depre-
ciate. In that country treatment costs are not iikely to
be reduced, unless a change of process is made, and it
would involve a terrific expenditure to secure higher
extraction and less cost. Will the Diehl process do the
trick ? The Lake View people are prepared to swear that
it will and contend that the running at Hannan’s Star
warrants their confidence. One thing is obvious, that if its
extraction is high treatment-costs must be lower. It does
away with roasting, and roasting is a slow and expensive
process anywhere, particularly in Kalgoorlie where fuel is
already dear and always becoming dearer. It must have
less wear and tear because it has fewer working parts.
Its capacity must be greater because it uses the old
stamp-mill, which is, after all, the cheapest form of crush-
ing. It must be a healthier process, because it uses
water from start to finish, and dust not only takes away
men’s health but carries off gold as well. The gold value
of the finest dust floating away in tons from the dr}’ crush-
ing plant of Kalgoorlie is no doubt as high as that of the ore
itself. The question still remains whether concentration
under this process can possibly be made effective, for the
process itself cannot be a success without, and whether,
having several products, instead of one, it will prove the
better of the two. If it does, a halo for Dr. Diehl should
be voted.
» * * *
Long Tunnel: Another big Vic. gold-mine gone
wrong—at last 1 In fact, there is now a possibility of a
call, the rumor of which caused shares to drop £8 in a
week, bringing them down to £25. A year ago or so they
were over £125.
* * * *
Mount Morgan : Management forced to take
the first step in the direction of stoppage of works for
want of water. The first time that it has happened for
years. Despite the enormous amount of money spent on
water-conservation Drought is boss.
* * * *
Glassford Creek Copper-mine, Q. : Whispered
in well-informed Brisbane circles that this copper show
has not gone off as expected in London, J. Bull demand-
' ing more development work ere putting up the money
asked.
• * » *
N.S.W. dredging yields : Turon River, No. 1,
330 z. for 124 hours’ work; No. 2 Turon, 200 z., for 76
hours’ work. The Sabbath tipster still thinks they will
be better in the sweet by-and-bye. As they will need to
be, let us pray that they will. Araluen Valley Consoli-
dated, 240 z. for 124 hours’ work ; Little River, lOoz. for a
week’s work, but a “better face” has been put on the
bank. The return put a much worse face on shareholders'
when it became known. Going to dredge the bottom as
well as the bank of the river, and a better return is ex-
pected next week. It becomes more and more evident
that N.S.W. dredging is not up to the promises made on
its behalf.
* • » *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W.: “The tailings, after
treatment for four days with 25 per cent, solution
cyanide, returned 19grs. per ton, equal to an extraction of
84 per cent. The slimes, after similar treatment, yielded
2dwt. 10grs.—show an extraction of 85 per cent., which is
highly satisfactory.” Everything is always highly satis-
factory with N.S.W. mining disappointments, and, talk
as they will, this is one. A few weeks ago, when the low
yield had to be excused, it was declared that the tailings
contained 6dwt., and now it is stated that 19grs. repre-
sents 84 per cent. No wonder the public feels rather
tired of Grassy Gully.
* * * *
Cobar-Chesney, N.S.W. : Shareholders called
on to determine a reconstruction scheme. That recom-
mended by the board is the issue of £50,000 debentures,
secured on the mine, with the option of turning them
into shares (three for each £), and 150,000 new shares to
be created for this purpose. Perhaps the best thing to
do under the circumstances.
* • * *
Homeward Bound, Yalwal, N.S.W. : Result of
six months’ work with a 50-head mill, 8601 tons'for 610 oz.
gold and 1550 z. silver, value £2402. “ The slight hope
raised by the appearance of gold in the south end has not
fulfilled itself by an increase in the general grade of the
ore.” Another N.S.W. gold-mining disappointment. It
really looked a big thing some ten years ago, when it was
sold for a big price, but like nine in ten N.S.W. gold-
mines, the bottom has fallen out of it, and yet we have
the daily newspaper wheeze “ deep sinking.”
B.H. Water Co.’s concession of special rates to
the B.H. Prop, only has made for it plenty of enemies
among the other mining co’s., whose representatives have
been heaving large masses of statistics at N.S.W. Public
Works Committee, now considering Minister O’Sullivan’s
alternative scheme. The co’s. concentrate practically all
their ore ; and concentration calls for about I3ogals.
water per ton of ore—independent of the quantity needed
for boilers. For this water the co’s. have to pay about
4s. 3d. per lOOOgals. Further, the more complex the ore
the greater the volume of water required. Cost, how-
ever, is not relied on by the advocates of a second scheme
so much as the danger of a shortage with only one reser-
voir. The co.’s reports give these disquieting results :
Half- Con- Quantity left in
year sumption. Reservoir. . Profit,
ending Gals. Gals.
June, ’9B .. 62,937,370 .. 1,966,482,000 .. £ll 778
Dec., ’9B .. 87,482,610 .. 1,157,491,000 .. 1-5,760
June,’99 .. 93,852,660 .. 1,456,128,000 .. 16,161
Dec., ’99 .. 94,350,130 .. 779,896,000 .. 16,845
June,’oo .. 112,966,510 .. 721,557,000 .. 19,556
The consumption for the current half-year is estimated at
127,500,000ga1s ; at the present time the approximate
quantity in the reservoir is 500,000,000ga15. There is,
however, much difference of opinion as to whether the
estimates of water available are correct. The manager,
for instance, allows for 6in. of silt; an independent test
made the deposit 3ft. 6in. Anyhow, with the continued
increase in the consumption and the prolonged drought,
Broken Hillis becoming thoroughly alarmed.
* * * *
If N.S.W. Public Works Committee does not
recommend or Parliament sanction a State water-supply
for Broken Hill, to supplement the Broken Hill water-
supply scheme, power will be sought to carry through
what is known as the Yanko Glen scheme. Either°a
separate co., already partly formed, will undertake the
job, or the present water co. will work it in conjunction
with its existing supply ; the latter would be the more
economical. At least one miningco., however, afraid of
the outlook and not satisfied either with the price, has
had surveys made of other sites with a view to construct-
ing a reservoir for its own supply. It has chosen a site ;
and it has ample means and energy to do the work if
it is forced to it.
* * * •
N.S.W. Assembly has been wrestling with the
problem of municipal rating of mines. The present law
has nothing special to say about it; and the amount that
mine-owners have paid has therefore very largely de-
pended upon the sort of men they have stuffed, or have
failed to stuff, the local Councils with—which is about as
unhealthy a state of things as could possibly exist. Also
in the amending Municipalities Bill which Chief Sec. See
introduced, he let the awkward question slide; but,
forced to it, he proposed a clause. With the trimmino-s
torn from it this proposal is that mines as such shall not
pay town rates at all, the owners paying merely on
surface value—and the surface value of most, metal
mines is mostly a few shillings on the good side
of nothing a square mile. Mr. See’s proposal," neverthe-
less, did not startle anybody ; on the contrary, when a
Labor member or two carelessly suggested a higher rate,
horrified persons rose to solemnly warn the House against
“taxing: enterprise.” The same ancient remark would
apply equally to the taxing- of factories and other build-
ings ; the only man, in fact, who isn't taxed is the man
who does nothing, earns nothing, spends nothing. Still,
to tax a mine is, as a matter of hard fact, not strictly
speaking “ taxing enterprise ” at ail—it is taxing natural
wealth. It would certainly be an improper thing to make
a manufacturer pay town rates on the basis of his fac-
tory's profits; bub it is not reckoned an improper
thing to make a vegetable-gardener pay on the basis
of the value of his land for cabbage-growing. The mine
case is more like the latter than the former. “ What is
the value of the land for mining?”—the reply to that is
the fair basis for local taxation ; though, since to work a
mine is to eat it out, a large deduction should no doubt
be made for this rental or tribute value, in order to pro-
vide a sinking-fund to wipe out the capital value.
* • * *
N.S.W. Public Works Committee has been in-
quiring into a proposal, recommended by Govt., to con-
struct a railway to compete with the Silverton Tramway
Co., which pays a div. of 40 per cent, a year on its
watered capital. Except from those who want the line
simply because the present one is not State-owned, the
Committee has had difficulty in getting any evidence at
all; what it has got has been mostly in opposition. First
of all, the Railway Commissioners report that Broken
Hill is very well served by the co., and, anyhow, they
don’t think it would be equitable to build a competing
line. The fact that the co. was granted only a concession
and not a monopoly, and that at the very time the late
MacGregor was greasing this Bill through, the late
Matheson had one on hand for this very route which
the Govt, proposes to follow, is conveniently forgotten.
Why a community and an industry which pay a
company 40 per cent. divs. don’t kick has obviously
surprised a part at least of the P.W. Committee ; but it
is easily explained. First, as to the Broken Hill local
people. They don’t kick because they don’t feel the
co. kicking them. Nine-tenths of the co.’s business is
done with the mines, and only the other tenth with the
town ; and the co. tells the town quite truly that, even if
it carried the town goods for nothing over the 35 miles
which the co. owns, it would not make a difference of
more than Id. per lb. on the average. The town does
not, therefore, feel sufficiently interested to kick because
it knows that at the best it would not get its goods
carried for nothing. Then, as to the mines:
certainly one or two of them—Block 14 and 1
South, for instance—do begin to protest. But, so far as
the most and the biggest of them are concerned, the con-
nections between their directors and the tramway
co.’s directors are far too intimate to allow the
former to regard the latter as vultures. Some
men may possibly be found who would beseech a Govt, to
save them from their own rapacity ; but it is waste of
time to look for them around Melbourne Stock Exchange
or at Broken Hill. No doubt there are mine shareholders
—thousands of them —who have not the luck to be also
tram shareholders ; but in such matters as these it is the
directors that count, not the shareholders ; and, with the
shareholders scattered all over the earth, how to change
the directorate of any of the big B.H. cos. in a way which
the present directors oppose is a harder problem than
even the sulphide riddle.
Besides, it is not at all certain that even if the
State did lay another line freights would be any lower.
If the N.S.W. Govt, worked the line itself it would prob-
ably charge on the basis of a separate 35-mile “ journey,”
and the N.S.W. Govt, does not carry goods for 35 miles
much, if any, cheaper than the Silverton Tram Co. does.
For instance:
N.S.W. Govt. S.T. Co.
Coal 3s. 7d. 3s. 3d.
Ore • 3s. 7d. 3s. 3d.
Ore (special rate for
journey to Sydney only Is. 5Jd.
Timber 6s. 4d. ss. 2d.
Fruit and Vegetables .. 4s. sd. ss. lOd.
Sugar (ordinary lots) .. 16s. 4d. 12s. Bd.
Beer 16s. 4d. 12s. Bd.
Gal. Iron 13s. 6d. 12s. Bd.
Drapery 21s. 9d. 15s. 7d.
If then, N.S.W. Govt, laid and worked a line and did not
make a specially low tariff for it, it could not compete
with the Tram Co. There is no doubt that, in conse-
quence of the whole being a through and a concentrated
and an easily-bandied traffic, it would pay the Govt, to
adopt a special tariff. The more sensible plan, though,
would be for the S.A. Govt, to work the line in conjunc-
tion with its own lines, of which the new line would
simply be a continuation, and then the difference between
the rates for the last 35 miles (the line from Adelaide or
Pt. Pirie right through to Broken Hill being regarded as
one single line) and the rates now charged by the Tram
Co. for that 35 miles would be like this :
As a section of S.T. Co.’s pre-
a through line, sent charges.
Ore 1/4 .. 3/3
Timber (mine) .. .. 2/11 .. 5/2
Fruit and vegetables .. 2/2 .. 5/10
Sugar 2/2 .. 12/8
Chaff, &c 1/5 .. 8/9
Drapery 10/2 ' .. 15/7
Gal. Iron .. .. 2/11 .. 12/8
However, Cann, M.P. for B. Hill, thq chief barracker for
the new line, who asked the S.A. Govt, whether it would
work the line and on what terms, only got the reply that
the Commissioner would work it on local rates —“ local ”
being in contradistinction to “ through ” rates. If that is
the best the S.A. Govt, will do, then Broken Hill is
clearly just- about as well off without the proposed
new line ; but if through rates are charged, then
the charges would have the tumble shown above. One
difficulty in getting through rates adopted is that S.A. is
not keen on having competition for the Broken Hill trade
on what, in both cases, would be a continuation of its
own line ; for it has frequently used the Silverton Tram
Co.’s high rates to justify its own. Altogether, then, in
relation to its railway communication, Broken Hill is in a
tight place. Every year it is paying a co., over and above
all working expenses, about 75 per cent, of the first cost
of building and equipping the line ; and still there is no
clear or hopeful way out of that bad bargain. It has not
even the consolation of knowing that it is doing effective
work as a “ shocking example ” ; but it quite well under-
stands why Queensland boodlers should fight like demons
for their railway syndicate concessions." The chance of
75 per cent, annual profit on cost doesn’t come along
many roads.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Slothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVIP JON€S & COMPANY,
<s*org* & Barrack Sts., Sydney
a
... THE ...
COMMONWEALTH CELEBRATIONS.
Snapshots of anything in connection with this great event
will be of increasing value and interest as time advances.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
Our Special Offer —The Premo “ D ” Camera.
A neat, well-built instrument of modern construction, compact and suitable
for all kinds of photography, giving equally good results in portraits or instan-
taneous pictures. It may be used as a Hand or Stand Camera. Very simple
to use, and full instruction given. Price complete, <£2 10s.
HARRINGTON S CO. LTD.,
66 KiOS Street, SycSijcy.
Branches or Agencies in every colony.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
A Sydney attorney distinguished himself
last week by arresting a man-of-war, the Yankee
transport Glacier. Some £5O for supplying the
ward-room mess was owed a local trader who
couldn’t collect same, whereupon his legal adviser,
the attorney, got out a Vice-Admiralty warrant,
and had it nailed on the mainmast. Then ensued
no end of a row. The Yankee Consul, “ with
them all on,” including his sword, waited upon
the Acting-Governor. who, after inquiring,
tendered a full apology. The attorney, of course,
took the Glacier for an ordinary merchantman,
and was, like the general public, unaware of her
temporary connection with Uncle Sam’s navy.
And, after all, that tradesman didn’t £?et his
money.
“Colonists and Americans coming to
England will, it is said,” writes Sydney D.T.’s
London gossiper, “find an entree to Court far more
difficult to obtain than under the regimes of the
last two Lord Chamberlains. I know nothing
myself of the new man, Lord Clarendon, but
friends who do, say he is a typical English country
gentleman, with an old-fashioned appreciation of
virtue, and an idea of keeping up the traditions of
the national aristocracy.” “Colonists and
Americans,” then, are not virtuous !
* * * *
South Australia feels much hurt because
while the N.S.W. and Vic. sailors are being
retained in China the gunboat Protector and her
crew are being returned to Port Adelaide. It is
asserted that this action is due to the jealousy of
naval men, who don’t mind amateur sailors fight-
ing ashore, but object to their presence with the
ships of the British squadron.
* * » *
No democratic federalist should drink one
ounce of liquor out of the public purse at the
inauguration of the Commonwealth. The word
commonwealth is itself a direction to the use of
public funds for common purposes only, and the
crowd of N.S.W. guzzlers who are getting ready
to divert a portion of these funds to their own
special throats (leaving nine-tenths of the total
population to pay for themselves or go without)
are in reality burglariously seizing the money of a
copartnership. If there be a living democratic
organisation it should file the names of all parties
—especially politicians—who participate in this
outrage, and flood the ensuing election fields with
photographs of the brazen jaws and swollen
stomachs of “ The First Robbers of the Common-
wealth.”
* * * •
Despite all their noisy assertions about
the high moral duty of their crusade, N.S.W.
professional advocates of teetotalism prove them-
selves a shambling lot when brought face to face
with a great occasion. Where is the public
meeting of gassy water-drinkers to protest against
Premier Lyne’s invocation of a champagne flood
—20,000 specially-imported quarts—for the throats
- of the upper tier of the coming guests, and in-
numerable tanks of swankey for the visiting
Tommies? Where are the deputations rending
garments and figures of speech in the Ministerial
presence? They simply don’t and won’t exist.
People of social eminence are to be feted on the
occasion, and Tommy is to be eloquently convinced
that Australia is Jingo, and on these two accounts
the professional water-drinkers sit down dumb
and let the country wallow in puddles of the
“ accursed drink.”
* * * *
Among the official follies of the Common-
wealth inaugural celebrations is the construction,
at a cost of £3OO, of a barge, wherein it is intended
the Governor-General shall be rowed ashore. The
story goes that this expensive gew-gaw is to be
propelled by 60 rowers.
* * * *
It is no soft thing that Turner has come
in for as Vic. Premier. He will be expected to
prepare the way for the Yorks, and everybody is
wondering how Victoria is going to put them up.
There will be a local Governor “on the job ” in
Melbourne when the royal pair arrive, and the
Governor-general will be located down south at
that date. The available official accommodation
will therefore be considerably over-strained, and
the hotels will probably be engaged tliree-deep
early in the year. Where are the royal guests to
stay, is the general query, and it is suspected that
Turner begins to regret the hasty demolition of
the old fish-market on the corner of Flinders and
Swanston-streets.
• * * *
Premier Lyne professes to have arranged
for the coming of the Imperial troops and the
visit of the Duke of York. Did he also arrange
the convenient illness of Lord Hopetoun, which
will prevent Perth having the privilege of first
welcoming him to Australia ?
* » * »
Melbourne Age tells lamentable stories
about how Victorian Imperial Bushmen are com-
ing back invalided and penniless, without having
received a copper of the British pay due to them,
and says it is a shameful reflection on the inca-
pacity of the Victorian Defence Department.
Possibly it is. Yet seeing that it was Britain
which agreed to pay these Imperial Bushmen, and
Britain, seemingly, has forgotten all about them,
it looks as if it might also be a pretty bad reflec-
tion on somebody else’s incapacity.
* * * *
The cableman’s latest is to announce that
the 1000 soldiers sent out by the Imperial War
Office average 6ft. 6in. in height. This staggering
assertion proved too much for the credulity of
even the Australian daily press. If the cable
means 6ft. only, the statement would be hardly
credible. The average height of an Englishman
is about sft. 6in., though most people
think it is more. And the English average is
higher than that of most of the Continental
nations.
* * * *
It is quite possible that among the bizarre
excitements ushering in Federation will
be some executions in Darlinghurst Gaol.
Sydney has generally had, on or about great occa-
sions, this kind of gruesome luck. In fact, several
old residents look for it, and expect it, and will
feel something lacking if it doesn’t come about.
♦ * * *
250,000 extra persons are to be in Sydney
next January for the Commonwealth festivities
according to the modest estimate of Premier
Lyne, who professes to be seriously disturbed as
to where this influx is to dispose itself. Owing to
IN THE CONSERVATORY.
H ER: “ What horrid taste some
men have— just look at my pig of a husband.”
HIM: “By Jove, yes—that's my wife with him.”
the wide publication of this and other extrava-
gances, some queer developments have taken
place. An unexpected one is that many Sydney
boarding-house keepers have given notice to their
permanent boarders that, during January their
usual tariff will be greatly increased. This may
be fun to the advertising Lyne, but it is a serious
A BLOOMER QUESTION.
“I won’t, arst yer to buy it, then—gimme an old
pair o’ trousers, mum, and yer can ’ave it.”
thing for the lodgers whose capacity for joining
in the shivoo will be lessened to vanishing point
by the added cost of living.
The St. Peters (Sydney) Council last week
heartily and unanimously endorsed a communica-
tion from Leichhardt Council, urging that the
municipal councils of N.S.W. should be repre-
sented at the Commonwealth celebrations, and
that each particular beadle should be entitled to a
free railway-pass during his term of office. St.
Peters bumbledom rose to the occasion, and
declared that this “was an opportune time to
urge upon the Premier the expediency of the pre-
sent and future Governments extending to all
municipal councils that courteous recognition of
their value to the State which their position as
public bodies justified.” To this The Bulletin
says Amen from the bottom of its new tan boots.
Leichhardt and St. Peters are, excepting, perhaps,
Waterloo, which consists mostly of strange stinks,
the two most hideous suburbs in Sydney. They
haven't a decent street in them, and the only bit of
bright color to be seen at Leichhardt is the streaky
blue ground on which are printed admonitions to
use somebody’s starch and read the D.T. The
houses of both suburbs consist of interminable
rows of small, stuffy, unhealthy kennels, in which
no decent man would imprison his dogs for
worrying sheep. The demand of the aldermen,
who have helped these places to become what
they are, to have their services courteously recog-
nised as they deserve should be acceded to with
alacrity. And when these aldermen hear that
their services are really going to be recognised
as they deserve, they had better disguise them-
selves with a red wig and blue spectacles apiece,
and fly madly across the border, and never come
back.
* 1 * •
At the Sydney deputation to the N.S. W.
Premier re the opening of fruit-shops on Sunday :
Rev. D. Zillmann said he represented a liberal inter-
pretation of the law of the Sabbath. His personal opinion
was that what was right on the Monday was right on the
Sunday.
The Premier : “ If that is the view of the deputation I
will not budge an inch.” (Cries of “ No.”)
Why doesn’t Sunday Bill read his Bible for him-
self instead of taking it on trust from a gang of
parsons? Here is what the Founder of Chris-
tianity said —Mark 11., 27, 28 :
And He said to them: “The Sabbath was made for
man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore the Son
of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath.”
Also Saul of Tarsus wrote to the Romans thus :
One man esteemeth one day above another ; another
esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be full}' per-
suaded in his own mind.
It doesn’t give one an exalted idea of the intelli-
gence and sincerity of the average N.S. Wales
M.L.A. to read the flapdoodle that John Haynes,
Hogue, Hughes, and the rest talked about “Con-
tinental Sundays ” and things of that sort, about
which not one of them knows anything.
Heidelberg : Isn’t it just about time for
the establishment, on the club principle, at some
pleasant, quiet, waterside Sydney suburban site,
of a beer-garden after the German fashion —a
place to resort to after we have been to church on
the Day of Rust ? A place where there would be
plenty of music and red umbrellas. What a beer-
garden the grounds of Woollahra-house would
have made, with the electric tram running past
the back gate and the wavelets of the harbor lap-
ping the rocks of the frontage. Too late, alas!
But Coogee might do !
* * » *
From Baronet Newnes’ Tit Bits, Sep’
15 :
Britain’s Colonies in Australasia have always been in
the van of civic progress. The big towns are trying hard
MARY McCARRON MAGUIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is announced that the “Commonwealth Waltz,”
by Mary McCarron Maguire, will shortly be published by
Elvy and Co.”—S. D. Telegraph, 10/11/00.
Mary McCarron Maguire !
Boy, bring me my wreath and my lyre !
For my soul leaps to flame at the sound of her name,
And there’s no knowing what may transpire.
O Mary McCarron Maguire !
Your syllables chime and conspire
To capture the ear of a critical seer
With a motto of “ Nothing admire 1”
For the trochee pauses humming to prepare us for the
coming
Heroic of amphibrach, trumpeting, drumming
“ A way for Lord Iamb ! ”
Who will find you, I’m sure, no stern goddess or chary,
O Mary ?
O Mary McCarron Maguire 1
You’re a trio con brio —a choir
Of angels who’d wheedle a man or a beadle
To love you and yearn and aspire.
And whatever your new waltz may be
With its one-and-a-two-and-a-three,
My heart will beat true to the three names of you
And the dance will be barren,
O Mary McCarron 1
O Mary McCarron Maguire !
Had you blessed a less suitable sire—
Some Daley or Durfey
Or Mooney or Murphy—
How much there would be to desire !
But in perf r ct attire you deprecate ire ; and despite the
doom dire of the never-quenched fire you will hear
from the pyre a whisper expire at your feet, saying,
“ Wire,
If you please, Miss Maguire,
From the beautiful shore just three words and no more—
Mary—McCarron—Maguire ! ”
Boy, hang up my wreath and my lyre!
I’ve run short of the rhymes I require ;
But I’ll say her name over in tones of a lover —
My Mary
McCarron
Maguire !


m
CRS
SIIO Hi!O.OJUS
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY .
Ex Himalaya, Large Shipment of Ladies’
TOILET REQUISITES
In Sterling Silver, comprising Hair Brushes,
Pin Trays, Pin Boxes, Toilet Brushes, &c.
GOLD & SILVERSMITHS,
&c., &c.
à
a
Inspection Invited.
The Wear Test
is necessary to judge the Real Cost of your Boots for the.
Year through. A very low-priced Boot is generally a
very Costly Boot.
The Callaghan Boot
wears long enough to be an economical Boot, and always
has an exceedingly genteel appearance.
Ladies’ Brown Vici Kid Boots, goloshed, button or lace
stylish caps, on pointed toe lasts-welted, 21/-.
Add 9d. postage.
Gent.’s Tan Balmoral Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6.
Add Is. postage.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydne
Svdnev 6 NS w* 16118 their dtizens as light as may be.
This seems to surprise Bart. Newnes, but what
will he say when he learns that the Lyne Ministry
last week only narrowly escaped defeat on a vote
ot want-ot-confidence consequent on its refusal to
«? ve : th f night-trams filled with Nsds in the in-
terests of homeless sleepers ?
* * * •
Lord Beauchamp had a book printed and
published in Sydney, but he did not supply a
specimen to the Public Library in terms of the
Copyright Act, as no copies were sold. 250 copies
only were printed—for distribution among the
friends of H.E.’s brother, the late Lieut. Lygon,
who fell in the S’African war.
• » * .
‘ For the Bombala (N.S.W.) murder,
Sleigh is to be hanged, the lunacy experts having
pronounced him sane. All the same the man’s
history is that of a crank, and his crime was as
purposeless as most of the other notable actions of
his mis-spent life.
* * * *
At the recent Armidale (N.S.W.) send-off
to the newly-appointed Anglican Bishop of Bal-
larat, Monsignor O’Connor (R. C.) attended and
declared that with him “feelings of sorrow and
pleasure struggled for the mastery ” over the de-
parture of Bishop Green, who was “a great
prelate and a real leader among men.” What a
clerical Eden Armidale must be ! Even The Bul-
letin has hopes of a sacerdotal millennium when
the sectarian can thus be forgotten in the man.
* * * *
Melbourne’s new Mayor, Mr. Gillott, at
the annual inaugural guzzle, after referring
lengthily to the coming royal visit, finished up:
“The knowledge of the intended visit has filled
the hearts of all of us with joy.” Fancy any man
feeling joyful at the prospect of getting the sort
of title that was conferred upon Bengy-Bingy !
* * * *
As a set-off against the increased expendi-
ture under the N.S.W. Old Age Pensions Bill,
Premier Lyne hopes to save something by making
Well-to-do persons contribute in aid of their desti-
tute relatives now supported wholly by the State.
Were it possible to publish a list of the dependents
on Govt, charity in all the Australias whose people
are opulent, some revelations ivould be made.
Apropos, in one big city not long ago the sitting
member for the electorate fell foul of a local
charity-official, and, at a public meeting, made
a determined attack on his adversary. Next
morning the M.P. received a letter from the
attacked party, pointing out that unless an open
apology was immediately tendered he (the attacked
one) would at once publish the fact that the mother
of the member was supported, and had been so
supported for some time, by the charity with
which he was connected. The apology was pro-
duced.
* * * *
Millionaire Tyson’s letter-desk at Felton
Station, broken open by the Queensland authori-
ties in intestacy, contained letters from all parts
of Australia and from Europe and America, with
the postage-stamps and franks of most of his long
life. When the letters were produced in court it
was found that stamps and franks had been
purloined by some official philatelist. His Honor
thought there was a fortune in these tokens.
Query : Have not the next-of-kin a right to sue in
this matter, and may not the Govt, prosecute for
theft ?
THE REAL REASON.
NO. 1: “ You seem to have given up sea-bathing
since you were married.”
NO. 2: “ Yes. George doesn’t like me to.”
NO. 1: “Good gracious! I wouldn’t let my
husband stop such a thing as that.”
NO. 2: “He doesn’t mind my bathing; but he
says I’ve got bow legs, and I don’t want other
people to notice it.”
DYING OUT.
PHILANTHROPIC-LOOKING OLD PARTY: “I see by the illustrated papers that the war is practi-
cally ended.
VOICE OF SUBDUED RESPECT (at his elbow)' “But look here, old geyser, that ain’t a battle-
picture you’re looking at; it’s a cricket-match!”
PHIL. OLD PARTY: “Ah! that’s just what I mean. That the papers find space for pictures of
cricketers augurs well for peace.”
Adelaide Y.M.O.A. advertises throughout
Australia for a competent man to fill one of its
holy offices, adding, “Applicants to state salary
expected.” Of all miserable dodges to take advan-
tage of the necessities of men out of work this is
absolutely the worst. Anyone who asks appli-
cants for a billet to state the lowest salary they
will take might as well advertise at once : “ Ten-
ders invited from persons willing to carry out the
duties of Bible-puncher. The lowest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.”
* * * *
There is large evidence to show that where
the Queen’s Statue now stands, at the head of
King-street, Sydney, was once occu-
pied by a gum-tree, and that from a
branch of this tree the first Botany
Bay execution took place. James
Barrett was the name of the offender,
his offence theft of food, and his age
17, and the record runs : ‘‘ He was
hanged on the adjacent tree.” Dr.
Houison, a Sydney antiquarian, pos-
sessed some old drawings a few
years ago which showed the tree and
its situation.
* - * *
Alex. Balfour* the pawky Vic.
M.L.C., laments the lack of serious-
ness in Australia’s young men. It
is this painful lack of seriousness, he
says, that keeps them from church,
and he advocates a crusade of “ag-
gressive evangelisation,” with the ob-
ject of inducing young men to take
their elders seriously. The Bul-
letin advises the young men to
start an opposition movement with
the ob’ect of infusing a sense of
humor into men like Balfour, M.L.C.
The church is the centre of gravity
nowadays.
“Wat Tell”: Went into my
boar ting-house (as I thought) at
Manly recently per back way, ran
upstairs to my room (as I thought),
and fell into the arms of a lady in
very incomplete costume. There
were screams and an awful row,
and I had hard work to explain that
my intentions were honorable. There
should be a law forbidding the build-
ing of adjoining houses alike.
* * *
AN EPITAPH.
One can’t but think when life is run,
(Oh, deeds that live when men depart!)
They whom we classed among the fools
Were only burdened with a heart!
n.s.w. Amb. G.
* * * *
Jimmy Governor’s mother is to have a
railway-pass to Sydney, where the Aborigines
Board, it is announced, “will take all the neces-
sary steps for her accommodation and comfort.”
Her “ comfort ” —while her son is being ? Is
this humor, or what ?
The answer of “0.” :
In the “ Plea for Loving Women ” in a recent Bulletin
writer blames the M.L. woman who wished to impose a
legal penalty on the mother of a second illegitimate child
urging that, were the culprit her own daughter, she
would defend her, and would declare that whatever
crimes her child committed and to whatever “ depths oi
degradation she fell, she would never commit any crime
that would shut the mother’s heart against her.” But is
the average woman lenient to her own erring daughter?
The woman who informs her daughter, when the mother
of one illegitimate child (let alone two), that the street is
now the most suitable place for her, is quite common in
civilised communities. Mothers have been known (not
often, perhaps) to have caused their daughters’ deaths
through continually raving about their sin when their
fall became evident, —and other mothers, hearing of this,
have said “ they could quite understand it.” The mother
who is above such ebullitions of temper would still
gladly have the erring daughter blotted out of
existence, and though she clothes and feeds her and the
unwanted infant she brightens the illegal mother’s path
with many a maternal gibe. Whatever women are they
are consistent, and as hard on their own as on other
people’s. Women are consistent in their contempt for
the “ fallen,” but men are not so in their defence of her.
The same man who barracks for the slightly-fallen girl as
being of the nobler type will nevertheless be found intro-
ducing the inferior “ good ” girl to his family circle rather
than the interesting mother of the illegitimate child.
Also, when he discovers that his own sister has been ele-
vating herself into the nobler type, he is apt to pursue,
the man who elevated her with a gun.
[As to the first contention, The Bulletin desired
to be polite to the M.L. lady. Perhaps it assumed
a virtue which she had not; perhaps its politeness
was exaggerated. But it is a rule of argument,
when truth is desired to issue, to assume the best
when nothing is certainly known of an adversary.
As to the second contention, The Bulletin did
not consider it : its article was aimed at one tar-
get, not at the whole Earth.]
* * * *
An item in the backwash of the Jingo
fury on this island is the fate of the recently
recalled “ Patriotic ” stamp issue. In Q. and Vic.
the cash sales will hardly pay printing expenses.
The “ recognised ” philatelists gave these stamps
an early lmock-oi t by dubbing them a “ bastard ”
issue. That “cruelled” the commercial aspect.
The honor-and-glory side of it was stillborn.
Dear Bulletin.— After all, the colored
alien has his uses. Up this way (Menzies, W.A.)
he is succeeding in breaking up the “ Meat Ring.”
Some little time ago an Afghan butcher started to
supply his own countrymen with meat at Bd. per
lb. (white butchers charging £rom Is. to Is. 3d.)
Result was that the white butchers tried to get
the Afghan custom by lowering the price to 7d.
per lb., while still charging white people from sd.
to Bd. per lb. more. The Afghan butcher
promptly retaliated by advertising the circum-
stances in the local paper, and hoisted the Meat
Ring with its own petard by supplying white
people with meat, (and, good meat too) at 7d. per
lb. Therefore the Afghan in W.A. is a man and
a brother, whatever he may be in a decently-run
state.—K.C.W.
* * * *
Pity the poor postman who has to carry
this man’s mails for a week or two. Melb. Age
advt. :
TATEALTHY Widower wishes to meet nice lady,
'' loving disposition, looks no object. Trusty,
Age Office.
In a crowded railway carriage, returning
from certain races near an Australian capital,
t’other day, much amusement was camsed by a
passage between a dainty, fair haired girl and her
fiance. The lady had had champagne, and her
Reginald, like many of the men, was standing up.
“Sit down, Reg.,” cried the fair one. “ho
room,” he replied. “Plenty ! Just sit here, and
I will sit on your knee,” insisted the vivacious
one. Reggy blushed, and was understood to say,
“What rot!” but his face flushed carmine at
beauty’s further retort, pregnant with scorn:
“ You know you like it, and pretend you don’t
because there are people looking on.” Reggie
said no more, but swears played on his face like
sunbeams on a mirror.
• * ♦ *
The ship Melanopic, a well-known Austra-
lian trader, lies “held up” in ’Frisco under some-
what romantic circs. Up to recently she was
owned by her master —he borrowed the purchase-
money from a lady friend, who completed the
deal by accompanying the skipper en voyage,
passing amongst officers and crew as the “old
man’s” better half. On leaving Australia the
vessel proceeded to Panama. En route the pseudo
wife was taken ill, and on arrival at the latter
port she was sent ashore to hospital, only to die.
The Melanopic then sailed for ’Frisco, but 18
days out the skipper also died. Now comes the
hitch in the settlement of the estate. Previous to
the vessel’s arrival at Panama the skipper trans-
ferred his ownership of the vessel to Ins pro. tern.
9-16ths, who preceded him. Some of the facts
getting abroad in ’Frisco, the cute Yankee Public
Administrator applied for letters on behalf of
absent heirs, whilst a claim has also been lodged
on behalf of three minor children of the departed
skipper, who reside in the Eastern States. A
nice kettle of fish for the lawyers to haggle over.
The Maoriland Jingo daily papers were
delighted at the cabled story about Michael
Davitt’s alleged change of opinion touching the ..
Boer war. Curiously enough, they one and all
expatiated on Davitt’s honesty and patriotism.
But when the contradiction came there was an
embarrassing situation, especially as it would
scarcely do to level the epithets “ Fenian,” “ pro-
Boer,” etc., at the “patriot” of but twenty-four
hours before.
Concerning Hobart water-supply :
Hobart being threatened with a water-famine, owing to
the bungling of Bumble, and the decreasing supply ob-
tainable from Mt. Wellington watershed, Parliament has
just appointed a commission to investigate the trouble.
Mt. Wellington is wanted as a holiday-resort, and, as the
settlers along the only creek that might possibly be
diverted into the present reservoirs strongly object to
being robbed of their water, it seems certain that the
Hobartians will have to go further afield for an adequate
supply. This would have happened years ago but for the
hopeless incapacity of the local authorities. The plan’s
chief opponent hitherto has been the present Mayor, who
is an advocate of Hobart’s metropolitan drainage scheme.
A big water scheme, such as the commission will probably
recommend, would delay the deep drainage scheme in-
definitely, therefore it was actually proposed to inaugu-
rate the board and chance whether the water supply was
sufficient to run it or not. The formation of the Drainage
Board (ivith a paid chairman) was held to be of greater
importance than securing a reliable water supply ! But
’arliament has knocked that proposal fiat by appoint-
\g a commission.
WHAT ITS COMING TO.
The above young lady wishes to meet a gentle-
man from 40 years upwards, with view to matri-
mony. Must be rich and Liberal. Divorce
grinds guaranteed within 18 months of marriage,
or sooner, if so desired.
Sfc. Peters (Sydney) tram killed five dogs
last fortnight. The local council encourages the
Tram Dept, to keep on killing, but mildly sug-
gests that it should bury the victims.
Harassed Holder, the S.A. Treasurer,
looks more gaunt and worried than ever. He did
reckon upon a fair wheat harvest and it looked
like one right down to six weeks ago. But what
want of rain has not done to spoil the estimate,
the grasshoppers have ; and 8. A. has therefore
wrapped itself again in its accustomed gloom.
There hasn’t even been a fair harvest of rich men’s
deaths to bring comfort and cash to the Treasury.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
mark FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing !
, WMU MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the daily orowds at the counters.
] h
&
$
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOB 6 T6lS have N 0 Eq " aL
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, November 20, 1900.
My Dear Mykk.—
Nothing has happened since my last letter;
nothing but the Shakespearean revival and the
announcement of Lady Darley’s departure from
Australia for two years. Everyone is sorry to lose
the Lieutenant-Governess for so long. She is a
reliable woman at the social helm, and the Chief
Justice himself doesn’t look more at home in the
Full Court than does his spouse in the chair at
public meetings. Lady Darley’s indifferent health
is the reason of her projected trip.
If Shakespeare witnessed the production of his
“ Macbeth ” on Saturday night he must have felt a
proud, pleased ghost—proud of the packed house
he could bring together after all these hundreds
of years. Also, he would have been an angry
ghost at the liberties taken with his text, angry
about the “blasted heath,” which wasn’t blasted
at all, but a fine picture behind leafless trees,
spongy, swarthy-green islets and little peninsulas
in dark, still water. (We know and love that
kind of swamp, for we used to wade in it when we
were 10, looking for water-fowls’ eggs.) And on
the sky-line one gleam like a bloodshot sword-
blade. Angry with the man, one of the horde
roused from sleep by the alarm-bell, who rushes
on clad in a Marrickville blanket. Anyhow, it
was not an Inverness blanket of Shakespearean
days.
In her first scene, where she reads her husband’s
letter, Lady Nance Macbeth’s uncorseted figure
wears a tight-fitting red cloth robe trimmed with
embroidered leather. The tight sleeves reach the
knuckles, and from the shoulders fall other long,
hanging sleeves. This is one of the few parts in
w lich Miss O’Neil wears other than her own hair.
Two long, very long, red plaits hang on either side of
her face. With her severely-brushed hair cover-
ing the ears, and severely-close gown cut to show
the full, columnar throat, her all-red robe, her
broad-girt waist, her fixed, pitiless expression,
Miss O’Neil in this scene looked the very embodi-
ment of the goddess Bellona.
In the second act her appearance is very effec-
tive as she comes slowly across the drawbridge
and down to meet King Duncan. The King
looks a compromise between a cardinal and a
Supreme Court Judge. Miss O’Neil wears a
white trained robe trimmed with white kid, which
is patterned in delicate green thistles. Her
early love—the crimson rose—is in her red hair,
and it does not look at home. The role of Lady
Macbeth is not much in the millinery sense—you
could not expect that of a time when women
hadn’t proper mirrors or Paris fashion-plates.
In the banquet-hall scene the lady, now Queen
Macbeth, keeps her state in an olive-green robe,
al'O cloth trimmed with embroidered leather, with
the addition of the nun-like coif, under which her
hair is hidden, and a gold and jewelled circlet.
Sometunes, if you shut your eyes to the Macbeth
expression, Miss O’Neil and her two attendant
wooden gentlewomen look a stained-window
group. Church-window painters have familiarised
us with that long flowing line of skirt, the stole-
like drapery with the wide embroidered Ram, and
the wide flat girdle falling on the hips.
You come away from “Macbeth” with the
conviction that the Macbeths were most happily
married. Never had a man so devoted a helpmeet
as that “sweet remembrancer” and “dearest
chuck ” and “ love.” Mac. must have been deeply
in love with his wife, and never once, even when
broken-hearted, half-mad from want of sleep after
she had made a murderer of him, does he turn
Adam on his wife and say, “You, woman,
tempted me ! ” Mac. was a perfect gentleman,
despite his “fell of hair, ” which he says he has,
and his propensity to hold converse with insani-
tary-looking murderers at banquets. By the way,
what a Henry VIII. M‘Kee Rankin looks in his
part. All the same, he’s a most sympathetic
Macbeth, and the audience liked him—at least, this
unit of it did—and when he got deeper and deeper
into the hot haggis (I don’t know what haggis is,
but it sounds troublous) I felt sorrier for him than
for Macduff. I knew his wife had been his ruin.
Lord Hopetoun does protest too much, me-
thinks. He has been speeching to tenants and
corporations and things, and dragging in (by its
back hair) his “great good fortune ” in winning
such a wife as Hersey. “He owes most of his
success to her.” “She’s a model helpmeet,” &c.
This public appreciation is so frequent and flat-
tering and apparently so uncalled-for that one
wonders if any English paper has been publishing
the sort of ill-natured gossip that had evidently
come to that Mayoress (of a certain big Victorian
mining town‘visited by Gov. Hopetoun) who at
the close of the inevitable banquet poked His Ex.
p'ayfully in the ribs and said, “Come now, do
tell me, what is the trouble between you and your
wife?” Lady H. had really and truly gone to
London for medical advice, and not because the
Hopetoun music was in anywise mute.
Gov. Hopetoun was ill at Homburg shortly ere
he started for his Governor-General’s billet.
Now he is sick again. How will he get through
the firework week of festivities ? By the way, did
you see that suggestion by S. M. H. correspondent
that the inaugural ceremonies should be arranged
to commence a few minutes before sun-up ? “ The
Governor-General’s movements should be so timed
that he would step on shore the very moment of
sunrise.” Now is the time for a Joshua to
do the Gibeon miracle for us over again.
The sun could then take its time from the
Governor-General! “ The procession,” continues
this solemn humorist, “would, after its arrival at
Centennial Park, disperse for an hour and on
reassembling refreshed, washed and invigorated,
the final proceedings oan be gone through.”
“Washed” is significant, so is “invigorated.”
Naturally the sunrise suggestor, who mu stlive
fairly close to the Park, would have us and the
delicate Governor-General roused by alarm-clocks.
We would then rush away unfed, unbathed, dis-
hevelled, to return in an hour’s time to our homes
at, for instance, Parramatta or Hornsby Junction.
Upon my word the S.M.H. tips for the festivities
are funnier than seeing a stout lady chasing a
Doctor John Steel, surgeon to N.S.W. Naval
Contingent, has, it is cabled, died m China
through an accident, nature unstated. He will
be sincerely missed by a wide circle, whose deep-
est sympathy will go out to his devoted ana
charming daughter, now in Europe. In pomt ot
honor, gentleness, and generosity Jack
was a worthy son of his late father, the good old
pastor of St. Stephen’s Presbyterian Church,
Sydney. The doctor, according to mail accounts,
had been doing double duty under most exhaust-
ing conditions, which may have had something to
do with his much-deplored end. Dr. Steel was an
extremely handsome man of most _ charming
manners and a great favorite in society, from
which he had in a measure withdrawn owing to a
sad romance in his life.
Just as Rev. F. B. Boyce, untiring enemy of
the drink traffic, entered the grounds at Primate
Smith’s last garden party the band struck up the
Faust march, which even the ecclesiastical world
now knows as “Oh, boys, we’ll never get drunk
any more.” Mr. Boyce got a great reception.
Callan Park Asylum would be so gladof a few
bright amateur performances —Musical,
cal, Terpsichorean—in the month. The mad
people immensely enjoy such things, which are
part of their cure. Miss Rose Lyons’ fancy dance
pupils gave a performance at C.P. last week to
the great delight to those who are not quite so
sane as we. Or aren’t some of them saner .
After a coster song had been sung I said to one of
the patients—l assured myself that he was a
patient, “You did not laugh at that song.,
“No,” was the reply, “I am mad, but not mad
enough for that.”
Miss Ada Parr’s concert, which came off last
Tuesday night, was engineered by Miss Maud
FitzStubbs, and drew a crowded house. This is
Miss Parr’s second appearance under her teacher s
conductorship. The pretty little fair-haired girl
gave a capital account of herself in.difficult classi-
cal items, and was smothered in praise and
flowers.
Hygieia Victrix! Mrs. Crotty, whose well-
gilt husband left her £lOO a year, has married
the man whose fevered brow she soothed and
whose pillow she smoothed out in S’Africa when
she went there a-nursing. He is a bank-manager
and his name Watts. By arrangement with the
heads of the R.C. Church, to which Crotty left
the bulk of his money, the widow got her pittance
increased to £5OO a year.
Miss Thea Proctor takes the Government prize
for a design for a programme-card of Federal fes-
tivity. To the left of the card a golden-crowned
and classically-draped girl stands holding a wara-
tah. Waratahs border the card ; the colors used
are red, brown and gold.
Monterey—the name recalls Bret Harte’s Ballad
of the Commandante’s daughter and the Russian
officer, and R. L. Stevenson’s “Across the
Plains.” For R.L.S. the old Californian Capital
had an almost hypnotic charm. Go and see the
Monterey scenes that artist Frank McComas has
on view in Vickery’s Chambers. See what he has
done for the old brown hills, sunburnt and seared
for half the year, the live green slopes wet with
Pacific rain and mists for half the year. Oaks,
oaks, oaks, always oaks. When Mr. McComas
dies his spirit will go into an oak. Wasn’t it
Swedenborg who saw the spirit of a tree standing
near it ? An old adobe-house on a green rise and
a rail fence—nothing more. This picture is
Maeterlinckish in its reserve. You won’tseeitssoul
unless your own is highly developed. There is a
study of fir stems and evening light. A reverie
picture—l liked it well. Leona Oaks, one of the
McComas pictures, is at the Gallery, and the trus-
tees are in a reverie as to its retention. The
young artist has been away from us for over two
years, and in contrasting his Australian work with
his American, you will note how he has discarded
the sudden-death style of coloring he employed
before his foreign study. When he went away he
was as color-drunk as are most of our painters ; he
returns sober.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There were some feminine curios at the races.
On last day, onlookers christened one poor girl
‘ the female Lohengrin.’ Her white chiffon, en-
crusted witli sparklers, called up thoughts of the
Wagnerian hero’s white mail, but Arens, with
stage-golden-curls clustering round the pure pallor
of pearl-creamed cheeks, is a bird of fairer feather
than ,the average down-tailed duck who disfigures
galaiandscapes with her draggled gauzes and tar-
nished spangles. Another failure, who must have
paid a fair thing for her unbecoming plumage,
had tan embroidery voile over orange silk, and
home-made pagoda parasol of yellow and white
chiffon. But the crown of this sartorial tragedy
was the heroine’s back hair. Short Empire ring-
lets had been meant to bob on the nape of the
neck, but the screws had come uncurled and
dangled down their unsuspecting victim’s collar
in a pepper-and-salt hank, exactly like a worse-
for-wear bottle-brush.'.Onlookers pitied the lady’s
grey-haired husband, whose uneasy glance pro-
claimed him conscious of something seriously
wrong with ‘ Mother’s’ get-up, incompetent as lie
was to diagnose or remedy the trouble.
“One amazing feature of Oaks Day was a
tallish, ladylike woman whose dressing caused
one long, horrified gasp to follow her all over
the place. The person in question was so lightly
clad as to be startlingly transparent in a favorable
light, and horrid men put in the best part of the
afternoon ‘ mooning ’ tne beauty in the diaphanous
skirt, under which nothing was obvious but the
usual limbs usually taken for granted in ladylike
persons. Once in a way a shocked matron would
edge-up to the transparent stranger, and, in a
determined whisper, inform her of her condition ;
but the fair one refused to be ashamed, and never
budged out of her tableau in any case. However,
she disappeared soon after the running of the
Oaks. A V.R.C. detective had to drop a very
broad hint indeed ere the lady consented to with-
draw her attractions and permit masculine atten-
tion to return to the sport of the hour.
“This item is gathered from David Syme’s
Leader’s description of the Cup dresses: ‘ Mrs.
Downes, who was accompanied by General
Downes, wore a grey satin foulard, and a toque
trimmed with black, and General Downes wore
black grenadine over white, and a toque trimmed
with black and white.’
“ Competition is the soul of business. T’other
week Aide Nevill cunningly used Nellie Stewart
to boom a charity fair at Mars Buckley’s mansion.
Last Saturday (Nov. 17), when 1 Whernside,’ the
Albert Millers’ Toorak mansion, was the scene of
a similar function, a ‘ Rose-of-Persia’ cluster
drew crowds to the concert-room. Off the boards,
Williamson’s warblers, as far as fuss and feathers
go, are simply not in it with the prize paroquet of
Musgrove’s aviary. J.C.’s belles are flowers of the
Spring, fit to face daylight without the profits of
over-sea theatrical undertakings ‘ piled on their
blooming backs.’
“Dainty, piquante Carrie Moore, singing
prettily, wore the simplest little pink muslin with
green baby-ribbon, and black hat with white tulle
veil. She’s sprinking into the veriest scrap, with
a face hardly bigger than the palm of one’s hand.
Her pastors and masters should send her to bed
early for a year, unless they want to watch a
dainty rosebud shrivel prematurely into a pinch
of pot-pourri. Alas poor Flora Graupner ! Alas
poor Vi. Varley !
“Another ‘Whernside’ vocaliste was Maud
Chetwynd, the darker of Carrie’s two companion
slaves in the ‘ Rose of Persia.’ Brown-eyed and
meagrely built, she too affected the demurest of
muslins and chirped her lay in quaint polyglot
accent. Some of her words she enunciates care-
fully according to the rules of ‘quaite naice’
English. Others come snarling out—real ‘ twan-
gers ’; and then there’s a third element —Irish, I
guess.
“ Upstanding Jennie Opie, with lace-revers on
her black suit, looked more impressive than she
sounded ; while Wallace Brownlow charmed femi-
nine ears and eyes. After all, not one of the
Grand Operatic heroes can hold a candle to him
for looks.. Which, reminds me that Arens (Faust
and Lohengrin), red-headed and irregularly-fea-
tured, patronised the fete, prattling in broken
English, while the fairest of Toorak stayed him
with strawberries at the usual bazaar rates.
“Mrs. Albert Miller, tall, white-haired and
dark-eyed, hurried about in smart black-and-
white muslin, permitting brief glimpses of frilly
emerald underskirts. Her husband, of the white
moustache and unclassic nose, sported his usual
ruddy, tubby complexion. Daughter Muriel
looked fresh in white muslin, like most of her
nice-girls helpers. There was an exception to the
general daintiness—in tumbled skirt and floppy
silk-blouse with ‘ Bishop ’ sleeves, the sort of
bodice favored by down-the-bay damsels, in con-
junction with poodle-hair, picture-hat, collarless
neck, and high-heeled shoes.
“Pa Madden gave one of his fluent little
speeches—about infant orphans, remarking that
fair workers might chance to rescue some modern
Moses and ‘rair’ him up to happiness. Unlike
Pharaoh’s daughter, he added, they needn’t doff
‘their delightfully becoming garments, prepara-
tory to wading in after him (Moses).’
“ Everybody was at the Whernside fair. Mrs.
Harry Levy (Sydney) wore greeny-blue coat and
skirt and lots of pale-pink roses in her toque.
Her sister, Mrs. Attorney-General Isaacs, super-
vised her two little girls’ pony - rides, &c.
A fashionable dentist, with a ringlet at each
moustache-end, poured forth a purling stream of
small talk. Miss Nina Cotton, the Daylesford
bank-manager’s daughter, who is to marry young
Clarke (Cliveden), took another turn out of her
pale-blue race-frock. One now eminent lady
looked quite subdued (for her) in grey silk. Once
rude people used to call her ‘the Bird of Para-
dise,” but, now that hubby is placed on high, great-
ness may sadden her taste.
“Mrs. (Major-general) Downes passed quietly
into the Council Chamber at the opening of Par-
liament last Wednesday, as if duty had suddenly
summoned her from a mothers’ reading circle to
attend the ceremony. To help the idea she wore
a serviceable grey lustre gown, glasses, and a
black velvet odds-and-ends bag. She sat, a figure
of prudence and common-sense, with Lady Mad-
den, beautiful in all black, on one side, and Mrs.
Bingham, all pinkiness and fluff, on the other.
The fair Miss Ruby Madden, on the further side
of her mamma, adhered to her blues, fanned her-
self languidly, and dimpled to her friends at
intervals. Not far behind were perched Mayor
and Mayoress Gillott, in all the radiance of their
new dignity and plumage. Mrs. Gillott, who
holds her head rigidly and resolutely, was quite
gorgeous in silver grey brocade with a garniture
of white lace piped with black. Mrs. Carty
Salmon, eyeing her fond hubbie in the passage,
behind the Speaker’s chair, sat near the other
Harbor light, Mrs. H. Levy, who knocked spots
out of all the elect by her well-cut blue and ficelle
foulard and a toque all coquetry and ribbon-loops.
Col. Campbell negotiated the set of bows that to
feminine eyes are the funny feature of the Open-
ing Ceremony, with unerring accuracy. He
marched forward like a well-drilled soldier, and
bowed like a bishop.
“ What I said a little while ago about tea and
cake drawing the women to the Parliamentary
ceremonies proved perfectly true at the opening of
the new Vic. Parliament. At the closing cere-
mony of last Parliament, President Zeal gave no
tea; the women stayed away. He gave a tea at
the opening of the new Parliament; the women
rolled up in scores, beautifully frocked. The per-
son most looked at was the new Russian Consul,
M. de Possak—or is it Cossack ?—who wore a
splendid uniform and had his tunic covered with
medals. It does not seem possible for a man to
have won so many medals in war, even though he
had fought in every campaign since the days of
Hannibal. But perhaps they are football or cycling
medals. It doesn’t matter; they look dazzling.
With ’em all on the Russian Consul could pawn
himself for a fortune.
“The Magnificent Mr. —er —Jenkins, whorenders
invaluable assistance to President William Zeal
when that worthy’s Tea comes on and the guests
arrive in shoals from the Council Chamber, says
all the pretty things the host flies shy of by way
of welcome. The bushy beard is equal to all the
Beckys, Beatrices and aesthetic Janes who come
along. He presses the yielding palm of one,
whispers a compliment to another, chaffs a third,
reproaches a fourth, flatters a fifth, and pinches
his own little daughter’s ear as she comes for a
shake of the parental hand. No wonder
Melbourne womankind out of sheer gratification
talks tenderly of ‘ dear Mr. Jenkins.’
“Conspicuously solitary at the President’s
Strawberry Scramble was the wealthy bachelor of
Toorak whose nuggety diamonds made all eyes,
within a certain radius, actually blink. After a
fleeting word at the foot of the staircase with the
shrimp-like host, he mounted into loneliness and
stood impassive as a statue in a corner of the
corridor. He was evidently making a study of
Society, or Woman’s Ways.
“ ’Tis said that all Lieut.-Governors in office at
the Crucial Moment, now drawing near, will re-
ceive baronetcies. If true, this will suit Mogul
Madden from the points of his bandolined mous-
tachios to the tip of his varnished boots.
“ Quite a number of women stayed in the gal-
leries of Vic. Leg. Assembly till after 1 a.m. to
witness the exit of the M‘Lean Government. The
new Mrs. Carty Salmon was in the front row,
underneath a wide picture hat much befeathered.
She seemed to enjoy the excitement, though the
result of it deprived her hubby of office. The
Misses Turner, sensible girls, went home before
midnight, but knew enough by then to tell ma
that she would be Premieress again before break-
fast. Others were wives and daughters of new
members who wished to hear the delivery of the
maiden speeches which had been so much dis-
cussed at home. The women found it all well
worth stopping for, the late speeches were so
humorously abusive.
“ The last of Melb. Mayor McEacharn’s muni-
cipal concerts illustrated a point that Australian
entrepreneurs ought to have seized on long ago.
It took place on a warm evening in the Exhibition
Gardens. Seats were plentiful, and for the rest of
the 3000 there was a comfortable lounge on the
grass. Electric-lights centred attention on the
band-stand and the placard programmes posted
around, while the big central fountain murmured
a soothing accompaniment. A series of such con-
certs would probably mean the intermittent closing
of one or two theatres, but this sort of dreamy,
restful loafing is exactly what the sweltering Melb.
citizen wants on the hot summer evenings. And
better for them to have it in the different parks,
‘‘ at their own doors, ” than to tram down to the
beach for it. Besides, it is less dangerous for
the girls.
“ Mount-Morganaire D’Arcy’s daughter Violet,
lately married in England to a Mr. Home, was,
when last in Australia, less handsome and distin-
guished - looking than her Mexican - Spanish
mother, though quite as intensely dark. The new
Mrs. Home, however, is gifted with a fine singing
voice, which she has been taught to use by Mar-
chesi. Among her bridesmaids were her sister
Ethel (the last of the D’Arcy girls) and the pre-
sent Mrs. D’Arcy’s niece, a daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Phil. Nutting. The Mrs. D’Arcy of to-day
(nee Nina Boucicault) was formerly Mrs. Jack
Nutting, she and her sister Connie having married
brothers.
“Another English bride, interesting to Vic-
torians, was Miss Edith Loch, who married her
cousin, Capt. Maxwell Erie (just back from the
Boer, war), a son of the authoress of ‘ Potpourri
from a Surrey Garden.’ Mrs. Maxwell Erie is
remembered hereabouts as a fair, sturdy romp
with masses of tawny hair. Her brother, Capt.
Douglas Loch, severely wounded in the Trans-
vaal, is said to be 6ft. 6in. high, and as a boy was
like his mother, with regular features and fiaxen-
floss hair.
Yours affectionately,
GOULL-GOULL.
The telegraph-operator should get his
share of credit for journalistic errors. With the
aid of Melb. Age, last week, the lightning-jerkei
founded a new township in Westralia when he
sent the astounding information that, “At Hele
tic,” a young man had escaped from gaol. The
Age, by the way, has fallen into line with the rest
in accepting the term “Westralia,” invented by
the detestable Bulletin.
The N.S.W. Old Age Pensions Bill has
passed the Assembly and gone to try its luck in
the Council. If it gets safely through that
museum of legislative bones it will come into
force on Ist January, 1901. That is the middle
of the financial year, and there is no money pro-
vided in the financial year’s accounts to pay the
pensions with, but probably very few ancients will
establish their claims in time to start collecting
the money before 30th June, 1901. As for those
who do, the Lord will provide. And as for next
financial year, the Lord will provide also. Any-
how, N.S.W. seems likely to have the first Old
Age Pension system in Australia, and it is much
to Lyne’s credit,


ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Gitizei)s’liife9Bsurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Policyholders exceed. 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves.
Moore and Gastlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
JOHN FARRELL,
Res ident Secretary.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only lathers.
“ Con dy»'s Fluid ’ ’can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitatior :
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., intends to bid fora
seat in the House of Representatives.
Wire received by a Maoriland M.P. from
one of his constituents: “ died yesterday.
Try and get me his billet.”.
“ Smiler ” Hales apparently reckons he
has struck a pretty permanent reef in England :
he has sent out for his wife and children.
Julian Salomons, again a familiar figure
m Sydney Supreme Court, which doesn’t look
itself without him, has just completed his 39th
year at N.S.W. Bar.
Australia is receiving some surgical curios
from S’Africa. Trooper Palmer, who returned
from England per Ormuz, got a bullet in his brain
at Osfontein, which he carried about for six
months. When it was extracted by doctors in
England the bullet was inches in the brain.
fiov. Lamington has been indulging in an
extensive N. Q. tour, mostly over gold and other
mineral fields. Knowing ones wink the other eye
and talk darkly of English companies and so on.
As a more unpleasant time could not have been
chosen for a Northern tour, the quidnuncs have
appearances in their favor.
Hogan, one time reporter on Melbourne
Argus, but lately member for Mid. Tipperary in
the Commons, is back in Melbourne. Hogan
went away (with a book under his arm) a sparse,
cadaverous-looking young man, and has returned
a stout, well-fed, comfortable personage, who
could play John Bull without stuffing for the
part.
A touching spectacle at a leading Sydney
hotel, the other night, was the bibulous recon-
ciliation of two local legislators, who not long
before had had a slang-whanging match in the
House. The re-harmonised pair hung on to each
other’s necks with a fervour obviously partly due
to a well-founded doubt of their capacity to stand
alone.
The barristers called to N.S.W. Bar be-
tween 1850 and 1860, and still alive, stand thus: —■
M. H. Stephen, Supreme Court Judge; F. M.
Darley, Chief-Justice; H. C. Dangar, retired
from law; W. J. Foster (S.C. Judge) pensioned;
G. B. Simpson, S.C. Judge ; W. H. Wilkinson,
IXC. Judge-pensioner; Forbes, ditto; Owen,
S.C. Judge ; G. B. Barton, retired.
Mgr. Kelly, who headed the poll, last
week, for coadjutor to Cardinal Moran, Mgr.
Verdon, late head of Manly College and
now Bishop of Dunedin, Dr. O’Haran, the
Cardinal’s secretary, and the Cardinal himself,
were all educated at the Irish College in Rome,
and at one time or another acted as rector or
assistant-rector of that establishment.
Tom Playford is once more allied with
Kingston in politics. They have been staunch
friends ever since they first met in Colton’s
Ministry 15 years ago, although Playford has
stood aloof since Holder has been in office.
“ Honest Tom ”is a modern Cincinatus ; he left
market-gardening to become S.A. Agent-General.
He is 63, and now wears a frock coat and spats.
A weird figure on Sydney platforms for
many years was Mrs. Bowes, who died last week
at Marrickville, at the age of 86. The worn face,
the earnest voice crying from, it would seem, some
remote place, and the emphatic gestures, produced
a memorable impression. Total abstinence was
the theme of her life. She was widow of the Rev.
John Bowes, a Wesleyan of much influence in his
day.
Mr. R. H. D. White, M.L.C., and Canon
Corlette, who lately died within 10 days of each
other, were sons of pioneers of the A.A. Co., and
were bom at Stroud, Gloucester, N.S.W. Both
were schooled by the Yen. Dean Cowper, now at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, and in his 91st
year, who was chaplain to the co., with the head-
quarters at Stroud, from 1836 to 1858. Mr. White
married a daughter of the Dean.
According to the Westralian Municipal
Act no man can be Mayor of any town for more
than three consecutive years. But Premier
Forrest’s brother Alick is just finishing his third
year as Mayor of Perth, and it is essential that
Brother Alick should be re-elected so that he may
officially receive the Jook of York next year, and
get a title. So a measure is being rushed through
in great haste to abolish the three years’ limita-
tion for Brother Alick’s benefit and the greater
glory of the Forrest clan in general.
War’s effects ! Premier Seddon’s Halle-
lujah Jingoism is spreading like the smallpox. A
Maoriland mother, Mrs. King, has just christened
her infant Maurice Arthur Francis Edward.
When he grows up to sign his name it will run
M. A. F. E. King. Recent Wanganui birth regis-
trations include one Kitchener, two lans, four
Hectors, one Redvers, one White, two Roberts,
two Winstons, two Hector M‘Donalds, one Powell,
two Badens, one Baden-Powell, one Mafeking,
one Symons, one Pretoria and one Rundle.
Mainly about a prospective Australian
Agent-General:—
Dr. Oockburn, S.A. Agent-General, is believed to be
the favorite in the running for first Australian
“Ambassador” in London. Oockburn was once the
most prominent figure in S.A. politics. Originally a
country medico, he went into politics, and within a few
years was Premier of the Ministry which fathered pro-
gressive land-taxation. He practically founded Adelaide
School of Mines, which has been a magnificent success.
Oockburn was one of the ablest men S.A. Parliament has
seen, but he was a dreamer, and rarely remembered to
cut his hair. He is just 50, and has been a success as
S.A. Agent-General.
A Northern N.S.W. alderman,
who lately sought re-election,
proudly referred to his pre-
vious successful efforts
to get rid of the
“deluge of
stumps ” on
the streets,
and to the
“ submarine
drains” that
he h a.d
helped
to con-
struct. /
THE DANGER OF CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
WIFE: “ You beast, you've been drinking again!”
HE: “ Don't you judysh by appear ansh; fac’ is, I just lightsh my ciqarsh at a spirish lamp."
At Marcus Clarke’s funeral in Aug , 1881,
the service at the grave was conducted by Canon
Handfield, of St. Peters, assisted by Revd. R.
Colonna-Close, late rector of Toowong,. Brisbane.
Since then Mr. Colonna-Close left the church, and
took to journalism ; then became a barrister, got
disbarred and became a solicitor, got struck off
the roll and was recalled to the Bar. He has now
in hand the divorce-action about which Sydney
talks so much and as yet knows so little.
To-day (Sat., Nov. 24) ex-Premier Dob-
son, of Tasmania, will complete his 59th year.
He is the flippant gentleman who told the Federal
Convention that in Tasmania each elector “ has
as many votes as he deserves.” Ex-Premier Tom
Playford, of S.A. (who is pretty sure to be in the
Federal Senate), will be 63 to-morrow (Sunday),
and on same day ex-Chief-Sec. J. V. O’Loghlin
(S.A.), who is also a candidate for the Senate, and
who once sat in a Ministry with Playford, will
be 48.
When the Duke of Edinburgh was in
Melbourne he accepted the hospitality at Hop-
kins Hill of the late squatter Bill Moffat. While
Moffat was preparing his homestead for the
Duke’s reception he bethought him that there
wasn’t a book in the place. So he wired to Mul-
len or Robertson “Please forward one ton of
books.” This was the Moffatt of whom it was
written at election-time
Scabby are his sheep, and scabby is bis pocket,
And scabby is the man who votes for Scabby Moffat.
Ben. Bridge (who some years ago escaped
from a lock-up in a northern N.S.W. district
where he was sojourning over something about a
horse, re-escaped from a Queensland lock-up by
burning it down, walked thence to Westralia, and
was brought back to N.S.W. nearly a year ago,
and sentenced to two years) has been liberated.
The enterprising Benjamin says he has blotted
out the past, and means to start anew. He has
discovered a" coal-seam in Westralia, and, with his
wife and family, goes thither shortly with good
prospects for the future.
According to evidence given in the case of
the Queensland Government v. Tyson’s estate
(the case wherein Queensland Government
calmly tries to establish its legal right to charge
probate duty on the Tyson property in N.S.W.
and Victoria, in both of which places it has
already paid duty) the taciturn grey man was an
utter failure as a legislator. He was appointed to
Q. Upper House, and started one speech on the
subject of marsupials, but in the middle of it the
frivolous Perkins asked if the kangaroos bit the
sheep. Tyson sat down right there in disgust,
and was a profoundly silent member ever after.
To Tyson sheep were an intensely serious subject,
and Perkins’s remark was akin to sacrilege.
The cabled reports of Lord Hopetoun s
illness hint that consideration for his health
may have influenced his appointment.
He has all his life been an invalid, and
admitted frequently that his term of
office in Victoria saved his life. He
[ arrived at Melbourne when 28 —at a
time when he should have been able
to stand anything —yet at his very
first levee the ordeal of shaking the
flabby hands of several hundred
suburban mayors led to his
collapsing and being carried
from the room.
Apropos of Boer Generals. The real man
of mystery in S’Africa is General Ollivier, who
met Gatacre at Stormberg. He was first badly
wounded at Labuschagne’s Nek in battle with
General Brabant. He was captured a few days
later in the north of the Orange River Colony.
Next he was found dead in a gully after a scrap
somewhere north of Bloemfontein, and next week
was again captured, and within another week he
was reported to have gone to Naauwpoort to give
evidence for the Queen against the Cape
Dutch who had served under him at Stormberg.
Next his whole commando was practically wiped
out by Methuen and he himself again killed.
Altogether, in the interests of public decency, it
is high time Ollivier was safely buried.
G. D. M'Cormick, barrister-at-law and
P.M. (Vic.), distinguished himself as an amateur
lawyer long ere he thought of entering the
legal profession. A widow and her children,
friends of his, were involved in a long equity
suit re the I.Y.U. station, which they
claimed. M‘Cormick was a young Cana-
dian, who, when he first landed in Vic.,
drove one of Cobb and Co.’s coaches be-
tween Melb. and Bendigo. To save his
friends of the I.Y.U. station expenses he
conducted their case for them, undismayed
by its dryness and intricacy. Having access
to the Supreme Court library, he read up
precedents, and every Thursday morning
for nine months he appeared in the
Equity Court before the late Judge Moles-
worth with a pile of law books five feet '
high, which he soon had spread all over
the jury-box, in which he took up his quar-
ters. The counsel opposed to him were
Stephen and Holroyd, both afterwards judges.
These shining lights of the Equity Bar
sniffed consumedly at the lay brother who
had the presumption to pit his law
against theirs. But M‘Cormick rattled
away unconcernedly enough, and, greatly
to their chagrin, after thoroughly tiring
out Court and Bar, won his case. He
afterwards took up law as a serious
study, passed his exams., and was made
a P. M. later on by the Premier of the
period. Some time after ascending the
magisterial bench M'Cormick won an
action concerning his status and duties,
which he brought against Solicitor-General
Cuthbert; so that this P.M. is a hard nut to
crack.
Tasmania has gained the only Victoria
Cross which comes to Australasia over the miser-
able S’African business. It is awarded—for rescu-
ing an officer under hot fire —to L. H. Bisdee, a
young scion of a well-known pioneer family with
many connections in N.S. Wales.
Peter Kemp, ex-champion sculler of the
world, is now shearing in Mudgee district.
Maclean, a former ditto, now runs a small pub. on
one of the northern rivers. Beach seems to be
the only aquatic hero who made anything out of
the game. Ned Trickett, who has been attached
to the Salvarmy for some time (and is now giving
from the public platform the history of his conver-
sion) is a Customs officer. By the way, Harry
Searle’s grave is marked by a stone purchased by
Iris father, although the public talked largely of a
bronze statue. Nobody seems to know what
became of the money that was collected.
N.S.W. Colonial-Secretary See proposes
to spend £5O public money on the neglected grave
of Henry Parkes at Faulconbridge. When
the Duke of York visited Australia with
his brother he was taken to Faulconbridge by
Parkes and was induced to plant a tree there,
under which Henry hoped to sit in old age and
think of the kings he had met. This free is also
in disrepair. It is extremely likely that if the
Duke, on his coming visit, goes over the hill he
will ask to see the tree, and if he found it uncared
for, and saw the grave also uncared for, the Royal
opinion of the Govt, might be unprintable. So
the tree is to be put in order, the grave of Parkes
playing monkey for the occasion.
The bankruptcy of the young Duke of
Manchester, actually forced upon him by the
liabilities of his deceased father, proves that thrift
and industry combined may fail to make money.
The dead duke wandered all lands in search of
“ soft ” things. When in Australia no stream of
speculation was too muddy for his wallow. He
lay awake o’ nights pondering on schemes to col-
lar cattle-runs and syndicate gold-mines. He
grabbed at everything on the land and under it.
And his personal expenses he kept under a
navvy’s. He openly negotiated for deadhead
treatment on stations and at hotels. He took
drinks and feeds for nothing, even from shearers
and bar-tenders. He never gave tips. He wore
flannel shirts to save the expense of washing linen
ones. And yet money melted. What he won
out of one scheme he lost in another. He tried
hard to bleed Queensland, but bled himself instead.
Thrift and ceaseless labor simply ended in bank-
ruptcy. *
King O’Malley has issued a new election-
address to the people of the Tasmanian West
Coast. In it he is seen at his best as a political-
firework man. He calls his opponents in Tas-
mania
The one-eyed political night-owls who sit on the dead
limb of a living tree, hooting at democracy, blinking at
truth, screeching at justice, and shrieking aghast at pro-
gressive humanity, little dreaming that their political
funeral is near at hand.
This is rather better :
The progress of humanity is either by tne bullet of
revolution or the ballot of evolution. I favor the latter.
And this contains an awful word and a good
principle :
Democracy is fighting for the acknowledgment of the
principle that all political power is vested in the people
as a whole and not in a few lipomatous property-owners.
Further, he describes the Tasmanian M’sP. as
“rock-embedded fossils possessing free rail way -
passes,” and “ greasy-headed monopolists,” and
the Leg. Council as “the political morgue of
modern civilisation.” King describes himself as
“truly a Peter the Hermit,” preaching a modem
crusade. He sounds more like the cock that
crowed to the other Peter.
The removal of the European mail-
steamers’ port of call in Westralia from Albany to
Fremantle bids fair to practically ruin the former
town. Then, in addition, Albany has to stand its
share of the taxation required to cover the in-
terest on the huge Fremantle harbour loans. And
on top of this, instructions have been sent to all
W.A. State school-teachers (including those at
Albany) to give special lessons on the great
advantages that will accrue to Westralia through
having the port of call at Fremantle. If Bigjohn
Forrest had dropped in at Albany the day these
instructions arrived that justly-incensed town
would probably have made him eat the document
without gravy.
FINE LINEN.
MRS. RAFFETY : “ Begorral Look how thim fine
ladies do be doin' the Block in bed.”


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
SCHfIAPPS,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
“Quilp N.” discourses on things too vast
for human comprehension:
We were talking about matters connected with spiritu-
alism, magnetism, and so on, and in proportion as the
whisky-bottle emptied every man’s experience loomed
larger than the last speaker’s. At last, just as the clerk
had told us about a man who was killed by spiritualism,
the old shepherd lying half asleep in a corner started up.
“My God !” he said, and everybody jumped. “ Spiritu-
alism ! Was it spiritualism you say sent that chap ratty ?
Wonder how in—infinity would have struck ’im ? You
know that gag’bout this world an’ some more swingin’
roun’ the sun, an’ the sun an’ all the worlds circlin’
roun’ ’nother sun, an’ that sun an’ our sun an’ some more
(hie) suns an’ this world an’ some more worlds whirlin’
roun’ ’nother sun an’ (hie) that sun an’ ” “ Steady,
old man, you’re making us giddy. We understand what
you mean, though. Go on with your yarn.” “ Well,
that’s Infinity. That’s the little idea of it that our little
brains can grasp, an’ that’s the thing to send a chap
dotty. There was a parson come an’ preached to us once
on that gag, an’ in his mind the larst an’ final sun was
heaven. I don’t quite make out how, an’ I don’t think
he did either ; but he thought he did, an’ he thought we
thought he did, too ; but ” “ Yes, yes. Go on,”
chipped in the clerk. “Yes. Well, I started thinkin’
about it a lot, an’ when we was dockin’ lambs an’ had to
take watch an’ watch all night, I often had the mornin’
watch. It get’s very dark ’fore daylight, you know. An’
I’ve laid on the hillside an’ watched each star cornin’ out
clearer an’ clearer. I seemed to be away among ’em, an’
infinity began to drag my brain out of my head till I for-
got all about bein’ on this world —like I was a bloomin’
angel. An’ then someone would yell at me to ‘ watch
them lambs,’ an’ I’d give a grab at the tussocks to stop
failin’ off into space. My God ! Don’t you chaps never
worry about infinity. You know—this" world an’ some
more swing roun’ the sun, an’ the sun an’ these worlds skip
roun’ ’nother sun, an’ that sun an’ our sun an’ some more
suns canter roun’ ’nother sun an’ my sun an’ your sun an’
—hie—We’re sons of the sea ” Here he broke off and
started singing. We passed him the bottle in dead
silence.
MOTHER'S VOTE.—SKETCH FOR AN ANTI-WOMAN-SUFFRAGE
POSTER.
“Woman is the great educator, and should a woman give up the training of a child for
Che purpose of becoming an elector for Parliament? ” — BUNCAN GILLIES, at Malvern, Vic.
“Paw-Paw” : “Tom Collins’' (B.
L3/10/’00) is astray about niggers fire-making. Any
unadulterated Australian savage will make fire by
friction only, inside smin. I’ve often seen it done
on the Victoria and out on the Kimberley, and I
dare say a hundred other Never-neverlanders have
seen it too. Nevertheless, it may not be such an
easy process as it looks, which is possibly why the
nigs, always carry ready-made fire if they can. A
nigger carries only necessaries when shifting camp
or travelling, but he never forgets the fire-making
sticks and teased fibre or bark. The instance
mentioned by “T.C.” doesn’t count for much.
No lubra would be such a fool as to make fire by
friction if she thought a lucifer-matoh was handy.
I’ve only known one white man, Arafura
Bradshaw, make fire in this way, but suspect the
result was due to the presence of crystallised
brimstone—a “by-product” of profanity over
blistering hands.
“ Coomac ” : It is neither laziness nor fear
of failing to make fire by the methods already
described in The Bulletin that makes Australian
aborigines carry fire from camp to camp. It is
that superstitious dread of letting fire die, which
they share with many other races. They always
put out their camp-fires when shifting, and also
frequently put them out and make new fires when
not shifting. Why—l dunno !
* * * *
The Queensland drought ! On a station
on the Cooper two men collected 10,000 horns and
IN DROUGHT-TIME.
FIRST TRAMP: “Say, mate, where.did you get the dorgs?”
SECOND DO. : “ Well, yer see, they wus born out-back here three months ago, and I ain't found
enough water ter drown'd ’em in yet.”
15cwts. of horsehair. Another man made a hand-
some cheque in the North-West by simply picking
the wool off dead sheep. Collected it literally —
by the ton / If this goes on much longer Western
Queensland will be a desert, pure and simple.
* * * •
A Hollow Voice from Bourke, N.S.W :
This is the most God-forgotten place I ever saw. No
rain since last January, and then not enough to break up
four years’ drought. Nearly all the stations deserted ;
some' which used to carry 200,000 sheep have not a trotter
left. River steamers all laid up—no wool for them to
carry. For 100 miles along the railway-line not a blade
of grass visible. “ Abomination of desolation ” every-
where, and likely to continue.
“ Yang An-
yut” :Re dyna-
mite escape (8.,
25/8/’00). When
in Borneo I had
occasion once to
import a case
of that explo-
sive. The skip-
per at Singa-
pore had diffi-
culty in getting
a boat to bring
it over, but
eventually it
arrived, travel-
ling as a steer-
age passenger.
The detonatoi-s
(ordered at
same time) had,
however, ap-
parently not
been sent, but
on opening case
were found, to-
get h e r with
fuses, rammed
in between the
layers of car-
tridges l How
many hob-nail-
ed boots had
danced on said
case en voyage
heaven only knows.
* * * *
General French told N.S.W. Military
Commission that “though in hot, arid countries,
where the soil was burnt and brown, kharki was a
useful dress, near the coast, where there were dark
green bushes, a uniform such as that of the Aus-
tralian Horse would be less likely to attract atten-
tion when the wearers were moving through the
scrub.” But almost any color that can be selected
will show up against some background, and in
some lights kharki is very distinct, especially in
bright sunlight, against backgrounds of foliage,
whether light or dark green, or of basaltic rocks.
Dark “rifle green,” like that of the Australian
Horse, shows up like black against light green or
yellow backgrounds. It is, in fact, quite as bad
as scarlet, which suits some backgrounds. The
real thing to avoid is bright metal trappings. A
ray of light reflected from polished metal can be
seen for miles.
The earth-eating disease is assuming large
proportions in Queensland nowadays. The
tendency to eat real property is not so much a
disease itself as a symptom, the cause being a
specially hideous variety of worms. The patient
dies by a slow internal process of bleeding to
death, and becomes almost green towards the end.
As a proof of the prevalence of this quaint horror
up north, one Queensland doctor speaks of having
examined 120 white earth-eaters of a more or less
aggravated type.
“Vuna” : Once asked a Fiji
planter on Ba River, in the early ’7o’s,
what he would do if one of his imported
laborers wanted to improve his dietary
scale by occasionally killing and eating
a member of the uncivilised tribe of
Fijians whose land was contiguous to
his plantation. Planter admitted that
the contingency had arisen, and said
his reply to the boy was : “I am a
Christian and cannot countenance can-
nibalism in any way. If you do as you
propose, you must be careful not to let
me know anything about it.”
“Carpe”: A Fiji planter told
me this: “In the days of King Cotton
I was a passenger from Sydney to the
islands in the iron ship Ellesmere. We
were caught in a hurricane with Kan-
davu on our lee. We had two small
chances —to be driven in at the narrow
reef-opening, or jump the barrier on
the back of a wave. Drawn into the
chaos of foam which marked the break
on the reef, we were suddenly, with a
roar and a bellow, upborne on a mighty
wave. Clinging desperately to a
belaying cleat I was blinded and deaf-
ened by the drenching spray, and half-
strangled by the wind. For a moment
we were poised on the watery apex.
I closed my eyes and gasped as we fell
with incredible velocity, the water roar-
ing and booming with the voice of a
thousand cannon. Then I lost con-
sciousness. My next recollection was
that of being awakened by a hot sun
playing on my face. I was lying with
my head on a crown of cocoanut leaves,
and the deck of the vessel, which was
quite uninjured, was half buried in the
thick, green foliage of the island. We
had been driven on a tidal wave clear
over the reef, and into a grove of
bread-fruits and cocoanuts. No life was
lost. The ship was afterwards bought
by a Levuka storekeeper for a small sum, and
successfully floated.”
* * * *
“ H.P.8.” : To “Kedron ” (8., 20/10/’00).
The native cat is easily poisoned. Failing a cat-
proof fowl-house, as much strychnine as can be
taken up on a quarter inch of a small penknife-
blade will settle any cat.
“ Puy.” discourses on that good old theme,
“ Is the Dingo indigenous to Australia ? ”
Despite the M’Cooey’s wild rush (B. 13/10/’00) somebody
who considered the dingo not indigenous to Australia
favors that view. On the discovery of certain semi-fossil
bones near Gisborne (V.) in 1860 (not “ ten years ago,” as
the M‘C. man states), the late Prof. M'Coy argued that,
as said bones were in company with remains of the
Diprotodon, &c., the dingo must be indigenous. This
statement was copied by J. D. Ogilby, and the M‘Cooey
has blindly accepted it. But Dr.'A. R. Wallace (co-
evolver with Darwin of the Doctrine of Evolution and
probably the greatest modern zoologist) states positively
that the dingo w'as introduced into Australia by humans
as the deer was into Timor. If the dingo managed to get
in from Asia (and even M‘C. probably won’t attempt to
deny that he did come from there), why was he not
accompanied by other animals which would exterminate
the indigenous marsupials as they had done in Europe ?
Why should the dingo (except for certain species of bats,
rats, &c., evidently carried on floating logs) be the sole
placentary mammal found in Australia either as fossil or
otherwise? Why should man, who existed in Australia
long before Diprotodon and Co., not have brought the
dingo along with him from India, or wherever he arrived
here from ? Does M'Cooey believe the dingo alone
evolved from Didelphian into Monodelphian ? Otherwise
—apart from the obvious similarity of the dingo to the
Asian dog and the communication for ages back between
Asian and Australian coasts by Chinese and Malay traders
—the presence of a single unvarying Placentary species
in a land of Implacentalia involves either a “ separate
creation ” or an artificial introduction from w'ithout.
And the separate-creation notion was thoroughly ex-
ploded by Darwin and Wallace.
“E.M.” : Be the dislikes of aboriginals
for places where one of their tribe lias died.
Many years ago, when blacks were plentiful in
Dalby district (Q.), a tribe was camped at Jim-
bour station, and one four-year-old urchin was a
great pet with whites and blacks. One day the
shearers’ cook made a botch of the suet-pudding—
a monstrous affair, as large as a prize pumpkin—
and he gave it to little “ Wallace ” to take to the
camp. Wallace, however, preferred a lone hand,
and, retiring out of sight, ate steadily ahead until
he had scoffed the lot. Result—two fits an hour
later, and death in the second. The tribe cleared
out at once, and did not return for some years.
* * * *
A well-known Queensland pastoralist re-
lates how once when “sitting” as J.P. in Charle-
ville a policeman came in to report a duel to the
death between two blackfellows at Carolie Cross-
ing on the Upper Warrego. He produced the
weapons, two scythe-blades with stout cord wound
round the handles, both saturated and shining
with blood. The quarrel had, in the first place,
been over a gin, and the Charleville and Auga-
thella blacks hurled insults at one another, until
young Charlie, of the Charleville tribe, sent a
challenge to the Augathella blacks, which was
tgken up by “ Old Cockatoo. The duel was to
cease at the first wound, and the combatants
started with spears, nullahs and boomerangs,
but finally took to the scythe-blades, Charlie in-
flicting a gash on Cockatoo’s thigh that severed
the femoral artery. The old man fell over and
beckoned to Charlie, who threw away his weapon
and walked close up; when, raising himself on
his left elbow, the dying man slashed at Charlie
with all his strength, cutting him almost in two.
The two died within a few minutes of each other,
and the graves are side by side at the Crossing to-
day. The J.P. asked a witness of the affair,
“Why did Charlie come when Cockatoo called ;
why that fellow not run away?” “ Oh, Charlie
must come ; if he run away, every blackfellow bin
see him kill him. Charlie know it no good.”
* * « »
“Led.”: “ Mulga’s ” yarn (8., 22/9/’00)
doesn’t fit “ Bobby Rand ” because Rand had no
AFTER YEARS OF TOIL.
“ A missionary's vision of affairs in China."
river station. “My man” was not one of his
mannerisms ; his station was not on the regular
sundowner’s beat; and he was not given to the
“ Jacky Dow ” tricks of setting men shifting gates,
turning grindstones, &c.
BLANKY!
(Dedicated with reverential gratitude to The Bulletin,
original patentee of “ that blessed -word.”)
Ahem !
I’ve heard the foreign oathlets splash—
And gaudy compounds, Yankee ;
But, for a cove that isn’t flash,
There’s naught like honest “ Blanky 1 "
For “ Bally ” —thin and Cockney cuss—
We wouldn’t give a thank’ee ;
The only word to open us
Is round and ringing “ Blanky 1 "
Mere “ Hell”—like other simple joys
(The parson’s hanky-panky)
Is only fit for little boys ;
We’d bust without our “ Blanky 1 ”
For, when we’re in a blinded hole —
With trouble nearly cranky ;
O, how it gushes from the soul! —
The flaming, crimson “ Blanky 1 ”
And when, in writings, we .would teach
Of bushmen, brown and lanky ;
We reproduce their gentle speech
Thus: “Blanky!” “Blanky!!’ “Blanky!!:
How red it is ! How strong and hale !
Not like a hymn by Sankey ;
It makes the Devil wag his tail
To hear a bloke say “ Blanky ! ”
Let every man his pewter grip,
And toast the word in “ swankey.”
Now —altogether ! Give it lip ! ,
Hoo—blanky—ray for “ Blanky ! ”
. w,.
CECIL POOLE.


“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “Regimen for the
Obese ” Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
‘‘ The War-Office—a system of outdoor
relief for the British aristocracy.”— Labouchere.
WE have an enormous stock of the most
exquisite London Jewellery.
WE receive Novelties by every mail.
OUR expenses in Sydney are so low, as com*
pared with London, that we offer
England’s choicest goods at London
prices.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
Turquoise and
Pearls, 425.
PLAIN FIGURE
PRICES ....
23 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Choicest Pearls, £7 7s.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality .
ORDER
WHISKY
AND
BRANDY
AND
SCHWEPPE
Dear Bulletin. —lie six-fingered half-
caste mentioned B. 29/9/’OO. At Fraser’s Range
(inland 60 miles from Esperance Bay, W.A.)
there is—or was recently—a whole family of
blacks, some of them having six fingers and six
toes, others six fingers and the normal complement
of toes, and others again vicS versa. In nearly all
the cases there is duplication of the small digit.—
Groper.
* * • •
“0.A.J.” : Re six-fingered half-caste
(B. 29/9/’00). There is a Chinaman in Sydney
(known as “Four-Thumb-Johnny”) who has each
thumb duplicated from the second joint. He is
corpse-raiser-in-general to the local celestials, the
malformation coming in very handy for cleaning
the bones of defunct Chows when ‘ ‘ resurrected ”
for conveyance to China. When legal formalities
have been complied with, the body is disinterred,
and he sets to work with water and the thumb
aforesaid. The bones are then laid on the grass
to dry, and afterwards taken to Sydney in a carpet
bag for transmission to the Flowery Land.
* * » »
Willie, chief of the Queensland trackers,
employed in running after the Breelong blacks,
has the utmost contempt for his N.S.W. brethren.
“They took us,” says Willie, “along a wallaby
track, telling us it was Jimmy Governor’s, and
explaining the mark of the big toe by saying he
must have a sore toe with a rag on.” “ How long
you bin tracker?” I say. “Six year !” “I tink
you want practice.” Willie says the trackers’
failure was entirely due to the way they were
hampered by the officials.
* * * *
During the recent cruise of H.M.S. Ring-
dove amongst.the Solomons and other South Sea
islands, a visit was paid to the lately-annexed
Santa Cruz group to see that the flag was flying
on all of them. One failed to come up to sample ;
and an armed landing-party proceeded ashore to
inquire into, and if necessary avenge, the insult.
Investigation, however, disclosed that a chief’s
wife had been so hard hit by the colored bunting
that she had used it to supplement the resources
of her own scanty wardrobe, and the usual island
punishment of village-burning and pig-stealing
was not resorted to.
• * • *
“ Brew ” on colossal*fossils :
“ Trilobite ” (6/10/’00) needn’t make such a fuss over his
90ft. Diplopocus longus. It’s no great potatoes of a beast,
even compared with existing species. The Balaeonoptera
sibbaldii, which is the polite name for the Blue Whale,
runs up to 85ft. in measured specimens, and probably
free individuals exist who could outstretch the American
lizard. Some of the deep-sea decapods, about which
Frank T. Bullen writes with such alluring creepiness,
could wrap up the equitable saurian in their tentacles as
the daddy-long-legs of our youth does the simple fly. One
of these tentacles, measuring nearly 80ft. in length, was
cast-up on the Maoriland coast a few years ago, and it
wasn’t complete, either. In looking at the marvellous
proportions of some of the paleozoic animals, one is apt
to forget that we haven’t gone back much in point of size
among animals. The biggest beast which probably ever
lived disported himself in the Jurassic seas. He was over
100 ft. long and 30ft. high. He has been given a name nearly
as long as himself, which this scribe has forgotten. After
all he could not have been very much bigger than tilt
blue whale or cephalopod mentioned above, and, coming
to a later age, a couple of sabre-toothed tigers would pro-
bably have disposed of him in short order and eaten him
afterwards. The great majority of these paleozoic Behe-
moths, barring the sea-lizards, were mild-mannered
beasts subsisting on trees and fruits. It was during the
Pliocene ages that the great sabre-toothed carnivora
evolved, and they must have made Primitive Man spring
round in lively fashion for the first few scons of his
chequered existence. Between the cold of the glacial
age and the perpetual activity necessary to keep out of
the reach of 20-foot felidas he got plenty exercise and
excitement. Being of a sporting turn, writer has often
yearned to go after cave-lions and mammoths with a
Hotchkiss quick-firing cannon, but unless Prof. Spencer
discovers some in his mooted expedition, he fears the
ambition will remain unrealised.
Dear Bulletin, —Can any reader say if a
snake can ascend the outside wall of a weather-
board house (i.c., without getting into crevices, or
between boards) ?—A.S.
“TALK IS SILVER, SILENCE IS GOLD.”
PEACEFUL DRUNK : “ What yer hittin' me for —I
didn't say anything?”
FIGHTABLE DRUNK: “ Neow, yer didn't say
nothink, but yere one o' those coves that's
always thinkin'!”
•‘Bullfrog”: When rabbit-trapping for
the Menindie Preserving Co. (now defunct) I
used to catch an odd cat, and always saved the
ayes for the sore-eyed Chow gardener, who would
sprinkle a little sugar on them and swallow them.
I used to shoot an emu occasionally to-get the gall
for him. This he would pour on some dry rice,
and used to take three or four grains of this gall-
soaked rice after meals.
* * * *
“ Doing any turkey shooting now ? ” was
recently asked of a Richmond River (N.S.W.)
blackfellow. “No, bin losem turkey -dog.” “Plow
you lose him?” “Sole ’im to barber cove in
Bullina, feller wider curly moustache same as
mine, un ’e stick to’m.” “ What do you mean ? ”
“ Sole ’im lots er time afore fer ten bob, and ’im
alius come back, eber.y time. Sole ’im this time
to barber fer a pound an’ a knife, an’ ’e coax ole
dog an’ keep ’im. Barber ho good.”
“C.M.Gr.” : Was once caught in a small
mining township by a Goulburn flood, and,
there being no other means of escape, per-
suaded a tired old Scotchman who owned
a villainous tub of a punt to pull me
to the nearest dry ;:.o:nt to any
available railway station. Sandy
took the job on willingly enough
at a price, and we set out in the
morning on a yellow ocean.
The sun came out early, and for
two hours it burned down upon
that toiling Caledonian, and
broiled him where he sat. He
sweated every ounce of moistu re
lie.contained, and then began to
dry up. At tlris stage I was
alarmed by a surprising devel-
opment of new energy on the
part of the oarsman. He put the
boat half about, and made a
great spurt across stream, then
pulling up, grabbed a bottle float-
ing in the watery waste, and held
it up to the sun. It contained
about half a nobbier of whisky.
Sandy drew the cork, and drained
the last drop, then disgustedly
hurled the bottle into the limit-
less waters. “Eh, mon,” he said,
embracing the flood in a gesture,
and lingering over a, toothful of
whisky, “yon’s like Nature. She
haes no sense o’ proportion.”
"WHIZ!" A BUSH
BALLADE
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
he bound rv-rider came to town, to have a little burst,
1 b land walked into a pjebrews sbop-t° some garments
Dr first.
I The moment Jkey spotted him, he knew he was dpod biz f
I'' sent his prices op at once, with o, wbiz,v/biz* whiz.
And shout some stool and oysters dear,
for your own darlind Liz—
Tben fled away his roopusses, with a
whiz, whiz, whiz.
/and in the pub be stayed at. he
tru met a nice yoontf man
Who introduced a pack of cards, and
poker they be<£am.
rphey kepi it up till dawning, while
the yound man shouted fizz-
i/mthen busbie down the street, to see what be could see,
And fell in wilb a pretty dirl, who said "Now come with me
But
Ihe mu 6 was cleaned
out, rump
and slump,
with a whiz
wbiz, whiz.
pnext day Ibe landlord interviewed that
IW bound’ry-rider lad
Whose pockets bulged with emptiness
whose heart was very sad,
*£>ee here my man, for such as you,
] haven’t any biz.
So cut you do- doot jaw me back
or pi ——Wbiz,VVbiz, Whiz.”
£4
sunset on the northern track
a traveller was seen
yjitb "bloey I’heavy 1 ’ heavy on his
. back but pockets
and clean.
And the wind blew
through bis whiskers
with a. mournful sound
like this
Wbiz whiz, whiz wbiss, -whiz wbiss
whiz, wbiz. wbiss—ss ss!
KARNIE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Alif : See no way out of the trouble. It is
hard enough for the man to father his own (supposed)
legal offspring sometimes ; it would be decidedly unsafe
to go further and allow the woman to nominate any
“husband’’she likes. One thing is quite certain : the
woman always knows for sure when a child is hers ; the
man is seldom absolutely in that position even at the best
of times... ..C.H.L.: The whole adult male Boer population
is about 35,000, and you reckon the cable has already
slain 250,000 of them. Well, that’s not so very much for
the cable N.L. : You have yourself put the principles
of Protection and Freetrade into a nutshell. The prin-
ciples don’t require so very much space. The great mat-
ter is to intelligently study the results and see which
principle wears best. To do that you must study the re-
sults over a number of countries and over a good mam
years Sceal: Hug the girl; but if she has any brains
for Heaven’s sake don’t show her your poetry A.G.B. :
With strictly local verse attack the strictly local paper...
’Frisco: At Sydney Exchange only, we think
M.O.S. : Don’t give us foreign legends ; open your eyes
and see the poems around you... .P.J.S. : Can’t see it.
To permit a Q. State school scholarship to be enjoyed in
a denominational school is to subsidise that school, and
to give taxpayers’ approval to its teaching—the thin end
of a wedge which may burst-up the Q. education system.
And the method of carrying scholarships to un-
inspected Grammar schools was bad enough
Vulcan : Coals to Newcastle. The Bulletin has already
expressed the opinion that in the long run the Australian
Federal capital will probably be named Maytown or
York Ville... .li.B. : On the whole, this paper thinks that
the gentleman should be kept out of the Federal Senate.
A sewer is a useful thing, but you don’t want it in your
drawing-room Nemo: You say that the Undesirable
Immigrants’ law is ruining Maoriland’s coal export. Per-
haps it doesn’t occur to you that Maoriland has no real
coal export. At least, in 1898 (no later figures available),
the local supply was 97,000 tons short of the local demand.
It has always been insufficient to cover the local demand.
So Maoriland imports 115,000 tons and exports about
18,000 tons. Don’t worry about the coal export... .Bet-
law : Your pair of lay figures are altogether too unreal.
It doesn’t necessarily' follow that by making two
people act in an unusual manner you are showing a
deep insight into human nature, or being original, or
realistic, or psychological, or anything in particular....
E.D. : All the same, to give Lyne-O’Sullivan its
due, the fakes during the Ashfield and Canterbury
elections were miles behind the conduct of Reid-
Potato-Young in its frantic efforts to secure the
defeat of Toby Barton at Kempsey not long ag0....
W.L.B. : It all depends on the hotel. The average
barmaid at the average respectable hotel is just as
good and decent as any other woman ; also she knows
the world a lot better than most women. Virtue doesn’t
merely mean teetotal surroundings ; a coffee-palace cham-
bermaid has at least as much temptation as a hotel bar-
maid. There are now hundreds of barmaids each getting
from £1 to £llos. a week with good food and comfort-
able lodgings. What do you propose to do with
these if you abolish their means of livelihood ?
r T : Never take a friend’s opinion. When your enemy
praises you, you’ve done something g00d.... ..A.B- :
So you trade in poetry—and disinfectants. Hope the dis-
infectants are better... .Pukaki : As the nigger shot at
Colesburg was presumably a fellow-subject of our
beloved Queen, it will be interesting to note
what action is taken in the matter Aletes :
You compare Billee Barlow with Peggy Pryde, as
though they were rival workers in the same line of busi-
ness ! Billee is a pantomime and burlesque “ boy.”
G.G. : The yarn about Musgrove engaging Mrs. Fraser
was characteristic of the Melbourne weeklies that put it
into circulation... .Fortuna : You ask “ Why should double
plural, ‘ yous,* be objected to when in ‘ kine/ ‘ brethren,
and 1 children ’ the same error is perpetuated ? The only
justification of the latter over the former lies, perhaps, in
a wider and longer use.” The objection is simply and
fatally—that “ yous” is not English ; whereas the other
words are. Thus—while both “further” and “farther are
good English—custom, which should logically have re-
retained “ fur,” formerly used indifferently with “ far,”
has stamped that use of it as a gross vulgarism....
Mona-Murtie : Not being original, they are barred
L. : But send us something interesting about it.
Your yarn is most perfunctory Sam. W.B. : Thanks,
but The Bulletin doesn’t want the “ formal patronage ”
of any organisation. It means to be entirely free, and
to continue playing an absolutely lone hand... .O.H.L. :
Thanks ; but the diamond-ring yarn has already been
shown by a correspondent to have been told of nearly
every light-fingered celebrity J. 0. G. : Some
verse-facility, but otherwise very dry bones indeed.
Thurla: A bungled piece of work. The confu
sion you make with your personal pronouns is the
sure sign of a muddled head.... A.J.M. : Verse
good enough mechanically, though horribly tan-
gled of idea. Prose-sketch, hopelessly bad.... Wa-
nderer : Sorry, no indications of a literary gift....
B.J. : Hopeless mediocrity H.B.S. : Sonnet undistin-
guished Ruby: Declined promptly... .E.G.M. : Bad
case of doggerel'.. .. H.G. V.: Brains want boiling or some •
thing Omar: Where on earth is the story ? Martin
G. : Some ingenuity; not enough interest F.H.W. :
Can’t see point of conundrum... .O.M.L. : No use
Incurable: Looks like it Kelpie: Attach your
stamps to your contribution, and don’t write letters
about it... .Mitty (Q.) : Will try and use
Cigarette : Undistinguished Fortuna : Spare us !
E.M.D. : Not bad ; but doesn’t apply widely enough to be
forcible here Eumundi : Wants brighter telling
Brian O. : Dashed 0ff.... J.M.K. : Needs better handling.
....F.J.G. : is principally cursing... .Sylvia :
“ Come off ” might be amusing when it happened but
would look very poor in cold print... .Meoro : Bulletin
isn’t giving any war-puffs Nancy: For your poetical
purposes we’re Bill Sikes.... M. (Mildura): You write
fairly ; but one item is improbable, t’other unprintable.
Get stronger p10t5.... Ishmael: A certain sympathy ; no
definite force.... Bee. (M.L.) : A mystery to us !....
Lyddite : Thanks... .E.M.D. : Can’t see it Niamed :
Don’t preach !.. . .Butcha : Fair sketch ; not in our line.
.... Fabius : Boiled-cheese poem indigestible.... Ham B. :
You average 14 words to a line, and such lines!....
Yarraman : Tore your clothes and shot the ram—
too humorous... .Breelong : What was the charge
against the headmaster sacked by Griffith ?....
M. : Just like you... .F.W.K. : Full up at present.
.... r .E.I.'S. : Strictly commonplace.. . J.G.D : Don’t care
for.. ..J.Y.X. : You say you “wonder that a paper of
The Bulletin’s intelligence can be Protectionist.” Dear
friend, if you had half The Bulletin’s intelligence you
would be Protectionist a 150.... J.A. (Townsville) : Thanks
for letter... .Mel.: What you wanted to wake you up was
the old orchestral pitch and a few substantial top notes.
. ...Melb. : The learned appearance of the lady Hay tor
off the stage is an old-established Bulletin fact Pax :
Worthless Wallaroo : Sorry insufficient interest
Barkis : An amatory mediocrity this time G.S.A. :
“ Gohsts of the Past ” —hasn’t the “ gohst ” of a show....
G.F.B. : Not enough in either... .Wat. T. : Why inquire
about such obvious lies ?... .Kay : Below mark... .Mad-
cap : Neither strength nor skill Bessie O.W.D. : Not
ill-written ; though it runs upon somewhat conventional
lines, and has not concentration enough for Bulletin. ...
W.H.R. : First we thought it was a story, then it shaped
like a political diatribe, but finally it turned out to be a
mixture of circus and jim-jams and weird hootings in the
wilderness Marie J. : When we came to the statement
that “ he drew back in high dungeon” we stopped
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
S.J.B. : Very ancient Me. : “Which did she mean?”
unusable A. Eng. : A good suggestion Nark :
Pointless... .G.J.O. : To publish it would mean six
months’ hard... .S.P.K. : Handed to artist... .A.S.M. :
Valueless W.M. (M.L.) : Nothing in that drawing but
a little promise of character when you get a really
humorous idea. Unavailable : Gestor, M’Gregor, S.S.B.
Mr. James Chisholm, of 24 Raglan-street, Darlington,
Sydney, has for sale a file of Tiie Bulletin dating from
May, 1883.
“ How loved ! How valued once! avails
thee not; to whom related or by whom forgot. ”
Epitaph on a tombstone in Melbourne’s old
cemetery, which might fittingly be placed over
the gate of the burying-ground itself, — a
neglected wilderness of ruin and deoay.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE, author of “A
Rose of Regretjust published by The
BULLETIN.
Photo, by Marshall, Latrobe.


A warning from the country
TO THK EDrrOR OF THE ARCUS.
Sir, — You deserve the thanks of the com-
munity at large for your outspoken warn-
ing of the danger that threatens the
country by the action of Sir George Turner
and bis following relying *on the dominant
faction from the Trades-hhll in seeking to'
oust the M Lean Government at this par-
watrn how their representatives
.ct in this crisis, and whose
serve.—Yours. &c.. TOILER.
Harcourt, No v 13.
Not from any desire to practise abstinence.but „
from an entirely different motive the Preeby-
ierian Assembly decided yesterday *° ab °bsh the
luncheon hour, which for many yearn
an interesting part of its programme. The bust
ness committee,” true to its name, came tothe.
conclusion that the luncheon hour was not_busii
nessUke, and recommended th&tthe,“!! h» f
should have a continuous daily sitting from naif
past 10 a.m. to 5. The proposal was put into
praotioe at once, but, all the same, most of the
members seized a favorable opportunity to retne (
and refresh themselves.
\ 2' , - J 0 Uo-O , merely £
>v "fo Jce 2*. I) Y'os]&}j ■ M
(fac
•
' ? 0t «*f
3 |V' 4 Se X<-
"flo® s vY>° c N \' e^ e :, \3> x v o lie 9 -'
„utw e ’ i t’n e • li^Vea.^ 6 „ •tfc® Wtf 0 '„
'■' c v»i »ii ,e £ vo \\ **?.£*»»
s&ss&s&
r ~
%}S»-*
; 5 .^5^3C3
* /> x K< l SBofe * r
'fer'Hfc sU
/e sTef, s -^,<FF e
/p lj> OttK*
/ C ot / c er|rHoi7 of'
iiertSc»W
"fo -lyfeYfriW.
V ;
fop.® ***?! n-r V \
\ <t e £■
\ ° *Ae ► r .
L///.
X'X
y° a m po^v
nPv- *
> Hiwe.
ife lle^c
W" ~¥* only //
I -fivi 'eZ'-'y
'lye C-r7oice °]iye /
t W r" lyou [j e ,
Nnnoe 17 cr n 7 OK^
s wo«.t4' 1 -s^/
-is
M PROVING TIIE BREED OF
IIOREES.
CEELONG, Thursday.
Mr 'Kendall, of the Melbourne Veterin-
ary College, who delivered a lecture th»
afternoon before the members of the Gee-
lone District Farmers' Club, was very out-
spoken concerning the deterioration of the,
horse in Victoria. He attributed this m :
*onsc measure to horse racing,
'jffo' •
So '«A/
wrc-Ws&slinv HiniiKtwifcl
M» l 1
/ reTttn7«A
/ AYorj
I Pyri'tSj«7
-
j, w,t{ «x
possible
POISONOUS PLAYTHINGS. 1
fireworks mistaken for X
SWEETS. I
Rrev-rr* T°^y\
" hlov/ , if Y°Mr re
Verv 1 li
])«*rKe of yorl<.
MELBOURNIANA.


TWO “ BULLETIN 1 ’ SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FEDERAL FESTIVITIES-
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts
has addressed an appeal to
Britishers not to “treat” re-
turning soldiers to stimulants
and “ thus tend to degrade those
whom the nation delights r to
honor.”
As a permanent memorial of the establishment
of the Commonwealth, Mr. L. R. Mair suggests that
on one of the islands in the harbor, say, for instance,
Fort Denison, an immense pile be made of huge,
rough-hewn rocks, to be surmounted by a large piece
of statuary emblematic of the welding together of the
various States. This, in turn, might be utilised as
the support of a powerful electric-light.
As Minister O’Sullivan is to be testimonialised, what
more fitting than a modification of his idea—Aus-
tralia Facing the Dawn. Strike out the word “ Aus-
tralia” and insert the word “O’Sullivan,” and the
whole ground would be covered. In this case gas
might be substituted for electricity.
I£r. Norton wished to know in the
Legislative Assembly if the Govern-
ment would consider the advisability,
Of recommending to the Governor
that certain prisoners should be
released so as to associate clemency
and justice with the inauguration of
the Commonwealth.
Premier Lyne had no objection
to saying that he would consider the
suggestion.
Certainly; and let’s begin with Jimmy
Governor. He might be presented
with a new Winchester rifle as a sort
of start in life.
A WAY OUT.
Conscientious Citizen (wiping his mouth signifi-
cantly) : “I am sorry Lord Roberts did that,
otherwise I should have asked you to have a
drink.”
Returned Warrior : “ But Lord Roberts didn’t
appeal to returned soldiers not to ask citizens
to drink. See ! ”
Con. Citizen : “Thanks ; mine’s rum*and-milk.”
Chickens are coming home to roost. Returned contingenters from S Africa
are making .awkward reminders to the Minister for War of his promise to find
employment for them on their return to peaceful life. It is asserted that invalids
applying for employment have been offered pick-and-shovel work (!) Is the Minister
for War a Humorist or a Humbug?
Among the Imperial troops sent out to participate
in the coming Federation Fantasia is a contingent of
men over 6ft. 6in. in height.
L.B.M. (serving out beer): “ Goodness, boys, I hope
that your legs aren’t hollow ! ”
The police hare been-instructed “to use discrimination ”
enforcing the Sunday Observance law. “ Discrimination ”is
‘ good I If there is anything a bobby can do it’s discriminate.
A dirt-eating craze has seized the children in Queensland. How they acquired
the habit is said to be a mystery.
Little Boy of Queensland : “ Baal me learn from Fat Pfeller ’lqugsida.”
CARTOONLETS.


"SVi-,
44Diri>gR s
Lever
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEV AIRS —“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new }-plate model,
25s : in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird,
15c. Gold, £2.
, Amethyst
22s 6d ;
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
tans
A. Saunders.
15c. Go’d Brooch, Diamond and Riby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 16s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 6s. Very Strong and Pretty.
a. Saunders. *
W ; ed s l ! n ? Rin £8 and Keepers,
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 16c. Gc
16s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18a Gold, 20s: ex
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
A. Saunders.
Registered 150. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10s ;
8 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, similar
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 64. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 16c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, *l, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Bed or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s Cd.
yery Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Yery Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot. 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
■* Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20a.
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
â
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 80s,
85s, £2 ss, £8; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£6, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Baunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Poet Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, h Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6a 6d. Name Free.
A. Sa mders.
G«ld 'rooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
,-Jize, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, -12 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
I»
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs: Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30a,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
%
Ladies’ Long Gold Huff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6s 6d. YeryNeat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or Saph-
phires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ; Larger
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each. Price
and Size of Diamonds.
ã
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c. Gold,
20s and SOs.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
KKiimilll
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10a.
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registe-ed
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh ” Oharm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Oharm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
[ 15c. Gold, 265.
Latest Design.
i- Real Lyddite
i, Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
, 18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £6,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
i 15c. Gold, 30s; 18c.
Gold, £2.
•991
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £8; 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
80s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, 6s.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dnmbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15a, 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rabies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 16s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 16s.
rsHMimvs
B
LEADXKTG
A.IR.T JEWELLEPv.,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/?
SYDNEY.


Tell Your Tailor
that your clothes must
be made from
fifi
SALT’S
BELWARP
w
COATINGS or SERGES
sc
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
This Mark, stamped in Gold on the back of each yard, guarantees it to be one of . . .
SALT’S “BELWARP” CLOTHS
and to com'e from the famous mills of
Sir Titus Salt, Bart., Sons & Co. Ltd., Saltaire.
“BELWARP” CLOTHS are made of pure wool, are guaranteed unshrinkable, and
the dyes will never fade.
PlkhtMP x e
■
cV.
''/"/11l
7'«ll
Mm
'.'nii
‘'in,
»•««
!Uii
Wl
&
SSjL*f
H
,7/'.'//;
Ji**if*
•j'ni
•jniili
a
«
1
sasßssasss
vii
: ■
■
HI
in
s mi
mu
mm
urn
mm
ra
jwnrg
WUf
1009 0
SABJJdt
INMHI»8OOI»0c»nt
iiWiße
NOTICE TO THE TRADE.
“ BELWARPS ” having maintained their supremacy for many years, are still unrivalled. Those
who wish to have the best article are warned against the spurious imitations offered bycompetitors under
Numbers similar to the original “ BELWARPS,” but in no ways their equal. “ BELWARPS ”»can only be obtained
from
Messrs. LUCCOOK, LUPTON & CO., Bradford;
Messrs. Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane.
and their Agents,


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ust ralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
a
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney-
mm
ELHB3
GrO TO TTT!T -T
IGOIiANJ) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS
Mountcastie & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Call-Hue to B. Mountcastie & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge. S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Questions.
GOOD HEALTH NECESSARY TO HAPPINESS-
HOW TO ATTAIN IT.
Without exception, health is the most essential
condition to perfect happiness—the chief benedic-
tion of life. Without health labor is a drudgery,
and all the light of life is shaded, and its sweet-
ness efnbittered. So strange is the law of
sympathy that if any member suffer all the
members suffer. An injury to one is the concern
of all. Nature is harmony, disease discord. One
cannot be happy when tortured by the aches and
pains of rheumatism. One cannot work when the
back is so lame and the kidneys so weak from
kidney disorders that any movement causes agony
or requires extra exertion. Thousands have been
cured by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure for these
troubles. Don’t hesitate ; delay may mean death.
The experience of Mr. T. J. Castner, of 8 Victoria'
Street, Paddington, Sydney, is worth reading.
Writing on 28th July, 1900, he says: “Some
five years ago I was under medical treatment
for severe pains in my back; in fact, I was
completely done up. I had given the doctors a,
fair trial, and they then wanted me to undego an
operation by crushing a stone in my bladder. I
hardly liked the idea of this though my suffering
was severe. A friend, who came to see me, ad-
vised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure; and after
taking some three or four bottles I began to feel
better. I continued the course for some five
months, and am now, thanks to Warner’s Safe
Cure, free from any trouble whatever.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Country.
Constituents.
WALT6R BRAPLCY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Grsorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley-, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales lleld at the Auction Itoorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Undeserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
high-grade
farm—-
V-
X.-fc'
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The loudest Imperial scream of admiration,
it is noticeable, is for the Maoriland troops, not
for any of the Australians.
Curiously enough, the M.L. papers that are
barking loudest against Australasian Federation
are loudest in favor of Imperial Federation. Sub-
stance and shadow !
Watt, the Victorian ex M.P., is reported
to be under 30, but, by ten months as Postmaster-
General, he has secured a railway-pass for life.
How grateful are these politicians to themselves !
Vic. Premier Turner says that whether in
the provisional Govt, or not he intends standing
for the Federal Parliament. “Without saying
so, he made it plain that he is tired of the petty
meannesses of local politics.”
Now that “our Indian fellow-subjects”
are so touchingly devoted to the Empiah, the
authorities will, no doubt, permit the sepoys once
more to handle the big guns from which they have
been so religiously barred since ’57.
When Arthur Griffith's Free Education
Bill was counted out in N.S.W. Assembly last
week, only four other members of the Labor
Party were in the House. Yet Free Education
is one of the planks of the Labor platform.
The resuscitated Vic. ex-Speaker Bent no
sooner got into the House than he resumed his old
shifty tactics. On the very first day of session
he voted with the Govt, on the motion to adjourn
the no-confidence debate, and against it when the
final vote was taken.
Brookman, M.L.C. (Westralia) :
Throughout the whole of my travels (and I have been
round the world four times) I have found that the electric
lighting in most of the important cities of Europe and
Great Britain is controlled by the municipal councils ;
and it appears to be the best system that can be evolved. I
am in favour of Perth Municipal Council either (1) taking
over at a fair valuation the existing property of the Perth
Electric Tramways, with their rolling stock, and arranging
to light the city from their central depot; or (2) providing
their own plant independent of the existing co.
A GREATER IMPORT.
HE: “ Can you doubt my loving you?”
S HE: “ Perhaps not—but I doubt your
marrying me.”
The passing of the Westralian Payment of
Members Bill (members of both Houses are in
future to receive £2OO a year) evoked a tear from
that political dodo, Speaker James Lee Steere.
It was a sad thing, said that survival of the
Earliamentary pterodactyls, to see. members
Bginning to want payment for their political
services. But when didn’t they want payment ?
And surely it is more decent to take it in cash
than in forest concessions and land grants and Ice
Co. frauds.
The man who has ticketed himself for the
N.S.W. premiership—O‘Sullivan. The man who
could get it if he reached out—Ashton. The
latter, by the way, is in the field as a Riverine
candidate for the House of Representatives, but is
being pressed to stand for the Senate.
Sunday Lyne and Sunday See are made
of tougher material than Sunday Brunker.
When the latter good Christian set out to sup-
press the Sydney Sabbath banana he lasted only
one week. Lyne and See have already been
keeping the Sabbath holy for three weeks.
Judging by the quiet, business-like way
in which the Lyne Government is shoving along
its Woman Suffrage Bill, it seems quite probable
that the Cornstalk woman will cease to be politi-
cally a lunatic or one of the lower animals, and
become a human being, in time for the first
Federal election.
Premier M‘Lean’s outcry against the
new Turner Government, that it would be under
Trades-Hall domination, is the cheekiest thing in
politics up to date, seeing that his own alleged
Liberal Government was then actually dominated
by a small, vicious Tory gang headed by that
corned Conservative, Gillies.
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan has
ordered that Govt, road-maintenance men be paid
for all public holidays, and, in addition, receive
one week’s leave on full pay annually (they
demanded three weeks, but he refuses). The
O’Sullivan is making N.S. Wales—to quote. Duffy
(or was it Berry ?) “a fine country for the work-
ing man.”
Victorian electorates badly want re-
arranging. Some (single) electorates contain as
many as 6000 voters, others as few as 1650 ; and,
while 5744 Fitzroy electors return two delegates,
5766 Essendon ditto send but one. At the recent
elections —omitting the 29 uncontested seats —
analysis shows that each Liberal member repre-
sents 2766 votes, and each Tory only 1269.
The motion of censure by which Turner
ejected the M‘Lean-Shiels Ministry at Mel-
bourne last week was short and to the point.
He gave no opening for controversy, and laid no
charges, and put the whole case in about seven
minutes. His allegation was simply that he
(Turner) had more followers than M‘Lean, and
so ought to boss the show. Then they counted
the followers, and M‘Lean went down by nine.
The Jingo British S’African League has
circulated a pamphlet throughout Australia setting
forth the grievances of British subjects in the
Transvaal. One alleged reason for the war is that
the Transvaal Govt, gave no grants-in-aid to
voluntary schools. And yet there is no question
upon which the vast majority of Australian voters
are more determined than that of refusing all
monetary aid to private voluntary schools.
Among the common-sense
gains of Federation will proba-
bly be a better understanding
of the commercial character of
newspapers. Already a move-
ment is on foot, supported by a
good deal of influence, to ex-
clude printing-paper from the
probable Federal import tax,
and, as the post-offices will go
into the Federation, to establish
a specially favorable tariff for
press messages. Also free in-
land newspaper postage is de-
manded. This is on the ground
that the press is an educational
machine. It is the old story.
Argument on the subject is
threadbare. People and Parlia-
ment must'say, once for all, that
the newspaper proprietor
Johnny is before the law exactly
the same trafficker as his bro-
ther Calico Jimmy. Johnny
and Jimmy are on the hunt
for dollars. If Jimmy’s im-
ports are taxed, Johnny’s must
be taxed also.
Why doesn’t Premier
Lyne, in his duel with Premier
Seddon over the snatching of
Fiji, set up the historical claim
of N.S.W. to the possession of
the islands founded on the
Botany Bay convict raid of 96
years ago? Twenty-seven con-
victs cleared out from the Syd-
ney settlement, well stocked
with arms and ammunition,
and landed at Rewa, from which
as a base they operated on the
islands generally. They had
everything their own way and
practically ruled Fiji while the
ammunition lasted. One after
another the chiefs submitted to
them. But the ammunition
came to an end, and indulgence
in the fire-water of Fiji unfitted
them to invent substitutes, and
they gradually lost what their
empire-making hands had won.
In 30 years only one of the gang
survived. This is as good as
thousands of other claims of conquest, and if
Seddon gives more trouble Lyne should hit him
over the head with a history of Botany Bay.
Tasmanian Parliament promptly vetoed
the proposal to vote the annual £15,000 necessary
to make education really free in the unhappy
island. Denominationalism is delighted at the
triumph of “ The Sign of the Cross.” By the
way, writer once knew a facetious Vandemonian
who habitually made his signature with a broad
arrow, thus : Dobson Legrope (his colonial mark).
HE PREFERRED TO EAT ON AN
EMPTY STOMACH.
“Please, sir, kin yer spare me a trifle fer a
meal?-A keyind lydy just giv ’ me a bath-
ticket, en Pm frightened ter bathe on a empty
stummick.”
Premier Holder, ex-Premier Kingston,
Peake (leader of the Country Party in the
Assembly), and Attorney-General Gordon are
endeavouring to form a S.A. Liberal Association
to run the Federal elections. As Holder and
Peake are Freetraders there is an evident desire
to sink the fiscal issue. Which is yet another
proof of the-political “slimness” of Mr. F.
Holder.
Cabled last week that Melbourne Tram-
way Co.’s appeal to,.the Privy Council—whose
case ex-Attorney-General Isaacs went ’Ome to
plead, at a 3500-guinea fee—lias been dismissed,
with costs. The city of Fitzroy—which car-
ried the case to the Full Court—gains £BO5 per
annum in rates, and the decision will cost the co.
nearly £6OOO a year, besides the heavy expense of
the action.
Minister Perry’s sole argument against
the Bill for making primary education in N.S.W.
State schools free was that the Govt, couldn’t
afford to lose £75,000 a year. Yet the Govt, omits
to collect a newspaper postage which would yield
the greater part of the money. The most shame-
ful incident of the debate was that the Assembly
was counted out after a couple of members had
spoken on the question.
After all the thrilling assurances of the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade press that the United
States had at last begun to see the horrors of Pro-
tection, and that a great revulsion was setting in
towards the One True Faith of Calico-Jimmyism,
it appears that the majority of the Protectionist
M‘Kinley over the Freetrade Bryan in the Elec-
toral College has increased from 95 (271 votes
against 176) in 1896, to 137 (292 votes against 155)
in 1900.
“In reply to further questions, the
N.S.W. Premier stated there were three members
of the Hixson family included in the China contin-
gent, the captain commanding, who received pay
at the rate of £6OO per year, and two lieutenants,
who received £1 per day.” This is a naval con-
tingent; and at latest advices it was very much
at sea in Pekin, saving the Allies the expense of a
police-guard somewhere or other. Contingents
go to war ; but it is the taxpayer who bleeds.
N.S.W. Cold Tea party got a nasty fall
over Ashfield election. After carefully weighing
the rival candidates, they selected the Govt, man
as their champion, and were thoroughly licked.
The local gingerbeerists—average gingerbeer con-
tains about 11 per cent, alcohol—thus received in
their own tin-pot way as big a facer as the U.S.
prohibition crowd, who went so far as to daily
pray for months to the Almighty that a better
man than M'Kinley should be elected President.
The new Westralian electoral rolls just
issued contain 91,000 names as against 43,000 on'
the old rolls. But in W.A. a voter can’t use his
or her vote until he or she has been six months on
the list, and Parliament indignantly threw out
Matheson’s Bill for the amendment of this
monopoly. So, as the Groper general election
appears very close at hand, it is quite pos-
sible that of the 48,000 new voters not one will be
able to vote after all. The idea of giving a person
a vote and then not letting him use it for six
months is very Groperesque.
Most of the alleged S'African “rebels”
were not amenable to British law at all
till the passing of the Treason Bill by the
Cape Parliament for the express purpose of
getting at them by special retrospective process.
They were obeying the actual Government autho-
rities of the districts —annexed by the Transvaal
or Free State—in which they lived, and were
not, under British law, liable to be called
in question for bearing arms in obedience to those
authorities. It was the same principle that pre-
vented the Restoration Govt, in 1660 from punish-
ing-men who had faithfully served Cromwell.
The great joke of the Jobson Firewood
Railway Co. (Westralia). Bet ween Cool-
gardie and Kalgoorlie there is a tank
containing 16,000,000 gallons of water.
The State built this tank. Then it leased
it to the private railway co. for £l6 a.
month. Then the Jobson Co. built a
small line to connect the tank with the-
main railway. The State supplied the
Jobson Co. with the material to build
this line (£13,500 worth) on credit. It
also supplies the Jobson Co. with engines
and trucks to work the line, making no
charge whatever for the use of them.
And now the Government pays the Job-
son Co. about £13,000 a year for water
supplied from the Government’s tank,
carried by the Government’s trams, along
the railway built with Government mate-
rial ! ! In return it gets £l6 a month
rent for the tank, and the £13,500 worth
of railway it supplied is being paid for
by instalments out of the exorbitant sum
which the Government pays for water
carried over the line it itself supplied, by
its own trains, from its own tank. And
the Jobson Co. gets thousands a year-
clear profit. Truly, this country wants
Federal railway management.
London Times calculates that in
Freetrade England 56 per cent, of the
profits made by manufacturers go in
wages to employes, while in the Protec-
tionist United States the workers get 72
per cent, of the profits. If that is true it
is one of the worst advertisements that Freetrade-
has had up to date.
South Australia will welcome the day
when the Commonwealth takes over the Northern
Territory. Things there are going from bad to.
worse every year. Debit Territory balance for
year ended June 1900 was £84,831 and the
accrued deficit is now £838,290. The Terri-
tory would pay its way but for the heavy yearly
interest on the railway, which doesn’t pay, and
the big jetty, and the other white elephants, the-
bill coming to £93,000 a year. Much of this is, of
course, interest on the deficit, and the Territory’s
future grows more hopeless year by year.
While the S.M. Herat/d and Telegraph’
and Evening News and other Freetrade papers
enjoy 50 per cent. Protection against the Brisbane
and Melbourne journals (a postage-tax of Jd. on
a penny paper from Queensland or Victoria is-
exaetly 50 per cent. Protection, seeing that the
N.S.W. papers are carried post-free) the less-
they say about Dry Dog Reid’s “ unblemished re-
cord as a Freetrader” the better. An unblemished
Freetrader would have ceased protecting the Free-
trade papers, and then they would have thrown
him out on his ear for abandoning Protection.
Ferris, M.L A. (N.S.W.), asked Premier'
Lyne recently if the public servants who had un-
paid increases of salary due them would get the
money in time to get a long beer on Common-
wealth Day. One of the disgraces of Reid’s fake
system was granting increases to civil servants
and putting them down in the Blue Book, but nofr
parting with the money. The trick was to grant
the rise from, say, Ist July, ’9B, but only to start
paying it on Ist July, ’99, or so. Lyne is now
arranging to pay up the bade money, while Reid
proudly smites his ample bread-basket and poses
as the liberal gentleman who (/ranted the rise.
Editor Bulletin,—ln view of the fact
that the State —believing the welfare of the
individual to be the welfare of the community—
undertakes the duty of public education, isn’t it
somewhat anomalous that while the postal service
is to be under the control of the Commonwealth
the more important matter of education will be
allowed to continue in the old individual State
groove ? Go-ahejtcl S.A., with its excellent sys-
tem, the result of the labors of the late Inspector
Hartley, is still to stand out in marked contrast
to go-as-you-please Tasmania. The writer,
trained in N.S.W., had three years’ teach-
ing in W. A., and found that, as children from all
over Australia had to be dealt with, the merits or
demerits of the various systems were very appar-
ent. —E.M.D.


BUY ONLY AT PALING’S
FOR TOUR
DRAWING ROOM
we can recommend a
FEURICH
PIANO.
The finish of these elegant and artistic
Pianos is really excellent and perfect in
every detail.
The Casework is modelled on graceful
lines.
The tone is of that singing and sustaining
quality so much appreciated by connoisseurs
and artists.
The material used in the construction of
the Feurich Piano is the best, and the work-
manship most thorough.
The price is exceedingly low considering
the high standard the Feurich Pianos present.
* * +
Call or Write for Prices and List of
Easy Terms.
THE
“VICTOR”
PIANO.
To be a “ Victor ” is to prove one’s self a
“ winner.” The Victor has won for us in
Australasia a name we are justly proud of.
The immense number sold last year proves
their great popularity. They were sent to
all parts of N.S.W. and Queensland and gave
universal satisfaction.
The Victor Pianos are made in Three
Models :
No. 1 Victor. —ln elegant Walnut Case, full
Iron Frame and extended Soundboard.
No. 2 Victor. —ln handsome Walnut and
Gold or Black and Gold Case, full
Iron Frames and Check Action.
No. 3 Victor. —With Cabinet Top or Music
Receptacle with artistic Marquetry
Panel. This useful adjunct adds con-
siderably to its already fine appear-
ance.
J* J* Jl
Call or Write for Catalogues, Prices
and List of Easy Terms.
PALING’S
Stock also,
Every Known
Musical Instrument
VIOLINS.
We hold an Immense Stock of Violins at
prices as low as possible.
CORNETS.
One of our specialties is the “Student’S
Model,” an instrument possessing merits
not found in any other low priced Cornet.
BANJOS.
GUITARS.
MANDOLINS.
The celebrated American “ Wash-
burns” stocked.
Guitars and Mandolins of Italian and
American manufacture.
Banjos. —High grade American, and other
makes.
You can get a good article for little money at
PALING’S.
* j* J*
Call or Write for Catalogues.
W. H. PALING *C° L 1 ’ 338
6Z OR6E STR€€T,
sypNey
And at
Brisbaije
Newcastle
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
i ,n nt.lier Australian gems.*
VITADATIO
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY,
Has cured Thousands—will cure you
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT W. WEBBER’S
SIGNATURE ON THE LABEL.
HYD AT lID S.
Kalgoorlie, W.A., August 23,1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Agent-General for Australasia,
for Webber’s Vitadatio.
Dear Sir, —With pleasure I write to inform you of the
good I have derived from Webber’s Vitadatio. For many
years I suffered from Hydatids, and a little over three
years ago I underwent two successive operations at a
Hospital in Victoria, the doctors, taking away five (5)
quarts of Hydatids. Shortly after I became ill again with
a pain in my side, and after coming to Westralia the
doctors informed me that I had another Hydatid Cyst,
and wished to operate on me. It was then that I saw
Vitadatio advertised, and thought I would give it a trial,
which I did, with the result that I had altogether three
bad turns, getting relieved of the Hydatids by vomiting.
I am now thankful to say that the lump has entirely gone
from my side, and that I feel a new man, being better
in health and strength than I have been for many years.
I shall only be too pleased to answer any inquiries made
about my case.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) WM. J. TEMPLETON.
Witness : M. F. Smith, Kalgoorlie.
The Price of the Medicine is
Targe Size, os (i<l; Small Size, Ss6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
AT ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
tWe'W'*
¥»s ,tet ~„\So^
the
mc\c*
rrVve . vo^
* oi
?*v«
# ea
à
‘V r aC^
<• ot'
,t« s Y arc
. 0 v \v® v vo s * d to t
\S
n v\v> v . ..
oV- s .’ a \\
a^sr-rs.v"^-**'
.w^ e
s l*'
.C#-
Y-v
1$ 1
Gev^ v ° e
v v\a' s
.**•
o*
á
£2O for a NAME
for the Seconl Grade Tyre we intend putting on the market.
See conditions this space next week.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne., Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
A small boy was fined £5 by the S. Mel-
bourne Bench for playing two-up on Sunday a
few days baok. The alternative was one month
xn gaol. The fixed rate for battering the life half
out of a publican in the same suburb is £2 10s,
and you aan nearly kill a woman for 30s or seven
days.
Patents fob Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Dr. Ross’s Juvenile Smoking Bill takes
the oigarette out of the mouths of N.S. W. boys of
14 —at all events in public. But the penalties are
monstrous. A kid found smoking, first offence,
£5 or one month’s imprisonment. The benign
author of the Bill wanted it to be £lO or three
months. A boy of 14, or under, ought not to be
sent to gaol at all—and certainly not for such an
offence.
The Shire of Avon—one of the largest and
roughest of Victoria’s shires—advertises for a pro-
perly-qualified man—one man, mind—to act as
engineer, clerk of works, secretary, rate-collector,
valuer and collector of statistics, at a salary of
£260 a year. These thrifty gentlemen, most of
them big land-holders and stock-raisers, will pro-
bably want the lucky man to put in his spare time
as dog-inspector, rabbit-inspector, thistle-super-
visor, and shire-hall caretaker. *
The fact that an unoffending man was
nearly murdered by two complete strangers at 6
on Saturday evening in a rather busy Melbourne
street moves the papers to remark that “ these
brutal unprovoked assaults occur with alarming
frequency in the principal thoroughfares of
Melbourne.” Well, what else does Melbourne
expect when many of its magistrates are apparently
in the pay of the pushes, and let off the per-
petrators of anything that comes within an ace of
murder with fines ranging from 10s. to £5 ? Even
permanent disablement by unprovoked assault
costs about £2 before some of the Melbourne
magistrates, who are either in the hire of the
pushes or only fit for the lunatic asylum. If the
law will fix the minimum penalty for brutal assault
at six months and for brutal assault by two
or more persons in company at twelve months
each, and will make it a crime punishable with at
least 12 months to be amember of a recognised push,
quite a lot of things might happen. Of course, as
the law now stands, the magistrate can give the
brutal-assault ruffian a lot more than six months,
but what is wanted is to take away his
power of giving so much less. And then if the
push’s apparently-hired friend and advocate on
the Bench tries to dodge the new law by always
finding the push not guilty, the next thing is to
try all assault cases by jury.
Dr. Mclnerney, who was elected for Dela-
tite (Vic.) because of the prowess of his little
brother in S’Africa, ingenuously returned thanks
in the local press for the “patriotism” of the
electors. A man who would tell the truth like
that is bound to be a failure as a politician. The
bowld Mclnerney, by the way, signalised his
entrance into Parliament by rising to a point of
order, which happened to be no point of order at
all. Keen observers of public affairs are offering
10 to 1 that Mac will rise to more points of order
than any other five men in the House.
“ P.J.0.” to The Buli.etin :
lie your par. (JO/11/’OO) about tenants being turned out
of a certain estate on the Paterson. I know well the
estate in question—likewise all the tenants who have
lived on it for the last 25 years. The rent they were sup-
posed to pay was a mere trifle and they absolutely refused
to pay at all, the agent in a couple of cases being
threatened with a revolver. Also, only 12 families —not
30—have quitted their farms, and only one out of that lot
had ever paid the rent when due. As you have given
publicity to one side of the question, I hope you will set
forth the other.
The Bulletin would like to have all details of
this affair.


ESTABLISHED 55 YEARS.
FOR SALE lar GALVANISED 3 Strand Wire,
suitable for fencing, 4,6, 10g.,
12s. cwt.; Roofing Felt, 75ft.x32in.,
Bs. roll; Tar Paper, 4s. roll; 500 tons Bolts and
Nuts up to 3Gin. long; Hex Nuts up to 4in. ;
Black, Galvanised, Steam Piping, up to Bin. dia. ;
Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s. per cwt. ; Tar,
in sgal. drums, 3s. per drum ; Good Quality Hand
Pumps, from 6s. eachGalvanised, Gutter, Ridge
Cap, down pipe, slightly touched, 9d. 6ft. length ;
Milk Dishes, 20in. 13s. 6d., 22in. 15s. doz.; Blue Wire
Dish Covers, 16s. doz. ; Black, Green, Slate, Blue
Paint, 18s. per cwt. ; Marine Paint and Priming,
20s. per cwt. ; Slightly-damaged Wire Nails, from
li t° bin., 9s. cwt.; Copper Boilers, up to 120 gals.;
Copper Boilers, 25gals., 355. each ; Bullock Bows,
Id. lb., £ Chains, 2d. lb. ; Bullock Leading Drag,
Back Chains, 2d. lb. ; Navvy and Road Picks,
18s. doz. ; Shovels, 18s. doz. ; Utica Washing
Compound, 9s. cwt. ; Rabbit Traps,-9s. doz. ; Hay
Knives 3s. 6d. each, Hay Forks Is. 3d. each, Hoes
Handled Is. 6d. each; Wooden Split Pulleys,
20in.x2i and 3in. Gee, ss. each ; Comb Plates for
Sheep-shearing Machinery, 2s. 6d. doz. ; Snaring
Wire, 3d. lb. ; Pinfire Revolvers, 6s. each.
Builders and Contractors, Engineers,
Plumbers and Gasfftters, Cabinet-
Makers and General Ironmongery
and Painters’ Material.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
m DilfosTt sons.
WHOLESALE & RETAIL IRONMONGERS,
307, 321, 325, 278, 280 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
* The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSIRRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
“MONTSERRAT"LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—"We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LEBCHER & WEBB, LONDON;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents :
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Go.
K
O
K
O
t
#
H
A
I
iR
r J| Mv'^
vss
i . vi
81l
son
THE
Under Royal Patronage
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
II is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to gro
luxuriantly, keeps itsoft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and frcs. ness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
I cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
||| for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
111 new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT, |
1 11 because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandrifl away, and
111 makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
hi as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style j
111 that may he desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
11 1 because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and
111 keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and nc
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
â
KOKO is sold in 1/., 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. KokoMaricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION— See that this Kegistered Trade Mark is on every bottle
ã
.1,
ä
OYER
6,000
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
AND
200,000
a
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USE
nsTionsb cash registers
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 PITT STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
£3
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office -9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE vVORD
f
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Qua 11'y of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
SergisiTweeis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX’S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
’Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was fount ed
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
: O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
cJ3>
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
ICE-HEM FREEZER
K
m
WHICH REQUIRES NO
TURNING OF HANDLE
Price, |5/_
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney,
AND
422 S 424 Elizabeth St.,
A snake story : The brothers Halliday,
Wirlong copper-mine at Nyngan
(W.8.W.), were recently bailed up by a snake for
two days. They were working in the underlay
shaft 200 ft. deep. A seven-foot mallee snake got
by_ some means down to a 60ft. ledge and im-
prisoned the brothers below. On the second day
they managed to dynamite the snake.
“ Gunner ” explains things :
The British Commander-in-Chief is only the head of
one branch of the War-office. He is subordinate to the
Secretary of State, the Permanent Under-Secretary, and
even to the Parliamentary Under Secs. The 0. in C.
looks after discipline and promotion ; but he can’t order
a soldier a pair of new boots on his own authority. When
the British army was starving in the Crimea, the com-
missaries could not take even Lord Raglan’s instructions
as sufficient authority to buy transport animals and fire-
wood. Wellington, also, has left it on record that while
he was C. in. C. the W.O. m de changes in the army, not
only without asking his advice but directly against it. If
this was so when the C. in C. was independent of the
W.O. except in money matters, what chance will he have
now that he is only one of its subordinate officials ? The
tV .0. will simply worry “ Bobs ” into the grave as it did
Hill and Hardinge. The only chance of a real reform
would be to make “ Bobs ” War Minister.
“Yes”! said the piano-tuner, “I was
travelling down Bermagui way a week or so before
tl.e ‘ mystery/ and I am not likely to forget the
trip. Was riding along the beach when I saw a
man standing on a sandhill. He beckoned, and I
made over to him. ‘Like a drink of tea?’ he
asked. I thanked him, and followed him into a
sort of cave, the sandy walls of which were
supported with ti-tree bushes. There was a fire
burning on the middle of the floor and two men
crouched before it moulding bullets. When I
went in they stood up and got in front of me,
whilst the man who had invited me in took up a
tomahawk and got behind. Then one of the men
in front raised his hand and they all sat down.
After I’d had some tea, which I didn’t relish, I
told them I was in a hurry and must push on.
Depend upon it, I pushed. ’Bout twelve months
after, a man accosted me in Cooma and asked me
if I recollected him. I didn’t, and he mentioned
Bermagui and the tea, which I had not forgotten. ■
He was the man who had raised his hand, and he
assured me that, had he not done so, I’d have been
‘ cold meat,’ as the man behind me was just about
to strike. I have always thought those men were
the ‘mystery,’ and I don’t think I’m likely to
travel that way again.”


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
saiaawaa aNiiutao
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Nerve Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Aifaii » e - Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Slood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AIiFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the sjf*n, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6a.
TO BE GIVEN
j
THE ALFALINE j
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEIM,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
å
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSlXlUSSeilj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to H&ns RftSSHTIISSGII.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for ( oughs, Colds, l ousumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'deiful for Beautifying the Complexion..
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes* Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO ÜBNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lmnbton Quay.
PERTH: May-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITE : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE ; Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
C.URE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Logs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •- ELL.OTT BltOS., Sydney Purchasers shou.d
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ā
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 8/ft eoob
PLAITS and TAILS,
fttn. long, ft/a. oil real hob.
CUTTINGS & COMUUiflfl
•orlted up, ya per oz.
VV« are the cheapeStin Aaa
iralia (or all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.^Vlzzell.
>]o William Stbbbt.
rorner of Pahner-e treat,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
ă
Send stamps for full Price List-
Precept attention'given to Country Ortjsm
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat. Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. lJ4d. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Dr. BoxwelVs .""BMILENT PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC
-L' TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by al
Chemists in Australia or can he sent anywhere. ' Price,
5/6 per box. £ ” Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
V Y
Is a restorative and physical regenerator cf
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ent 1 '- restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, stren, th and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
< COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.
IYHCI
BEAF
O OMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Medical.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rmOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c. 3 bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments form 3
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
ą
We grant every purqhaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
p ompt.ly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY,
-<=>
S Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor -'—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/'Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
' should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
MMMM little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering £UCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; ,
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posied, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
m
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c. ■
osu Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i.Jd. and 2s. gd . each of all Drug-
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORL England.
Mr
The New Patent
■ SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet -Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE InEE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
“ A woman was leaning out of the second
floor of the model-dwelling, watching her husband
going away to work. Her language was powerful,
but more abusive than polite. She over-balanced,
fell out, and was killed. A neighbour kindly ran
after the husband to break the news. ‘Your
wife’s fallen out of the window and is dead,’ said
he. ‘Don’t make me laugh,’ replied the be-
reaved one—‘ I have a crocked lip !’ ”
During the debate in Maoriland Parliament
on the M.L. Flag Bill, a member, whose speech
was solemnly alluded to by the press as a ‘ mas-
terpiece of eloque ice, ” actually stated that every
foreign man-of-war had to salute the Union Jack
as a symbol of British supremacy on the sea !
Some members were so captivated by his jaw that
they seriously proposed that the speech should be
printed and circulated through the province.
Ivan Chen, secretary to the Chinese
Minister in London, wrote the Daily Mail a
delicious letter in rejoinder to that paper’s
defence of Chinese missions. Among other
things, the Mail attacked the Chinese notion of
praying by machinery. Said Ivan Chen :
Many years ago, it was discovered that, if one wrote his
prayer and placed it in a tea-cup, and gave it one turn, it
was just as good as repeating the prayer orally, Ten
turns were equal to 10 prayers. This was also found to
be true, no matter to what extent the apparatus was in-
creased in size, or the number of prayers added to it; so,
at the present time, they put 1,000,000 prayers written on
thin paper in a large vessel, mounted on a pivot. On
giving the vessel one turn, it registers 1,000,000 prayers,,
each of which is just as effective as any other prayer. If
anyone doubts this, we challenge them to a competition.
If vour missionaries can show us any devices in Europe
which are more efficacious in keeping off devils, or
cheaper or more expedient in propitiating deities by
prayers, than those that exist among out ignorant people
to-day, then, and not till then, will it be time for you to
send your missionaries, and the superstitions which you
doubtless think are new, to China.
Up to date, none of the British clerical praying-
machines have accepted this challenge.


Models for 1901 have arrived . . .
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
Exquisite High Grade Mounts.
Special Features.
Easy Terms
arranged.
Cold-drawn Mannesmann Steel Frames.
Spokes. Hubs cut from Solid Bar-Steel.
Absolutely perfectly proportioned bicycles.
Piano-wire Unbreakable
Accurate Bearings.
Sydney Depot—3Bs GEORGE STREET.
Branches all Colonies.
10 BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Being a reprint of a large number
of articles from «« The Bulletin,” in
which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and demo-
cratic policy for Federated Aus-
tralia.
Price 6d. —post free.
OS’ Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
ǻ
THE CRIMSON TlE^^
S the E ™ pir ®> i? the endless chain of Canadian RED BIRDS Ther
traverse every land and circle round the world. ’
BRANCHES
IN ALL COLONIES.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
64 King- Street, SYDNEY.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
National Rifle Assn, will make a hiV
Bneeting U w?lf Mtend'^ eal £ h . week - total £3soo,anf
h a*»ssi^““a-'»!~
st a: *ssses i S£?®e?
W*°t., M«>™ ; money .A HJS£?%£Z ’’g*
fo^icSf
(49 prizes), 10 shots at 500yds.; “ The "
pnzes) for shooters wit/ the highest aSgatefn S i
Westralian, and Tas. matchps • Tnw uLud ,- ein r* A *>
£4O (9 prizes), 10 shX at"
any number of teams of 8 renresentino- f
vince colony, or dependency*?!*®S^'
m prizes off m ‘d each K fc 700 and 800 and lh - 30m! at
t P nz ® s offered number 10, aggregating£3oo “The
-/ ( S r liS i°c r shots from
P ra f tlcable - Commonwealth of Australia” is
the champion aggregate match ; prizes total £7OO and
number 253. First (£5O) will go to the highest aggregate
Eoberts” r < e ‘ e N S s a fv S ” of “v Jiftoria/^ffi
iiooercs, JN.ts. w., Victoria, and “Queensland"
Use of -303 or Martini-Henri rifles is optional. Camping
accommodation will be provided ** °
• • * «
N.S.W. Rifle Association “Commonwealth”
?Y?fn?’ m ? le i- thOUB:h 1 , lb t eral and comprehensive to a great
extent, lacks completeness considering the occasion
Why not an all-comers’ prize of tempting value if rifle-
shooting is really to be universally encouraged ? There
dof»n Ult f aS g °°l sh °n S amon !? civilians as among the
defence forces. An all-comers’ competition would tend
«™tL ab<>U greater general proficiency, and perhaps
serve the purpose really aimed at infinitely better, than
all the other matches put together.
* • * »
The scramble and clamor for Commonwealth
sports plums, at Sydney, disgusts onlookers. Sectional
committees have nominated representatives, and these
constitute the executive (25). While rowing, amateur
and professional cycling, and amateur athletics (dead, or.
at any rate, moribund sports), have each direct represen-
tation, cricket, football, bowls, and other much-alive
branches were bunched, and only allowed to nominate
one—the voting favoring a leading A. Athletic Assn, man,
Whose sympathies may be more the A. A. A. way than any
other. At time of writing there’s still a deal of discon-
tent, without the remotest prospect of everyone or any-
one being thoroughly satined, for all want far more than
they can possibly get.
• * » *
Ex”: The extreme modesty of requests for
State aid to sports during the Sydney Commonwealth
celebrations is refreshing. Turf people wanted £3OOO,
but the committee “ wasn’t having any.” Bowlers asked
for £5OO, “ portion to be devoted to entertaining visitors
from other States,” which proposal will doubtless
share the turf scheme’s-fate. League of Wheelmen
wanted £1000; Cyclists’ Union sought medals of “fair
value.” The latter application was approved, whereat
the League rep. waxed wroth and left. It is now re-
ported that the four figure amount will surely be forth-
coming. “Australian Cyclist” says so, and the N.S.W.
League’s sec. is credited with having made a statement
in effect the same to a meeting of Melb. Wheelmen.
Will the pliable Lyne Govt, ignore the committee’s rul-
ing or stand by it ? Writer tips the former.
-•* * *
Organising N.S.W. Commonwealth celebration
sports. D.T., 20/11/’OO :. “ Mr. O’Brien (bicyclist) con-
tended that to give £5OO for bowls was absurd. It was a
second-childhood’s game, and created little interest. . . .
Mr. J. Young (Father of N.S.W. Bowls) was surprised to
hear such a statement. It took a matured man to play
bowls. He did not come to the meeting to be insulted
by being told that bowls-players were in their second
childhood.” “Bowls a second - childhood’s game!”
Sainted Aunt Maria ! And the heavens did not fall!
. Ikey Mo., who makes few serious mistakes in
his comparative judgments of horse-capabilities, seems to
have been considerably out in his opinion about Tarquin.
75 per cent, of Ikey reckoned that Tarquin would cut a
great figure at Melb. Oup meeting, but the ex-Westralian
proved to be only a moderately good one. With Merriwee
turned rogv.e, there is no apparently brilliant rival to La
Carabine among the old horses. Nor is it likely that this
season s 3-year-olds will do great things 12 months hence.
If the new crop of youngsters are only a trifle above the
average all the valuable stakes—handicap and w.f.a.
should be taken by 3-year-olds next season. Let punters
beware of the temptation to select fancies for the 1901
“ doubles ” from among the old horses whose names are
familiar to them.
* * * *
Says Melb. Sportsman, apologising for the col-
lapse of its much be-puffed Lancaster in Melb. Oup
“No descendant of Musket was ever yet any good if set
to make play in a long race. . . . The Musket tribe do not
relish having to make their own running. They cannot
do all the work themselves. They will come ■ from be-
hind ’ if the rate of going be ever so hot, but place them
m the lead to begin with, and ask them to carry on there,
and they will fail miserably.” Yet Carnage, a son of
Nordenfeldt and grandson of Musket, went away with the
lead in Melb. Cup of ’93 and was always first or second till
the bitter end. Finally Tarcoola beat Carnage home
simply because the youngster had wasted his strength in
fighting, mouth-open, with his rider for 1J miles. But
for the jockey having been instructed not to give him his
head Carnage would have run away with the ’93 Cup.
One of the two or three nags that could ever keep pace
with him in that gallop was Light Artillery, another free-
going grandson of Musket. The Sportsman has forgotten,
too, that Zalinski, by Nordenfeldt, made all the running,
lengths ahead of the field, in the Champion Race, ’92,
and was only beaten by his better-conditioned half-
brother, Strathmore.
• • • *
“The glorious uncertainty of racing” was
gloriously illustrated in Melb. Cup when, with such
accurate “ tell-tales ” as La Carabine and Paul Pry in his
stable, Scobie could not “ figure out” Clean Sweep as a
good thing. Alix, again, finished miles in front of her
greatly-fancied and well-backed stable companion, Merri-
wee, who was supposed by the “man at the corner”
capable of giving “tons” to the mare. After such
muddles by those who pull the strings, how can a punter
expect to profit ?
* • * •
Said that a big Melb. punter and member of
Vic. Stock Exchange backed every nag in Melb. Oup, and
had a good win on Clean Sweep, Same man did some-
thing similar in Glenloth’s year, but left out three to
whom he didn’t give “ a hope.” Winner was amongst
them.
• » * ■
War God has scored three wins and two seconds
in 40 races, and yet he was weighted in the V.R.C. Handi-
cap at only lib. less than the acknowledged best horse of
the year—La Carabine. Or put it this way : When the
handicap for Melb. Cup was issued La Carabine (9.7) was
rated 241 b. better than War God (7.11). His three wins,
in not the very best company, were considered to wipe
out 231 b. of the difference between the two animals
gh^e ma f e m^ nwhUe had maintained her repu-
T. he syBfc * m of penalising winners so heavily and
° <? ‘ BeB Very , hard 0n the owners of horses that
only begin to improve late in life.
• * • •
. What looks like a bona-fide case of resurrection
l„l 0f n S ' A ' o f ee ? le horse ’ the Duke > 15yrs. oId » wh >ch
won the Cup Steeple at the late V.R.C. Two years ago,
ancient gelding was supposed to be done, and was
sold for less than a fiver 1 ’
* • * $
The want of the Tote at Flemington was never
so apparent as during last Cup meeting. Present scribe
. I . ots , °l holiday punters bounced into taking,
say, 5 to 1 about horses that were quoted elsewhere at
o s ana 10 sto 1. And some of these horses won the
races for which they had been backed at “ half-price ” by
happy-go-lucky speculators. The initiated punter, who
goes industriously to work for the best price obtainable,
seldom succeeds in getting any of the cream of the
market. The uninitiated punter is “ had ” every time he
Dacks a horse that is not being mentioned in stentorian
tones by the Ikeys. He asks, “ What price Tommy-rot ?**
and the hawklike one says, “ Six to one to you, sir,”
and grabs the quid from the novice’s hesitating hand
before he can protest. The novice might have squeezed
t perhaps from the same Ikey, or another exactly
like him. The Tote preserves the uninitiated from rob-
nery, and the initiated from worry. The Tote is a “ One-
man-one-price ” bookmaker.
. * * * *
Private totes were run with such secrecy in
Melbourne suburbs prior to this Cup that private citizens
had to get the police to put their money on for them
* » * *
Melbourne Abgus discourses pleasantly on the
case of The Idler’s running at Caulfield, in the Vic. Club
Cup, five days after he had scored for the Williamstown
Cup, and seven days subsequent to his having bustled the
Melb. Cup winner over a mile The Idler opened fa-
vorite, and continued so to the end, but someone appa-
rently knew that there was a screw loose, as the horse
showed such a decided tendency to weaken towards the
close of the betting. When it is mentioned that The Idler
ran last—and a bad last at that—it will be gathered that
he could not have been himself. Perhaps his recent
severe racing has been too much for him. He did not at
any rate, run up to anything like his form.”
* * * *
Theresocim ample room for a big Two-Year-
a t ri Ha , ncllca P on the programme of the V.R.C. or
fifii'™ Meeting. A sweepstakes of 15 sovs. each
with 1000 added would surely bring about a rare race
amongst the best youngsters in ’Stralia. If the two lead-
ing clubs won’t “ innovate ” it would be found an attrac-
tive and lucrative addition to Rosehill Racing Club’s
autumn bill of fare.
* * • *
Evidence before N.S.W. Parliamentary Select
Committee on the Racing Association Bill “Mr S R
Kennedy : The press failed to show the weakness of the
A.J.O. in every detail. Take the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph. Some time ago it spoke freely about some
management of the members of the A. J.O.—at least some
allusion was made criticising the management. The res-
sult was that for two years the Daily Telegraph irot no
advertisements.” Is that a true bill ?
* * * *
Mo. got a facer at Canterbury Park (Sydney)
races on Saturday, when of the six winners four were red-
hot favorites and two heavily supported second choices
Most punters present more than recouped themselves for
Melb Cup losses Winner (Golden Ring) of chief event
(Canterbury Handicap, 1J mrles) is a 5-year-old mare by
Jeweßer from a mare by Canzoni, and, though only a
little un, has shape and make much above the ordinary
Those “ in the know " of Kelso’s stable backed her from a
long price down to first favorite. She only just won but
had such a bad position for some time that writer has
labelled her worth watching. Another good performance
by a promising nag was that of the Durham Court bred
gelding, Black Metal, who won Shorts’ Handicap (6fur )
with 8.10 up ml: 17. '
* • * •
“Four-Ounce”: Jack M‘Gowan and Tim Hegarty
drew verging on £3OO from the Melb. public’s pocket and
supplied a fight that should make every man who saw it
forswear the game. They did little else but close and
cugcg from the beginning to within li min. of the end of
the 25th round, when the referee very properly disqualified
M Gowan for hitting in holds. They’ve met so often that
combating each other’s moves comes like falling off a log
to this pair. Hegarty has won five times on points while
the sixth contest resulted in' a draw. The man who
attempts to bnng these two together again should be in-
dicted as a plotter against the peace and well-being of the
community.
*m m -
.. , Nickey Duggan, baby brother of Tom of
that ilk, debuted as a full-fledged boxer at Melb. Victoria
Hall the other evening against Cocker Tweedie. Duggan
is a youth built on most extraordinary lines—abnormally
narrow, with thin arms and a big, hard head. He is not
a. bad boxer, which is only to be expected, as he probably
had his first sleep in a cradle-full of old gloves, but he
stood no chance against the symmetrical Cocker. The
latter hit him as he liked, but nevertheless took 20 rounds
over what looked a soft thing for him in three. Even
then there was no knock-out, referee Peter Jackson (who
got a tremendous ovation) giving Tweedie the verdict
when the limit was reached. ■ The winner will now pro-
bably look for the victor in the Hegarty-M'Gowan contest
and will have the biggest battle of his life.
* * * *
Glove-match ’twixt Johns (Sydney) and Willis
(Melb.) at Gaiety A. O. (Sydney) Monday night was a
scrambling, sprawling, clinching thing—all cuddle and
shove. It bristled with direful-looking uppercuts, that
rarely brought up against anything more substantial
than vacancy , and wickedly-meant swings which generally
smote the air above one or other principal’s head, and
hurled the swinger on to his hands and knees. Johns
clawed - and pawed, shouldered, ducked and gripped
while t’other man never timed one punch properly’,
and often hit inches away from the spot aimed at •
but it was all acceptable, for both were “ willin ’’
and had trained. Willis did all the scoring, and might
have won had he been a “ dyed-in-the-wool” plucked ’un
The tenth round was the last. A little scuffling, a couple
of not too weighty ones from Johns, and the man from
Melbourne staggered into his corner looking for a soft
place to fall, and fell, and stayed there. They shaped
like a pair of old women, but there was plenty life and
vigor in the go, hence the onlookers went home satisfied.
It doesn t take much to please a crowd of pug patrons.
*■"•••
Vancouver mail tells that Dan Creedon (whilom
middle-weight premier pug. of Australia) was made a
mere show of by one Jack Root, in 2}min., before 5000
People, at Kansas City (Mo.), Oct. 4. Creedon scaled
ljst. the heavier. Creedon has been dropping down for
a long time, and must be at bedrock now. Yet few that
left this section gave greater promise, and for a long time
many fights came Creedon’s way, among them one with
the then British heavy-weight champion, Jem Smith.
.** * *
First inter-State cricket-match of the season
Victoria v. S. A., went to the former by 8 wickets. S.A.
much weakened by the departure of Darling and bv
Lyons retirement, was beaten from the start On first
day six of the best men were out for 65 when Matthews a
junior playing his first match, batted splendidly with
veteran Jarvis, and S.A.’s first venture closed at 267
Matthews is the most promising youngster S.A. has un-
earthed since Clem Hill, as he is a good bowler and a fine
field,
Victoria’s big victory over S.A. was helped
much by luck, but she had a much better side than the
opposition. 0. McLeod made his re-appearance. His
selection was looked upon with gome disfavor in Mel-
bourne on account of his supposed want of form, but
Oharles secured the first-innings bowling average, and
also came along with an innings of 62 when they were
badly wanted.
S.A. will be a weak cricket State for years, as
Giffen and Jones are palpably going off. The former’s
bowling was pasted all over the field, and Jones has lost
60 per cent of his pace. The only apparent gleam of hope
for the Wheat State is that a junior, Travers, who bowled
excellently, promises to do well. But 5. A.0.A., realising
the seriousness of the position, will probably import a
good pro.
Victoria missed Trumble, who has played little
cricket this year, owing to illness. Unless Vic.
bowling improves, N.S.W. batsmen will make big scores
against that State this season. McLeod is the only
Vic. bowler (besides Trumble) worth considering, and
Noble, Trumper and co. know all his tricks. In batting,
however, Victoria is strong. Young Armstrong batted
splendidly in Adelaide for 117, his off-drives from Jones
being a treat. The Melb. colt has a future, especially as
he bowls a good ball. McAlister, Graham and McLeod
are already in good form, and Ross hits freely and well.
S.A. sadly missed Lyons, who was always a
terror to Vic. bowlers. Clem Hill batted stiffly and
slowly for 70 in S.A.’s 2nd innings, showing that he is not
the Clem of old ; and Hack, the great surprise of last
year, was a comparative failure. S.A. and Victoria have
now played 32 matches ; Victoria has won 19 and S.A. 13,
and the last six contests have all gone to the former.
■ • * •
In the settlement between the Melb. Bicycle
Club and the unspeakable League of Vic. Wheelmen,
what is to become of the handful of racing cyclists who
declined to enter for the Austral on the strength of the
League’s undertaking that a prize of equal value would be
put up for them ? The compromise between the bodies
is of no use to them, for there are legal disabilities in the
way of the M.B.C. accepting more Austral entries now,
and the only solatium is the offer to put up an extra race
of £lOO, which will not be run unless 20 or more enter. As
there are only about half-a-dozen of these standers-out,
their one chance of getting a race is to dummy 15 of
their pals and pay their entrance-fees.
* * • •
N.S.W. bowlers’ win last week of inter-state
match with Victoria was a new experience, mother-state
reps, having met defeat there for 10 years previously.
Most judges held that the latest was the best team ever
sent to Melb. and the result showed the correctness of
this view. Victoria won the third match of the “ rub,”
but the visitors gave all their emergencies a show in that
and placed third men as skippers.
* * » *
At latest, the rowing wrangle still proceeds at
’Ome. The wily Gaudaur says point-blank he’ll make no
more matches, but Towns hopes to force him next season.
Hanlan’s nephew, Durnan (on whom Jake was dropping
his World’s Championship mantle), after agreeing to meet
the Hunter River man, backed out, alleging that the
season was too far gone. Towns had ordered a new boat
and made all arrangements for visiting America.
• • * •
The W.A. chess-players challenged Victoria to
a telegraphic match lately, and on 12th inst. won
handsomely by 6f, games to 3| —counting one game to be
adjudicated as a draw, as it will probably be given.
Victorians excuse their defeat by pointing out that most
of their best players were away picnicking, racing, etc.
The excuse, however, is paltry, as eight of the ten selected
are classed by the conservative Melb. Chess Club as first-
class players, and those eight only managed to score one
win and two draws amongst them. A junior, reckoned
by these quidnuncs fourth class, was rushed in for the
tenth board at the last moment, and won neatly one of
the best games of the batch.
* * * *
To enable riders of Dunlop tyres to identify the
types manufactured by the company, each tyre is marked
with its respective description embossed on the side,
“Roadster,” “Road Racing,” “Path Racing,” and so
forth. The two features, however, in which all the tyres
are identical are the principle of detachment and'the
quality of the material used, the excellence of both of
which has been endorsed over and over again by Aus-
tralian cyclists.*
• * * *
At Maffra, Victoria, a country plugger named
Reeves, on a Massey-Harris racer, knocked the bottom
out of the knowing crowd’s can by winning the 2 miles
handicap and the district race over IJ miles.*
The Bulletin’s series of articles—“ A
Policy for the Commonwealth ” —will be published
in pamphlet form, with an appendix, about the
end of the year. The object of this series is to
suggest a progressive, democratic, and financially
self-reliant policy for the Commonwealth, and an
effort has been made to deal with all the more
urgent questions that will confront the Federal
Ministry. The pamphlet will contain about 80
pages, and can be procured retail, price sixpence,
from The Bulletin office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, or wholesale from Messrs. Edwards,
Dunlop, and Co., Sydney and Brisbane.
“When I came to office in 1894,” cried
Greorge Reid at his Sydney Town Hall meeting
last Monday, “I was engaged in a desperate
struggle with all the vested interests in the
country.” The statement is really very nearly
true. George Reid was engaged in a struggle for
all the white-vested interests in the country—that
is the only difference. He was the representative
and agent of the little crowd of rich imDorters
which runs N.S.W., and the upholder of their
vested interests. There were only two protected
local industries—beer and sugar—which had grown
large enough to be fairly described as vested in-
terests, and Reid carefully kept on protecting
them to the end. As a man with a reverence for
vested interests G.R. was all there.
The other day the body of a gentleman
named Frederick Farrant Cox was cremated
on Crown land in some scrub near Little
Bay road, Sydney, in the presence of half-
a-dozen friends, who had for obvious reasons kept
the matter very quiet. The crematorium, a port-
able one, consisted of a large shell of boiler-plate,
open at both ends, to allow full play for the fire
lit beneath. Wood was heaped on, and in a few
hours all that remained of the body was a handful
of ashes. _ Cremation is perfectly legal when done,
a ® in this case, so that public decency is not
offended ; but when the police got to know of the
matter they hied to the spot and arrested the
crematorium, which they conveyed to the police-
station, probably handcuffed. What the charge
was is not known for certain, but it is believed to
have been disorderly conduct or tarin’ me uniform.
Some of the admirers of George Reid got
together in‘ Sydney last Monday to say kind things
about him. And, in replying, G.R. again urged
the audience to elect as their Federal represen ta-
li I 'i? S ir >n^/-M Canc^a * ;es who were consistent in their
behalf. Considering that G. Reid is a Freetrader
who left on quite a large number of Protectionist
duties, and that he publicly declared (when there
seemed a chance that he would be Premier of a
Protectionist Commonwealth) that his faith in
Freetrade had much decayed, and he then pro-
ceeded to declare (when the chance of being Pro-
tectionist Premier of the Commonwealth had
greatly faded) that his belief in Freetrade was,
and always had been, founded on a rock, this
appeal is simply: “ Whatever you do, don’t choose
men like Me ! ”
“ Virtue is not a mere check on vice. It
is a passion.”—French.
In a recent Sydney divorce case the
petitioning wife deposed that she saw hubby wash
the hair of a young lady visitor to their house,
after which he brushed and combed it. Later on
respondent was found sitting on the lady’s tin
trunk in her bedroom, while he cut the toenails
and corns of the fair visitor as she sat on the bed.
Still further on he was carrying her about the
house in her nightdress, and petitioner declared
that she simply would not stand such things.
Case adjourned to give the lady of the toenails
and tin trunk a chance to attend and submit her
version.
The real state of the Queen’s health is
always carefully kept from the public. It is only
Labouchere, in Truth, who has the audacity to
declare that the reason why H.M. has not opened
Parliament since ’B6 is the physical impossibility
for her to get up the staircase to the House of
Lords. A salute of guns is now done either at a
distance or not at all, and even the usual festive
band is, if possible, silenced.
The great Australian doctor - sweating
movement. Australasian Medical Gazette
reprints this advt. from the daily press
PRACTITIONERS AND DISPENSER.
Wanted, for Broken Hill, 2 Legally Qualified Gen-
tlemen to act as MEDICAL OFFICERS to the B.H.
Friendly Societies Medical Institute and Dispensary ;
retaining salary, £2OO each per annum, with an ad-
ditional £2OO per 1000 members to divide according
to numerical strength of individual list (present
membership, 1150). Accouchment fee institute mem-
bers, £2. Private practice will be allowed. Qualifi-
cations, &c.
Also, thoroughly competent DISPENSER. Salary,
£3 ss. per week and quarters. Testimonials re-
quired.
Applications, addressed to the Secretary, must be
in by WEDNESDAY, 21st November, 1900. Appli-
cant must be prepared to take up the duties on Ist
JANUARY NEXT. W. F. CARR, Secretary.
Tattersall’s Hotel, Broken Hill, N.S.W.
An analytical investigation of this advertisement, re-
marks the Gazette, shows that the B.H. Friendly Societies
propose paying to the two doctors £630 per annum for
1150 members and their families, 10s. lid. per member in
a town like Broken Hill! Still further it must he under-
stood that any increase in the number of members
reduces the rate of pay. Thus, when the number of
members shall reach 2000, the remuneration will be £BOO
or Bs. a member, and when the number of 3000 shall have
been enrolled the doctors will receive £lOOO a year, or 6s.
per annum, exclusive of the usual attendance which
is exacted for widowed mothers, bereaved sisters, and
children to the ages of 16 to 18 years ! It must be dis-
tinctly understood that private practice in a club-ridden
place like Broken Hill is practically of no value. The
following circular, just received by post, accentuates the
position, and shows the stand that some members of the
medical profession have been compelled to take with
reference to this matter -
[Circular.]
The following medical men, engaged in practice in
Broken Hill, take this means of informing their patients
that on account of the very low rates of pay offered they
are unable to take any position under the proposed
I nendly Societies’ Institute, and that they will be please-
to accept members of lodges joining the Institute at pre~
sent rates on personal application at their respective
surgeries.
Lodge members are further informed. that they may
continue as members of their lodge by paying ordinary
lodge contributions without medical fees.
[Here follow the names of nine medical men in Broken
Hill district.]
The shocked Tories of N.S.W. Leg.
Council who shout-down Attorney-General Wise’s
Arbitration Bill as the newest monster created by
the diabolical working-man mind are hereby re-
quested to grovel down to King George the Third
and read a certain document to which that
monarch attached his name. The Act (39 and 40,
Geo. 111., c. 90) duly made law in 1800, provided
that in cases of dispute between masters and men
m the cotton factories an arbitration might be de-
manded by either side. If the parties failed to
agree, “ they were to state the points of difference
to a Justice of the Peace, whose judgment was to
be final and conclusive.” Refusal to submit to an
award involved a penalty of £lO. Chapter 106
extended this system to all manufactures and in-
volved imprisonment for non-observance of the
award. The Tory party in the Council labored
to show the essential principles of Wise’s Bill as
an assault on the bulwark of England’s national
kfo > and numbers clapped hands in accord. It is
saddening to find men with a reputation for know-
j®.°f constitutional and industrial law such
blind leaders of blind followers.


“We Have Made a Hit”
WITH
'-o
DERBY
TOBACCO
It is considered
the finest and
best Smoking
Tobacco ever
imported.
There is nothing like
DERBY
The Modern Art Jewellery Coy.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. telephone 3490,
THE MOST TRIUMPHANT BELT DISPLAY IN SYDNEY.
Numerous Designs,
46
5 6
7/6
11/6
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALL GOODS SENT POST FREE.
Hall-Marked Silver,
50/-
Watteau and Classic
Patterns,
57/6
OUR XMAS DISPLAY WILL PROVE UNRIVALLED.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST . . .
SPECTACLE HOUSE
... IN SYDNEY
And yet right up to date in Optical Science.
Pebbles, 5/- ; Uniaxial Specs., 10/6.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
Sight-testing Free.
Spectacles at London Prices.
CONJURING
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated Catalogue Post
Free anywhere.
WILL A.3WDRA.DE,
MAGIC & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
æ
Worth Knowing!
That RAFFAN’S
Bronchial Catarrh
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best Tonic “ Pick-me-ups ” in Mental
and Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you
feel a Sturdiness and Firmness of Nerve, as if some-
thing had become suddenly Unbound and given its
Liberty. Hundreds of persons who have been in
search of some such reliable Remedy admit that the
Rapid and happy results following its use are posi-
tively marvellous. Affords immediate relief in Bron-
chitis, Catarrh, and Asthma. The preparation was
made by a London Physician and sold for a Fortune.
It is now being bought by the public for 2/-, or per
post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Halj-dozen, free by 'post throughout
A nstrnlia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application .
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete -one of the
features of the approaching Commonwealth festivities—'
should command the ready support of all. The object is
good, the price of tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided—three concerts in Sydney ToW’n
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. W. Moffitt Burns, hon. sec., 35 Uastlereagh-st.*
Skilled masseur (Swi dish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. Young man ;
testimonials and references on application to
“Masseur,” Bulletin Office.—Arm*.
Nervous sufferers* will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
*>3 of this issue.*
* ALLAN’S *
Popular Piapo Pieces
PopOlar Sooss—
*•
TWO
excellent
NUMBERS
OF TUB
Australian
(Dusic Books
No. 23.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
Ireland Mill
Moonlight on the Hudson
Wilson
Stephanie Gavotte
Czibulka
Angels of Dawn Latour
The King Pippin Polka
d’ Albert
The Retreat March Glover
Fairyland Valse Warren
Ivanhoe, Grand March
Blake
March Norma Burgmiiller
Floating Breezes Kinkel
Santa Lucia Cottrau
Grant’s 'Jrand March Mack
X
r
No. 24.—Popular
Songs.
The Good Rhine Wine
Gray
Dublin Bay Barker
I Cannot Mind My Wheel,
Mother
The Irish Emigrant Barker
The Lonely Rose Balfe
The Four-Leaved Sham-
rock Lover
My Childhood’s Home
Blockley
A Jolly Good Hearty Laugh
Thomas
Captive Greek Girl Hobbs
Alas ! Those Chimes
Wallace
Scenes that are Brightest
Wallace
The Fairy Tempter Lover
Jeanette and Jeanot Glover
The Angel’s Whisper Lover
The Light of Other Days
Balfe
My Ancestors were English-
men Hobbs
Mary Blane Barker
Price H- each, ; or Posted, 1/2.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary Ltd.
276 k 278 "ollins-st.,
Melbourne.
I ,10R the person who is not a millionaire, 'here is
JL ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palaoe,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Bicycles $ Bicycle Supplies.
OIL LAUNCHES and
“SINTZ” Marine and Stationary Engines
(1-h.p. to 60-h.p.)
COMPLETED LAUNCHES A SPECIALITY.
American Component Sets to build Bicycles
complete—Latest 1900 Models.
BICYCLE SUPPLIES and LATEST NOVELTIES at
Factory Prices. Factory Agents in Australia for
“ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles. Good Agents wanted Where not
already represented.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notices.
R S SALE of
CARBIDE of CALCIUM.
Notwithstanding the Claims put forward by
certain persons to the exclusive control of the
Carbide Business, we hereby notify the Public
of New South Wales that we shall continue ais
heretofore to execute all Orders for Carbide of
Calcium, whether in large or small lots. We shall
also adopt every legal means to defend ourselves
and our Customers against any claim (which we
repudiate) to the exclusive right of Sale or use of
Carbide of Calcium.
OSCAR HELSTROM,
Consul for Sweden and Norway.
HENRY MARKWALD.
JAMES MARTIN AND COMPANY.
MORGAN and SMITH.
N.S.W. ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY.
F. A. PETERS.
JOHN L. ROSENBAUM.
WRIGHT, SONS, AND CO.
(Representing Read, Halliday).
ACETYLENE CO., Huddersfield, England.
pain me si wealth Celebrations
In view of the special demand which has arisen fot
RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION in and about Sydney
for intending Visitors from the Country and other
Colonies, and the fact that the ordinary channels for
meeting such demand are already found inadequate, we
have decided to establish as a temporary branch of our
business
An Accommodation Bureau
for the purpose of acting in the mutual interests of those
requiring accommodation, and those Hotel and Boarding-
house proprietors who have APARTMENTS TO LET, and
of private families and persons who are prepared to
ACCEPT PAYING GUESTS.
By entrusting their business to us each party can
ensure careful inquiry being made as to the bona-fldes
of applicants, and country clients can accept our reputa-
tion of so long standing in the business community of
Sydney as a guarantee that the duties entrusted to us
will be conscientiously performed and at moderate cost
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
W. PRITCHARD & SON,
Auctioneers and Estate Agents.
. Queen Victoria Market Building,
SYDNEY
At Poverty Point.
Signor Steffani received by last mail from his pupil,
Florence Schmidt, clippings from Dublin papers, showing
that she has made a very successful debM in the Irish
metropolis, as Marguerite, in “ Faust.” Further she
has adopted the stage-name of O’Kell, having been
persuaded by her manager that the German nature of her
own name would handicap her. Her adopted name is her
mother’s maiden-name of O’Kelly, minus the “y.” After
her first appearance, Miss Schmidt was offered an extended
engagement, to appear in such parts as Elisabeth, in
Tannhauser,” Elsa, in “Lohengrin,” &c., but, for
reasons best known to herself, she declined, and returned
to London. By the way, the Irish journals write of her
as “ the young Dublin prima-donna," and one paper
transforms her into a young Irish widow, who lost her
husband in Australia—-all which will be news to the fair
Florrie’s friends, to say nothing of herself.
“ F.” : Runciman, the Saturday Review critic and
“great friend of Marshall Hall,” must be a painfully
superior person if he “ loves not artists of the Miranda
type,” and can feel nothing but “ a certain human pity ”
for her performance of Ophelia in Ambrose Thomas’s
“ Hamlet.” Compare the talk of this pretentious schoolist
with recent eulogistic notices of the Australian prima-
donna by Brussels critics. La Reforme (Sept. 13) said :
“ Ophelia is the same as last year, Mile. Miranda. She
sings ravishingly with her pure crystal voice. With re-
gard to her delivery, she gives to the character a charm
which denotes real advancement. She was recalled
three times after the suicide act.” L’Etoile Belge
(Sept. 12) said : “ Mile. Miranda made a brilliant
return as Ophelia. : The vocalisation is of a purity and
keenness more remarkable than ever. A justifiable ovation
was accorded her in the mad scene.” Other Brussels
notices of the winsome Lalla as Ophelia, and as Mar-
guerite of Navarre in “ Les Huguenots” are equally
enthusiastic. Who is Runciman, “ the friend of Marshall
Hall,” that his disparagements of Miranda should be
printed in the country where her charming voice was
“ discovered ” ? I recall to mind the opening of a certain
“ Corn, Wine and Oil” exhibition, or something of that
sort, at Melb. Exhibition building a few years ago. Lalla
Miranda contributed an air to the inaugural ceremony.
She sang “ With Verdure Glad,” and by all who remember
the effect she produced in the half-empty building the
news that Mr. Runciman “ loves not artists of the
Miranda type ” will be received with scorn.
“ Operatic Tenor ” : Carmini-Morley, who died the other
day through a fall from a Sydney tram, was once well-
known throughout Australasia, particularly in Maonland.
He was born in Spain, of Italian and Irish parents, and
had, in his day, a capital voice, full and resonant, his
singing and acting being alike artistic. He long resided
in Dunedin, where he taught singing, and formed an
amateur opera co., with which he produced one or two
operas of his own composition. He was also a very
capable violinist.
Madame de Vere-Sapio, the beautiful woman and great
sinver who was in Sydney with a concert co. about 7
years ago, has just put up a record for good faith. Some
months back the lady was in aesthetic Boston, and one
evening, while being shown the plans of the then-proposed
new concert-hall, casually made a promise to the conduc-
tor of the orchestra that on the opening night of the new
building she would sing Beethoven’s Mass in D. How-
ever, when the opening was announced the prima-donna
was touring England as Elsa in “ Lohengrin ” and Leonora
in “ II Trovatore.” But on receiving a letter from the con-
ductor regretting that circumstances had deprived the
inauguration of one of its best items, she immediately
cabled that she would be there. She travelled 6000 miles
and abandoned nearly three weeks’ engagement at an
enormous salary to sing gratis one night in Boston, in
accordance with a promise made in a casual conversation.
One of Wirth Bros.’ elephants' bucked at a new trick in
Melbourne the other afternoon, and, remarking through
his nose that he was full of this, took up his trunk, and,
walking through all obstacles, such as walls, fences, and
hoardings, went at large, pursued by the whole strength
of the circus. He was captured near Parliament House,
and after being inveigled horne with a bun was there tied
by the toe to a stake. Said an onlooker :“ I suppose an
elephant is an awful trouble.” Replied the circus man :
“ Great Scott! no. You should see the trouble we have
with that boy,” pointing to a smudgy apprentice of about
11 years who was devouring the elephant’s bun.
At rehearsal recently, the only G struck a new vein
in stage slanguage. Instead of reading in his usual
forcible style at the offending “ mummer ” he solemnly
up his eyes and said in an imploring voice “Oh!
G , do not strike him dead ! ”
One of the variety turns incidental to the gorgeous
Musgrovian panto, at Melb. Princess’s will be something
new and astounding in the way of educated dog.
Dear Bulletin, —One of your gibers at all things
English remarks that “ the British public has got
only one joke—the Bedstead Joke.” How many jokes has
the French public got? And the Italian public, as judged
by the sketches which Biondi brought from his native
land ? Also, I would like to know whether the music hall
public in America has any joke other than the weak-
minded husband’s attempt to escape from his strong-
minded wife and have “ a good time at the French ball.”
—E. Fisher.
.Dear Bulletin, —Miss Nance O’Neil’s pame is Gertrude
Lambton —not Lawson, as printed in 8., 17/11/’OO. — Slow-
boy.
The Sunday Closing advocates might now reasonably
turn their attention to theatres. A Sydney theatrical
company, on a recent Sunday, had to rehearse from 11 till
2.30.
Mr. “Dick” Row, in bringing a divorce action against
his wife, Miss Nellie Stewart (who made no appearance in
the case), deposed that they got married on the sly at
Scots Church Manse, Sydney, in 1881, Nellie then being
under a theatrical engagement to the Firm which had
six months to run. The understanding was that they
were to live together at the end of that engagement,
when she was to give up the stage for good, but she went
away and had ever since declined to join him, saying that
she was ambitious and wished to remain in the profession
instead of giving up her life. She had deserted him for
16 years. Mr. Row, in reply to the Judge, said the
reason he had not taken action before was that he didn’t
know a divorce was procurable for desertion, whereupon
the case was adjourned in order that the lawyer who had
advised petitioner in the case might be consulted. On
the husband’s uncorroborated statement, remarked His
Honor, he was not legally entitled to succeed.
Private Ship-Owners and Fuhlio
Surveyors.
Tin Bulletin quotes for public information some
salient passages of the debate raised by bam
Smith, M.P., in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, on 15th
Nov. The Sydney dailies, as usual when there is
any disoussion affecting privileged people, gave a
very imperfect report. The subjeot was the
necessity for N.S.W. Publio Service Board to
take deoisive action re the acceptance of ship-
owners’ “tips” by officers of the Navigation
Dept., and, with the memory of the Atacama
case behind it, The Bulletin refers people who
want to read names to Hansard.
Mr. Samuel Smith said : The evidence of one of the
captains connected with a shipping firm showed that the
work for which [an engineer-surveyor] received fees was
done in the ordinary hours, between 7 in the morning
and 5 at night. ...
[The Publio Service Board permits these men who
accepted “tips” to remain in the service, unpunished,
though Sec. 46 of the Navigation Act of 1871 says :
“ Every surveyor or other officer, who demands, or re-
ceives, directly or indirectly, from the owner or master of
any steamship surveyed by him under the provisions
hereof any fee or remuneration whatsoever, for or in
respect of such survey, or otherwise than by the direction
of the said board, shall incur a penalty not exceeding
£100."]
A vessel which in the month of April [an engineer-
surveyor] declared to be in a sound condition, had to be
sent into dock in July to undergo a most expensive over-
haul, while another vessel which in the month of May
was declared to be fit to carry. 1150 passengers, was, a
month or two afterwards, in such a condition that I could
shove my hand through her as she lay in dock. . . .
Mr. Hinchcliffe [the British naval engineer who made a
special report on some of these matters] pointed out that
if such things had happened in connection with the navy,
the men who were responsible for them would not have
been retained in their positions a single day.
* * » »
Mr. H. Clarke (Bega) : I know that vessels have gone to
sea which were utterly unfit to leave the port. ... A
vessel, which is 40 years old, goes into dock, and gets a
six months’ overhaul at the cost of a very considerable
sum. A vessel in the same trade, which is only 10 years
old, goes into dock, and the proprietor has to pay about
£6OO, while another vessel gets off with an expenditure of
£5O or £lOO.
Mr. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick : They made the mistake of not
paying any palm-grease !
Mr. H. Clarke : I think there is a good deal in that. . . .
* * * *
Mr. Wilks (Balmain North) :—lt has been common talk
—not by men of no standing at all, but by leading hands
in the trade —that for a number of years [a surveyor]
would pass work which in their opinion he should not
have passed, and that boats were not properly equipped
as they should be for seafaring purposes. . . .
* * * *
Mr. M'Gowan (Redfern) :—ln company with [a Marine
Board officer] and Mr. Smith, I went to Mort’s Dock and
saw the plates which were taken from the bottom of the
, a passenger vessel which trades between Sydney
and Manly, and carries thousands of passengers.
When. the garboard streak plates were taken
out I called [the Marine Board officer’s] attention to
them. The plates lie near the keel, just under the boilers,
where they have to bear a great weight, and they were
in such a condition ■ that when they were only tapped
with a hammer it went right through them. I-said to
[the Marine Board officer], “ You are sufficiently practi-
cal to know that if those plates struck a log of wood
when the vessel was travelling in the harbour the boat
would sink.” The framework that carried the boilers
was in a similar condition, and the body of a dead man
floating in the water would have bfeen almost sufficient to
have sunk the vessel. . . .
Cheerful reading, isn’t it ?
Dr. George Morrison, London Times correspon-
dent at Pekin, in his account of the allied invasion
of China, says among other things that 17 Chinese
prisoners captured by the French were all killed —
“ they were bayonetted by a French corporal, to
save cartridges.” Also :
To save themselves from the rough Russian soldiers and
their following of French, many Chinese women com-
mitted suicide. A British officer saw seven hanging from
the same beam in the house of a well-to-do Chinaman.
“ These stories,” says Dr. Morrison, “ reflected credit
upon Chinese womanhood, and something very different
upon the armies of Europe, which are supposed to be the
forerunners and upholders of civilisation in this particular
campaign.”
And if you read French and German papers,
doubtless you will find the exploits of the British
narrated—“ there’s a deal that doesn’t go in
despatches, ” says Kipling. Isn’t it time European
nations dropped their hypocritical mask of
“ Christianity and civilisation.” When European
soldiers run amuck in China—burning, pillaging,
ravishing, and murdering—what more could
barbarians do ? And European missionaries,
everywhere the forerunners of slaughter, might
say as truly as Jesus did, “We come not to bring
peace, but a sword ! ”
At Buffalo (U.S.) Exposition, a 10001 b.
shot is to be fired from a 12in. gun, for 20 miles,
along Lake Erie.
Premier Holder, being regarded as a cer-
tainty for Federal office, B.A. Chief Secretary
Jenkins is considered his legitimate successor;
but Works-Minister Foster has been so successful
as an administrator that he is expected to push
Jenkins hard. Attorney-General Gordon does
not seek Federal honors, and it is generally
thought that he aspires to one of the State judge-
ships which will be vacant when the Federal
Courts are established.
The British have now absolutely aban-
doned the original idea of making the S’African
campaign the most humane ever fought. When
Roberts rushed into the Orange Free State the
foreign attaches were moved to much, laughter
and scorn by the spectacle of an invading army
paying fancy prices for milk and butter bought
from the wives of the men who were actually in
arms against it. Despite the tall yarns of some of
the Australian swaddies, it seems that exemplary
punishment teas dealt out' at' first for looting
hen-roosts, and the Boer farms were not even
compelled to sell at a fixed price, as has generally
been done by invading British armies. But that
is all changed now. Whole districts are being
laid waste by fire. Cattle.and stock are being
seized without payment, and all foodstuffs that
cannot be carried off are being destroyed. In the
Transvaal the climax has been reached by the
destruction of the National Monument at Paarde-
Kraal, built to commemorate^be independence of
the Republic. Not only has the- monument been
destroyed, but the very stones have been carted
away and every trace of it obliterated.
“ Why keep the sham on ?
God has left his throne,
And Moloch and Mammon
Are our gods alone ! ”


Banking. Public Companies, Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a#'
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3W.£!3,A7V.
I.
*l* i. r*>
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City .Mutual Life
a/ 4r s
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGII STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia,
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
*—TH TC-0
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR |
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with- !
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE-
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esn., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Pi-shop agate Street Within
(corner of Leadeuball Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GliOltGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
II ay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
file Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager — Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Vo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... • £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... .. £100,009
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
jeiu Zealand Insurance Qn.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL - -
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
A ml ™nW St Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIML
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 24, 1 p.ra.
Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 1, 1 p.tn.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.tn.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tires., Nov. 27, 5 p.ra.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 24, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p:m.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 1, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 24, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 1, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ GoWrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €*€^£itorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount} at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747- 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. GANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-,street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equiable Building's, G-eorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capitalpayable by Shareholders 500^000
Total Capital „ ... £2,500,000
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
W DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MON DAY, 14th JANUARY, 1901, forMORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at U per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General. I
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting gompy. '
(LIMITED), j
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J J Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
’ ’ FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow--
ing puzzle
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*SP*R*TY
W*LL C*M* T*C*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamued and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you ii you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. E. Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900 : “ I am happy to inform you that the lady’s
watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. . . . Ky wife
would not part with it for a fiver.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY GOY„
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
jia it/: of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas'Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald JamiSs Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MaoLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F, W. Uther, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe ancTAmerica,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
* These dates are approximate.
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
1,1 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every THREE WEEKS as under:—
Steame*. Tons.
ALAMEDA .. 3158
MARIPOSA .. 3158
SIERRA ..I 6000
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
December 24
January 15
February 4
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe ; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply UNION STEAMSHIP CO.
OF N.Z., LTD., Equitable Buildings, George-street, next
G.P.0., Sydney; corner Collins and William Streets,
Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie-street, Adelaide :
8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of" a Total Tonnage of"
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks. '
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agenls,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
L-er/al JAanager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&ro.
PH 'PnIKTAHV lIMITKD,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
-
32*1
marvellous value; made from
all-wool 'i weeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finish' d.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class . f material. £3 3». To
measure, capital Trousers, \ery
goo I patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure. £5,
K ding- Bre ches,2ss.
Biding Habits. &c.
We supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
• Fam us Ballarat Ser;e Suits,
In Ik”" dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Serge, ette -uits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests ISk fid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. fid. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10-s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s fid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers 3s. »d„ 4s 9d., ss. fid.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. fid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. fid.
So it Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. fid. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.Od,
Keck ties, all shapes and colors,
Is.
\Vlute Shu ts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
fis. 9d . 9s. fid.
We line to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of Dress.” ahd
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT ED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR. MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Koekton, Friday,
November 23.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Tuesday, December 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allingu, Friday.
December 23.
/lest and Chaopest Conte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Oairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. 00. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STXtKET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINK.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly',
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, amd FIJI, Monthly
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y '
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Pussenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application!
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports."
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports. ’
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
o oI’LCvUICIo liU W Ldll dt 1' rclllilxltJr
PASSAGE MONEY TO LON DON —Si n gle, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return i'7l 10s to 1121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
traiia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olfiees,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker $ Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBA UT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cir-rert Bates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns Commander. Leave Sydney'.
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE...
2500 VV. G. M'Arthur December 6
3600 Winthrop Ellis December 29
2500 St. John George . January 23
l i
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LI).
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
flrjluiraitl), f!|‘[-achar!i£ gsT
prop. ltd.
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M‘Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
~ ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


For our Commonwealth Souvenirs and Novelties for Xmas Gifts
O UR WATCHES ARE A HOUSEHOLD WORD.
OUK SALES AVERAGE 1000 A YEAH,
Our Watches are Guaranteed to Wear a Lifetime, and kept in Thorough Repair for 3 Years ( Breakages Excepted.)
Silver,
47s 6d
10c. Gold,
£7 10s
WALTHAMS,
H
Wt * * **,'(.
mvffi
la
M
Sii'WMll!
<m
HH
■
WM
WALTHAMS.
18c. Gold,
£l2 10s.
HUNTING
KEYLESS.
LEVERS.
14c. Gold
£9 10s.
Oxodised,
25s
Silver,
40s
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
M
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
Gun Metal,
255.
OPEN FACE
KEYLESF.
Silver,
455.
Sihrer,
45s
L7F
PP>Q I>ol
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
0
©
e.c,
OUR SPECIAL LEVER.
18c. Gold,
£l4 10c.
HUNTING
KEYLESS.
Gold Filled,
85s.
Silver,
Keyless,
£5
Silver,
Key
EOTHEEHAMS.
wm'Wm
w i fV#V*#v*v»v,»jjPP
mwMm
& ‘ v ™®3^jgffi§§i;Ss;>s
I!:*;- !«;! S 55 5*
Wiilm
Iy.vXvXvAV.V/.)*
mm
wsm wi
if
ROTHERHAMS.
18c. Gold,
£l6.
HUNTING
KEYLESS,
oc. Gold,
£ll 10s,
ENGLISH LEVERS.
LADIES’ GOLD WATCHES.
9c. Richly Engraved Cases ..
14c. „ „ „
£3 10s.
£4 10s.
KGYJLfcSS
HUNTING
KEYLESS
ǽ
HUNTING-
LADIES’ SILVER WATCHES.
WALTHAMS .. .. Richly Engraved Cases, 50s.
OUR SPECIAL LEVER „ „ „ 50s.
GENEVAS, First Quality „ „ * „ 30s.
BOYS’
m '
STREET
KING
KEYLESS WATCHES.
SILVER HUNTING .. .. 25s to 30s.
OXODISED OPEN FACE 15s to 355.
NICKEL OPEN FACE .. .. 15s to 355.
YOUTHS’
KEYLESS
LADIES' GOLD WALTHAHS.
10c. Richly Engraved Cases ... .. £5 10s.
„ „ .. „ £7 10s.
14c.
18c.
£9 10s.
HUNTING
<$?
icmee
Please send for
our Illustrated
Slips of y ovcities.
ALL COODS POST FREE.
90 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
™s FREEMAN & WALLACE
———t■ww—■■"'■! ■■ him jm '—■■■»" —mm —— up 'PP —'^r —
pp ap W pp HP W i*>i' *<' l *m» ' I' 11 * 1 1,11 11 *
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
is the only Medi-
I cal Institute in Aus-
tralia with a bona
fide capital, that stands
behind their guarantee and
is evidence of a faithful
performance of all their
contracts.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
2V© one should hesi-
tate to consult us, as
consultations either
by letter or in person
are given FREE OF
CHARGE.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
::
•her
HEALTH
c£
AlL^cf
VtfA
e^ H
-K,
. ' ' ’.
fHr
e p.CAt ™ H^#O^ ED|CAI
WTrO,
El-J C
•:wilU(-S - |
• ' • - - : |MB l l s
„» INSTITUTE. VICOB MWJBUK,™,,.
SPECIALITIES I
Heart,
Kidney,
Liver Affections.
Rheumatism,
Sciatica,
Epilepsy,
Gout.
Gravel,
Bladder, and
Spinal Affections.
Blood <£ SJein LHseases
Rupture and Riles
Cured without
Operation.
Nerve and Brain
Complications.
mm Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government Medical Boards of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of Australia—CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Csr. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
For privacy Patients may address “F. <£ if’.,’’ 225 and 227 Elizabeth St., Sydney.


NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick '
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all *
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists <
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fe Is. 6d. (
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur, j
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all *
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. i
i
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
la a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
QUBK€R^
Batb Cabinet
(Best American Imparted.),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Commonwealth Celebrations.
Have you yet secured accommodation in Sydney
for the
COMIHC CARNIVAL?
If not, telegraph or write your requirements to us
at once, and be assured of obtaining comfortable
quarters to suit your means and requirements in
any part of Sydney or suburbs.
We are also booking seats on safe and comfort-
able Grand Stands, being specially erected along
Line of Procession.
W. PRITCHARD & SON,
Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
Queen Victoria Market Buildings,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23, LAST NIGHT OF
THE ROSE OF PERSIA.
SATURDAY, NOV. 24, Welcome Revival of the Bright
and Merry Comic Opera,
THE OLD GUARD,
including the Famous Fin-De-Siecle Ballet.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evenintr at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, Shakespeare’s Famous Tragedy,
JVE A.CJBET H.
NANCE O’NEIL as LADY MACBETH.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ... .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
SATURDAY, NOV. 24, and EVERY EVENING,
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
Re-Appearance of the Great American Trio,
EMMONDS, EMMERSON & EMMONDS.
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWERS, Mr. HARRY
GRAY, SUSIE ANDERSON, SAM LA MERT,
HOWARD CHAMBERS, E. SULLIVAN, and all
our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday,
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importation,
MR, GEORGE D’ALBERT.
Splendid Reception of ALBERT WHELAN and WILL
WHITBURN. Re-appearance of FERRY, THE FROG
and Eva Lee. BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of THE THREE
HAYTORS (Frank, Edie and Arthur), and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
, GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, LOHENGRIN.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23, CARMEN.
SATURDAY, NOV. 24, Farewell Varied Programme.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
THE BLAND HOLT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
THIRD WEEK, AND UNABATED INTEREST IN
Absent-Minded Beggar.
Jipular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
To the Honorable the President and Members of the
Legislative Council in Parliament Assembled.
THE humble PETITION of the undersigned, WILLIAM GENTRY BINGHAM,
of No. 8, Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide, Electrical Engineer, hum y
I. That the “Adelaide and Suburban Tramways Electric Traction Bill, 1900 (Private)
now under the consideration of your Honorable House, ought not to be passed into law on
the following (amongst others) grounds : „ . _
1. That No. 35 of the Joint Standing Rules and Orders of the Houses of Parliament
relating to Private Bills has not been complied with by the promoter, inasmuch as
he has not paid a deposit on the whole of the expense of the undertaking.
According to the evidence of Mr. Bradford, the Engineer of the Company, the
entire mileage to be converted under Mr. Snow’s original Bill is 51 miles (question
16), which he estimated would cost to convert £lO,OOO per mile approximately
(question 49), or a total of £510,000.
Later on he gives an estimate, dated 22nd June, 1900, under Standing Order 34,
that the expense of the undertaking would be £400,000. •
The “ exDense of the undertaking ” should also include the cost of purchase of the
present Tramways, which Mr. Snow in his evidence (question 155 and 156) gives as
follows :•
. £228,500
50,000
25,500
Adelaide and Suburban ..' .. ».
Adelaide, Unley, and Mitcham ........
Adelaide and Hindmarsh .. .. ..
Or a total of •• •• . ..£304,000
which, added to the smaller cost of conversion, above
stated, gives a grand total of £704,000
as the expense of the undertaking.
The deposit on this amount, under Standing Order 35, should, on Mr. Snow s and
Mr. Bradford’s own total of £704,000, have amounted to the sum of £12,040.
But, in addition to this, your Honorable House has approved of the Report of the
Select Committee enlarging the powers of purchase to be exercised by Mr. Snow,
by including the right to purchase by agreement or arbitration the Tramways and
undertakings of the following Tramways Companies :
Adelaide and Hyde Park Tramway Company, Limited.
Adelaide, Payneham, and Paradise Tramway Company, Limited.
Adelaide and Goodwood Tramway Company, Limited.
Parkside Tramway Company, Limited,
subject to the consent of the Parliament of South Australia in a Bill to be here-
after introduced.
Apart from any Deposit in reference to these latter Tramways, a further sum of
£4040, as I have humbly submitted above, ought to have been deposited by Mr.
Snow in respect of the expense of his undertaking to purchase and convert the
three Tramways referred to in his original Bill.
2. That a scheme for applying electric traction to the present Tramways, which is more
beneficial to the citizens of Adelaide and Suburbs, is provided in the “ Adelaide and
Suburban Electric Tramway Bill, 1900: (Private),’’ inasmuch as it gives them a
larger share in the profits of the undertaking, and proposes to acquire the tram-
ways by arbitration, if a price cannot be agreed upon, and would probably effect a
saving of £150,000 to the citizens.
3. That although the said Adelaide and Suburban Electric Tramways Bill, 1900 (private)
was promoted and introduced by the City Corporation of Adelaide, it was based on
and embodied an agreement between the City Corporation and your Petitioner,
under which your Petitioner was bound to pay, and, in fact, has paid, the legal,
Parliamentary, and other costs of the promotion of the said Bill, and your Petitioner
humbly showeth that inasmuch as the said Bill, the cost of whose promotion he has
defrayed, has been ruled out by the Standing Orders Committee as not complying
with the Standing Orders, it would be unfair and to his injury, and therefore he is
persuaded wholly against the wishes of your Honorable House that the Adelaide
and Suburban Tramways Electric Traction Bill, 1900 (private), which was introduced
without the assent of any local authority, should be allowed by your Honorable
House to be proceeded with when its non-compliance with Standing Order No. 35
is so convincingly apparent.
11. That your petitioner is desirous of being heard at the bar of your Honorable House
in opposition to the Adelaide and Suburban Tramway Electric Traction Bill, 1900 (private),
on the grounds above set forth.
Your petitioner therefore humbly prays :
1. That the Adelaide and Suburban Electric Traction Bill, 1900 (private) be not passed
into law.
2. That your Petitioner may be heard at the bar of your Honorable House in opposition
to the said Bill on the grounds above set forth.
And your Petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c.
WOOL SEASON, 1900-1.
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES:
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ...
WAY BILES sent on application.
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
ASK FOR-
LEA & PERRINS’
WORCESTERSHIRE. SAUCE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.,
Sydney ; L. A. Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass ale ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montbfiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager ior Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
ORNAM€NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
All for the Convenience of Visitors
to Sydney for the
Great Commonwealth Celebrations.
Hotels, Boarding Houses, and Private Houses, with
Accommodation for Paying Guests, in the City and
Suburbs, can REGISTER THEIR NAMES, WITH
AVAILABLE ACCOMMODATION, by sending such
information to Box 302, G.P.0., which is the Private
Postal Box of a very large firm in this City. NO CHARGE
for Registration.
On the other hand, INTENDING VISITORS, by
applying to the same Box No., can be at once informed
what accommodation is available, and book their
requirements as soon as possible.
NO CHARGE for so doing.
BOX 302, G.P.O.
AUCTION SALES.
TO COLLIERY PROPRIETORS, SHIPOWNERS,
SQUATTERS FOR STORE STOCK & OTHERS.
Upset Price, 255. per Acre.
Over 10,000 ACRES.
. At WYONG RAILWAY STATION, N.S.W., being
portion of the well-known
A.LISONT ESTATE,
situate on the main line of RAILWAY between
SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE,
north of GOSFORD, having large road frontages besides
frontages to WYONG CREEK, TUGGERAH BEACH
LAKE, and WALLARAH CREEK, as per plan on view,
and now for positive sale on behalf of the owners,
THE SCOTTISH WIDOWS’ FUND SOCIETY OF
EDINBURGH.
TITLE, TORRENS.
TERMS: One-third cash, balance equal amounts, 1, 2
and 3 years, at 4 per cent, interest.
LJARDIE and GORMAN (in conjunction with
* 1 Richardson and Wrench, Ltd.) have been instructed
to sell by public auction at tbe Salerooms, 133 PITT-
STREET, Sydney, at. 11.30 o’clock on
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1900.
The main portion of the ALISON ESTATE, over
10,000 ACRES, at WYONG, near NEWCASTLE
IN ADDITION to the SURFACE VALUE of LAND
and TIMBER on this large area, together with its large
frontages on both sides of the
MAIN GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY LINE,
its large road and water frontages, special attention is
directed to the proved
MINERAL COAL SEAMS
which underlie this Estate, and which have been proved
by the sinking of TWO BORES, known as the WAL-
LARAH and WYONG Bores, and the quality of the coal
taken therefrom, and at considerable expense in other
ways. .
TO MEET THE DEMAND for land in this locality in
suitable blocks, the Estate could be readily subdivided
into areas varying from 50 ACRES to 320 ACRES.
SPECULATORS should inspect with.a view to pur-
chase.
NOTE—
THE AREA IS LARGE.
THE POSITION CONVENIENT OF AC-
CESS.
THE COAL SEAMS ARE VALUABLE.
THE TITLE IS SIMPLE.
THE TERMS ARE EASY,
and
THE OWNERS ARE DETERMINED TO REALISE,
even though
THE LOW UPSET PRICE
of
255. PER ACRE
only
SHOULD BE OBTAINED.
Business Announcements.
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World- Sen owned Corsets have been entirely Se-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing/ fashion of long tvaist.
¥
rM
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMEORTA RLE & DURA BLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREEORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“ LA. KTOEjLEISSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALE DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-, London-
ASTHMA CURE
GRIM AULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression,
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes, Sold by all Chemists.
RARE
BOOKS
English.
French,
German.
Lai tfe catal. 2/-, with photo.
Miniat. Parisian ladies.
APPY & CO., 65 R. Pigalle, PARIS.


Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship,.
Gent/s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6; or with Ivory Handle, 15,
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/-; or with Ivor
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. Thi
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never require
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange t
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN
680 GEORGE STREET,
—SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlii constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"Jt has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOU) BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Newtown, Enmore, JVlarrickville,
All Acquainted with this Case.
The Case of
IVJr. W. O. SCOTT.
(AN independent report.)
To those whose business brings them into
contact with numerous individuals 6f neces-
sarily various temperaments it is“ generally
considered an inherent quality to be able to
create favourable impressions on probable
customers when negotiations are in their
rudimental stage. Where one man may
succeed another may fail, according to the
tact and discretion displayed in approach-
ing the prospective client. Mysterious in-
stances of failure occur where success seemed
to be assured, and the serenity of our pass-
ing days are sometimes disturbed by conse-
quent unhappy reflections. Mr. William
Owen Scott, residing in May Street, St.
Peters, informed our reporter that he “ very
frequently felt incapable of extending ordin-
ary politeness to His customers at one period
of his existence.” “I was ofte'n too queru-
ous to be spoken to,” continued Mr. Scott.
“ What was the reason ? ”
“I was driven nearly mad with neuralgia.
I had three attacks during twelve months,
and the pain multiplied in severity ehch
time it came on. You can ask nearly every-
body in Man ickville, Enmore, St. Peters,
and Newtown about the way I suffered, and
as I am well-known in all those places, a
little enquiry will satisfy you that my state-
ments are quite comet. When I used to
dr.ve round the people could not understand
what on earth was the matter with me.
Instead of having a few moments’
chat with them as 1 usually had, tla y found
me eccentric inmy behaviour and unpardon-
ably bad-tempered. I took the orders and
drove off without even saying ‘Good-day,’
leaving them standing with a look of amaze-
ment, The torture which I experienced
n'bbed me of all my patience. As I had al-
ways enjoyed the most robust health I
could not account for my attacks.”
“ Perhaps you have some decayed teeth?”
“ I thought that too, as I went to a den-
tist and had them examined. He told me
that my teeth were perfectly sound and that
my affliction had probably arisen through
my open-air work involving exposure to
cold winds and rain. I was somewhat dis-
appointed, as I was in hopes of being re-
lieved from my torture by the extraction of
two or three teeth. I would willingly have
had them all out if such an operation would
oave ended my suffering.”
“ Where did the pains first appear ? ”
“They first started on the top of my
head, making my temples throb unmerei
fully ; then my gums, which were very much
inflamed and tender, became affected. Be-
fore long I had acute flashes of pain darting
all round my head and face like lighim-r.
From my gums the nagging to. tine travelled
to my ears, n airing them ache intensely.
My head was so bad that I could not hear to
turn around. My gums were swollen, and
a sensation like pins and needles sticking in
them was always irritating mo. A few
moments’ relief was occasionally obtainable
through the application of hot water, a
mouthful of v hie , as hot as I. could bear
it, inducing a little ease ; hut when the
\\ liter commenced to cool the agony reas-
serted itself with redoubled vigour. It was
impossible to sleep either day or night, and
during the dark hours, w hen everybody hut
myself was asleep, I felt more distressed and
stall more melancholy. Just as the day
would he dawning I have often got up in a
fit of desperation and wrapped my head
with tow'els and flannels and then laid down
on the floor with a pillow. The hours slowly
ebbed away, but jjo sleep came to me. Dur-
ing the day I tried cloths steeped in boiling
water and then applied to the face, but to
no purpose.”
*■ Could yotx attend to business at all t”
“It was cocapniaory, although I was not
jn a fit condition to work, as my system was
in a state of collapse, Being unable to eat
frir weeks I naturally fell off in weight,, and
I suffered greatly from general weakness
i and an intolerable feeling of exhaustion.
Oh going out into the light of day I im-
mediately felt giddy, and had to remain
i stationary until the sensation wore off. My
nerves were quite unstrung, and I was
always apprehensive of danger when driving
through the streets. On another occasion,
when I was in a state of frenzy through my
tortuous afflictions, I drove like a madman,
caring little about the risk I ran. If ever
any person has had such a bad experience
of neuralgia as mine was I would like to
make his acquaintance.”
“For what purpose ?”
“In order to make a comparison of its
effects. From a physical standpoint I was
ruined. The niany remedies I had tried
did not prove beneficial, and their adminis-
tration did not give me any encouragement.
I kep, trying first one physic and then
another, besides experimenting with several
old-fashioned prescriptions, with the result
that I thought myself incurable. Then I was
advised to tty Clements Toific. At first I
refused to do so, in view of so many other
medicines having failed ; but finally I con-
sented to give it a trial.”
“ And what opinion did you form ? ”
“ I cannot find words to express my high
appreciation of Clements Tonic, from which
I derived great benefit and quickly regained
my health. After taking it a while I
noticed my neuralgic pains gradually dying
out. When I had taken the contents of ilio
first bottle the improvement manifested was
sufficient to warrant the continuance of the
same treatment, and I therefore procured
another. My hoj es had quite revived, the
pains vanished. It may seem incredible,
but it is nevertheless a fact, that such mad-
dening agonies were so promptly brought to
a standstill, but Clements 'J'onic did moie.
It brought sound, refreshing sleep to my
distressed mind. Instead of parading (ho
bed-room like a maniac I obtained comfort-
able rest. A new life was opened to me.
My appetite returned and my former vigour
was established. My eyes became clear and
bright, and the heavy laden, black marks
disappeared from beneath them. The
drawn, worried look of anguish in my face
departed with their cause, and my chteks
soon filled out wi h a healthy plumpness.
The second bottle of Clements Tonic effected
a complete cure. There was not a vestige
of pain left, and in every sense I was a
healthy man. A nervous irritability came
on through fear of my old enemy■ return-in
My mind was soon set at rest on that see; e,
and I am than! ful to say that I have lmd
neither ache nor pain since Cl* ments Tonic
cured me, and I am now three y ais older
since that event. I have frequently
recommended it to my many friends, and I
am thoroughly convinced that Clements
Tonic is an infallible curative f r all nervous
disorders, neuralgia in particular.”
“ Then I may report your cure ? ”
“Publish it broadcast, if you -vMI. v, r
others’ benefit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I,William Owns tcorr, of Mayst.ieer, St. Peters,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of three folios and consecutively
numbered from one to three, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account, of my illness and cuie
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish in any way my statements —
whion 1 give voluntarily, wjjjjiout receiving any pay-
ment; and I make thisseJeapi declaration conscien-
tiously believing the saipen-tetfbe true, and by virtue
of the provisional of an Acljrmade and passed in the
ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ Aa,Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations, takeja and. made in the various
Departments of the Oorernnjggt of New South Wales,
ana to substitute Declarations, thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits.’*
Declared at Newtown, this 2nd day of October, ont
thousand nine hundred, before me,
WILLIAM COX, J.P.
Business Announcements.
c. <3-- HATTB’S
Display of
Spring: & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Rooms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. CJ. jE9C A. I’ TE,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It'is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says :—“ It is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, savs “ I have made
thousands OF dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says “It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says :—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable. ”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says: “Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
a
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness, Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel*
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin ■%{%!'
Nasal Ointment, only IW/ m p os t Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Hypnotism
a
learn to hypnotize.
Wonderful , Mysterious, Fascinating •
I teach you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perform astonislung feats, and
produce fun by the* hour. Gratifies
every ambition, and brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my large
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FREE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once. Address—
Prof". R. H. Bai.rra.den,
79 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)bro<;atioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>brocatioo-
Business Announcements
A NEW FI LEVI CAiViFRA.
THE
Price
5/-
Only.
Price
5/-
Only.
Despite its low price, the
Brownie Camera is Not a Tot.
It takes splendid photographs,
size x and is Loaded
and Unloaded in Day Light.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 153.
Of all Photographic Dealers
throughout Austral as : a, and of
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienra, St
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Illustrated Price list, and
mention this Paper.
V
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
Tliese invaluable Tills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of tin improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development an 1 recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Trout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, .England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
/ -
Are probably aware of the
fact—although many peo-
ple obviously never give it a thought—
that there is a strong and intimate affinity
between your feet and the state of your
health. This remark is not made in any
personal manner, but simply with a view
to drawing your attention to the necessity
of exercising care in the choice of foot-
wear. Poor shoes do not keep out damp,
and many a fatal illness has had its
origin in wet feet.
COMMON-SENSE URGES
You to dispense with cheap and ill-made
shoes. They are positively dearer in the
end, and, for your health’s sake, should be
avoided.
The ‘ HERZ ’ Shoe
Is the shoe you ought to wear, because it
is as near perfection as a shoe can be.
LEATHER. The finest quality pro-
curable.
SHAPE . . Elegant and permanent.
PRICE . . Just right for high-class
goods.
You
Sold by HUNTER’S everywhere
USB
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
f v V C
t M t
PM..-!’-
IMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED IWO5&*
0/o**
•iurtn’w* »*»«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BXACK Oil,
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is. '| _
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EM3ROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by dll Storekeepers ,
Boot Shops , Saddlers , etc!


’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHB, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BE’WA.RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. HearnP.—Dear Sir,—l ana writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.-—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
' A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY. HEARNE’S- BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “ can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. • W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr; W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, - Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Su.re as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine'for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,-
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
- Violet Town, Victoria. . .
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
ol your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
j chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any futigue. I had not
done that-previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by' any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. -I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
'“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.— Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in m.v case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now', quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to,l ry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured mo, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4t,h April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. 11EAENE, Chemist, Geelong*, Victoria.
Branch. Depot :
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney, Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
i: s:« :>a>
5
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep I
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
jj fill your Nerves with Electricity every night while you sleep, and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S R€-INVI<SORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will feel the dawn of new life in every organ of your body.
: All the Nerves will be charged with renewed energy, and your heart will beat stronger with the
fladneas of youthful vigor. To men who are Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless, Despondent,
osing Memory Wasting the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys ; who
notice a weak general collapse of all vital parts ; to such men Electricity and the Re-lnvigorator as
T . nn i„ it will bring happiness and health. Its effect on Weak Nerves and Organs is truly
i woSrful ITS TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
IT FILLS the Blood with the fire of youth, and gives new vim and confidence. While it is on
the body, the Nerves teem with vitalising warmth, and within a few weeks the full vigor of
man is restored.
MY €L€CTRK BODY B€LT
has been brought to the highest state of perfection by twenty years’ study and experiment. It is
unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger than any other body appliance
made. It is guaranteed for one year without any expense for renewals or repairs.
Price—Electric Belt, 10/-; Re-Invegorator, 7/6 Bottle—3 Bottles, £l.
wmi
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
AND
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
f?JL&
Call or
A pp l y:
à
CUT
RATE
á
Cut-Rate Price list Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Food? are rejected.—
It is Invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
bat is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, & c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
i AND
the aged.


Bile Beans
Purify and Enrich the Blood to withstand
the Trying Climate of an Australian
Summer.
TT is well to remember that when the cool, bracing winter weather gives place to the warm,
close, muggy days of an Australian summer, the human system requires to be toned up and
put in thorough condition to withstand the change. Bile Beans for Biliousness are the very
best medicine that can be taken for the purpose, as they cleanse and regulate the liver, an
organ to which may be traced nearly all the minor ailments so many people suffer from. If the
liver is not in thorough working order, the blood is impure, the circulation sluggish, the digestion
impaired, the sleep disturbed, and the complexion sallow. The consequence is that there is a lack
of energy, and the sufferer becomes a victim of “that weary, worn-out feeling.” To be tired and
weary when all round is so fresh and bright is sad indeed. If you are feeling “run down” and
without energy for work, take Bile Beans for Biliousness, and they will put you in a condition that
will allow you to fully enjoy life even on the most sultry day.
Bile Beans possess the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels without purging or other-
wise weakening the patient. This is because the substance that relaxes the bowels has about the
-<ame action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are purely vegetable, and a course of them will
successfully oust the most chronic cases of piles, indigestion, chronic headache, kidney trouble,
rheumatism, constipation, and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, •
issimilation and digestion. These Beans are placed on the market in a form that anyone can take
them without medical supervision, and, as the price is so very low (lfl|d. per large box), there are
w homes that cannot afford to always have a box on the shelf for an emergency.
m
i
ILIOI3NCSS
B
FOR INFANTS
MEtIINS
& INVALIDS
FOOD
When added to diluted Cow's Milk it produces a
complete and perfect diet for the Youngest Infant.
ADAPTED FOR USE in all climates.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS,
COLDS, and
BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlet may be obtained of GOIyUN & Co., r 72, Clarence Street, Sydney
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clare-i
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
The Little Bush-Girl and the
King.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ip the Little Bush-Girl had read Tennyson, she
would have seen in the visit of the Master “ Love
in sequel working with Fate.” She looked like
one who would read Tennyson and quote him in
relation to herself. She looked so respectable and
unhappy. But she had never read anything but
State-school lesson-books, the local paper and
the Bible.
The Little Bush-Girl was a poor selector’s eldest
child, and she milked cows, made butter, nursed
the babies and spoke seldom. Sunsets, the distant
lowing of cows, the nightly meeting of darkness and
the bush, troubled, yet gladdened her. The thing
she loved best was a big gum which she had saved
from ring-barking. When its leaves rustled she
heard silky voices talking to her. She knew the
Song of Solomon by heart, but without under-
standing, and would oroon it to the lop-horned
red cow when the animal was coy over the
yield of her milk. The passion of that glowing loyo*.
song penetrated even the red cow’s hide, for she
would moo ever so gently and resign the full seven
quarts. Every possible lover the little Bush-Girl
ignored. Even the squatter’s brave sons got no
second glance from her great, grave eyes. Once
only she had gone to town—to an agricultural
show —and whilst there she had been in a theatre
and had seen an opera. “Ma Mie Rosette ” was
the opera, and though the Innocent was pro-
foundly shocked, she straightway set up a dream-
territory under a phantom kingship. The king
had gray, smiling eyes, a fair, pointed beard, a
magnificent swagger, and his name was Henry.
And after many months of her dream-homage,
the king came to the Bush on a midsummer holi-
day. He was the painter whom art-students, who
worshipped his style, called “The Master.” The
head of the Bush State School inveigled the Mas-
ter to look at pupils’ drawings. Horses, princi-
pally horses, on ring-barked gum backgrounds.
“This is very extraordinary!” The Master
had paused before one picture only. “The draw-
ing”—he laughed—“is awful; but that land-
scape ! Yet it is not an Australian landscape.”
The teacher said something about genius and
imagination, and beckoned to the Little Bush
Girl, who stood with a group of other ex-pupils.
Her head faced over her shoulder towards the
Master, her body and limbs were turned the oppo-
site way. The painter had noted the attitude in
all bush-children who stopped by the roadside
to stare at him.
The girl came forward as if hypnotised. The
grave brown eyes were fixed on the smiling,
grey eyes of the Master. Straightway her dream-
king materialised. Some words of praise and
advice he spoke, and patted hen cheek. What was
it to him that she was 18, though she seemed 13.
The next minute he was feeling in the breast of
his Norfolk jacket for a tobacco-pouch.
She went out into the burning day. Something
brighter than the sun—something that had been
hidden, was betrayed by its own brightness.
That evening, when the Little Bush Girl was
milking a tawny young heifer, she stealthily
quitted her stool to run her fingers through the
tight little brown curls on the cow’s forehead.
“I wonder how it would feel to do that with the
king’s ? ” she breathed. Her hands were so
small and tanned. She looked at them a second,
most wistfully, then joined them at the wrists,
and, holding them so, Y-shaped, whispered gasp-
ingly, “ His beard would just fit in there.”
A sound as of one whistling through his teeth.
The girl, trembling, dropped back to her stool.
He was a youth who loved the bush-maiden.
Leaning his elbow on the cow’s hip, he looked
at his love and remarked, “ They say the artist-
chap’s wife is terrible pretty.”
No reply. Only a twitching of eyelids and lips.
So the king was mated then !
“Not much to look at, himseli, eh ?” the youth
continued. “I seen a whale stranded in shaller
water once. It moved just like ’im.”
No reply Only the thought—the king has a
queen.
A line from the shocking opera recurred —“I
have a heart big enough to love a thousand
women.” And the opera was no longer shocking.
Her king had no limitations in love. When she
went to her room that night she burnt in the
candle’s flame a needle-case of pink flannel that
she had made for the youth as a reward for finding
a lost calf.
She stood amongst the sleeping babies, her eyes
fixed on a memory-face a foot above her. Her
hands went slowly up and curved on either side of
the face. Then a sudden storm of passion and
self-consciousness shook her —she could have
sworn she touched warm flesh. Trembling, she
stepped over to the glass, moving softly, fearful
of the maternal voice from the next room ordering
her “not to waste the can’le.”
“If I looked like this then,” she whispered to
burning eyes and cheeks, “he wouldn’t have
wanted the tobacco-pouch in such a hurry.” So
she stood for long, rigid, with fixed eyes, coming
to some decision. “Yes —I must—l must. I’ll
die if I don’t.” She was speaking in a droning
undertone—the way she talked to herself in the
bush. “ No, I won’t die, but I’ll wish I was dead.
He must like me well enough ... he mustn’t
despise me ... or think me bold ... he must
have a reason ... (0, my king, will you?) I
must get to town and learn in his class ... I
think that as soon as you want a thing very badly
you’ve as good as got it—by-and-by, of course,
when you’ve worked for it. I must get to town
and paint and be near him a whole year and
(she clenched her hands and prayed) “ Dear God,
I know it’s wicked, but I’ll be a thousand times
wickeder if You don’t help me. You must help me.
My godmother’s leftme£2ooin her will, and I want
it—please take her to heaven. You’ve three-parts
taken her already with rheumatics, and she wants
to go. O, do hear me! You know why I want
it. I know how wicked . . . but I don’t care. I
don’t want any joy but this. . . . I’ll have had
my heaven here. (His wife won’t miss one kiss,
perhaps two. .. .) O, don’t go back on what
You promised ! * Ask and ye shall receive. I
want what my grandmother left me. I can’t go to
town else. O, don’t go back on Your word ! ”
And He did not.
When the Master met his classes m March the
Little Bush-Girl was in one of them. He gave
her a perfunctory hand - shake, her drawing
some decided criticism, said a few words of care-
less praise about her coming so far to study. She
looked far beyond her easel and stammered, ; lf
you want a thing very much I think that, that
<t<r _rh«vfc every desire predicts its own sa/tisf&c-
tion eh?”’ concluded the Master. Then he was
silent, thinking how untrue that was—how incom-
petent is will. But to the Little Bush-Girl an
oracle had spoken. It was true then ! What she
had thought an original conclusion her king had
known of old.
She began to work with a kind of fury.
A student near her, a good-looking girl, with
the name E. Clare scrawled on the corner of her
canvas, glanced at the Bush-Girl’s drawing, and
asked, “ Shall you try for the scholarship ?”
“ Yes,” replied the other, not knowing that the
questioner had already made a little name in art,
“ I have the biggest reason for trying.”
Miss Clare stared very hard and would Lave
questioned—“ Not greater than the rest of us
surely?” only just then she noticed the way the
Bush-Girl’s hair was done, and concluded that she
was not worth questioning.
The Girl from the Bush got pretty clothes and
fed herself properly, and at the end of three
months began to say to her mirrored face, “You’re
the prettiest in the classes.” Many times already
the Master had confessed himself amazed at the
improvement in her work. Now it struck her
with a kind of terror that he would note the phy-
sical improvement. She wanted him to see it for
the first time on the day she should be known
as the winner of the prize. The day she
should be given the morning star. Not for her
life would she have had that day anticipated by so
much as an admiring glance from her king. There
must be a raison d'etre for his gift.
Every night of that sixteen months of work she
—in her lodgings—would rehearse what was-to-be,
'passionately, but without word or gesture.
The judges would come out from the judgment-
room and post the name of the prize-winner. She
would be in the corridor waiting, with other
students, the verdict on those pictures painted
in private. The Master would be in the little
writing-room off his studio. The lamps would be
lighted, for it was dark in that room on winter
afternoons After seeing her name posted she
would hurry away and knock at the writing-room
door, and when the Master said “Yes?” she
would enter and shut the door behind her. Her
cheeks and eyes should be brilliant as they are
now. He would look up suddenly with that pre-
occupied air she knew so well, and the line be-
tween his eyes. But oh, the swift change as the
smile flashed into the grey eyes—it never got be-
yond the eyes, she mused. He would put down
his pen and say, “ Well, child,” as she came
slowly forward, hot and trembling. But she could
not speak till close to his desk. Then she would
say—sob rather—“My picture is the best. I
wanted you to be so proud of that” . . .
Would she ever have the courage to add “ that
you would wish to kiss me.”
She always paused lcjng in her trance on this
point, but always felt assurance that there would
be no need of her asking what he would surely
offer.
And, as she said that, she would hold out her
hand a little entreatingly, and he would rise, clasp
it, and reach for the other—perhaps with a little
laugh—glad at her gladness, surprised at her suc-
cess, amused at her homage to himself. And so,
looking down at her, so flushed, entreating, shy,
he would stoop and kiss her-lips. His congratula-
tions on her success. All of Heaven she cared to
know !
When the dreaming, scheming, small brain got
so far, it became a blank for a time, stunned by too
much joy.
The glorious dream was in the first stage of fact.
At last the judgment-day had come, and now the
name of the painter of the prize picture was
announced.
It was that of the Little Bush-Girl.
There followed the clamor of many voices and a
concerted stare. The girl detached herself from
the crowd around her and hurried to the Master’s
door.
A deep undertone said “Yes.” It was all
happening just as she knew it would.
“ Well, Little One,” said the Master. “ What is
it?” •
The floor seemed to hold her feet strangely.
The air that had been cold was afire. At last she
stood by his desk. He held out his left hand —the
right held a pencil—“ What is it ?” he repeated ;
“ how excited you look ! Always look so ; it suits
you.” He laughed.
She put a hand into his and whispered, “The
picture ! ” Her eyes were fixed on his, and two
great tears were gathering.
She had not reckoned on the added force of
tears.
“ Ah, the Scholarship picture. Did you try ? ”
He dropped the pencil and drew her to his side,
his hand lightly across her shoulder. She gave a
little moaning sound that signified intense happi-
ness. How good was her king. How good was
God!—but she didn’t want His Heaven. It
hadn’t this in it.
“ Did you try ?” repeated the Master, his eyes
full of grave pity. “Never mind, child; next
time ”
Her head almost rested on his breast. Oh, it
was already nearly all she had hoped or dreamed.
“Next time you’ll try again. Never mind this
failure, and ...”
“No, no,” she interrupted. The two big tears
rolled down. “I wanted you to be proud of me,
so that you . . . All the time I was working I
hoped . . . that if you had a reason you—you
would ...”
“ I am proud of you, my pretty one, and—your
face is like a star, a wet star—l am proud of you.
You have genius. Never mind this failure .. .
I must kiss the wet star, though. Yes, I shall.”
Her head pressed hard against his breast for a
second as she swerved her face inwards from his
lowered face. But both her hands clenched round
his hand as if she feared he would withdraw it.
And, though the pity stayed in the Master’s eyes,
they were smiling more than ever now.
“Yes, yes,” she gasped; “but not till you know
I deserve it. Not till you are proud of me, and
are glad to do it. Then there won’t be any harm.
I didn’t fail—l won! ” And she turned he •
glowing face to his.
He did not thrust her from him, but he released
himself by rising quickly, pushing back his chair
in the movement. His face was hard and in-
credulous as he strode to the door and called to a
man in the corridor.
“ Who takes the Scholarship ? ”
“That little Spirit of the Bush,” was the
answer. _
“It’s incredible!” said the Master, angrily.
“Not Miss Clare? Are you certain it’s not Miss
dare?”
Reassurance was given, and the two began to
talk in quick undertones.
The Little Bush Girl crept out past the Master
to the stairs. A host of silky voices sang in her
ears jeeringly: “If you had failed you would
have won ! ” “He would have kissed you, kissed
you, kissed you!” “You won to lose, you won
to lose, to lose —” ,
Half-way on the stairs she paused a second and
looked back. Only her upturned face was visible
to the Master as at the same instant he glanced
down at her. His trained eye noticed how gem-
like was the pallor of her face under trie lamp
light. The star-like eyes shone well in that color-
less setting; so the artist in him was pleased and
he nodded and smiled. ,
She, stepping heavily and slowly downwards,
saw only the Bush to which she was returning,
and the tree whose life she had saved. All -
its pointed leaves had turned to fingers pointing
scorn. And still the silky voices sang: “If you
had failed you would have won. You won to lose
—his kiss —his kiss—.“
N.S.W.
A. CONOR-O'BRIEN.
The Siam Observer lately stated in. the
list of casualties among the Royal Welsh Fusiliers
at Tient-tsin that one private was described as
“severely wounded in the right foreleg.” Turned
out that the sufferer was “Private” Gwyllim
Llewellyn Jones—the Regimental Goat!
ri i . r\ i .. a
Since July last year Queensland has ira-
ported 3843 immigrants—which brings lmmi-
gration activity well up to what it was 25 or 30
years ago. In the present state of employment
in Q., such an artificial influx of able-bodied
workers must depress wages. Hence the Dick-
sons and Tozers are to-day all agog for it,
as were the Macalisters and MTlwraiths of former
epochs.


QUICKSILVER.
CYANIDE 9<-ioo>
KRUPP RALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
X3-A.IPTO (Lalie
(LIMITED),
lUawarra),
near
SYOBTEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■: -■■■ ■ •
«!■
m ■
MAKERS OP
" S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“Last of All, the Woman.”
S. Luke, xx, 32.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tiie last and greatest riddle, which man must
solve or die,
Is Woman, strange, familiar, domestic, wild, and
shy—
A haunting fiend from Tophet, an angel from
God’s sky.
Tender and soft and loving, cruel and fierce and
vain,
Rending in wrath her sisters, turning to love
again.
Shall ever man’s wit or wisdom make this enigma
plain ?
Woman, the last strange country by man to be
explored,
Has silver and gold and diamonds in her recesses
stored ;
In her jungles are apes and tigers and many a
brood abhorr’d.
In her meet storm and sunshine, the frigid and
torrid zones,
The luscious fruits of Eden, earth’s hardest and
sharpest stones;
Her plains are fields of pleasure—that are strewn
with dead men’s bones.
The last foe to be vanquished, ere man reigns free,
supreme,
Is neither Russ, nor Mongol, nor Jew with his
empire-dream;
ITis Woman, the fly in amber, the flaw in Nature’s
scheme.
Designed as friend and helpmeet—the complement
of man,
The virus of the serpent has marred the gracious
plan.
She is Rival, and would be Mistress —let him stay
her march who can.
Dear, deep, distracting Woman is the last wild
beast of prey,
Roaming earth’s pleasant places, that man must
tame or slay.
Will she fight him, fear him and flee him, or love
him and obey ?
The tiger and wolf shall serve him, the zebra his
yoke shall take;
He will harness strong Behemoth, he will play
with the spotted snake,
Ere he shall conquer Woman, or her tameless
spirit break.
Mountain and sea and desert, ice-caps of either
pole,
Fields of the air and ether—all these shall man
control,
And know, by his eager seeking and the powers of
his soaring soul;
But when, by his lore or labour, by his cunning of
brain or hand,
Shall he know and master Woman, the undis-
covered land—
Make this proud foe respect him, this wild beast
lick his hand ?
To woo this strange, shy creature, this being of
alien race,
Man lowers-his noble nature, he stoops from his
pride of place—
She takes his gifts and caresses with a calm and
Sphinx-like face.
To win her, his most unselfish and bravest deeds
are done ;
For her he would lie, steal, murder, dare aught
beneath the sun ;
Like a goddess she takes his offerings—yet is she
never won.
Soulless, mindless, and heartless, he calls her
when sorely vexed ;
An angel of God he hails her when sorrowing and
perplexed.
She stands, sole, far, self-centred, inscrutable,
unannexed.
Woman, the hostile alien we shelter within our
gates;
Beast of soft paw and venomed claw, that each
one loves and hates ;
Strange land, whose desert places Hope fills with
all delights;
Man’s Angel and Adversary, whom he adores and
fights;
The honey amid Life’s bitter, the gall in our
loving-cup,
The mystery that enthralls us, the riddle we can’t
give up.
M.L.
J. LIDDEL KELLY.
“ Naked Island,” Noumea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A few months ago I was at Noumea, New Cale-
donia. The French, as we all know, are very
averse to letting foreigners see anything of the
management of their prisons, so I had difficulty in
obtaining permission to visit “ L’lsle Nu.” After
securing on a printed form seven signatures of
officials, I had to swear that I would attempt no
rescue, take no photograph, give no money or
tobacco to prisoners, leave the island when re-
quested, carry no firearms, and allow my pockets
to be searched.
All this I agreed-to; and, my permit having been
read over by six more officials, I embarked in a
convict “prou” for the island. The prou was a
large, 16-oared boat, manned by convicts and
steered by a warder holding- a rifle between his
knees. The men looked strong and healthy, but
their shaven heads and convict garb gave them a
sinister and cruel appearance.
After a, 3-mile row we landed—and here again
my permit was handled by several officials, who
finally expressed themselves satisfied, and, hand-
ing me over to a gaoler, told us to proceed. We
walked up the landing to the “ Recon nu,” where
all prisoners are measured, photographed, and
generally particularised.
Every part of the anatomy is measured, and
impressions in indigo are taken of the palms,
fingers, soles and toes. The prisoner is then
photographed in five conditions —with beard, with
moustache, long-haired, prison-cropped, and clean-
shaven. I was asked to select a number out of
3000 and the corresponding case would be put
before me. I gave 1324—and in less than 10
seconds, from a huge cupboard of shelves, 1324’s
“dossier ” was produced, and the gaoler read out:
“ Jules Vermont; age, 32; wife-murder; mitiga-
tion ; five good marks ; arrived 5 July, ’95.” Then
followed his description and measurements, five
photographs, and one bad mark “ for striking
his gaoler with a tin plate, Aug. Ist, ’96.” “ Sen-
tence, 21 years.”
It would seem almost impossible for a prisoner
to escape, or, having escaped, to long evade pur-
suit. Nevertheless, a few years ago, two men
from this island swam off to an American yacht
anchored in the harbor; sailed her to Papua and
there sold her for 8000 fr. The escapees then
travelled to Paris, where they spent their money
and had a good time for 10 months, but were
eventually “nabbed” and sent back to this island
—for life!
We visited the light-sentence men (under 7
years), and here, while my guide’s bade was turned,
a prisoner, in a hurried aside, said : “ Help me to
escape, I implore you!”—but I had to pretend
not to hear the poor fellow. Next, we passed
through the long-sentence ward —a dreadful-look-
ing lot! One man, through the bars of his cage,
seemed more like a wild beast than anything else.
The solitary-confinement cells I was not allowed
to inspect. The unfortunates have half-an-hour’s
walk daily in a corridor, a warder peeping through
a grating at each end. The cell-doors open
automatically, and the gaoler shouts, “Venez et
promenez.” When exercise is finished, “Retour-
nez ” is called out, and the door closes after them.
The two daily meals come through the grating of
the door, and the beds are lowered by wire from
the ceiling—for six hours only, for the men would
sleep all day, if possible. One poor wretch once
tried the experiment of staying in bed, vainly
trusting to his weight to keep it down, for it rose
as usual and crushed him badly against the roof of
the cell. His cries brought a gaoler before he was
quite killed, but he died soon afterwards.
We next saw the roads, bridges, &c., that were
being made—by convict labor, of course—then on
to the Potteries. A frail old man, who, in a fit of
madness, had killed father, mother, wife, and
three children, was very anxious to show me how
to convert a handful of red earth into a water-
flagon and three cups in five minutes! He
remarked, as he worked, that, as a rule, he could
fo much faster, but to-day he was out of sorts.
le made the articles beautifully in the allotted
time.
I felt very thirsty, wandering round the white,
sun-baked roads, so my guide ordered a convict up
a cocoanut-tree, whence he returned with two
coeoanuts. We had a refreshing drink and a
cigarette, and then proceeded to the female wards.
These were not interesting, the women being to
the full as brutal and ferocious-looking as the men.
We then started for the maniacal department,
my guide entertaining me, as we went, with anec-
dotes concerning the women we had just left.
They were all ladies with too much “past”—
mostly brought there through jealousy and
vitriol!
On reaching the insane quarter, a harmless, jib-
bering Tonquinese bore us off to a corner ; and,
swearing us to secresy, fumbled about amongst
some rags, finally disclosing a tattered fragment—
a pictured bottle of Vin Bravais. This, he ex-
plained, involved the ruin of an empire. He was
very mad. A man in a cage informed us with non-
chalance that he had married 1800 women that
day. No wonder he was marked “ Dangerous.”
A herculean fellow occupied the next cell. He
was chained by the neck to the floor, and had
been in his cell—3ft. by 3yds.—for two years;
during which time, upon the only occasion he was
let out, he killed a gaoler and damaged a fellow-
prisoner before he could be overpowered. He was
m the prime of life, and, though provided with a
rug, preferred to be naked, exposing his immense
muscular development. He had been a soldier,
had stolen a large sum of money, was caught and
imprisoned, but escaped, and, in being recap-
tured, had to be stunned by a blow on the head,
which rendered him insane. He held on to the
bars of his cage when he saw us, shouting “ Yive
L’armee! ” and besought us to let him fight for
France. “I am again strong —let me fight!—let
me fight!—let me kill! —but, if I may not fight,
then kill me, for lam very unhappy. ” He then
buried his face in his hands and sobbed —a soul-
harrowing sight!
Having had enough of these horrors, we in-
spected the hospital-dormitories, kitchens, &c.
and gradually made our way to the centre of the
town, where I met the Governor of the prison and
had a glass of vermouth with him. He directed
his servant (convict) to drive me to a promontory
of the island, whence for a couple of francs I was
sailed back to Noumea in a fishing-boat.
m » * *
Three days out on our return voyage to Sydney,
a steward discovered a man asleep in the place
where we kept our bicycles. He was a convict,
and the captain—as in duty bound— had him put
in irons—but afterwards, at the intercession of the
lady passengers, allowed him to remain free until
we should reach port.
Our convict told us that his sentence had nearly
expired—7 years for striking a superior officer.
We got up a substantial subscription for the
young fellow and he was very grateful.
When we reached Sydney, the man was duly
“sent for,” to be handed over to the authorities,
but he had, of course, vanished.
W. F. E.
Someone disinters the little-known fact
that Cardinal Manning was married in his Angli-
can days. “From 1833 to 1837 he enjoyed a
married life so perfectly happy that, from the
day his wife died down to that upon which he
himself folded his hands and closed his eyes for
the last time on earth, he could never even trust
himself to breathe her name to a living soul.”
Therefore, if Manning had not lost his wife, the
R.C. Church would no doubt have lost a most dis-
tinguished proselyte.
N.S. Wales now possesses a law whereby
a confirmed inebriate may be confined for a period
not exceeding 12 months in some suitable institu-
tion in order that he may get over his drink-crav-
ing. But in the absence of the suitable institu-
tion, which doesn’t appear to have been estab-
lished, things are not much further advanced.
The dipsomaniac can certainly be dumped into an
ordinary hospital, but that isn’t a suitable institu-
tion by any means.
Speaking a few days after the landing of
the Boer prisoners—who had been politely de-
scribed by the Colombo papers as “scum of
Europe,” “riff-raff,” and “desperadoes,” West
Ridgway, Governor of Ceylon, said :
They will be treated exactly as our soldiers, and
they deserve that treatment because they are brave
soldiers, who have fought, as they thought, for
their country, and, therefore, they deserve to be
treated as soldiers. On the whole, they have been
generous enemies, and have treated our prisoners
well, and I have never heard that our prisoners en-
dured a word of insult during their incarceration in
Pretoria. It is said, of course, I know that these are not
all Boers ; they comprise Irish-Americans and Europeans,
and very harsh words have been applied to these men. I
am not going to discuss the question whether the sub-
jects of a neutral State ought to fight the battles of
another nation. Englishmen sometimes do so, but I
understand that these Europeans are all men of respect-
ability, who most of them had been employed for some
years by the Transvaal Government, and I have the word
of the officer associated with them that they are men
whose conduct has been irreproachable since they have
been under his charge, and no prisoner, no Boer,
European—officer or man—has given the slightest trouble
through the trying voyage to this island. But even if it
were not so these men have fallen ; they are at our feet,
they are at our mercy ; and I surely need not appeal to
the generous sentiments which ought to animate an
enlightened community when I say that we ought to
treat at least with silent respect men who are in misfor-
tune, men who are in trouble, and are separated from
mother, wife, home, child, and sweetheart—and refrain
from any ungenerous word or thought which would add
to that trouble or provoke resentment, inflame the aching
wound, and, worst of all, retard for one moment the dawn
of that bright day when this dreadful war will be at an
end, when peace will be proclaimed, and when Boer and
Englishman will live, work, and, perhaps, fight side by
side under the British flag.


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
A
m
i
Sc
9
Miuit i
t
riMi
*
V
“ I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla v. hen a little girl for debility and poor-
ness: of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build, you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves. . > /
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
â
HH6KF IASI
mmm
ã
ä
WiGDOHAV
LONDON.
\mvimz to
, 5BMB5 £ SPEAKERS
s®
fit
å
PLAIN NOH€ TALK.
EMBRACING _
MEDICAL COMMON SEINSK.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand'old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, Which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can aflford to dispense with the'imformatiqn em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestlino, post Is,
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. ClOg Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. ■ Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Maoic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 iilus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest song 9,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, ls # 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park street, sypNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PE|?L H L A S M ’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders; such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosdveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dia-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Tremblin'! - Sensations, &c. TILL )' IKS L DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of those Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be wOJcvjtH A
GUIWiIA A BOX.”
BEECH VM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity, of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale oj any Patent idedieine m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY • ■
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Solti Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and —s 9cl each.
in
i t
r >
/
/
J)
|P
M
&
£
15
p
V
> -
SMITH’S BAD LUCK.
Voice from the Bed: “I told you not to tread on those carpet-tacks.”
“ STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK
“ON OUR SELECTION.
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
: and Otfjcr Verses,
■ * By ARTHUR 11. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO:, LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET,' SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane. -
: i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDfj
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
,-ASK FOR DINNEFORD'S MAGNESIA.
A?
>BONNINOTO«\j’S
IRISH MOSS
wa .
S?Bs^SasaaasS
OEOROE^BONNINGTOW-,
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
’
.D QUICKLY TO ITS
Colds
ACTION.


HOSE.
HOSE.
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
fin. x 3 PLY RUBBER.
C GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B GARDEN, 60 FEET COILS, for 30s.
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
455.
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Perd riau’s
Perd riau’s
Perdriau’s
Perd riau’s
Perdriau’s
Perd riau’s
&CO.
'
G-eorge St.
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
and . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourn j •
Brookman's Building, Ad
E WORTHINGTON
. . IS THE ORIGINAL
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives;
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<SheJJebot
J. & J. MAXFTET.D, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
9
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
- “the :bx*qg:ec,*»
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
so
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
C- .THT t "D R-IT")r> .HI oc CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 •YOJtll STUEIir, STDiVISY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post trum all the colonies promptly
ā
and
teorge
à
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL.—COMFORTING.
G O GOA
BREAKFASTSUPPER.
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
HISRB’S -A. SKCOrtT STORY. ....
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle won;.
OIXTB THOUSAND PEOPLE
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this tip e disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk the wonder is tW ;
are not, more deaths There, will he * 1 J ’ 10 WUUUB1 10
become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
IKTSRECTIOKr OF RA.IRIBS A.3STD CATT31.E!
The N.S. W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as well as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks ATI milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection. *
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISE D. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a-preinature death. Use on'lv the milk «nrmli«d v» th-
F.F. & T. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis —or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests vvitli yourself. 5
The F.F. and I. Ltd., is the only Company who has an Inspector in its regular employ. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us • but if you want to rear
lings, or
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOP & XOB GOY., Ltd. "
*ateson,
Manager.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
mm
WM
m
met
wmmmgm
I! 1
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Knowles Steam Pumps, Tngersoll Rock Prills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania
Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Pans, Morris
Dredgimr Pumps, Bullock Biamond Drills, Dodge Bock Breakers,
Roger Rolls, Gates iiock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Bunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery,
and Mine and Mill Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
DUPLEX
Six
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
, ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
/; H. P. GREGORY & CO,,
Engineers and General machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
-Jr - re
S. FREEMAN * SONS United
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square)
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head. office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BOOK CATALOGUE
w rare, curious,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the ItLosfRATBD London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELOT,
