

McEWAN’S ALE.
PIG STOUT.
USE
TS MALTED COCOA
G-XJARA.]XrTEEP PTJR.E OOOO.A. TT!~y r i , /V.^T*
OF
MALT.
15. G. WATKIItfS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, '
_ _. . —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BIJILDEKS’ and GENEHAL IRON MON GERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
v. . , WWW
JEFFREY
Roller, Stwl sod Special CHAINS
JJOTICK TO AIIBX.BOim.NK VISITORS.
WTM POLK'S GEORGE HOT EL. opposite St
Kilda Railway Station a-ntl Cable Tratp?. Hotel
Accommodation m Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, Os. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°*M Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
?° le . A g entsfor The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating 1 and Conveying Maclilnery ...
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Grain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery,
THORNE'S
Established 1831.
’s All!
i
EMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
dg
in
iJfjULL
9
X
HOBART.
-—m
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTH'S.
"DEST Workmanship. N® Overcharges. Should you
a wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you oan save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. JSf?" Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address : 684 George Street, Sydney.
oo
n
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month-THE CHEAPEST AND
BEST.
df
PIONEER
LEATHER
'BELTING
The j-.eaamg Melt oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Chaapneas.
Used exclusively by fcheN.S. W. Govsrsnmenfc.
Prices and Samples Free to ty address.
J. C.,LUDOWI€r& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
traha ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.*
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... pec Port Is. 3d.
“Wealth of nations” Tobacco
A GIFT FROM THE UNITED STATES TO AUSTRALIA.
The T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, oi RICHMONB, VIRGINIA, U.S.A., state that
No Bettor Tobaoco can be Produced
Than that Manufactured under the “Wealth of Nations” Brand.
WORTHY OF A TRIAL.
ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
WINE!
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINE M!*
VV !N AUSTRALIA.
B&r Send for Pritt List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
363 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Voi 22. —JS u. 1059
[Saturday, June 2, 1900.
I?entered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTERED).
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
—.
ss tSs
CSH*
mm
'jm
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Thus “ C.P.B.’’—
“ What is an epigram ? A dwarfish whole.
Its body brevity, and wit its soul.”
Some time ago I came across the above. Could you
give me the author’s name ? I cannot trace it. At the
time I bad been reading the works of Matthew Prior,
Congreve, Tillotson, Marvel, and others of that period.
Ignoramus ; but the hunt found Martial’s
Omm epigramma sit instar apis, aculeus illi,
Sint sua mella, sit et corporis exigtii.
In the guise of a bee make your epigrams all,
With its sting, and its honey, and body so small.
*** ' *
The pupils of a Launceston (Tas.) Ladies’
College were recently told “ Write what you know
about the War.” Some answers—
if there was no war all the place would be roving we
feeling that is very sad. one man picks another man and
then they fight and when they get killed they all get
trampt about.
It is a good thing for this war that is going to be won
and it is good fqr the soldiers too because they chose it
and because the-war is good is because we are going to
fight for our country to see which will win and it is the
men called boer’s who are going to fight too and I think
the wives of the men will feel very sad and the feelings of
the troops will not care for it much.
The Boas though they would like a little possession in
England. The people sent the troops away from here to
show Bravery & courage. It is getting fought between
the Boas & the English. I think the English are the
right. In to days news the Boas captured one thousand
mules from the English. There are more Boas than the
English but there are a lot more troops going to the
assistance of the English & the soldiers have sent to
England to ask for more soldiers because they think they
wont have enough.
A war is now going on between the English and the
Africans, at Transaval Republic in Africa. England is in
the right It is a very noble feeling that Tasmain was
feeling when the troops went away & is still feeling.
And their parents probably know just as much
about it.
* » » • * * •
A note —
Dear Bookfellow, —Tell one of your impressionist friends
to sit at the top of Lavender Bay steps for an hour some
evening after dark, and if he can paint what he sees I will
buy the picture—if the artistic mouth is not opened too
wide for my pocket.—Yours, Phyllis Tyne.
• * * *
D. J., after reading Percy Emery—
Was interested in this young man’s revelations. He
struck the bull’s eye accidentally, when he sold Pearson
some stuff for £2 2s. If youngsters will persist in yelling
“ Excelsior 1 ” and clambering the heights in search of
the edelweiss of literary excellence, they wall but bark
their shins to no purpose. The Parnassus of to-day is the
Corporation Tip, and he who would make money out of a
dunghill must- study those who love its odours. In a
word, no man can in these times afford to be great who
has not first been very small. He must rise on the breath
of the many-headed. Why not ? They are the greater—
who have a voracious appetite. > See then that you serve
to them the viands they like! Then you prosper,
and rise, and soon may flout your patrons
as the vulgar dogs they are. The first thing to
arrive at is the opportunity. Pearson and the People’s
Penn’orths afford that readily to the wise aspirant; ’tis
the lofty-souled youth, full of high purpose, who tries
first the swell publishers, and so goes bare of hack and
belly. 'A little thought would show him that he could
easier get at the great guns through Pearson’s and
Earmsworth’s than any other way. And meanwhile he
could live, and pick his teeth.
* * » *
Bulls, by an Irishman of “Warrigal’s” acquaint-
ance
The promised dowry to his daughter is a cow, and
speaking to a friend, he said : “ Whoever gets my Polly
will get a cow.”
Showing me a pair of boots which had been too small
when he bought them, he said : “ I had to wear these
boots a fortnight before I could get them on.”
* * * *
Artists Eullwood, Fischer and Hall Thorpe
have flitted from this continent —and writer
Law'son; E. J. Brady is in Brisbane, more or less
on the way to Carpentaria—and A. H. Adams has
returned to Maoriland, sooner or later on the
way to England. Of the last-named, by the way,
Morley Roberts writes in Eng. Revieiv of the
Week that
Mr. Adams has the melancholy which is not of the arid
bushland, even though he understands its charm. The
sprits of Maoriland have spoken with him ; .and new land
as it is to those of English stock, he knows it is very,
very old.
* * * *
y,e Gallienne’s new edition of his book about
George Meredith exposes an interesting change of
mental front. The first edition was all enthusiasm;
to-day’s “Postscript” doubts if any novel will
live except “Richard Feverel,” or any poem ex-
cept “Love in the Valley”- and “Modern
Love.” Meredith is a better philosopher
than artist, is Le G’s present criticism. Which
marks the critic’s passage into middle age.
Meredith, for the most part, is an author for the
delight of clever young men, with sufficient sur-
plus vitality to climb his stiles and leap his
ditches. As we get older, we have less life to
brmg and exact more from our author. To read
Meredith is to study ; after a few pages the
mental strain fatigues: to read Dumas is to be
inspirited and recreated —the does the work which
Meredith makes you do. So, as we grow older,
we leave Meredith and his kin more often on the
shelf, and more often return, with Thackeray, to
the inexhaustible “ Mousquetaires.”
* * * *
A Ruskin item. “ N.”—
The last mail brought all the obituaries of Ruskin. Not
one of these that I have seen has the faintest reference to
his marriage to the lady who afterwards became wife of
Millais. Yet surely it was the most powerful influence in
his life. A biography which leaves it out must be
incurably maimed. Millais’ Life, by his son, does not
leave out Lady Millais. It omits Ruskin’s name, but says
that the nullity of marriage, on her petition, was in
accordance with the principles both of Church and State.
Her family carried it through. Her mother admired
Millais, and insisted on his living part of the year at her
Scottish home. The biography has three portraits of
Lady Millais, first as a girl of distracting beauty. Her
eyes had a slight turn outwards. Husband and wife grew
very much alike. They blended beautifully in their four
daughters and four sons.
Bookfellow’s Mixture.
gd
The Influence of "Bad Smart
Society” in England.
WITH all Europe, excepting a few of
the Hungarian gentry, and some
Italian students of history, violent-
. . even passionately, opposed to
us; with our armies held in check by a determined,
wealthy, and well led nation in arms; with a
Ministry avowedly ignorant as the man-in-tho-
street of the trend of international events the
country watches .the meeting of Parliament in a
hush of apprehension. . . . The present state of
affairs is the direct result of unpreparedness and
want of prescience, for which the Government is
itself inalienably responsible. . . . The present
calamities are not due to the action of any public
department or section of a department in which
employment is open to all comers duly qualified.
The commissariat, the army medical.staff, the
company officers, the private soldiers, the Army
Service Corps, and the transport department have
done splendidly. There has been no failure in
connection with any branch of the public service
open to tile public. The scandal and breakdown
have resulted from the departments where the
staff is chosen entirely from a small and privileged
caste. Smart society has captured the Foreign
Office, one side of the War Office, the cavalry,
and the higher military appointments; What are
the results? In foreign affairs, on those matters
of detail in which the overworked Premier and
Foreign Secretary cannot be expected to interfere,
England has been bested whenever she has come
into conflict with foreign Powers. The seizure of
the Bundesrath and other German steamers, on
false information, and their subsequent surrender
under the humiliation of threats from Berlin,
should have been impossible if the Foreign Office
were Organised on plain business principles, and
worked by men who lost their billets if they were
stupid or idle, instead of being assured of pensions
the more stupid and the more incapable they
showed themselves to be.
The Canker in the Army,
In the same manner the British Armv, in its
higher branches, is a great social rather than a
fighting machine. The Queen’s uniform, that
should be a source of pride, while compulsory on
the private, is “bad form ” on the officer off duty.
The Germans do not thus regard the question—
nor do the Boers. Without going into more
detail, is it not a fact that the ornamental privi-
leged caste among our rulers has hopelessly failed
to justify its monopoly of certain branches of the
public service, and that, therefore, if this war is
not only to be won, but our national safety assured
against even greater calamities, English demo-
cracy must reclaim the power with which they
have parted, and by silent, peaceful revolution
insist on fitness and efficiency becoming the one
qualification for public employment ? . . .
The day before the news of Sir Redvers Buller’s
defeat on the Tugela was published by the War
Office, a statement—it was more than a rumour—
was circulated throughout the country to the
effect that Ladysmith was relieved. This state-
ment was so assiduously spread abroad that I my-
self know of its existence at 11 a.m. on the day in
question (1) on board an Isle of Wight steamer
from Cowes to Portsmouth, (2) about 10 a.m. in
the house of one of the Judges of the High Court,
(3) in Edinburgh before noon. Two great names
in smart financial society were mentioned in con-
nection with the statement. It was absolutely
and completely false. Now, this report was no
mere Stock Exchange rumor. It was an un-
scrupulous device of the financial hangers-on of
smart society for people, who knew that
Buller had failed, to sell mining stock to those
who believed that he had succeeded. When this
episode is probed to the bottom the public will
learn something curious and alarming as to the
price it pays for surrendering to smart society the
control of the services, including the manipulation
of news from the seat of war. . . .
Wanted—A Social Surgeon.
Before the French Revolution broke out, unpaid
peasants were compelled to flog the ponds all
night, to prevent the sleep of the seigneurie from
being distui-bed by the croakings of frogs. We
know the consequences. Privilege asserts itself
in other ways to-day. It snubs 'the “ Colonials,”
insults Volunteers, shelves the best generals. It
is successfully deceived by Dr. Leyds. It feasted
and fawned on the Jameson raiders. It condoned
the wicked Raid. It takes pay and pensions for
for work it does not perform. It jokes when men
are dying for us in the front. And, lastly, it
chatters idly in Parliament at the hour when
prompt and drastic action is needed to save the
State, and prevent our-good Queen’s grey hairs
from going down with sorrow to the grave. . . .
Smart society is the proud-flesh in a body politic
for the most part sound and wholesome. The
diseased area is spreading. Excision is the only
remedy. To diagnose the disease we must explore
its symptoms and lay bare the evil.
The unit of strong nations is the family. All
legislation, habits, ideals, policy, or ambitions
that increase the welfare and multiply the number
of happy families are good for the nation. Things
that stunt, belittle, or ridicule domestic life are
bad for the nation. This is copy-book common-
place, but bed-rock truth. Turkey is what it is
mainly because the harem replaces family life in
upper or wealthier classes. The note by which
bad smart society may be recognised is its con-
tempt for family life—its loathing of home.
Luxury and over-feeding seven days a week kill
desire'for aught else but feeding and luxury.
Plays and music-halls, restaurant-dining, eternal
card-playing, and the racecourse, produce satiety,
and satiety of the senses is the tomb of duty and
honour.
The art of conversation m smart society is
extinct. Slang shibboleths, composed of baby-talk
and Italian or French tags to the Queen’s English,
form the dialect of the smart set. Disreputable
women, who affect the conduct of Lais without
her graces, are among the leading spirits of smart
society. When the morals of the poultry-yard
flourish in the atmosphere of the stable, it is only
natural that the intelligence of the jockey should
be applied to the problems of Empire.
To enter the charmed circle, neither brains nor
breeding, birth nor influence, are necessary. AH
that is required is money, and then more money—
with an insolent contempt for the laws that are the
unseen foundations of civilised society. A use-
ful ” adventurer thus equipped can buy his way
into illustrious circles as easily as he picks up a
yearling at Newmarket. Every now and then
an explosion takes place, and the public learns
with bewilderment that cheating at caids is not
unknown in smart society; or that women who
are courtesans in all but name ai-e no more tabooed
in smart society to-day than they were excluded
from the Pavilion at Brighton in the days of the
Prince described by Thackeray as “the First
Gentleman and most finished blackguard in
Europe.”
The secret influence on Government wielded by
this Comus rout of Circes, sybarites, cynics, and
financiers is subtle and profound. It is revealed
to the public only in its effects. Legislation,
foreign policy, taxation, is not always settled in
Parliament. The real decisions are first made in
smart drawing-rooms in t lie season ; on Sundays
in country-houses; in boudoirs and restaurants,
Is a man “straight,” or a lady modest, and do
they decline to bow the knee to bad smartmess ?
Their reputation and chances are destroyed
by the aid of the janissaries of a smart society,
always on hire to the highest bidder. The
wrong class of American women-people who
.are not received in New York or Washington
-arc pushed into what is seemingly, hut not
really, exclusive society. During the last ten
years the speculative financial element lias be-
come prominent in places whore formerly it was
despised. These capitalists are not in society for
their health. They arc on the prowl. They spend
freely. Their largesse is an investment. As the
modern nabob is commonly of alien extraction and
not seldom of Eastern origin, he regards his
adopted country with detachment of mind,
Schemes are pushed by the force of public eilfchu-
siasm for Imperial expansion, which is adroitly
manipulated for the benefit of financiers and their
henchmen. Smart women without character, men
without self-respect, and an Administration that
is too philosophical, effete, preoccupied, or iudif-
ferent t 6 see that greatness is slipping
away from her, are the allies of this infamous con-
fcdcracy.
PorTTrcAi ScANmis
T . • i , ,
It is not the custom of the English people to
make- futile changes. Still, nothing less than
structural alterations will avail. Ihe House of
Commons is losing self-respect as it loses national
esteem Parliament will continue to Sink in
national esteem until it reflects the character and
brain of Britain, as well as it represents Irish
discontent and the capitalist, alcoholic, and social
interests in the Hinted Kingdom Through fee
Press and a reformed House of Commons alone
can the nation strike home at smart society. Men
can dp anything they like if they only want. it
3sa
verdiot against lutamy and licentiousness in high
places, forbids the interference of smart society or
its parasites With national affairs it is certain that
those who wash the end can find the means.
A steady deterioration of character seems to
affect politicians who become Ministers, A man
who in private life conducts himself as an honour-
abie gentleman is compelled to become the mouth-
piece of falsehoods designed to deceive the nation,
baffle the House of Commons, shield the Depart-
ment, and burke enquiry. Cabinet responsi-
bility, which means no responsibility for anyone,
prevents the impeachment of incapable Ministers,
The bureaucracy are equally irresponsible. In
1806—the dark age of an unreformed Parliament
—a Minister was impeached for dishonesty. The
Queen’s yacht turns turtle in 1900. Nothing is
done, except that the First Lord comes down to
the House to praise the designer. It is notorious
that official statements are often suggestions of
what is false, suppressions of what is true, or
both; while officials returns are not seldom pal-
pable frauds. Take the case of the Army Reser-
visfc, who is at the same time a Militiaman, and
also enlisted as a “special servist.” One man
figures as three to gull the public. The annual
speech of the First Lord of the Admiralty, in pro-
posing the Navy Estimates, is a public scandal.
If a Commission were appointed to examine the
business methods of the Foreign Office, I will
undertake to supply evidence showing where a
falsehood has been placed in the mouth of the
Minister by subordinates who either knew that it
was a falsehood, and should, therefore, be dis-
missed for fraud, or did not know that it was a
falsehood, in which case they should be cashiered
for incapacity. Smart society protects them.
Their pensions are secure. No impeachment is
even thought of in 1900, although democracy
believes itself triumphant. A few weeks ago a
signalman was indicted for an act of carelessness
that produced a collision, involving loss of life.
He was sentenced to three years without hard
labor. Protected by smart society, negligent and
incompetent servants of the State, if in l certain
caste, are immune from punishment for worse
misdeeds than the signalnian’s. If there is less
public spirit to-day than in 1806, the middle and
working classes, who know what is wanted, have
the remedy in their own hands. After Admiral
Byng was shot on his own quarter-deck, in Ports-
mouth Harbour, in 1757, the Naval service took
the hint and became efficient. From Admiral
Byng to the heroes of the Rand is a long step ;
hSteTiiS iety " ,0 “ ld to °“ e th “ worae £or *
iiuie longing.
Every dead Empire has had its bad smart set.
In Babylon, Persia, Greece, and Rome, and under
the two bad smartness contributed its
quota to the ruin of a nation and the fall of a coun-
try. Smart society has existed for centuries m
England. hen the occupants of the T
were themselves licentious and bad smart society
was in the ascendant, the nation rotted visi y a
the top. In the days of Elizabeth and Anne, how-
ever, smart society, so far from being universally
corrupt, rose to a ] high level of distinction. . Men
of action then filled the public eye Patriotism
was honoured rather than despised. It at an
mes an j i n every land the smart set diced, drank,
and danced> and revelled in the roses and raptures
of in tbe Empires that are dead, and even
Charles the Second was King, they went
outside their own set to raise money for their
pi easur es.
‘ T T -rr p
Ihe Jew and His Pret.
We have changed all that. Nowadays the
money-lender and the money-monger belong to
smart society. He ruffles it with the best. No
longer is it necessary for smart people with
straitened means and expensive tastes to repair to
the Ghetto for aid. The foreign Jew is found at
their table; he entertains them in return; and
supplies them with what they lack—fora considera-
tion.
er ® be P rec ,' se - I make no reference to
good Jews of any land, and they are many. On y
the other day a gallant Jew, whose ancestors had
dwelt two centuries in tins country, died for Eng-
and on bpion Kop . . Hie foreign Jew m smart
society does not go to the war. His feelings are
under control. He takes no sides; rules his conduct
by Ins interests, and exploits prodigals on terms of
social equality. lortunately for the foreign Jew
in smart society the recent wave of Imperialism
has been so closely identihed with the name and
fame of ME Cecil Rhodes that the sordid aspect
of Semitic manipulation of African finance has
eluded notice. Mr. Rhodes has interposed his
great personality between some of his associates
and public opinion. But for this fact, and the
protection of the smart set, German Jews of a cer-
taih type have met with an exhibition of
national indignation. Home of the alien supporters
“ f bad ? nia J' t i ? oc, ' ,tv ' alread / attract attention. In
December last, after one of our earlier disasters, I
a well-known member of Parliament,, with an
hwtorw name, m a state of burning indignation
What is the matter ? said I. “ Matter enough,
ho rejoined. ’l ve just left ’’-naming a
well-known German Jew hanger-on of smart
society and he said, J like dis news; it vill *pf
"" goot shake-out to shtouks dat iss healthy,
the bodies of Anglo-Saxon and of Celt were
lying uniamed on l Ini veldt under the African sun
t ' ,ls teuton Scnntc philosopher could see no other
aspect of tlie reverse to our arms than that it
would give a good shake-out to stocks,
The influence of had foreign Jews on had smart
society is so"real a danger to the Empire that it
would ho miraculous that the Press had ignored it
, )ut { t| mnonjol(lMH control exercised by society
and by Jews over the expression of public opinion
hdSti] y to The Anglo,,hobo Press abroad is
wfitton mainl , fore ign . )(r l ws . | n numbers, in
; h] jn pow.w, and in subtle influence over
gobiet for J ign ~ ’ WS) both pu ,, r and ri ch, are in-
creasing by leaps and bounds. Material success is
as trvi * t f lo g * d of the Bmart foreign Jew. as it
wasdl / tbe d t ys when his ancestors worshipped
the calf of , d Materild SU ccess has never yet
beoome the British ideal. These German Jews,
who have already captured rather than earned so
a of ,laj )d K^land >
des p lBe the smart society they use as instruments
for dvanceraeht< They y will ' uot int ermarry with
th(}m . /rhis , sland of y liens in the sea of jifnglish
life is small to-day. It is growing. Rule by
foreign Jews is being set up. The best forms of
our national life are menaced by their influence in
smart^ society.
' Tho sk Who Profit Should Pay.
TT , .. , .
. Having studied this question in every coud
i? ro P?» ‘ with amazement and sorrow at
facility With which toreign Jew financial
schemers have fastened on our weak and greedy
bad smart set. Even the h reneh, whom we affect
to despise; the Russians, whom we regard as
c “ddren of the seventeenth century ; and the
Amencans, who have no aristocracy, haughtily
decline to admit foreign Jews who unite rapacity
With display into the smart set of their respective
countries. As a promoter or expert in the flotation
conjpanies, in deluding the public by inflating
wor fhless securities with an artificial and effer-
vescent value, and in the art of using smart society,
.ere is no equal to the German Jew.. His success
England is imperial. His appetite for titles,
®eco rations, and social recognition has been
whetted by what lie has received. His power,
though unsuspected by the masses, is non-moral
r ,
hf 3 '?." /3l‘ Countr c l f s a ° d Perceive
* t - '| f gence, £ upidity, want
industr ? are enabling
ri „ *i' b „ (aUpu i° U - sde^ S i° destr ? y
p J? A • ■ .! i’®*! as 1T ! A ust D, a ln
a ’ lfe ? ni Possible to watch without a
FnMrihT ?th
& 1 ' d J 3m^ T t . S^ ch a combination
i.„ \ ?°° ‘ 1 I ® r P a J 1 patriotic. One
b Jn X \Vhen the historvTf^ 7 ’ *« oth ® r
h ' ld lt - - Wben tbr hlst “L v v of , our 13
smart
1- y -ii V PJP.J ' ( iJoWcadld connec :
be a ie l®S d A ootb. 0 o tb . regard
t- it Zit S® pl l fr ° m which
b ff] P L finrl mn ,f J resi>ect , wom en so
i tint* of „ placo an ywh ere but m
?® opl f
pi- t , •, tata law of
the highest
? f a f \ £ J '^ rvabl , on ;
** “ij ° f
* ■; + r , , y ,, • 1 s .
P t m theu , te ! Klere3t
*1“ I,B °p' o ' vho il wmaSiSSS
m their financial settlement with the Transvaal
have the courage to do their duty ?— Arnold
White, in Lond. Daily Chronicle.


STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
H
AYMAN’S
BALSAM
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung • Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyHE.
'sm
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
XIIE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
• Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally useful, to the exolusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fg
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly reiurn the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing',’.we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
dfg
d
`gd
fgd
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
y/210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
/ should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL. .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
DWORDS OF This Fr? e Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address : ®
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
EUGRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
nevt r fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Actual Size Three Times Larger than Illustration.
Presentation Cases - -
of Ladies’ Scissors.
Nickel-Plated Fine Steel Scissors. —3 pair in case, 10/6;
4 pair, 12/6 ; 6 pair, 21/- per case, post tree.
Oriental Design, Cold Gilt Bows, Fine Steel Scissors
(as illustration). —3 pair in case, 12/6 ; 4 pair, 17/6;
6 pair, 30/- per case, post free.
"W". Jno. Balter. Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE— 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
. TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOiBE, CARSO*, & CO. ua.
S YDKTB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
|MPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLCROWERS
IN
New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this .Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, .we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING' (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s Gd. per Bale.
Is. Cd. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sale a of IVCarsupia,! Skins Held Weekly.
1 111
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK siMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
fg
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
LACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
P for m
<t*W OU.
©
“I ll l'l'V It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, I Os. (i«l.
Sons Agents:
3F
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st*, Sydney
AMUSE3IKNT for OLD and lOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different At tides,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 Georjje-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
f r
MEDICATOR
/"'tATARRH is inflammation of
'-- y lining membrane of the n
the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal hones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Broriohitis, Asthma. liay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months' treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
" COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
( 0 MPLE T E L Y restore tho
y - J Hearing and relieve sintf-
ing, roaring, and buzzing' noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
Eost-oard to-day for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
``df
R Opt (ire
COr^d^
WHEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
’’ we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during’
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work ! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “ Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Addrkss :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Imtfsm
J LJI
Render, why not be able to use tho
most mybterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can 1* arn
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you e»n cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engrayings, and is the
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in" A postal card will bring it ,
Order to-day and learn to llyp-j
no’iz*. It s a chance of a'
lifvtiwe. Address-
most elaborate
a
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dkar Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
leniedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chamber?,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
TORONTO.
CANADA.
:
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MEIBOU
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
AU3NIHDVIAi Q N V SlN3V\l3ld lAI I? WU V


TATTERS ALLS
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Newcastle C. June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares
in the above.
Name .
Address
£
I
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
£.
Address
s
s
Address.
£ s t
Silver City C. July 25.
25,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
‘Name
Address
Silver City C. (SPECIAL).
DRAWN MORNING- OF THE RACE.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
.shares in the above.
Name ’
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Address.
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
(3vctf stS
,’S
pMtß °sr
bRA^ P
i\# uS
oft
?V' Ca J ■ ~e t «vW°'
»JA® ottt eS
s* co * s
Co«g" .^tions-
ftV® 1
FEDERAL
PALACE
—HOTEL
■Jt
MELBOURNE.
Robins and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND OAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
USB
Spooler's
j^oOHE» fe
RQYALNAV.IDBESSIKC
FOR
BROWN LEA.THER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
CIP.fcC I lONS FOR USE
p mwiiimn gamumtw
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Australia!) fr\(ittial ProVidept Society.
MONEY TO I.END
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street: Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
S 5
M
-c
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 15a.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
63T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
'
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriage's, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SIMELE OF
wKo
FOR THE
TRADE MARK
BEGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
OjLi aM Z
Ha ss'% rf<jb.
9-»*> ~vt.ClasL} An
<U; huZtyZo c &ul
Jvuvwu^t£*
•fcvuZyVuj, £\
<vw
KOKO
IP
HAIR
Eradicates
unique Testi
Perfectly K
Stores &c
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“DEY register.
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
as:
raj
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Ceftainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EI)MANSON a CO., Block Arcade, Melbourne Agent.
,w. Carriage
Note our New Address.:
& Saddlery DMan-f-
-193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying froni us. y
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Sprmg Sulkies, £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £U.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies 7 Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Slade
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. bend aS rr i a ?“f
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE-Do not be
misled by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
` gd
Delirered at any Wharf or
5.5. W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cloud and Sunshine.
Low in the cool, sweet grass
Beneath a gloss of leaves,
Trembling as faint airs pass
Along the forest eaves—
Low on the verdant sod,
Where myriad blossoms rise,
Searching the books of God
With yearning eyes.
A blue, far-stretching sea
Leans to a cloudless sky,
And seabirds sailing free,
White doves of peace, go by ;
A snowy, single sail
Hangs on the margin far,
Fleok of a foam-spent gale
From deeps afar.
All yesterday a storm
Blew from an inky pall;
And billows uniform
Did raging shoreward fall;
All yesterday my heart
In churlish anger gloomed,
Fretting my soul apart—
As one foredoomed.
But morning breaks in smiles,
My heart u-pheaves its c re,
And Ocean’s shining miles
In silent strength lie there.
What can a poor heart do,
Laugh of the Sea and Sky,
But join the music too
As Life goes by.
Tas.
BARKIS.
Bed Time.
Come a-tip-toe, stealthily,
Through the sleeping bush with me,
Where the lazy moon hath spread
Shadow-velvet for our tread,
And each wind-worn bough hath caught
Dainty fare for hungry thought.
Tiny sparks of diamond fire
Jewel every trembling spire ;
Come a-tip-toe, lest we press
One white drop of loveliness.
Near the river-gums we’ll creep !
Big, round, awesome eyes will peep;
Soft eyes, full of wonderment—
Who will break their sweet content ?
One rude step would mar the joys
Told by Night’s mysterious noise;
Joys of living,- joys of love,
Countless as the leaves above.
Hush ! I hear a lusty breeze
Kissing all the distant trees ;
Drouthy, from the haunts of men
It is hastening home again ;
When its merry love-lays pass,
We will sleep upon the grass.
N.S.W.
LESLIE OAKES.
The Sonnet of Revolt.
“ There is an atmosphere,” said the Colonel, “ in which
crime becomes virtue; and the children'of impulse are
truly the children of God.”— Villkbois.
Come, let us grieve !—too much of vulgar care,
Of vulgar joy, and vulgar, common woe
Oppress our souls, and stunted make us grow,
And keep our heads down-bent from the pure air
Where even flowers of Crime bloom fresh and fair,
And God round murderers’ brows doth aureoles
throw,
And blood-gouts as deific rubies glow.
Come, let us grieve, as only heroes dare !
Even our tears are vulgar, common, cheap ;
The heart’s emotions but a scullion’s sink
Of kitchen-washings gurgling to a drain.
Give us once more the god’s heroic leap
To Life’s deep Fountain, there to kneel and
drink,
And die : triumphant—in Promethean pain.
N.S.W.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
Dreamy Land.
There’s gold galore in the Dreamy Land,
There’s diamond store in the Dreamy Land ;
The sails are silk on a sapphire sea,
The buds they blow on a breezy lea,
The elves they trip on a tricksy toe,
The fairies flit when the lamps are low,
While Mab she waveth a fairy wand
And weaveth mirth in the Dreamy Land.
No tears are there in the Dreamy Land,
Our hearts are bare in the Dreamy Land,
Our brows are pressed in a flow’ry twine,
We drowse and drink of a wondrous wine;
Our voices lift in a purer air,
We carve good-bye on the grave of Care,
The stars they sing and we understand
The words they drop in the Dreamy Land !
The moon’s ablink by the Dreamy Land,
The tapers wink into Dreamy Land;
Ye close blue eyes to a gentle chime,
Ye pass the Gate in a breathing-time,
Your lids ye open again—and lo
The realm ye knew m the Days Ago !
The silver stream and the golden strand
And the Laughter sweet of the Dreamy Land.
The cradles rock in the Dreamy Land,
The children flock into Dreamy Land;
They fish for crowns in a shining sea.
They crowd and kiss at the Trystmg
They spread their wings and away they fly,
And kick the clouds as they wander by;
A wild, undutiful, beautiful band,
The children flit in the Dreamy Land.
The storms are stilled in the Dreamy Land,
The birds they build in the Dreamy Land ;
The young ones cling in a cosy nest,
The babes they laugh on a gentle breast,
The trumpets ring and the flags are flung,
The sad are glad and the old are young ;
O Life is blent in a texture bland
Of Rainbow Joys in the Dreamy Land !
Q.
P. LURRIG.


THE
PLUM
tr
Price- SI NGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivorv
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
fn Thß 7S ' . each ', This Razor . is superior to any
A T r market, and never requires •trrindin**’ WP
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS
Post free to
CRA.I&
any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
_ AITKEIV, GSO GEORGE ST., SYOKTEY
The Australian Pouts’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
T^S4S?SK-4S^!*g!a&fiSS3S&“"..the ONLY ORRICR IN AUSTRALIA
through illnessa U „ mood .
Hon J°H ( - !hairttian >
non. J. H. GARRUTHERS, Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
o_o 0 _ 0 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Acemmilated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000
Offices:
Write for Special Prospectus.]
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DKJr’Y COMFJETITIOKr.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY MEiNS: _
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
Ms Bridge I Co’s ltd. Clients Crow M.
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON
GOLDEN SALES!!!
The direct result of our determined efforts on your behalf
-bor past 30 years or every year since 18*70.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
SECURE THE GENL///^
1
TO
<s>
%
i i
:
m
“O
ro
t
Si
ss
mLWmS&t
aNvaa
★
ICARETTES>
IF
LAID
WITH FILLETS
IT
LOOKS LIKE
THIS
fgd
£
\
n
IF
LAID
WITH WASHERS
IT
LOOKS LIKE
THAT
■ i
m,
; m
m 'Hi
Ebb RICH &
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVELY
SQUATTERS
SUPPLY
MERCHANTS


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1059.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1000.
Priob Gd.
X
t, e r j't) C 0 , 0/- ■'A, *5/. %, ,<? / /,
* <* 0 <K X<X
At>>, V&>
*>£v
x
o^
THE RELIEF OF MAFEKING
as experienced by the average Australian citizen on
Sunday morning last.
“Can you tell me, ’ said our artist, alter he had congratulated Premier Lyne on
’his knighthood —“ Can you tell me why that Star of yours is like a successful
painting ? ”
“ No.” said the Premier ; " I am too busy to work out riddles , besides, I’m
not to be drawn.”
“ Because," hissecj our artist between his clenched tqeth—“ because it is hung
on the Lyne 1 ”
(There was a thvfflt of number 10 hoots mi the marble floor of the Treas’.'.r'j, c,
xickeuiu'J thud, and all urat silent.)
It is reported that this remarkable comet will shortly strike.
the earth. At present it is in the Milky Way ; several tails
distinctly visible. Comets are mostly gaseous, and no danger
need be apprehended.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians•.’*
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only) •
Per Annum ... ... ... B 1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales ( except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of IJ<2. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight-mow
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1900.
The Associated Mine and Other Matters.
The story of the Associated mine, in Wes-
tralia, is another powerful sermon upon a
text from which The Bulletin has preached
frequently—the text which says that the
influx of English capital has been one of the
chief curses of Australia, and that English
company-mongering and company-flotation,
and English syndicates, and English man-
agement have been four subordinate and
collateral curses naturally arising therefrom.
The tale of the Associated mine is also, more
or less, the tale of very many—perhaps most
—other English-owned and English-managed
mines in Australia. That is to say, the sys-
tem was the same, and the means for working
the swindle were the same, and the only
difference is that in some other instances the
occasion for the swindle hasn’t yet arisen.
The Associated was floated in England with a
huge capital. Only a very small part of the
capital ever came to Australia, for it is one
of the peculiarities of the alleged inflow of
British capital that most of it doesn’t flow.
This country, finding it had a great mine,
gave away about two-thirds of it to English
syndicaters on condition they supplied the
necessary pick and shovel to open up the
other third. The mine was managed in
England by directors who, most of them,
never saw a gold-mine and wouldn’t know it
from a tin prospecting area or a sewerage-
shaft. These individuals paid themselves
immense salaries for their ignorance, and
a London office was also maintained for them
to be ignorant in, and a London staff to wait
on them. These were as wholly superfluous
to the working of the mine as a staff of chap-
lains and astrologers would have been,
for men who really understood mining had
to be hired to know the things the directors
should have known but didn’t.
* * * *
The mine was worked in the interests of a
#mall clique in London. Reports of tonnage,
gold yields and prospects were sent to
London exclusively. If prospects were good
the news was invariably kept dark till
somebody in London had time to buy in ; if
prospects were bad the fact didn’t leak out
till somebody in London had time to unload
on a credulous public. The Australian
shareholders were denied information about
their own mine, or access to it—they are
now actually talking of starting a costly law-
suit in order to get a look at their own pro-
perty. The Associated made a great boom.
It was announced for a few months as pro-
ducing an almost incredible amount of gold
per month, and the Australian shareholder
had no fair chance to know whether it was
really doing it or not. It was reported
quite recently, via London, that the
rich stone in sight was equal to fully
750,000 tons worth 2 oz. or over, and
no Australian shareholder or share-buyer
had a fair chance to test the truth of the
statement. And when shares had gone up
almost out of sight, and the people in
London who wanted to sell had sold at top
price, it was calmly admitted that the
750,000 tons of rich stone was all a lie, and
only 35,000 tons of comparatively poor ore
was visible, that the bottom was going out
of the mine, and that, so far as can be seen
at present, the great Associated is quite
possibly broke and empty and done. In the
fall that ensued, Australian shareholders
probably lost more than they ever made out
of the Associated, and were left poorer in
the aggregate than if the great mine had
never been. Some time ago the scrip stood
at £l3 ; now it is less than £3. The /-influx
of British capital is apt to pan out that way.
* * * *
Of course it may be that Australian
shares will be largely bought in London
at waste-paper prices, and then it may
transpire that, after all, there are
1,000,000 tons of rich ore in sight, and
after being sold once, the Australian share-
holder may find himself sold a second’time.
His only satisfaction is that he is in no
worse case than the ruck of English share-
holders. The Australian holder, who is
often an expert and able to size-up the value
of the property if he could get into it, is
proudly booted out by his alleged servant,
the English director. The English share-
holder is 16,000 miles away. Under such a
system, if the English director likes to go
crooked, and selects his instruments with
sufficient care, he can work stupendous
swindles with impunity. The fact that he
established the system suggests a fixed in-
tention to go crooked—and it is the system
on which many English-owned mines in Aus-
tralia are worked. The average English
director isn’t a miner—only an exchange
jobber. A mine, to him, isn’t an area to be
worked legitimately for gold, but a stock-
exchange gamble—which is much the same
as saying that it is a counter with which to
play a game of legalised fraud. If he can
make a sufficiently profitable gamble in Lon-
don it doesn’t matter to him if he wrecks
every mine in Westralia, and throws the
whole mining population out of work, and
reduces the country to beggary. Westralia
isn’t his funeral.
* * * •
If there is a semblance of courage or
honesty about the Forrest Government it
will take strong measures with this evil forth-
with. Westralia is just now the especial
home of British-owned mining companies
and London mining frauds, therefore it is
Forrest’s duty to lead the way. The first
essential is to provide for the frequent
inspection of mines by State experts, and
the prompt publication of their reports. The
second is to enact that, on (say) one day
every week, any registered shareholder shall
be authorised to inspect his mine, and every-
thing belonging thereto, as fully as he
pleases, either personally or by agent, and
that it shall be also open to the press. These
two enactments would knock the bottom out
of the policy of secrecy on which the London
swindle, mostly rests, and they would do no
possible injury to anybody except the Stock-
Exchange swindler. A gold-mine is sup-
posed to be an honest industrial enterprise,
not a device by which the man who has in-
formation can defraud the man who hasn't.
All the owners are supposed to have an
equal chance to get money out of it in
proportion to the extent of their interests.
It is not understood that because one share-
holder is appointed and paid and trusted by
his fellow-shareholders to look after their
interests on the board he shall abuse this
confidence, and swindle the people who
trusted him, and suppress good news till he
has bought the shares of his partners for less
than their value, or bad news till he has.sold
his shares to them for more than they are
worth. And the value of shares is supposed
to depend on the value of the mine so far as
it can be ascertained—not on the conceal-
ment of its value.
• • * •
There is absolutely no sense in which
legitimate and honest mining can be injured
by the utmost publicity, and legitimate
mining is the only kind any Government
should encourage. If the mine looks well
it is to the interests of the people that it
should be known, so that they won’t be be-
guiled into selling below value. If it looks
badly it is to their interests that it should be
known so that they won’t be diddled into buy-
ing any plausible person’s shares at six
times their real worth. A mine is not sup-
posed to be a conspiracy, or a racehorse, or
a patent, or a secret still, or a midnight
murder, or a forged cheque, or a game of
under-and-over, or anything that requires to
be kept dark. It is understood to be a
concern the shares in which are sold on the
visible merits of the reef, and there is no
reason that can be adduced for keeping these
merits secret that isn’t a shamefully dis-
honest reason. Of course the compulsory
opening of mines to inspection wouldn’t put
all shareholders on an absolute level—no-
thing could do that. Some people would still
go in for share-buying without inspection.
Some would go in for it without the re-
quisite knmvledge, and if they appointed
an agent to inspect for them would send
the wrong kind of agent. Some would
still be foolish enough to take shares in
remote mines and get left through their
remoteness. The State couldn’t provide for
all these ; it couldn’t tear up the mine by
the roots and post it to distant owners to be
looked at and returned. But by providing
that every shareholder could see all that was
to be seen if he liked to come to his mine
either personally or by deputy, and by pub-
lishing the reports of the Government ex-
perts, the State would do the best it could
do—in this direction, anyhow.
* * * *
In addition to this, every mining co. should
be required to have at least some of its direc-
tors in the province where the mine is situ-
ated, so that some responsible person would
be within the jurisdiction of the law. They
and the manager should be answerable for
the prompt and accurate publication of the
amount of gold obtained at each cleaning-up
and the amount of stone from which that
gold was obtained. This return should be
posted up conspicuously outside the company’s
premises within half-an-hour of the figures
being ascertained, and should at the same
time be despatched to the most convenient
public authority and the nearest newspapers
for further publication. The issuing of
erroneous returns should be a criminal act.
The qualification for directors should be
fixed by law, and there should be a heavy
minimum penalty on any director who holds
office, even for a minute, without possessing
the full necessary qualification in his own
right and unencumbered. The director or
manager who issues false reports about his
mine should get a long term for false pre-
tences. And even then there would be the
Bull and Bear, the spec.-seller, and the
time-bargain man to be dealt with, for they,
by making artificial scarcity or artificial
abundance of any particular stock, would
still force prices up and down irrespective of
the merits of the mine. The most dead sure
way to deal with them would be to annul by
law every share transaction in which the
scrip was not actually attached to the trans-
fer, or if for any reason this was impossible,
in which the numbers of the transferred
shares were not inserted in the transfer.
Also the inserting of numbers which did not
represent shares actually dealt in should be
a fraud and punishable as such.
* * * *
Of course these reforms would deprive the
Bull and the Bear of their bread and butter ;
an absolutely unproductive class which is
neither of real use nor of real ornament
should be deprived of its bread and butter—
likewise of its boots. Doubtless they would
also stop the “influx of English capital ”
into Australian mining fields and necessitate
a further enactment that all Australian
mines shall be managed in Australia and
have an Australian register only. Both
results would be commendable. The clean-
est, most honest, most consistently profitable
mining fields in this country have been those
where the mines were locally owned and
managed. On such a field as Bendigo
there are practically no big swindles, for the
local shareholders are constantly inspecting
their properties, and such a thing as the
great Associated stench would be destroyed
by publicity. The directors are practical
men who (though some of them are seini-
millionaires like Lansell and Dr. Atkinson)
take ss. for a board-meeting—not titled
ignoramuses at £lOOO a year. There are
no expensive offices or costly ornamental
managers. When an expert is wanted to
overhaul a mine, a first-class local man will
ao it thoroughly for a very few guineas,
instead of an ornamental man being sent all
the way from Europe at the cost of thou-
sands. Kalgoorlie might have been another
Bendigo if the laws above suggested had
been enacted some years ago. Then, instead
of a few great fortunes, mostly in England
and America, and many great moral stenches
in Australia, and a few huge booms, and a
multitude of huge bursts, there would have
been a settled industry living on its merits,
paying large and steady dividends to Aus-
tralian shareholders, and not breaking the
ten commandments more than is done in
any other worldly avocation
Imperial Interference with the Common-
wealth Bill.
Mr. J. H. Symon, Q.C., discourses to The Bul-
letin on Imperial Interference with the Common-
wealth Bill: —
Who is to forbid the banns of Australian Union ? The
Federating provinces are of competent age. They have
settled their own marriage-articles. The parties are will-
ing—the settlements are satisfactory—all with apparent
parental approbation. For England to interfere and say
“ I am a partner in this ” would be like a man’s mother-
in-law insisting upon his marrying her as well as his wife,
yet that in effect is what many people at this moment
are foolish enough to contend—that England is a partner
in the Australian Federal bargain—not only a partner,
but the predominant and dominating partner. So much
so that she can alter or add to the contract without say-
ing “by your leave.” We thought we were free. Mr.
Chamberlain rudely undeceives us. He cracks in our
faces the whip of the British Parliament. Now, England
has neither part nor lot in the business so far as the
Federal compact is concerned. No proof is needed
beyond the fact that she was not represented in the
Convention. Had she been a party, she ought to and
would have been there. That she never asked or invited
herself to come or even to watch the proceedings con-
clusively admits that the framing of our Federal Consti-
tution is peculiarly and exclusively our own affair. It is
only now, when even colorable arguments to justify
Imperial interference with the Australian Charter are
scarce, that this specious absurdity is trotted out.
* » * »
The British Empire is not a partnership. We share
with England the Queen’s sovereignty and the flag, but
there any semblance of partnership ends. The dreamers
of Australian Federation planned a partnership, but
without the possibility of practical result. Even if you
call the relation between England and the self-governing
Colonies partnership, she is constitutionally onl y a sleeping-
partner. The supremacy of the Imperial Parliament is a
theory. Hitherto it has been vigorously kept out of sight.
Now, for the first time, it is to be exerted by a Tory
Government, which has been living on its pretended
devotion to the spread of freedom amongst the citizens of
the Empire. It will be a fatal mistake if that British
interference is persisted in. It will be equally fatal if we
sit down under it. The former will be an open assertion
of the right to interfere with Australian self-government
on the part of the British Parliament. The latter will
mean acquiescence on our part in that assertion, and the
creation of a precedent it may be hard afterwards to dis-
lodge.
* * » *
What Federal progress we have achieved so far has been
based upon trusting the people to decide their own
destiny. The Bill of 1891 died practically still-born,
because it had no popular sanction. Since then the
accepted policy has been to commit the business direct to
the people. Through stagnation, apathy, misrepresenta-
tion, and other obstacles, they rose to their responsibility,
and grappled the work with unexpected vigor. No table
was large enough to permit of nearly four millions of
people sitting around it to actually frame the Constitu-
tion. But they would not trust any Parliament. So they
elected a special Convention of experts—at any rate, of
men who had their confidence. That Convention met to
frame a Bill for adoption by the people of Australia whom
they represented- not for revision by the Imperial
Parliament. Nor did the people accept it subject or with
a view to any such revision. The Imperial Parliament is
not competent to deal with it.
* * * •
How could it be ? Our own provincial Parliaments
were infinitely better fitted, yet they were discarded.
They were not even allowed to choose the Convention.
They Were only permitted—a sop to Cerberus—to worry
at the first draft of the Bill and offer suggestions. The
Convention was specially chosen for the work. It repre-
sented Australian prejudices and passions, local interests
and local conflicts, provincialism, nationalism, and Im-
perialism. It represented all political parties and shades
of opinion ; it was instinct with provincial narrowness
as well as with national aspirations, and in touch with
Australian sentiment. The Imperial Parliament is obvi-
ously destitute of any pretence to equipment so essen-
tial—in fact, that Parliament in its corporate character is
as ill-adapted as any body of men in the world to under-
stand the Australian people or interpret their wishes.
The Convention, however, was singularly well adapted
to the work. Weeks and months, split into three sessions
and spread over a year, they passed in daily consultation
and debate—-in anxious and arduous labor to execute
worthily their great task, influenced by love of country
and the aspirations of Australian nationality—until at
length they presented the finished fabric of Australian
self-government—the Commonwealth Bill —and recom-
mended it to the people for acceptance.
* * « *
That fine instrument was full of compromises—one
thing here balancing something else there—so that to
change any part of it was to re-open the whole. All the
parts are so necessarily inter-dependent—one might say
interlaced —that to excise anything or introduce anything
means to disturb what the Convention finally agreed-to
as the best result of their joint councils. Anil so it was
laid before the people, who pronounced it good, and
accepted it in whole and in every part. No man can say
one clause was more voted upon than another; the
Referendum affirmed every word and line and clause as
well as the Bill in its entirety. No higher act was
possible to any self-governing people—affixing the seal to
the Constitution not only of their own choice but the
fabric of their own loom.
* » * •
Why is it that people shrink from their own creed, and
desert their own policy ? What kind of Australian pal riots
are they who, at one time foremost in shouting “ trust
the people! ” are now loudest in decrying the Referendum
and inviting outsiders—men who are certainly not of their
own people—to lay violent hands on the people's work.
They resemble a discontented partner wl»o should hire a
stranger to forge in the partnership-deed alterations to
which the other partners would not consent.
What is claimed for the Imperial Parliament is the right
to veto' the people’s Referendum. Are the Australian
people abject and spiritless enough to submit to that?
One cannot believe it. If they are, then they have not
emerged from tutelage and are unfit for national existence
or a national career. Are not our provincial Parliaments
bound by the Referendum ? Could they have refused to
pass the message transmitting to Her Majesty the Com-
monwealth Bill for formal enactment? Of course not.
Then, if the provincial Parliaments, who represent the
people, are so bound, why not the British Parliament
which neither represents nor is accountable to us ? Sup-
pose such a referendum had been taken in England,
would not the British Parliament have been bound?
Undoubtedly it would. Then why not bound by the Aus-
tralian Referendum in a matter which solely concerns
Australia? Is it said that an Australian Referendum is
in some way of inferior value to a similar vote in England,
or that the Australian people are not quite responsible for
their actions, and must be controlled by some power not
themselves, which they cannot call to account as they can
their own Parliaments.
* * « ,
The Imperial Parliament has no more right to alter our
Federal Constitution, without the people’s direct consent,
than to tax us. Whether it looks so or not, one is tvranny
as much as the other. Surely it is as much coercion to
compulsorily fasten upon us a law-court we have said we
don’t want as to impose a tax. No one objects to the
Imperial authorities civilly remonstrating, and pointing
out that both tax and law-court are blessings in disguise,
and asking us to reconsider. But they must not attempt
to force either upon us. We will have no Imperial legis-
lation either for taxation or law-courts, without repre-
sentation. Suppose the Commonwealth Bill had pro-
vided for an elective Governor-General, or even for com-
plete separation ? That is the strongest case which can
be put. Can it be contended for an instant that the
Imperial Parliament would change or amend that without
the consent of Australia? They might send the Bill back
and respectfully ask us to think it over again. But no-
more. And if we insisted, the Constitutional position
born of the American revolutionary war is that they must
yield. So, now. If, for example,'they think a Court of
Appeal in England better for us than one of our own at
our doors, they may say so, and press it upon us. If they
regard Australia as a “ nation,” we should be consulted
as befits the dignity and self-respect of a nation. The
boon—if they think it one -must not be forced upon us
with a high hand, as though Australia were still a
dependency. If, unfortunately, it is forced, we need not
refuse the mutilated Constitution. Though its symmetry
were marred with many amendments, we should probably
accept it so long as the elementary bond of union were
left, for we desire to be united. But we should never rest
till the wrong be righted. The venue would perhaps be
changed to the Federal Parliament, but there right would
be done sooner or later. Imperial interference would give
us some things that might take much settling. None the
less because of the seeds of bitterness and disappointment
which would follow in its train, Australian Federation
would be inaugurated with a grievance and cursed with a
source of friction only to be cured by excision.
••» ' •
Mr. Chamberlain is not a real Imperialist. He is an
overgrown municipal statesman. Recent events in South
Africa have given him a prominence and an importance
agreeable to his-ambition but beyond his wisdom. His
career has outpaced his capacity.' He does not realise
Australia. He forgets it is not a dependency or Crown
colony. If he remembers this he is seeking to usurp our
self-governing functions or flout the verdict of the Aus-
tralian people. In his speech on the introduction of the
Commonwealth Bill he spoke of Australia as “ the new
nation.” Does he comprehend the significance of his own
expression? If he does, what sort of a nation—self-
governing nation—will he think us if we tamely submit
to be shorn of the power of choosing our own courts and
dispensing final justice within our borders? Does he
know of any well-ordered nation—any free community


worthy of nationhood—in ancient or modern times, which
nhHieated its primary function of doing justice, or
suffered itself to be despoiled of that power ? Nationality
is a sham without it. It would be Home Rule with one
arm in a sling. Justice would come to us ma, foreign
", ar b The fact is Mr. Chamberlain is held in thrall by his
fears of Irish Home Rule. He aims to treat Australia
like another Ireland,
» * * *
We have control of our own land and sea forces. We
have entire control of the civil forces—a condition which
Mr Chamberlain himself in a memorable letter Mr.
Parnell called “tantamount to separation. Yet
weare not to have control of our own Justice!
We are to be trusted with all the forces of peace and
war but not to adjust disputes between man and man.
Are' Australians going to accept that stigma to bow
their shoulders for the brand of that scarlet letter ? You
that are unjust, say these so-called Imperialists, be unjust
still We are federating to hold up our heads amongst
the nations. How are we to do it without blushing for
the disability Mr. Chamberlain wishes the Imperial Par-
liament to place us under ? _
Our Federal self-government is embodied in the Com-
monwealth Bill. The only question is, how much will the
Imperial Parliament filch from us 1 The loss, it is a com-
fort to reflect, can only be temporary. A day of reckon-
ing and amends shall come.
J. H. SYMON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne’s Great DrunK.
A man who was there writes :
Melbourne went ten different kinds of mad on the night
when the news of the relief of Mafeking arrived, and
enormous was the drunk and delirium thereof. ihe
hysterical character of the French and the dignified calm of
the Anglo-Saxon are favorite themes in this country, but
l’aris never more completely threw its dignity to the
winds, or went more wildly out of its degenerate mind—
not since the days of the first Napoleon. All the tenth-
rate pugs and their hangers-on, lavishly decked-out with
small Union Jacks and other evidences of hysteria, raged
up and down. Black Petek Felix, the alleged champion,
led a select band of Jingoes with a Jubilee medal thing on
his manly bosom, and behind followed his colored brother
Pomi'ey and other lesser lights. Further in the rear came
the scum of the boxing halls, mingled with an
assortment of miscellaneous larrikins, all waving the
British flag. Wild, excited Fatmen and gilded youths
from Toorak cavorted down the main streets, embracing'
persons thev wouldn’t touch with a pitchfork at ordinary
times Staid respectable business men who used to wax
sarcastic at the attitude of the French over Dreyfus and
the hysteria of the Yankees during the Spanish war drove
their fists through their top hats and shrieked by them-
selves. Red-eyed youths roared inarticulately with open
mouths dropping saliva. Respectable girls and respect-
able married women permitted themselves to be mauled
about by strange men and thrown over their shoulders
with much display of form, and the raving multitudes
gave three cheers for their legs and their underwear. An
a ,r ed parson bounced down tiie hill of Collins-street yell-
ing like a motherless calf and leading a band of men who
charged like Dervishes. The venerable divine had a
small flag sticking through the ventilator of his bell-
topper, and another Union Jack tucked across his
bingey as a sort of false' vest. A third flag he
swung ecstatically around his head, and when
a cynical onlooker advised him to have his white beard
dyed red, white and blue, the shepherd rushed off with a
loud whoop, apparently to act on the advice. Men who
would pass any two doctors paid half-crowns for penny
flags. Sedate ‘ fathers of families threatened to wreck
fancy-goods shops when the proprietors plaintively
stated that they had already sold out all their tin trum-
pets at a thousand per cent, profit. As early as 2 p.m. an
elderly magnate of the Stock Exchange, with a seven-
guinea suit on and a 80s. belltopper, was pounding a
kerosene-tin with his umbrella in Collins-street. Another
magnate was calling to a procession 300 strong to stop
and let him shout 300 sixpenny drinks all in one act. The
procession had an appointment down street, but it said
it would come back for the drinks. When it came
back its benefactor was still there, but no one
would have given 2s. 6d. for bis suit and his
bell-topper together. He had been trying to stand on his
middle-aged and wealthy head in the gutter with his
coat-tails hanging about his ears—and the gutter was
wet. The stockbroker was the boss drunk and goat and
giddy ox of the carnival. He was everywhere. He led
the processions. He ran mad in Collins-street as distin-
guished from the bagman who ran mad in Swanston-
street, and the Chow who was delirious in Lilly-Buck-
stleet. He raged in public places, red with champagne
loyalty, blatant, lost to every sense of decorum and all
respect for his high Paris hat. He sang push songs,
and beat on banks and insurance - offices with his
gamp till it was a wreck. At first it was a British
flag with which he advertised his emotion) but as
the day wore on and the liquor bit in, he seemed to lose
discrimination, and he shook any flag that he could grab.
But, perhaps, the most wonderful sight of the afternoon
was a six-foot citizen of high repute, in a suit that had
been glorious in the morning, but was now a complica-
tion and a wreck. He stood in a high place as the crowd
flowed by, gazing out upon chaos with red, sightless eyes,
ever and anon tooting an imbecile toot on a crumpled
penny trumpet that he had bought for two half-crowns.
He had lost his identity and his knowledge of earthly
things in the outbreak, but he never forgot his trumpet,
and a sane crowd might have laughed itself to
death at the unimaginable incongruity of the tableau
formed by that immense personage and his little tin
horn. At night the crowd had grown till it
choked the streets. Burning crackers were thrown in the
faces of the dense crowd, singly and by the hundred,
colored lights were blazing everywhere, sticks and gamps
were flourishing, and wild “pushes” were charging up
and down, bearing on their shoulders soldiers filled with
beer or rakish signboards advertising the Throne and
Person. The fair sex raged with the rest—girls of all
ages, from 16 to 03. One well-dressed girl, accompanied
by a parent or guardian, was brandishing her umbrella
and singing “ Soldiers of the Queen ” in Bourke-street.
“Where’s your colors, Sis?” yelled one of a drove of
youths,, and there, under the fierce white light of the
electric orb, the damsel snatched up her skirts to her
knees, displaying a garter banded with red, white and
blue—“ There’s my colors ! ” she cried hysterically,
and the lads yelled, and joining hands danced around
her for a moment and then went howling awaj'.
And so the night went on, with a sleet of crumpled hats
and dead crackers and cigar ash and lost coat-tails
driving down Bourke-street. Some pubs, were still open
at 4on Sunday morning. The Law was paralysed. Even
the railway staff wasn’t so sober as it might have been
and was despatching trains with blind luck and letting
them take their chance. The last this writer saw was a
large citizen watching his bell-topper which he had put
on the tram-line, and cackling a drunken cackle as he
waited to see the tram-car go over it. He didn’t even
know the cars had stopped three hours previously.
+
The “ Abolition-of-Appeal ” Myth.
Sydney Telegraph, with its neat knack of
anti - Federal misrepresentation, until the other
day, persisted in referring to the Common-
wealth Bill as containing a clause enacting
“ the abolition of the right of appeal to
the Privy Council” (leading article, May 16) —and
the Telegraph knows very well that the Bill does
no such thing. Here is the clause :
74. No appeal shall be permitted to the Queen in Coun-
cil in any matter involving the interpretation of this Con-
stitution or of the Constitution of a Stats, unless the pub-
lic interests of some part of Har Majesty’s Dominions,
other than the Commonwealth or a State, are involved.
Except as provided in this section, this Constitution
shall not impair any right which the Queen may be
pleased to exercise, by virtue of Her Royal Prerogative, to
grant special leave of appeal from the High Court to Her
Majesty in Council. But the Parliament may make laws
limiting the matters in which such leave may be asked.
The clause thus deals with three classes of ap-
peals—
First, matters involving the interpretation of the
Federal Constitution or the Constitution of a State where
Imperial interests are not involved. In this case appeal
is not. permitted.
Second, matters involving the interpretation of the
Federal Constitution or the Constitution of a State where
Imp.rial interests are involved, fn this case appeal is
permitted.
Third, all other matters. In this case appeal is per-
mitted where the Federal Parliament does not make a
law to limit it.
The Commonwealth Bill, then, abolishes nothing
at all, since (in the first and second classes) the
Federal Constitution and the States under the
Federal Constitution are its own creation. Feder-
ally speaking, they do not exist, and their rights
do not exist, until the Bill becomes law and the
Bill cannot abolish what is not is existence. As
to the third class, the Bill gives to the Federal Par-
liament power to limit appeals ; but the Bill does
not even limit them. Unless the Federal Parlia-
ment limits them the existing rights of appeal re-
main intact—so far as the Bill is concerned. And
even the Federal Parliament cannot abolish— it
can only limit— the Queen’s prerogative remaining
unchanged, if dormant. So to talk about the
Commonwealth Bill “ abolishing the right of
appeal to the Privy Council ” is first, nonsense ;
secondly, misrepresentation ; and, thirdly, some-
thing which ought to make the anti-Federal tele-
graph darned well ashamed of itself.
♦
Forrest’s 57th New Attitude.
Bigjohn Forrest the other day called Westralia’s
Parliament together to propose that the Federal
Constitution be sent to the people just as it stands,
for their acceptance or rejection. Therefore
Bigjohn has got back to the place where lie stood
about two years ago when he promised to send
the Bill to the people and let them decide. After
that he got a new Bill drafted and promised to
send both measures to the people, but he proposed
it half-heartedly and the idea was rejected. Then
he appealed in a weak tone of voice to the British
Government to enforce his new Bill—the one
which his own Parliament had rejected and his
own people hadn’t accepted. And now he gets
Dack to his original standpoint. But lie gets back
very feebly, and Bigjohn’s present principles look
about as hazy as they ever were. This is the
telegraphic summary of his speech :
The Premier said there was a feeling throughout the
colony that they should not be isolated in sentiment or
interest from the rest of Australia. They could depend
that the Bill would act adversely in some ways, and
advantageously in other ways. The people desired a
closer union with their fellow-colonists to build up a
nation indissoluble. He would tell the people that he
would vote for the Bill, but he could not see any advantage
to come from it for West Australia for some time to come ;
in fact, he thought there would be many difficulties to
overcome. Under Federation, Freetrade would be aimed
at, and the tendency for taxation would be on property.
It was not so bad a Bill that he could say that it should
not be referred to the people. He considered Parliament
had a perfect right to deal with the question of the referen-
dum as it liked. He did not like ttie referendum, as he
was not used to it; but the people clamored for it, so he
would not block it. He thought they would hold their
own under Federation, owing to their great resources.
John the Wobbler calls Parliament together and
asks it to send the Federal Bill to a Referendum
at which its acceptance is practically certain. And
he tells Parliament that he doesn’t see any imme-
diate advantage to be gained by the Bill, and he
dislikes Referendums ; also, that it has a perfect
right to refuse the Referendum if it pleases. So
John’s Upper House will probably take the hint
and refuse it. If the old man had said that he
would dissolve the Assembly if the Bill was
thrown out, and stump the country on it, and if
he failed to carry it again he would wade in to re-
form the dreadful Upper House, and everything
else failing he would resign his billet, the Council
would probably have taken that hint also. The
Council dislikes trouble and riot. But John isn’t
that kind of Federalist—in fact, he isn’t a very
definite kind of anything.
+
The New Sydney that is to he.
Almost the first gleam of light that has ever been
shed on the decayed, moth-eaten, insolvent and
utterly incapable municipal government of Sydney
is to be found in the report of the municipal con-
ference which recently sat in inquest on the
remains of the city politics. The conference, con-
sisting of representatives of both city and subur-
ban municipalities, proposes these 12 most valuable
ideas:
(1) That Sydney, Alexandria, Annandale, Ashfield,
Balmain, Botany, North Botany, Burwood, Canterbury,
Camperdown, Concord, Darlington, Drummoyne, linfleld,
Erskineville, Five Dock, Glebe, Hunter’s Hill, Hurstville,
Kogarah, Lane Cove, Leichhardt, Manly, Marrickville,
Marsfield, Mosman, Newtown, North Sydney, Paddington,
Petersham, Randwick, Redfern, Rockdale, Rookwood,
Ryde, St. Peters, Strathfield, VaUcluse, Waterloo,
Waverley, Willoughby and Woollahra (42 in all) shall be
absolutely amalgamated under one Council.
(2) Council to consist of 75 members. Area to be
divided according to population into 25 wards with three
aldermen apiece.
(3) Whole council to be re-elected every three years,
every adult who has been for six months a tenant in the
municipal area to have one vote. No plural voting.
(4) Mayor to be elected annually in the same way as the
aldermen.
(5) Rates to be levied on land values only.
(6) Council to have power to seize upon and sell or let
property to recover arrears of rates.
(7) Railway Commissioners, Gas Co., Hydraulic Power
Co., Telephone Department, electric lighting companies
and the like to pay rates for the use of the city streets.
(8) Council’s accounts to be subject to annual Govern-
ment audit, and any deficiency certified to by the auditor
to be covered next year by a special deficiency rate.
(9) Council to solely control: Roads and streets, licens-
ing of vehicles and control of street traffic, water-works,
water-supply, sewerage and drainage, gas-supply, supply
of electricity, hydraulic power, tramways, docks, ferries,
fire stations, prevention of fires on land and in harbor,
markets, parks and open spaces, cemeteries, free libraries,
common lodging-houses, night-shelters, public health,
destruction of garbage and house-refuse, abattoirs, public
baths and wash-houses, housing of the poor, public pawn-
offices, municipal art galleries ; and have power to acquire
and carry on any of these services, and in addition have
power to resume slum areas, improve and widen streets,
dedicate parks, and acquire land for other public purposes,
to re-sell or lease any portion thereof ; to issue deben-
tures and negotiate 'loans for the purpose of defraying
expenses; to have power to proclaim improvement
areas, and impose betterment taxes within such
areas: to establish labor bureaux and registration
offices’. To establish a metropolitan statistical depart-
ment. To compel registration of ownership of land. To
license hotels, wine-shops, and places of public amuse-
ment. To regulate and test weights and measures. To
regulate and license noxious trades. To regulate and
license dairies and milk-supply. To license auctioneers
and issue all trade licenses, and all powers exercised
within the area by the Board of Health, City Improve-
ment Board, Metropolitan Transit Commission, Tramway
Department, Trustees of Parks, such branches of the
Harbors and Rivers Department as control the foreshores
and docks, such branches of the Roads and Bridges
Department as control roads and bridges within the area,
such branches of the Public Works Department as control
the design and execution of works of water supply and
sewerage within the area, and all powers exercis-
able both within and without the area by the
Water and Sewerage Board and Fire Brigades Boa.rd.
(10) Assets and liabilities of the whole 42 municipalities,
and the estimated deficiency of yearly revenue from trans-
ferred services, to be determined by an independent
commission, and be takerfover by the council; for a period
of ten years from the establishment of the council the
Government to grant it an annual subsidy equal to such
estimated deficiency. . .
ill) Council to have power to issue debentures tor the
conversion of existing liabilities, and fertile due exercise
of the various powers vested in it.
(I D 411 Crown lands within the area not immediately
required for Government purposes to be vested m the
council.
A few meek and spineless alternatives are sug-
gested for patchingtlicold system insteadoi m king
a new one, but the above 12 propositions represent
the brains of the new plan. They are all ideas
which The Bulletin has long been advocating.
In two leading articles published on 24th June
and Ist July, 1899, this paper suggested exactly
the system of State audit above suggested,'
the deficiency rate, the exact, franchise above
suggested, the triennial election, the election of
the mayor by the people, the land-value taxation,
the method of recovering rates, and almost the
exact powers which the above report proposes en-
trusting to the new Council. Barring the fact
that this paper proposed to amalgamate 41 munici-
palities into one council with 80 members instead
of 42 into a council with 75 members, and that it
didn’t propose sticking up the State for a subsidy,
this paper is proud to say that it planned out
practically every item of the above scheme nearly
a year ago. The pity is that it is proposed to sub-
mit such an admirable project to the 42 weak, in-
competent and utterly discredited councils that
they may judge it according to their wisdom —
when the whole trouble is that they haven’t any.
What is wanted is a Government that will blow
the 42 councils on one side and submit the question
to the people by referendum, and let them decide.
♦
More About a Certain Tasmanian
Railway.
Tasmania’s Great Western Railway Syndicate has
of late been humming a little louder than usual on
its island, if such a thing be possible. The syndi-
cate was floated so very far back in the dark ages
that no one exactly remembers the date now. It
was to build and own and work for its own profit
the Great Western Railway, and to receive from
the State a stupendous land-grant of 1,000,000
acres or so for doing it. It never raised any
capital or turned a sod of its railway in all the
years that followed. The syndicates never did a
farthing’s-worth of real work on the line, and the
company they tried to float didn’t float any better
than a ton of lead. Their concession ran out with
the grey procession of years, and was renewed,
and still they did nothing. They started to
demand “further assistance” from the State.
The people who wouldn’t put their own money into
their own cat asked that the State should ad-
vance them £200,000 as well as the land-grant, and
proposed that the State should guarantee their
debentures for about as large a sum as it could
have built the whole line for itself. In other
words, that the State should find the whole legiti-
mate cost of the line and the co. should get the
profits and the 1,000,000 acre land-grant as well.
This great scheme didn’t come off, but one almost
equally weird is now under actual and serious con-
sideration. It is as follows
(1) That the Tasmanian Govt, shall build the first sec-
tion of the Great Western Railway itself at a cost of
£200,000, and lease it to the company (which the promo-
ters have never managed to form as yet) for £7OOO a year.
The unformed and non-existent co. offers no guarantee
whatever tha it will ever pay even one month’s rent. It
hasn’t managed, in all the years it has been fooling
around, to raise enough capital to do that little thing.
The Government is to have the promoters’ bare promise
that, if it builds a bit of railway for them, the fragment
won’t be left on its hands.
(2) The co. (as yet unformed) is to put up £150,000 capi-
tal (as yet it hasn’t put up 150,000 pence). That is to say,
though the whole affair is the co.’s speculation for the
co.’s private profit, the co. proposes that it shall only find
£150,000, while the Government puts up £200,000. And
it offers no guarantee that it will ever find the £150,000,
or that it won’t all go in first robbers’ profits if it is found,
or that one penny of it (if found) will go in legitimate
railway-building.
(3) Also, the co. which has so far failed to raise any
capital or any debenture money, is to raise £400,000 by
the sale of debentures.
(4) And the co., in consideration of its promise to put
£150,000 of its own money in the scheme, is to get a grant
of land worth, probably, £500,000.
(5) Also, the promoters, who have hitherto failed to
keep any of their engagements, or to raise any capital,
want the Tasmanian Parliament to commit itself to the
expenditure of the above-mentioned £200,000 before they
find any of their money. The party which has failed in
all its engagements demands that the one which has
always kept its engagements shall “ show its boua-Jides ”
in the matter.
Once more : Will some sane Tasmanian legislator
rise up and demand that the State railway depart-
ment shall have first show in this matter ? Before
the State throws away 1,000,000 acres to induce an
uncertain and bungling syndicate to build the
G.W. Railway will it set its own Railway Com-
missioner and its best land expert to consider
whether its own Railway Department couldn’t
profitably build and work the G.W. line provided
the said Department received an endowment of
1,000,000 acres, and applied the rents therefrom to
supplement the earnings of the line ? This is a
question which should be considered before any
land-grant railway concession is given, and if
Tasmania’s Parliament doesn’t know enough to see
the point it is even a worse fool than it looks.
“Loyalty”—at the Ratepayers’ Expense.
The action of Melb. City Council in preferring an
English tender for electrical supplies to a German
—though there was no imputation that the German
goods are inferior, and the German tender was
£4793 lower—is a beautiful example of perverted
Jingoism —at the ratepayers’ expense. What
Melb. City Councillor would do as much for
Britain if his own private interests were involved?
There is not one. If the facts are correctly re-
ported, it is a gross malversation of public funds—
just because they are public funds, and the
money thrown away comes out of the public
pocket, not out of the pocket of the councillor
who sit at the board. Why should not Australia
deal with Germany just as with England? She
does, where private interests are concerned.
During the last decade the percentage of Austra-
lian imports from Germany has increased,
while the percentage from Britain has de-
creased. And why not, if it pays Australia?
This country hopes to live, to a large ex-
tent, on its commerce. Why should it
cut its own commercial throat by penal-
ising nations other than Britain ? To what
purpose do we hold exhibitions of our products,
and send specimens of our products to exhibitions
elsewhere, if not to promote trade ? And how
much return are we likely to get from Britain for
sueh superabundant “ loyalty ” ? Will Britain pay
Id. per lb. more for Australian meat than for
American ? Will she prefer Australian wool
at a greater cost to Argentine of the same
quality? The question is too ridiculous for
answer. Besides, why single out Germany for
“loyalist ” affront? Does not Britain trade with
Germany—on precisely the same terms as she
trades with Australia? Are not our German
colonists worth fully as much as the British?
Really, the action of Melb. City Council—always
provided that it is correctly reported—caps the
climax of municipal stupidity, and worse than
stupiditv— at the ratepayers’ expense.
- +
Machine-made Patriotism.
Shortly after the despatch of troops from N.S.W.
to the seat of war in S’Africa was first determined
oil, a prominent departmental official invited the
head-masters of the Ist and 2nd class public-
schools to meet in his room for the purpose of
establishing a teachers’ branch of the Patriotic
Fund. The step was reputedly taken, not so
much with the mere sanction as with the active
co-operation of the Minister for Public Instruc-
tion. Certain resolutions were drawn up and pro-
visionally adopted. Public-school teach ers were
shortly thereafter invited by circular to meet in
rlie Girls’ High School, and to them as a bodv the
resolutions were formally submitted. The writer
has been unable to obtain a copy of them, but their
dominating note amounted to the proposition that
the salaried teachers of the State schools through-
out IN.S.W. should, one and all, be invited to con-
tribute, either monthly or by single donations
which would run to a capitalised equivalent of a
substantial monthly subscription, to the fund. Is
it needful to add that in the circumstances under
which the meeting was called together, the reso-
lutions were carried unanimously ? The adver-
tised records of the general fund show that as a
result of the machinery thus set in motion, £2OOO
has been collected up to date, the second con-
tribution being thus announced in the morning
papers of 18th May
Second instalment from the Minister, includ-
ing- inspectors, officers, and teachers, De-
partment of Public Instruction (making a
total of £2000) ..£l,OOO 0 0
Particularly note the word “instalment.” Masters
have been told off in different districts to visit a
certain number of schools, to see that the process
is kept continuously alive, and, if any particular
teacher is found not sufficiently responsive to the
holy obligation here sketched out, the hint is
promptly given that the line of wisdom in the
personal sense would be found in making an early
start. The public may accept it, if they like,
that the public-school teachers of N.S.W. are im-
bued, beyond the general body of their fellow-
citizens, with a deep sense of patriotism, and that
a set of functionaries, whose salaries work out to
an average of £l2O per annum, are building up
these generous instalments of their own free oice.
But more probably the business, whoever may be
responsible for it, works out to nothing less than a
peculiarly mean piece of blackmail. The Bul-
letin knoivs that many of the contributions
are sent in with feelings of loathing and
contempt, and merely because, in the dependent
position of the contributors, they feel that it is a
choice between submission and either being frozen
for once and all to some lower grado in the service,
for which the ingenuities of officialdom can easily
find independent cxcuso; or, perchance, on some
flimsy pretext, fired out of it altogether. It will
bo the simplest thing in the world to send forth a
smug contradiction to the case, as hero set
out--the simplest thing in the world to deny that
the faintest hint savoring of pressure has been
used. There are, however, numberless methods of
conveying threats otherwise than by spoken words.
The question stands wholly apart from sympathy
with, or antipathy to, the causes which have made
for the war with the South African Republic. Nor
would it be less than an impertinence to offer a
word of comment either upon action or motive, as
regards those members of the community whose
views of the situation prompt them voluntarily to
contribute to patriotic or other forms pf war fund.
But the pretence that tho free initiative of the
public school teachers of New South Wales has
anything to do with the enormous tax of £2OOO,
with instalments yet to come, departmentally
levied upon them for the purpose of subduing tho
Transvaal, runs to an experiment upon human
credulity which one should hesitate to propound
even to the corps of marines.
♦
The most astonished and bitterly-aggrieved organ
in all Australasia at ChamrerlainG partial for-
saking of his proposed amendments was Brisbane
Courier. This plastic journal had been vigor-
ously defending Chamberlain’s would-be altera-
tions for weeks ; had been whooping joyously for
the interests of the Empire; had been patting
Oily Jimmy Dickson on the back and hailing
him as the First of Patriots. And then came
the incredible tidings that Chamberlain was
actually “turning dog” on the Empire. There
was but one thing left and that was to castigate
Chamberlain. Wherefore, the Courier set to
work and showed conclusively that Joseph’s first
attitude (in mangling the Bill that expressed the
will of the Australian people) was perfectly cor-
rect ; that his subsequent decision not to mangle
it quite so badly was a most damnable proceed-
ing ; and that Delegate Dickson was the only
consistent champion of the Empire. Listen to the
mournful conclusion :
The wise man among the delegates and the man
who most deserves well of his constituents is the man who
has been boycotted for his willingness to have the clause
(74) expunged. For the working of clause 74 as it now
stands we can only trust to that strong common sense and
irrepressible recognition of justice, etc. etc.
Isn’t it touching ? And, in spite of it all, Bob
Philp didn’t get ennobled, the Courier didn’t
get any kudos for Imperial patriotism and James
Dickson is still plain Oily Jimmy— and likely to
stay so !
If the present Queensland Govt, is as good as its
word—if its Premier didn’t simply lose his head
at a public festivity and run wild—then it is going
to put up a record which will make even the old
Boodle Governments fade into insignificance :
At the Stock Exchange smoke concert held to-night in
honor of the relief of Mafeking, the Premier, in replying
to the toast of the Ministry, acknowledged the excellent
support accorded himself and his colleagues by the mining
industry, and the great advantage accruing to the country
by the ‘energetic development of the mineral resources.
He said he might take them into his confidence in
stating that the Ministry was prepared to meet any legiti-
mate mining proposition which covered the building
of railways to places where the nature of the country
made the risk too great for the Govt. The Govt, had
under consideration proposals for five or six private lines,
and was inclined to extend approval to any private syndi-
cate that would come to Queensland to build railways to
open up mines which it was undesirable for the Govt, to
undertake on account of the risk. Further, it had been
abundantly proved that private enterprise could work
mining railways cheaper than the Govt.
Considering that none of Queensland’s privately-
owned mining railways has really got to work yet,
Premier Philp’s. “abundant proof ” of their extra
cheapness requires some explanation. But no one
was expected to be very accurate on the night of
the Mafeking drunk.
4,
The withdrawal of Dr. Abrahams, representative
of the Hebrew churches, from the Vic. Royal
Commission on religious instruction in State
schools should sober the zealots who dream of
drafting what, if successful, would really be a new
brand of State religion. When years ago the
Mikado sent a commission to Europe to collect
the points of the various creeds professed there so
that he might, by picking and choosing, produce a
new, up-to-date religion for his Japanese subjects,
a mighty burst of laughter went up from the
Christian churches; but the Mikado was no more
ridiculous than are the doctrinal enthusiasts who
constitute tho Vic. Royal Commission. If the
members sat to establish a gamut of juvenile
ethics, some broad principles could be successfully
applied to all State-school pupils; but only cracked
brains or the unholy hunt after personal adver-
tisement could bring men together to devise a
positive religious formulary suitable alike for the


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £58,373,185
Increase in Assets during 1899 ... ... .*. 4 546 248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12 711 975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... ... ... 793 123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
R ?H U fL.° ve ? LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Omce in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L C •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; E. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, E.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
fg
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Fkee.
Solr. A rfents :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Christian who repudiates Judaism, the Jew who
repudiates Christianity, the Atheist who repudi-
ates both, and the Agnostic who knows notliing
about any of them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Pinafore.”
Royal “ Woman and Win#.”
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Criterion “ East Lynne.”
Palace Victor—illusionist.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Professor’s Lov# Story."
Her Majesty’s “Magda.”
Theatre Royal “ The Ladder of Life.”
Bijou Rickards’ Varietv 00.
Atiibnasum Hall War Biograph.
Town Hall Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
(Saturday Afternoon.)
Last week was largely a week of fading
away and shutting up in Sydney theatrical circles.
Charles Holloway was the first to go; he played
the “Shamrock and the Rose” for the last time
on Saturday night, and then hauled down his flag
and left the Lyceum tenantless. C. Holloway
had held the kopje valiantly for 60 weeks, and he
made an orderly and solvent retreat carrying, it
is alleged, very considerable profits with him.
The enemy, if there was one, didn’t manage to
overtake Billolloway’s relative as he retired. The
departing manager gave many good shows wherein
the badness of the drama was disguised by the
goodness of the scenery and the stage-manage-
ment, and he kept the Lyceum clean and respect-
able, and reasonably free from the incursion of
pea-nuts and other vegetables, whose public con-
sumption should be discouraged by all good
citizens.
** * *
The second week of his season finds
Victor, the Illusionist, hanging out the pale
shingle of a blameless life to moderate audiences at
Sydney Palace. Victor is a curly-headed man ;
most illusionists somehow appear to be curly-
headed, but whether their hair curls naturally or
not this writer is unaware. Also, he has found
that most curly-headed men are illusive. Victor
is alleged to be only 21 years of age, and a self-
taught genius in that profession which consists so
largely m borrowing the audience’s hat and then
publicly finding baby-linen in it, and on that
basis he is a marvel. But his tricks are
mostly those of the late lamented Dante (the
famous Burnt Woman and the finding of
the dinner in the drain-pipe among them),
and he does them almost as well as
Dante but not quite so decisively. As a
ventriloquist he is excellent, but ventriloquism i 3
rather a weary art. His best and neatest perform-
ance is probably when he makes the slim, non-
committal-looking boy lie on nothing in the
atmosphere. Victor is rather a wearisome patterer.
His remark as he seizes each new piece of
apparatus, “ I now take a box ” or “I now take a
sheet of paper ” gets on the nerves. He is always
“ now taking ” a house or a tank or an elephant or
a sleep or a bath or something, and, though he
never takes anything that doesn’t belong to. him,
the expression becomes monotonous as time rolls
°n. The Bulletin hasn’t quite made up its mind
about Victor, but if he was not such a close
mutator of Dante his prospects would be better.
There is to be a great military and official night
at the Palace this (Thursday) evening.
** * *
Everybody’s old friend, Bland Holt, is due
at Sydney Royal on Saturday with “ Women and
Wine”—a play which is new to Sydney. The
name sounds attractive, at all events, though the
British are not a wine-drinking race, and “ Women
and Beer ” would be more accurate. When this
issue reaches the public eye, therefore, the Brough
season will have only two more nights to run, and
Australia’s most reliable and consistent purveyor
of pleasant comedy will then leave for some place
whose gain will be Sydney’s loss. An Act of Par-
liament to keep Brough’s eo. compulsorily in the
country (except when Mrs. Brough is allowed to
fo for a holiday on heavy bail, and leaving her
est clothes behind as security for her reappear-
ance), with a State guarantee that the takings
won’t fall below a certain figure, is urgently
needed. Lyne’s title, and the official reports
about the infected area, and Fitzgibbon’s poems,
and Parson Boyce on the annual Drink Bill
are still with us, but they don’t compensate
for Brough. The last days of the departing
show have been tearful and scrappy, the public
supplying the grief, and Brough the scraps. Most
of the best pieces on the co. ’s list have had a one
or two nights’ revival, and the catalogue ends, as
usual, with “Dandy Dick” and “Niobe.” Brough
mostly winds up with “Niobe.” The story of the
ancient Greek lady who cursed at large on the
house-top of a modem London villa, having pre-
sumably got up there through the hole left for the
gas-man, seems to do more to alleviate the public
sorrow on a last night than any other production.
* # * *-
The massive Nance O’Neil is closing her
season at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, with a revival
of “Magda,” that drama wherein the prodigal
daughter comes back clothed in over £2OO worth
of raiment, and is forgiven conditionally by the
broad and bitter parent who threw her out years
previously without any visible reason for his vio-
lence. The new version is better than the old
one, chiefly by reason of the substitution of
Thomas Kingston for Clay Clements as the pastor.
Magda relents towards the pastor, especially
when he tells her how her father became a harm-
less lunatic after her departure and a public
gatherer of caterpillars on the highway; and at
the end it is left in doubt whether she marries him
or goes back to the stage to live once more by
selling her top-note to an appreciative public.
The author seems to have purposely left the mat-
tsr in doubt. And the old pastor was so distinctly
a part of the old, stuffy, drab, commonplace life
—the sleepy, respectable existence with tne dread-
ful horsehair sofa in it—that the possibility of
Magda wedding him was too awful. Kingston
looks a cheerful possibility, at all events, and not
a well-meaning hearse. Harry Plimmer is now
the dull lawyer, who was the father of Magda’s in-
fant, and he is also an improvement on his
predecessor. The man with whom Magda goes
astray shouldn’t look utterly stodgy. These re-
marks are in the nature of a farewell to the co.,
which is leaving for Melbourne to take possession
of the biggest theatre in Australia—the resurrected
Alick, now also called Her Majesty’s. William-
son s new opera co. comes to Sydney in its stead,
and starts on Saturday with good old “Pinafore.”
** * *
“ East Lynne ” is still bathed in woe at
Sydney Criterion, and a tearful audience, mostly
women,. takes Archibald Carlyle as its model.
Part of it wonders if it will ever have the chance
to marry such a heavenly man, and the other half
repines because some such weary saint didn’t come
its way earlier. Mrs. Henry Wood’s heroes are
practically all built on the same pattern; they are
tall, calm, holy, dignified, conscientious, and look
at you with a mild eye while they utter platitudes
in a frock-coat. None of them are athletic, or are
described as having any particular muscle, and
they never do anything wrong ; they are merely
tall and holy and mild and dignified. Mrs.
Henry W.’s tall heroes are ever mentioned as
taking a bath, but if they did they almost cer-
tainly did it with their clothes on lest they should
shock their own modesty. Archibald Carlyle is
one of the tallest and most sacred bores in Mrs.
W.’s museum, and any person willing to subscribe
towards a society for his suppression is invited to
communicate with this office.
** * «
At Sydney Tivoli the latest production of
the silent Martinettis is a tragedy-burlesque in
which the star dies pathetically while turning
somersaults. Strange that so clever a man as
Martinetti should always make the same fatal
mistake of drawing his things out too long and
thin. Lion Comique Bain continues to roar his
cheerful parody on the Preoccupied Mendicant.
The much-boomed “Dainty Irene Franklin,” with
the famous songful paws, is not up to boom stan-
dard. She glides on to the stage and reminds one
of a charming little school-girl who has lost her-
self. She sings nicely and refinedly, and makes
quiet, pretty gestures; but her voice is not un-
usual m any way.
** * *
Melbourne thus far has taken kindly to
J. C. Williamson’s new theatre, so the conversion
of the shabby “ Aleck ” into Her Majesty’s looks
like one of those deeds which should have been
done long ago. Refurnished, painted, gilded,
carpeted, and with a lot of new light on the im-
provements inside and outside, Her Majesty’s
is already an A 2 place. Further improvements
will qualify it for the A 1 degree. The whisky
that maketh glad the heart of man between the
acts is not obtainable on these unlicensed pre-
mises, but seeing that the same objection applies
to certain other theatres, where liquid refresh-
ment spells insanity and death, and no reasoning
mortal ever dreams of buying a drink, Her
Majesty’s is not seriously affected by the lack of
bar room. Women like it all the better on that
account. They get more male society and less
aroma of cloves and coffee-beans during the
evening. Meanwhile, the present scribe regrets
to have discovered a pub. next door to the pit
entrance.
* • * *
Comic opera-cwn-biograph has filled the
bill these two weeks. On Saturday a revival of
“Pirates of Penzance” brought Miss Winston-
Weir into Melbourne notice, and the lady’s high
soprano voice was thankfully encored. She walks
through her task in a colorless style, without any
pretensions to take first prize in a beauty-show,
but she warbles “Poor Wandering One” more
effectively than any previous Mabel in Australia
—bar one. Years ago Frances Saville sang the
part at the Princess’s, and the artist who can beat
her record must have a rather sweeter voice than
Miss Winston-Weir’s. All the same, the new-
comer is a charming singer. Wallace Brownlowas
the Pirate King, Kenningham as the humane ap-
prentice, and < leo. Lauri, whose major-general is a
broad caricature of Lord Roberts, come next to
the chorus in order of merit. The chorus is more
than half the battle in “The Pirates.” Miss
Dorothy Vane has been doomed to impersonate a
large, unprepossessing person aged 47, on this
occasion, and perhaps it is because Miss V. feels
about 9 inches too short and 6 stone too light for
the character that she doesn’t trouble to appear
less than 20 years too young. But the absurdity
of little Miss Vane as poor old Ruth is only a
shocking detail, for which the chorus, especially
the girl part of it, makes ample atonement.
* * *
Miss Nance O’Neil and the dramatic co.
from Sydney are to appear at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday (2nd). Manager J.O.W. has stated to
sundry interviewers that he was prompted in the
first place to lease the theatre for the particular
purpose of producing Miss O’Neil, therefore Mel-
bourne looks forward to her with particular agita-
tion, and has already begun to call her Nance, as
though she were one of the family. Nance will
make her first impression in “ Magda.”
** * *
At M'elb. Princess’s the rushful narrative
of “Jones ” will quit the bill on Friday. Bagman
Jones and the impossible things that happen to
him have proceeded for several weeks, and this
week is the time when the tail-end of public
patronage comes wagging to the pay-box as a
matter of duty. On Saturday (2nd) Charles
Arnold and co. will take themselves more seriously
in “The Professor’s Love Story,” a quaint, senti-
mental comedy by J. M. Barrie, “The Little
Minister” man. This is said to be one of the
prettiest little plays produced in London since
V.R. had her last jubilee, and the second act
appeals to agricultural sympathy with a wheat-
field scene.
«* * *
The Haytors, who were well-beloved by
Australia three years ago, are back again under
some more engagment to Rickards, and their new
outbreak at the Bijou got a joyful reception last
Saturday. The one very weak item at the Bijou
just now is a golden-haired lady who sings long
songs about dying orphans, and appears to have
been born under a gloomy star. Otherwise the
programme is mostly up to proof strength, or a
few degrees higher. Four young daughters of
Williams give a couple of pleasant turns, Miss
Francie Adler’s singing is almost worthy of her
tuneful pedigree, and Amann, Charles Seel, little
Fannie Powers, and many people worth mention-
ing are in their places as usual.
** * #
At the Athenseum Hall the British Bio-
graph Co. (Lim.), are giving two shows daily of
the most striking Bio. pictures that have struck
this continent up to date. Some of them can
hardly be said to flicker, and the figures in all cases
have the lifelike movement which is only obtain-
able from films working at the rate of 40 to the
second or thereabouts. Among the war pictures
the finest is a view of Spion Kop district, with
Buller’s ambulances and stretcher-bearers wending
their weary way down from the abandoned grave-
yard. Some of the stormy seascapes are photo-
graphic marvels, and the picture where a cavalry
horse blunders at an exercise jump and rolls over
its rider is a thrilling incident, especially for the
rider, who escapes every time with a severe pain in
the ribs.
*
Scherek’s Orchestra, with 50 instruments
on the platform, started another season at Melb.
Town Hall last Saturday. All things considered,
the Orchestra did remarkably well in sundry
classic compositions of the class that is not too
advanced for the average man in the street. Also
Miss Una Bourne, now grown very long for a
somewhat short skirt, distinguished herself more
than ever in a Rubenstein concerto, whereas tire
lady who gave an aria from “Robert the Devil”
didn’t distiuguish herself at all. Next Saturday
afternoon the soloists will be Mrs. Grace Ward,
and violinist Zelman, junior.
** * *
The same old “Ladder of Life” is up
against them at Melb. Royal, and the last nights
of the cockney Heelanders are still waiting for
announcement.
The essential lesson of Dr. Tidswell's
plague-discourse to N.S.W. Medical Association
is, keep on kill in;/ rats —even if the plague dies out
altogether. Otherwise the rats who were driven
away will presently return to their old infected
haunts ; and the plague will be born anew.
The Federal delegates seem to be lying
placidly at rest at the very time when they should
be fighting hardest. Chamberlain's so-called
“concessions” (like all diplomatists, he claimed
more than he ever meant to enforce) have ap-
parently blinded them to the gist of the matter —
which is that the Imperial Parliament has no
business to alter the Commonwealth Bill at all.
A Bendigo (Vic.) miner recently wagered
that he would eat 20 hard-boiled eggs at a sitting.
Numerous side-wagers were laid, and his friends
freely accepted even-money about the event. It
looked a certainty for the ogre’s backers till the
15th egg was swallowed, but over the 19th they
dropped their money, thus losing by two points.
The crowd around the Melbourne Yarra-
bank “ orators ” was, on a recent Sunday, treated
to a little diversion, when a beery old gent fell
into the smellsome stream. A life-buoy was
thrown to him, but in his vain struggles to get it
round him he would probably have gone under
had not a bystander advised him to walk out—
which he did, the water just there being only
waist-deep.
Queensland is about to hang aboriginal
Broome, convicted of a criminal assault and sub-
sequent murder near Stanton Harcourt. No
hanging has taken place in Kanakaland for eight
years. At latest the hanging had been postponed
because it was suspected that a white man had
taken a hand in the crime.
Melbourne Evenin’ ’Erald says that
President Kruger is “in his own uneducated way,
a student of the Bible.” “ His own uneducated
way” is good. Millions of Bibles are hawked
around the world every year, translated into every
language, and forced upon people who have to
take the dose in “their own uneducated way,”
That’s just what is contended for—the right of in-
dividual interpretation, and the jealous main-
tenance of the privilege has produced the various
splittings-up of Protestantism. The Holy
Romans know better, and let their tohungas run
the Book. But, poor old Paul, —to fall even under
the lash of the Evenin’ ’Erald’s irony !
The A.U.S.N. Co issues a neat guide for
the Australian coast containing much information
about where to go for a holiday with ease and com-
fort and how to enjoy one’s self when one has got
there. There are time and distance tables to show
how to reach any part of the Continent in the
shortest time, and several portraits of people who
just now are kicking up more or less dust; also an
interesting account of every sea-port town in
Australia. Altogether it is a very useful volume.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Perplexed : Impossible to advise without
much more information. Can't trace the co. How much
were the shares ? How much paid up ? How many had
you ? And did the articles of association provide for any
“reserve liability of shareholders” over and above
nominal amount of shares? Everything depends on
these points.
* • • *
“ Geo. Wil.”: Have never known any
to draw a prize in that Hamburg lottery. ,
Revenue returns for April, 1900, published
rather late:—
Increase as
Revenue for compared
April, 1900. with April,
_ lr . 1899.
Westralia .. .. £253,652 £55,950
New South Wales .. 891,012 40,182
Queensland .. .. 301,438 10 443
Tasmania .. .. 82,814 9,044
Decrease as
compared
with April,
... . . 1899.
Victoria .. .. 676,528 19,246
The results for as much of the financial year as has ex-
pired, or as much of it as is covered by the published
returns (that is to say, for 12 months up to 31st March in
Maoriland, 9 months to 31st March in S.A., 10 months to
SOth April in Westralia, Victoria, N.S.VV.,and Queensland
and 4 months to 30th April in Tasmania) are as follows :
Increase ns
compared with
corresponding
period of last
Revenue. year.
N.S.W .. (10 months) £8,256,753 £469,812
Maoriland.. (12 „ ) 5,099,617 441,389
Queensland (10 „ ) 3,857,992 388,033
Westralia .. (10 „ ) 2,333,180 335,445
S.A. ..(9 „ ) 1,995,720 88,207
Tasmania .. ( 4 „ ) 347,268 33,457
Victoria .. (10 „ ) 6,032,545 11,450
If these are reduced to a common basis the
amount of increase per inhabitant per annum (taking
Ooghlan’s latest estimates of population) is as follows :
Increase of revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia • £2 7 1
Queensland . .. .. 19 3
Maoriland .. .. .. 11 8
Tasmania .. .. „ 11 0
New South Wales .. „ 8 4
South Australia .. ... 6 4
Victoria 3
Maoriland ended its financial year with a
glorious surplus of £559,490, and there was £45,80 left
out of the previous year’s surplus (after transferring
£450,000 to the Public Works Fund), so the total credit
balance is £605,351. In view of these facts it seems as if
Maoriland could now afford to start a sinking fund, after
the South Australian fashion, for the gradual repayment
of its public debt, or swear off all further foreign borrow-
ing, or do something a little more than usually unusual
in the way of repairing the terrible financial blunders of
the old Tory regime.
New South Wales, despite its great increase of
revenue, has a deficit of £271,183 on the ten months’
operations, and there are only two months left in which
to get the accounts square. Probably they can be
squared if Premier Lyne follows Reid’s nefarious dodge
of not debiting the year ending 30th June, 1900, with the
interest on certain loans for the half-year from Ist
January to 30th June, but shunts that charge into next
year. Otherwise the prospect is only moderately bright.
No doubt, it will be rough on Lyne if he does
put this dismal fraud right, for then he will have
to pay 18 months’ interest on certain loans in one year ;
but on the other hand if he doesn’t put it right then the
awful Reid might almost as well have stayed in. And
the Lyne Government is making a fearful and wonderful
splash with loan expenditure. During the past 10 months
it spent £1,881,018 of borrowed money, which is £244,005
more, than was spent in the first 10 months of last financial
year.
Westralia for the ten months ended 30th April
spent £228,741 less than its revenue, and the deficit was
thus reduced from £247,349 to £18,608. Unless some-
thing unexpected goes wrong, Westralia should pay off
all its deficit this year.
Queensland has a surplus on the ten months of
£682,680, but large bills for interest yet to come in will
probably swallow this up. With ail its huge increase of
revenue the increase of expenditure is still larger, and
Queensland is £4311 worse off than it was at this time last
year. And this is despite a large increase of loan expendi-
ture which is £959,875 for two months (£2 7s per inhabi-
tant per annum), or £114,404 more than the loan
expenditure of the corresponding ten months of last year.
The short and simple tale of the present Australiap boom
seems to he : Loans make a fictitious and artificial pros-
perity. The prosperity, while it lasts, makes increased
revenue. Therefore, the province which is spending
loan money most furiously has the biggest revenue in-
crease, and the next biggest borrower has the next biggest
increase, and the smallest borrower has the smallest in-
crease.
South Australia’s revenue increased by £88,207
for the first nine months of the financial year, and its
expenditure increased by £lo2,lo6—largely through the
Contingent disease. Up to 31st March the shortage was
£24,535. The Treasurer still keeps a stiff upper lip and
talks about an assured surplus, but prospects look none
too certain.


i
*0
A
£ETZ-$F
■v
TME
IttflG!
mmn
imi
feaiEi
,fi£
ZETZspringN
iILLHOII
fityg«W’
fiOddVQO snouißj @
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
imr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 '
PACKED IN 4, 2 &. 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Eros. & Co., Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents; M, Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax’Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %
Bone Ash. Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81"/.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitl-xt., Sydney; 68 Currie-st Adel.; V Eaqle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellinciton, Nit. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilatin';, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
Victoria had a big improvement in its revenue
in the earlier months of the year, but it is fast disappear-
ing, and at the present rate the chances are that the last
shreds of the dreadful Shiels’s reputatian as a financier
will fade by June 30. Shiels assumed the year’s revenue
at £7,294,000, indignantly throwing aside the cautious
Turner’s previous estimate of £7,156,225. On Shiels’s
figures the 10 months’ receipts should have been
£6,078,334, so that rash old-young man is already about
£46,000 behind. No expenditure accounts are published,
but Shiels’s estimates showed a probable deficit of £2OOO,
or so, even if he got all the revenue he expected. And
Shiels is a Jonah sitting under a fast-withering monetary
gourd.
* * * *
The City of Melbourne has a municipally-owned
electric-lighting system, which is making steady progress.
It isn’t a very large affair as yet, but it is growing and
extending, and if all greater Melbourne was one munici-
pality instead of about a dozen, so that the whole area
could be served by one system, it would probably grow
very much faster. For the year ended 28th Feb., 1900,
the city’s electric-lighting business paid full interest on
cost of construction (4 per cent, on £112,402=£4496), pro-
vided £3372 towards the sinking-fund which is to cover
repairs and repayment of borrowed money, and left a very
handsome profit of £4163. The municipality borrowed
£112,402 for the establishment of its electric-lighting sys-
tem so far as it has gone, and it has already accumulated
a sinking-fund of £17,364 and a profit-balance of £4968,
which makes £22,332 available towards repayment of bor-
rowed money. If the municipality continues to manage
its affairs as well as this, the time must come when Mel-
bourne will have a complete municipally-owned electric-
lighting system absolutely free of debt, and returning a
splendid profit annually to help the city revenue.
• • • *
The Australian Mutual Provident Society issues
its 51st annual report (that for 1899). The principal
figures from this vigorous and prosperous-looking docu-
ment compare with those of previous years as follows :
Premiums, in-
cluding con- Interest, Total Added to
sideration for <kc. income. Funds.
Annuities.
1892 .. £1,257,785 .. £649,214 .. £1.906,999 .. £796,412
1893.. 1,272,171.. 669,779.. 1,941,950.. 626,138
1894.. 1,270,835.. 699,654.. 1,970,489.. 480,654
1895.. 1,311,585.. 698,259.. 2.009,844.. 727,372
1896.. 1,333,211 .. 696,433 .. 2,029,674 .. 565,927
1897 .. 1,374,296.. 706,270.. 2,080,566.. 751,039
1898 .. 1,431,570 .. 720,607.. 2,152,177.. 699,471
1899 .. 1,510,689 .. 732,955 .. 2,243,644 .. 895,691
There are some notable points about the A. M.P.’s latest
balance-sheet. The year just closed showed the largest
premium income, the largest income from interest, and
the largest addition to the funds in the society’s record ;
and these are things ti be proud of. On the other hand,
expenses have gone up, and the rate of interest realised
on investments keeps going down. For the last nine
years expenses have been as follows upon total income :
1891 .. £9 8 10 percent. 1896 .. £8 18 2 per cent.
1892 ..9 6 2 „ 1897 .. 8 13 0
1893 .. 8 15 6 „ 1898 .. 8 19 10 „
1894 ..8 7 0 „ 1899 ..9 7 7 „
1895 ..876 „
The increase is not very great, however, and it
still leaves the A.M.P. the most cheaply-managed life-
office in Australasia, and one of the most cheaply-
managed in the world. But the drop in the rate of in-
terest realised on the funds is more serious. For the last
nine years the A.M.P.’s pile has produced the following
return :
1891 .. £5 19 1 per cent. 1896 .. £6 0 6 per cent.
1892 .. 5 18 3 „ 1897 .. 4 17 0 „
1893 .. 5 13 6 „ 1898 .. 4 14 10 „
1894 ~ 5 11 10 „ 1899 .. 4 11 10 „
1895 ..562 „
This is a great and continuous decline, and though all other
offices are in the same situation it is none the less un-
pleasant. The estimates are based on the assumption
that the society’s assets will only yield £3 10s. per cent,
per annum in the future, so there is still a solid tl Is. lOd.
to work upon, but the margin has narrowed so fast that
there are already fears that it may prove too small. So
it is mentioned as one of the possibilities of the future
that a further reduction of estimated interest—probably
to 3 per cent. —may have to be faced, and £48,813 is
wisely set apart as the beginning of a further reserve for
the purpose. The A.M.P. is the first Australasian office
to lay its plans for a reduction of estimated interest
below 3J per cent. The fall in interest is partly owing
to the fact that the A.M.P. Society keeps a far
larger proportion of its funds in Government securities
than it used to eft. Possibly it is also owing in some
small part to the fact that some of the securities are not
worth the values set against them. The A.M.P. has a re-
serve of £266,692 to cover depreciation, and if it wrote
this sum off the values, instead of keeping the reserve on
one side and the full paper values on the other, it would
certainly make the interest rate look better. Its method
of bookkeeping is against it in this particular.
In most respects, however, the balance-sheet
looks perfectly satisfactory. The amount of interest in
arrear is moderate if the sum mentioned is all the interest
in arrear. “ Properties acquired by foreclosure, £624,420 ”
is a pretty large item and the worst-looking one on the
list, but as the A.M.P. is not largely expanding its mort-
gage business, it will probably not increase much further.
Tnere are no “agents’ balances” or “office furniture”
among the assets, nor any “ deferred instalments of
annual premiums.” There is a very fine surplus of
£506,183 for division—this after setting aside £48,813
with a view to a further reduction of interest-estimates
and writing £12,375 off securities. Probably the really
objectionable feature is that another attempt is to be
made to spread the society’s business to “ other parts of
the British Empire,” instead of confining it to Australasia
as heretofore. In most other parts of the British Empire
mortality is far higher than in Australasia. In some of
them interest-rates are even lower than they are here, low
as our rates have fallen of late, and both these matters
mean possible loss. Moreover, it is possible to spread a
business beyond the limits of proper supervision. And,
in any case, it is always a good thing to know when to let
well alone, and, if the A.M.P. doesn’t feel that it is doing
well enough, it is a sour and dissatisfied institution.
* • » •
The Bank of New South Wales, with a net
profit of £99,859 for the half-year to 31st March, 1900,
shows the best results it has produced since the days of
the 1893 crisis. Its earnings in these seven troublous
years have fluctuated as follows :
March, 1893 ..£111,376 March, 1897 .. £87,898
September, 1893. 83,033 September, 1897. 89,462
March, 1894 .. 78,451 March, 1898 .. 88,128
September, 1894. 78,615 September, 1898. 88,042
March. 1895 .. 81,714 March, 1899 .. 88.738
September, 1895. 84,737 September, 1899. 89,544
March, 1896 86,460 March, 1900 .. 99,859
September, 1896. 87,661
Said profits are at the rate of £6 6s. 10d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds. The B.N.S.W.’s
capital has now been raised to £2.000,000 by the sale of
the remaining £50,000 worth of shares, and the usual 9
ner cent dividend therefore runs to £90,000. _ The
premium on the new shares (£46,406) and from
profits are added to the reserve fund making it £l,-50,000,
and £26,280 is carried forward. The grand old bank has
put up some remarkable rcsults dunng the haff-. ear Its
deposits have increased from £19,09.),321 to £-L2i2, ,
note circulation has increased from *»33,464A0 £916,1i6 ,
cash on hand has expanded from £4,,61,552 to£6 481,445 ,
and cash and liquid securities taken together have boomed
up from £6,715,029 to £9,149,927. The B.N.S.W has the
largest deposit business in Australasia, the largest resei e-
fund, the largest cash reserve, pays away tergest sum
in dividends, is the oldest bank—in fact, it holds all the
records worth holding, save three : It hasn t the Ingest
paid-up capital, it doesn’t pay the largest percentage of
dividend, and it doesn’t show the biggest percentage of
earnings in proportion to the shareholders funds. In all
other respects, however, it is on top.
The Bank of Australasia had a great time for
the half-year ended 16th October, 1899 (the ’Asia s balance-
sheets are aged history before they reach this country).
Profits were £119,870, which compare with some previous
earnings in this wise :
October, 1892 .. £80,346 October, 1896 .. £40,400
April 1893 .. 60,742 April, 1897 .. 45,3i6
October, 1893 .. 60,607 October, 1897 .. 40,278
April 1894 .. 48,571 April, 1898 .. 48,547
October, 1894 .. 45,735 October, 1898 .. 64,148
April, 1895 .. 40,854 April, 1899 .. 56,312
October, 1895 .. 41,159 October, 1899 .. 119,8i0
April, 1896 .. 40,568 . .
The management admits frankly that this isn t all
ordinary earnings, but includes unusually large sums
(amount of same unknown) recovered from debts
previously written off as bad. Still it seems that
business is improving all round with the ’Asia. The
half-year’s earnings (including the recoveries) are at
the rate of £9 19s. 9d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (capital £1,600,000, reserve- fund
£800,000), which is something exceptional. A dividend
at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum absorbs £64,000 (the
’Asia’s dividend was 10 per cent, in’92 ; 7J in’93; 6 in
’94 ; 6 per cent, for ’95, ’96 and ’97 ; 6 per cent, again in
’9B; 7 per cent, for the first half of ’99, and now 8 per
cent.) ; £20,000 is written off premises account; £35,000
is added to reserve-fund, making it £835,000 —the first
addition to the reserve for a dozen years ; and the re-
maining £B7O, added to previous balance, leaves £11,153
to carry forward. This is quite an unusual awakening
from the old, respectable, petrified condition of the ’Asia,
which seemed to have abandoned all ideas of further ex-
pansion. There is a further small increase in deposits
which are now £13,646,325, and the reserve of cash and
liquid securities is as solid as usual, being £5,795,920,
equal to 34 per cent, on all liabilities to the public. Also
the balance-sheet winds up as heretofore, with the
honored signatures of Jeans, manager, and Blogg, account-
ant. This world would seem los and lonesome without
that familiar autograph of Blogg, accountant.
• • • *
The balance-sheet of the West Australian Bank
for the half-year ended 26th March, 1900, shows a further
drop in earnings. It is only the second audited balance-
sheet this bank has issued —for something like 58 years it
didn’t even profess to possess the luxury of an auditor —
and apparently the decline in profits and the audit com-
menced together. Earnings of recent years have been :
June, 1894 .. £8,387 June, 1897 ..£19,685
December, 1894.. 9,623 December, 1897.. 18,251
June, 1895 .. 10,315 June, 1898 .. 15,542
December, 1895.. 10,972 March, 1899(9 mos ) 29,763
June, 1896 .. 12,281 September, 1899.. 13,736
December, 1896.. 16,703 March, 19 )0 .. 11,779
The profits are equivalent to £7 17s. Id. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital £lOO,OOO,
reserve fund £200,000), as against £9 3s. 2d. per cent, for
previous half-year and £lB 4s. 7d. per cent for the period
to March, 1899. A dividend at the rate of 17| per cent,
per annum absorbs 1-8750, and the other £3029, added to
previous balance, leaves £17,307 at credit of profit and
loss. Business in some respects has improved, but
advances have diminished, and the W.A. Bank has the
enormous sum of £791,641 coin and bullion in its coffers
—equal, without reckoning £280,000 of other liquid
securities, to 47 per cent, on all liabilities to the public.
The Board remarks sadly that cheap money is invading
the province, and profitable outlets for the bank’s cash
are becoming scarcer than they were. Certainly an insti-
tution which keeps practically the whole of its current
account deposits, or a sum equal to more than 2J times
its capital and reserve fund, on hand in specie, is an
unusual kind of bank, and with all this non-profit-earning
dead-weight it is surprising that the profits are so large
as they are. When the cheap-money invasion is a little
further advanced there will probably be a further decline
in earnings unless the institution climbs out of its quiet
old groove in something of a hurry.
* • * •
The Citizens’ Life Co. has had bad luck and
good luck over the War. Two of its big military “ risks”
—Major Eddy (£2600) and Surgeon Hopkins (£3OOO) —fell
due for payment some weeks ago, also two or three £250
insurances among the First Contingents from S. Australia
and Tasmania. But, whereas the Tassy and S.A. Govern-
ments closed with the Citizens’ Life Co.’s offer at the time
when the Australian troops were supposed to be booked
for a picnic rather than a campaign, the Vic. Govt, didn’t
want to insure their Contingent until things began to look
ugly. Then the company told the Govt, to go away and
whistle for the chance it had so unwisely refused.
* • * •
The two rival tramway-purchase syndicates are
both advertising their private bills in the Adelaide press,
but Premier Holder has thrown a bombshell into their
camps by announcing that the Government will oppose
both schemes. Holder saj's the Govt, has not decided
whether it will go for municipal control or buy and run
the lines itself. Meanwhile the action of Adelaide
Corporation in throwing away its rights to “ W. Gentry-
Bingham’s” London syndicate has produced healthy
opposition among local bodies.
* • * *
A company has been floated in Dunedin (M.L.)
to exploit a patent mode of branding export mutton,
which is free from the disadvantages of those now in use.
The brand is applied to the warm carcase, and by suction
the skin is raised into any desired pattern. The brand
stands out in relief as clean as that on a pat of butter.
m * • •
“ F.” replies to “ Kitten ” in last issue : “Some
six months ago Yamba Syndicate, comprising the private
land-owners on the lease area, were blocked by the tech-
nical objection of a party who claimed the same area
irrespective of the co.’s priority and of the proprietary
rights of the owners of the banks. Syndicate asked Mines
Dept, to at once brush aside objection, which they re-
garded as merely vexatious, and it has taken the Dept,
six months to do six minutes’ work. This must be done
before co. can send “ Kitten ” and 100 others the shares
applied for.”
* • * *
N.S.W. Mining.—The Soldier’s-Hill diamond
and tin co. is the first Australian diamond-mining co. to
pay a div. The fine 40-head Gallymont Mill goes to Mount
Bo’ppv, which shows a strong low-grade lode, and is being
handled in earnest by the Anglo-Aus. Exploration Co.
The Conrad mine, Bora Creek, contains, it is averred, one
of the longest shoots of silver-lead ore known in the
world. Four miles of outcrop show excellent promise.
Mount Drysdale threatens a Is. div.
• * m m
Blayney (N.S.W.) mine is said to have found a
very important new lode; and it is averred that when
Burraga mine (N.S. W.) gets two blast furnaces to work it
will produce more copper than Great Cobar. Lewis
Lloyd, Burraga’s former owner, used to aver that he could
smelt 12 per cent, ore nearly all the time.
• • • •
How long are the Australian Governments
going to let Bull, of London Stock Exchange, play confi-
dence and other tricks with our (the Australian public’s)
mines ? For the Australian public hasn’t sold its mines—
it has only leased them—to Bull. Yet Bull is permitted
to act as if he owned them, and as if Australia had no
further interest in them. Bull, as mining matters now
stand in Australia, is allowed to publicly gamble with
loaded dice. The Bulletin means to agitate until no
mining lease is issued in any Australian province which
does not provide for the regular inspection of all mines by
expert State-officials, and the prompt publication of their
reports ; also, for the inspection at any reasonable time
. of any mine by any shareholder therein or his appointed
agent, and by the press.
» » * •
“Moses Moss,” of London Truth, continues to
predict great things for the Westralian mines and market.
Seven or eight weeks ago he foretold a substantial
advance and a great recovery in values. The “Bear”
raid waB nearly over. A satisfactory and wholesome
lesson was about to be administered to the ursine brigade.
He proceeded to give ruling prices and to indicate how
much higher they were going. Kalgoorlie Miner has
long been in the habit of clipping out this boomer’s
article and publishing it weekly—of course on account of
the “ nice ” things he always says of the Westralian
mines. This particular article must have been rushed in
without much editorial discrimination. Hence we have
the sad spectacle of the prices given by “M.M.” when
they were supposed to be at their lowest, right beside
the prices ruling in London and Adelaide on the day the
article was republished. Brown Hills were £lO 12s. 6d.
in one column and £8 12s. 6d. in the other —only a fall of
£2 per share in six weeks, while “M.M.” predicted a
much higher rise in a much less time. Lake Views re-
presented a drop of over £3 a share while that of Ivan-
hoes was nearly as great. In Associateds the difference
was between £5 10s. and 70s. ; Golden Links were repre-
sented by a drop of £l, and so on ad infinitum,. For one
day, anyhow, the Miner made itself a comic paper.
• » • *
Bayley’s Great Oversight: Reconstruction has
broughtabout new machinery, which was startedunderthe
influence of champagne recently at Coolgardie. If the name
of this mine indicates that Bayley made a great mistake
in not pegging it out then it has taken a mighty long
time to prove the fact.
* • * •
Golden Horseshoe: Chairman C. D. Rase
recently told shareholders that the sulphide question
at Hannan’s was greatly misunderstood there
was no difficulty in treating the ore, it was
merely a question of the best method for getting
the best extraction at the lowest cost. Exactly—
but in this is often involved a great deal of difficulty.
The Associated treated the ore and got some gold out,
but it left too much behind and the cost of getting the
little was too great. It seems a misnomer to call the ores,
in the deeper levels of the Hannan’s mines, “ Sulphides.”
The name would imply that they are heavy in
sulphur, whereas they are so low in sulphur as to
become refractory from the very want of it. They would
be much easier to treat if they were much heavier in
sulphur, and the presence of a higher per centage of
lime doesn’t improve things. Amalgamation is
next to impossible without previous roasting,
and C.vanidation is ineffective unless the dirt
is reduced to slime and then filter-pressed. Roasting
will probably be the most expensive item. The Diehl
process claims to do away with roasting, and to do with
bromo-c.vanide what cyanide itself has failed to accom-
plish. Where does the patent come in ? Hannan’s Star
is using it, but results are not yet given, if known.
Brown Hill Go. is also about to run it, and the Lake View
Oonsols is putting it in.
• • • •
Kalgurli was a fashionable local mine for
a long time. South Kalgurli held pride of place and
got a lot of local attention because it was thought it
would double its value as soon as the plant got to work,
but there being no signs of that, attention was recently
turned elsewhere. The Associated Northern Blocks have
got it now ; these shares have gone from tl to 48s. od.,
and have lately been hovering about 40s. in consequence
of the horrible shaking given to the Blocks’ parent—the
Associated. It has some rich ore here and there, but
apparently nothing to warrant present prices.
« * * •
Westralian Market has the mumps, and the
relief of Mafeking has had the opposite effect to that pre-
dicted. As a rule, Adelaide waits on London, but on
Monday morning after the relief, and before London Sab-
bath had expired, it started in to boom things. Even
Associateds appreciated to the extent of over £lOO,OOO.
Next morning everybody wanted to see the London
market cables before breakfast. Alas 1 the relief of Mafe-
king had given some of them a nasty knock. Ivanhoes
only dropped about a-quarter-of-a-million ; Lake Views
fell £150,000; Brown Hills, which nearly everybody
expected to firm on “ developments,” dropped from over
£9 to considerably under, and so all along the line. Some
people believe that the now-assured success of British
arms in S’Africa will have the effect of diverting attention
from Westralia to the Rand. It is unusual to have two
mining booms at one time. There is not enough enthu-
siasm or cash to go round. It would not, therefore, be
surprising to see the Westralian market even more
neglected in the course of a few weeks.
A big row is brewing over the Associated affair.
Ex-manager Irwin isn’t comfortable under the charges of
Chairman Landau and his expert. Irwin did not pick the
eyes out of the co.’s chute ; did not swear to the eternal
duration of good stuff in leases ; did not over-estimate
the value of the property, but under-estimates the
capacity of his successors and of the management to do
as well as he (Irwin) did. Between “bulls,” “bears,”
fighting directors, quarrelling managers, and jubilant
lawyers, pity the sorrows of poor shareholders who bought
scrip at £l3 10s., now down to under £3.
Stimulated by the rich strike at 900 ft.—said to
be 7ft. of stone sampling 25oz.—the Great Boulder
manager means to open out at 700, 800, 900 and 1000 ft.
before going down with the sink to 1100 ft. The bore-
holes in the face of the 1000 ft. level are reported to show
4oz. per ton.
r * * * •
The prospectus of the Snowy and Thredbo
Rivers Gold Dredging Co. (No Liability) appears in this
issue. The manager is Mr. F. A. Waller, of 85 Clarence-
street, Sydney. Shares have all been taken up privately,
so the prospectus is published as an item of information
only Go. has a 100-acre lease of the river-bed at junction of
Snowy and Thredbo rivers, 40 miles from Cooma (N.S.W.),
and has made arrangements for a further 50 acres. Also,
it believes that the wash will pan out for the very hand-
some yield of 6idwt. per cubic yard. Certainly it is in a
highly-auriferous country, which is much in its favor.
Many gold-dredging co.’s nowadays haven’t that advan-
tage.
• • • *
At their Port Pine Works, the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. has just completed the erection of another
Ropp Straight-line Roasting Furnace, making five in all.
These furnaces are used for desulphurising the matte, on
which material they have a total capacity of from 250 to
350 tons per day.' The “ Ropp ” is in use elsewhere in
Australia —at Mount Morgan, also in West Australia at
the Associated and Kalgurli mines. The Parke and Lacy
Company is the patentee throughout Australasia ; as also
of the Wethey Multiple Hearth, and the Schorr Furnaces.*
• • * #
That incorrigible Sydney tipster’s mines at Han-
nan’s have gone and are going the way of nearly every other
favorite of his in everv other part of Australasia. Writer
saw the Pride of the Valley the other day ; took nearly a
day to find it. Under exemption, so is the old grey horse
—unless he is dead. A pathetic failure ; never had the
slightest prospect. The Ben Lomond ditto in every
respect; so, too, the Bonnie Charlie. Boulder Half-Mile
South is a good thing—for brokers. Writer is trying to
find some of the others, and may succeed in a week or
two.
• • * •
Central and West Boulder: Still working low-
grade ore from an open cut, turning out from 800 to 700 oz.
per month from a much larger number of tons ; no divs.
IP ® as no re<^u °tion-plant; is otherwise well equipped.
Probably the best-position block on the field, tint has
already gone far to prove how easy it is to have a block of
ground surrounded by great mines and yet to have next
to nothing in it.
* * » *
North Kalgurli: Another mine with a good
name and in a good position, if that break did not come
in between it and the Kalgurli. It has probably done
more downright prospecting in shaft-sinking and cross-
cutting than any other mine around, and it has done it all
without finding anything, and it will possibly go on doing
it till the end of the chapter. It has a market value of
over £lOO,OOO, but what its real value may be is guess-
work.
• * * *
Princess Louise : How many persons have heard
of this mine? It is a small, irregularly-shaped lease ad-
joining Hannan’s Brown Hill, and was lately taken over
by that co—’tis said, in return for 6000 shares which then
represented a value of about £60,000 ; it is worth £lO,OOO
less to-day by reason of the all-round slump. There are
several questions which might reasonably be asked by
shareholders. Who were the original owners of this
lease ? Did they get the whole of the 6 )00 shares ? and if
not, how big was the balance, and what became of it ? In
any place except London a matter like this would receive
attention.
• * • •
Hannan’s North: An English co., vigorously
working a lease away to the north of the Kalgoorlie town,
fully three miles from the big mines, and in the imme-
diate vicinity of the Golden Zone, Reefers’ Kureka, and
other mines proved to be not worth as many pence as
the pounds spent upon them. This mine was fortunate
enough to strike a little vein containing much gold, but as
it is not likely to improve in size or in value in the deeper
and harder ground, where it will be much more expensive
to work, the chances of success may be considered remote.
• » • *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * «
Commercial World, July Ist, 181)9, writes of
the Colonial Mutual Society : 11 To simultaneously increase
the business and reduce the ratio of expenditure is there-
fore always regarded as a sure indication of capable and
most efficient management.”*
* * * •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, have delivered the first set of electrically-
driven triple double-acting plunger pumps for the ,1 unc-
tion Deep Leads. Those pumps are a fine sample of
colonial munufacturing skill. The total weight -of the
pump is close on 100 tons. All the gear wheels, which
are Bft. diam. and D2in. face, have machine cut teeth.
The Otis Co. had to design and build a special machine to
cut these wheels. Two other sets of these pumps have to
be built to go down the shafts on adjoining mines. They
will all be operated from a central power plant now
nearing completion.*
• * • •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can ho ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Go., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * • •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Go., Ltd., 74 Castlereagli-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * # *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 606 Little Oolhns-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
*.* • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Oompressors, &0., &c.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
• * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Foolscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinarj' spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
• « » •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• * • •
The enormous demand for dredging in M. L. is
illustrated by the fact that the dredge of the Enterprise
G.M. Co., near Naseby, was lately sold for £5OO more than
it actually cost to build 1
* * * »
In a speech at the opening of theM. L. Stock Ex-
change (Wellington) the chairman said that when it vva3
realised that out of every hundred dredges in the coun-
try at least 80 were paying good divs., and that the whole
of the dredges were averaging £2O per cent, on every £lOO
laid out on their construction and maintenance’, they
could scarcely call the present activity a “ boom it was
an industry which had come to stay.
» « * »
Officially reported that there are 19Cgold-dredges
at work, or being constructed in Otago and Southland
(M.L.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTEiI SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
ancy Scotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
.-AWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 5Ss 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Ciothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
|O5
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
*
SOCIETY
The late outbreak of disaffection among
prisoners in Berrima Gaol makes some members
talk of calling for a Royal Commission on N.S.W.
prison methods when Parliament meets. The ex-
periment of taking Capt. Neitenstein from a
juvenile training-ship and putting him over the
adult prisoners of N.S.W. was admittedly risky,
and a Commission may serve the purpose of show-
ing exactly how the experiment has worked out.
The lash for prison offences is too often heard, if
report speaks truly, in Berrima and other prisons,
“solitary” is too common, and the gaol-libraries
are “faddy” and mawkish to a degree. Comp-
troller-General Neitenstein’s occupations previous
to his taking a post on the Vernon training-ship
were clerking in an English commercial office and
serving at sea as a seaman.
* * * *
Thus the cable on the second reading of
the Commonwealth Bill in the House of Com-
mons :
King Oscar of Sweden and many Australians were
present, including Sir Julian Salomons, Sir W. P. Manning,
and Mr. C. J. Roberts, O.M.G.
This is the sort of stuff ladled out to the daily
newspapers under their monopolistic agreement
with the cormorant Eastern Extension Co. The
cables are so vague that the exact nature of the
agreement arrived at is still uncertain, but room
is found for this advt. for one or two second-rate
local politicians. It is small thanks to Julian
Salomons, anyhow, that the Commonwealth Bill
is now before the Imperial Parliament.
* * * *
lie talk about the Harms worths and the
establishment of a big Australian newspaper. A
Harmsworth agent visiting Sydney about a year
ago in the interests of the firm’s general publica-
tions _ used to loudly ridicule the mono-
polistic press-cable system adopted by Aus-
tralian dailies, and argued that a newspaper with
£lOO,OOO at its back and a free-cable hand would
be able to guarantee 10 per cent, on the money
invested. His views have had time to be con-
sidered, and there may therefore be something in
the flying talk.
* • » •
A large portion of Adelaide was hilari-
FEMININE AMENITIES.
AMY (to her bosom friend) “ When I get married I would like a husband who’s easily pleased.
VERA (her bosom friend) : “ Well, that’s just the sort of husband you will get !"
ously drunk on Mafeking Monday. Most busi-
ness premises were closed, but because Charlick
Bros., grocers, chose to remain open, a riotous
mob gathered and smashed every window in the
place. In addition an employe was injured. The
police were simply powerless. The firm claim
that as Govt, showed its absolute inability to keep
order, the amount of damages, several hundreds
of pounds, should be paid by the State. The
attack on Charlick’s had, however, little or
nothing to do with the views of the firm on the
Boer question. For years the grocers’ assistants
of the city have yearned to pay off an old grudge
founded on the fact that Charhcks obstinately re-
fuse to shut on Grocers’-Picnic Day, and have
shown lack of sympathy with other movements in
favor of the employes generally. This feeling
culminated when the crowd surrounded the shop.
That was all. The blare of brass bands also
helped in the work of destruction.
* • * *
What “loyalty” means. At a Melb.
State school a couple of youngsters took it upon
themselves to ring the bell in celebration of the
relief of Mafeking. The teacher interfered, and a
barney ensued, in which casual strangers took a
hand. Then a Jingo female called the school-
master “a Boer,” and smote him hard an,d often
with her gamp. In self-defence, the man of letters
smashed the gamp, whereupon the collected males
fell upon him with great patriotism, and sat on
him in the mud whilst the youngsters rang the bell.
The Respectable Press regards this as a very
spirited and amusing episode.
* » * *
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, has dis-
covered the reason of things S’african :
At first there were disasters—Nicholson’s Nek, Storm-
berg, Tugela, Magersfontein—but success dated from 11th
March last, when the nation in humility besought the
God of Nations to work out their deliverance. When the
nation acknowledged its dependence, and called for de-
liverance, God answered, and from that time Lord
Roberts began to roll back the enemy.
Which is the conventional talk of the conventional
piety-monger. The British nation didn’t trust in
God to turn the tide—it sent out its two best
generals and 100,000 more men. If Britain had
simply prayed, and left Buller and Methuen to
wipe out Joubert and Cronje without reinforce-
ments, there would have been some show of faith
to brag about. Does Sam’l Ballarat mean to say
that 35,000 Boers would have licked 250,000
Britishers but for the special prayer ? If he had
said that in Melbourne on the great Mafeking-
drunk night the mob would have taken him up by
his gaitered heels and pounded his head on i
barrow of 16 speckled-bananas-for-3d.
* * * *
“A.A.A.” : He Jingo Svdneyites wearing
the Dutch colors (B. 20/6/’00). Several Union
Jacks were flown from Maitland (N.S.W.) houses
upside down ! [The “ Union ” has no up-side or
down-side, though the ensign (red, white or blue),
which has the union in a corner, may be reversed.
The reversed ensign is a signal of extreme distress
Yu. B,]
A PROBLEM IN CONSANGUINITY.
I thought he was related to you by marriage.”
“ Oh, no ; quite the opposite—in fact, promised to
be a sister to him.”
The experiences of one M.L. contin-
genteer, sent back in disgrace, make a dramatic
little story. Insubordination and indifferent grog
gained him “irons” on his way to the Cape; a
similar thing occurred when in camp ; and finally,
after putting in a record wild and woolly time, he
was court-martialled and ordered to be shot. In-
tercession secured commutation to 7 years’ penal
servitude, and that again petered-out into the sack
and send-home. Another man (an officer) per-
formed so on the voyage that he had to resign
before the Cape was reached to evade court-martial.
He is now a private in a Natal field company.
• * * *
Alleged that half-a-dozen attorneys applied
for a paltry £lOO a year secretaryship in Melb.,
the other day.
A peculiarity of a Sunday-trading case,
heard recently by Carlton (Melb.) bench, was
that the alleged illegal consumer was him-
self a constable, whom two of his comrades
saw enter the pub., leaving his two children
outside. The other constables (in plain
clothes) then knocked, and, according to
their account, were not admitted for several
minutes. An extremely strong
defence-case proved that there had
been no drinking in the matter;
yet, to the astonishment of every-
body who didn’t know how this
precious Carlton bench always sides
with the police, the publican was
convicted and fined.
Early-closing is evidently a
most immoral system. A icording
to Rev. Cold-water F. B. Boyce,
he has it, on good authority, that
in a certain N.S.W. large country -
town, since the early - closing of
shops, there lias been such an in-
crease of drinking in the evenings that
there has been a rise in value of public-
house property there. Then why con-
ceal the name of that town —even if
it isn’t convenient to give the “ authority. '*
Melbourne, which was troubled lately by
a cataleptic Jap, has now a cataleptic white man
on hand. He was found at Narre Warren, Gipps-
land, and brought in by train, a local grocer
having delivered him up to the police. The
grower says that the patient walked into his store
and bought some biscuits, and as soon as he had
oaid for them lie became rigid and speechless.
Yfter he had stood quite motionless for an hour
;he grocer grew tired and had him removed. The
doctors are puzzled about his symptoms, but the
present writer, though not a medical authority, is
prepared to swear to one aspect of the case -any-
how : When that young man recovers he will find
that the biscuits are gone, and that the money he
paid for them just before he lost consciousness
hasn’t come back.
A recent Bulletin par. anent
che re-naming of “ New Zealand ” on
account of tne Boer war roused to
action Christchurch Press, the editor
whereof recommended the very un-
fetching name of Sealand. Equally
painful were the efforts of a horde
of correspondents who at once took
possession of the open-column, the
vast majority of names suggested being
clumsy and inappropriate. Some of
them : Cooksylvania, Femland, Brit-
onia, New Fortune Land, Rataweka-
moa, New Erin, Antipodia, Moaland,
Notonesia, Kingsland, Cooksland, &c.
The unfertility of imagination of
“Pro Bono Publico,” “Constant
Reader ” and co. is remarkable.
Nothing better than “Maoriland”
is likely to be advanced as a desig-
nation for the country, but meanwhile
general interest has been aroused in
the question.
♦ « •
Dear Bulletin. Jte that
Queensland girl and the cheque (8.,
5/5/’00). A new-chum Frenchman once
rode through a N.S.W. town with a
gun on his shoulder, intending to
make me a present of the piece. He
had no ammunition, the gun was
not loaded, and he was utterly un-
aware he was committing any offence.
Yet the P.M., after hearing a full
explanation, fined him £2 and costs,
the highest penalty allowed by law.
—X.
• » .
“ H.” : Last Sunday my parson
fave a capital argument for Sab-
atarianism. It is a scientific fact
that the telegraph wires get tired.
They are better on Monday than
Saturday, through the degree of
rest. Scientists say the wires
ought to get a complete day off
once in three weeks.
The reassuring homeliness
of Sydney Stipendiary Court Solici-
tor Moss to a bashful witness who
falters in the rehearsal of a love-story :
“ You were a bit foolish ; don’t mind
now, let us have it. We were all like
that. I was that way, and his Wor-
ship there on the Bench—just look at
him—was once upon a time just as big
a fool.”
Sydney’s official illumination in honor of
Mafeking, last Saturday, wasspectacularly, afailure.
The chief Govt, buildings were lit up (mostly with
devices left over from the Diamond Jubilee), also
the banks and the newspaper offices, but that was
all. The Mayor and Corporation decided that in
these days of retrenchment no money was to be
spent in display. So the Town Hall was in dark-
ness. Even the proprietary of that Sabbath
journal which for the past six months has been so
enthusiastically collect ng from other people in
the sacred cause of Jingoism did not go to the
expense of a solitary rushlight.
• * * »
The Q. Ministry is beating the drum of
bogus patriotism for all it is worth, but the people
do not respond. When the public holiday was
declared to celebrate the relief of Mafeking the
Brisbane Trades Association resolved to disregard
the proclamation and hunt the nimble shilling as
usual. Then Govt, worked up rjgreat demonstra-
tion, and invited private citizens to bring their
carriages and vehicles and to decorate their
premises along the line of route. The main
street of the metropolis, as a result of the
invitation, was gaily illuminated—there were three
Chinese lanterns in front of the Bank of N.S.W.
and a lavish waste of gas in the Town Hall—-all
the other manifestations of exuberant loyalty
hung on public buildings at the country’s expense.
The procession itself was an unutterable fiasco-
consisting wholly of the local defence-force and
volunteers and five Government lorries hung with
Chinese lanterns. An effigy of President Steyn
so closely resembled Hugh Nelson that the audi-
ence didn’t know whether to groan or cheer. Not
a single Brisbane citizen, outside the official
clique, countenanced the demonstration or contri-
buted a sixpence to the expense. The whole
miserable and humiliating farce was a vulgar
Ministerial advertisement at the country’s ex-
pense.
• # m *
Whenever any procession takes place in
Melb., the tram co. monopolises the track with its
empty trams, so that bystanders can’t get a fair
view of the proceedings. At the 8-hours show,
the Druids’, the Chinese, and last week’s the Mafe-
king Relief show, the tram people ran to the
terminus of the march, and then proceeded to
block the road with their unwieldy machines,
thereby spoiling the pleasure of half the spectators.
At night the affronted populace made a demon-
stration against the co., by lifting the trams bodily
from the track and turning them over; but no
damage worth noticing was done after all, the
crowd being too good-tempered to wreck the cars.
This was the first instance of any protest against
the high-handed and domineering spirit of that
giant sweating monopoly, the Tramway Co.
* » * »
When the tow-line of the transport Man-
chester Port broke in Brisbane River, t’other day,
•the rope was submitted to the Govt. Analyst to
see if iie could find any trace of Dutch microbes,
and when it was discovered that the line parted
from the commonplace reason that it was rotten,
the local jingoes rounded on the injudicious
Analyist as a “pro-Boer.” It was his business
to find from the appearance of the fragment that


During the hot
Summer weather
LIFEBUOY
ROYAL
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
is a perfect luxury in the
bath, and is healthful and
invigorating.
HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Cuard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
SorcTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
‘ 4 CONDY’S FLUID ’ ’can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
WSoSjSXSBZ
'VW*
GrO TO HET.T.-
IGOLANI> for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
7i Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
the rope had been cut by a disguised agent of
Kruger’s with a strong German accent —and he
didn’t.
• * » •
“ Banjo ” Paterson writes to S.M. Herald
tha-t a stir had been made amongst the Australians
in South Africa by the offer of the authorities to
employ Australians in the Free State patrol-
police, at 10s. a day, the trooper to find Ins own
rations and feed his own horse. This, the men
think, may lead to something better, “and any-
how,” adds “Banjo,” unkindly, “no good Aus-
tralian can refuse a * billet in the police.’ ”
...»
According to N.S. Wales M.L. A. B. B.
O'Conor (just returned from S’Africa), the matron
of the Volks Hospital, Bloemfontein, told him
that she liked best to deal with Australians,
“ because, no matter how severely wounded, they
were patient and tried to make the task as easy
as possible, which was in marked contrast to the
conduct of the British officers and regulars.” Are
we only just beginning to learn what fine fellows
we are ? —or is it only the Australian “ casual-
ness ” again ?
* * * *
“ Titus Salt ” to The Bulletin :
I have always admired the Victorians as a rather ener-
getic race, and, when I crossed the border, the other day,
was much struck by the vigour and completeness of their
plague-precautions. I arrived at Albury in the grey, cold
dawn of the morning. The male passengers were promptly
undressed on the platform, and examined with a micro-
scope. Any with suspicious spots on them were fastened
to a post for further inspection. All clothes and luggage
were scalded by a steam-jet from the locomotive and then
dried in an oven. Hats were carefully boiled, and boots
disinfected and polished by a State official. Then passen-
gers had their hair cut short, and were washed and put
cursing into a disinfected Victorian carriage, and their
boiled hats and luggage were handed-in to them by a dis-
infected official. Meanwhile, the ladies had been taken
into a large room, the violent cases being carried in by tho
police. They were undressed and inspected by two lady
doctors and a certificated nurse. Their hair wasn’t
cut off, but their hair-pins were taken out and fried to
destroy germs, their heads shampooed, and themselves
manicured and put through a Turkish bath. After this
their boiled clothes and bonnets were restored to them,
their cleaned and disinfected boots put on, and they were
carried to the Victorian train on germ-proof shutters,
being by this time too hysterical to walk. Then sulphur
was burned under the train and we started. At least that
was what I thought would happen, but it didn’t. What
did happen was just this. We bundled out of the train
with half-an-hour for breakfast, customs inspection, and
medical exam. We weren’t examined. A cold-looking
man gave us each a paper to fill up, setting forth name,
age, where from, whither bound, opinions on the Boer
war, father’s chest measurement, and whether mother was
ever run in for shop-lifting—or something like that. \Ve
borrowed pencils from each other, and filled them in
shakily in the gloaming as it gloamed coldly up from
the East. We didn’t have our pulses felt nor our
tongues inspected. In the dim light I could
have had 567 bubonic spots with complete impunity. And
they quite forgot to collect my paper or my mate’s. We
burned them sadly and disgustedly at Wangaratta. 1
don't know whether the other papers were collected or
not. One old man filled in his document with the state-
ment that he was 154 years old, was never born, came
from nowhere and was going to the same place, and
would appeal to the Privy Council against this outrage.
So far as I saw, he didn’t even have his hair cut for his
impertinence. There is nothing like taking adequate
precautions against the spread of the plague.—Your dis-
n ected friend, Titus Salt.
POSTERS.
2 : “ The sea-water has ruined my dress and
my shoes.”
No. 1: “ Silly of you to wear things like that if you
want to advertise yourself. A bathing-dress is
a better display.”
No. 2 : “ But I don't bathe I”
No. 1: “ Neither do I!”
The Annandale "(Sydney) 'municipal rat-
receiver at 7s. per day, took delivery, on the first
day of office, of two rat-corpses; but the in-put
rising on the second day to no less than live rats,
the authorities promptly put on another rat-
official at 10s. per day; and later on provided a
third man —and a cart !
• » » »
Melbourne has a death-rate of 17*77 per
1000, which means (remarks S.M. Herald) a loss
by death of about 1250 per annum in excess of the
number who would die if the sanitary and other
features of the city were equal to those of Sydney.
Had the conditions of Melbourne been as salu-
brious as Sydney’s during the past 10 years, its
population would have been 10,000 to 15,000
greater than it is.
CORNERRED IN SH[?
OHHEARUS:"Didn't I tell you people that drink would lead you to Tophet?"
HEARDITUS:"Look-what brought YOU here?"
Some Sydney municipal employes, having
umigated a certain building, were then, according
to regulations, filed into a police-guarded vehicle,
which drove straight to the Woolloomooloo depdt.
Here the men disembarked, expecting to be them-
selves fumigated, but were surprised to find that,
having allowed the publio to see them taken
charge of, nothing further was required of them
than an unostentatious dispersal.
Indignant letter from a sick Frenchman
to a Victorian storekeeper: —
McDougall Bros. Esq. Dear Sir,—The doy Nov.
18th 1899 I take two gallon vin in your shop, and 1
trive order to Mr. Alexis of port in the zar Figgins
vin, but himself put some difrnt vin, the poison. I
drink three bottles in three week, and I take plenty
drusr ? I repair very near, after I drink again two
bottle in tow week, at that time I feel so sick, so
sort, every where in my body. I ought go in
Hopital, and I feel not yet well. Therefore because
you me mistake 1 avise you for to give me at least £4
for nav my spence, my trouble, and me lost time t
instead of paid your vin ? Y ours respecfully Francois
• • • *
Sydney Stock and Station Journal
heads its death-notices “ Boiled Down.” Here
is an extract from issue of 3/4/’OO
BOILED DOWN.
Mr. ,an old resident of Dubbo, died on Friday
last. , __
Mr. , of Orawlin Plains, Forbes, died on Friday
morning. , _ ~
Mrs. died suddenly at Queanbeyan on Friday,
aged 75 years. . __
Mr. ,an old resident of Singleton, died on Thurs-
day, aged 83 years.
A 12-year-old son of ——, the postmaster,
was drowned while bathing on Saturday.
The Bulletin has long advocated cremation,
but it protests against this idea of boiling the
dead.
* « * *
Axioms by a degraded Bulletin con-
tributor signing “Frederick ” :
No one is capable of original sin till after 30. The
sins of youth are imitative and complimentary to those
elderlies whom youth wishes to propitiate.
The wages of sin are diamonds.
Crime is the recrudescence of antique virtue.
The difference between the curiosity of man and the
curiosity of woman is that woman seeks to know that
which somebody else knows ; man, that which nobody
knows.
Divorce is only a futile effort to rehabilitate primal
desire.
History is purely a matter of costume.
* * * *
How is it that almost every important port
in Queensland has been attacked by the bubonic
plague while other provinces only suffer from the
scourge in one port at most? Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Townsville and Cairns have each their
quota of plague patients, Rockhampton suffering
severely. Is it because the Asiatic alien was
always made welcome in Queensland, and the
bubonic bacillus (himself an Asiatic) got to
know it ?
* * * *
The cunning secretiveness of the Celestial
was again in evidence in Sydney recently. At a
Chow cabinet-making establishment one of the
workmen got welly sick, and his mates, scenting
danger boxed him up carefully and removed him
to a considerable distance. Whether the box has
since been used to store cabbage is not recorded.
The case promptly died of what proved to be
plague, and four contacts were removed from his
alleged residence. The manufactory escaped
notice, and several hilarious pagans are gaily
building welly ni cheap furniture therein.
» • * *
B. C. Simpson, C.E., of the Sydney-North
Shore bridge shindykit scheme, published half-a-
column of farewell curse the other day, and shook
the dust of N.S.W. off his disgusted feet. Simp-
son says that Lyne’s proposed State-owned bridge
is a fraud, and can’t compare with the bridge that
Simpson would have built. Also, lie actually
tries to demonstrate that railway communication
with North Sydney won’t be wanted for many
years, perhaps will never be wanted at all, there-
fore Lyne’s idea of a combined railway and road
bridge is a foolish waste of money. Further, he
alleges that Lyne’s bridge is “ clearly impossible ”
—he doesn’t say why, but presumably because, in
Simpson’s idea, no kind of bridge is possible
except one built by Simpson. One way and
another, Simpson’s curse reads like the yell of a
very angry man, who is pounding irrelevantly
with his dead, frozen wild cat on the door of the
man who didn’t appreciate the animal while it was
alive, and calling him incoherent things through
the keyhole.
“ Bush Teacher ” writes :
In reply to “ T.D.” (B. 19/5/’00), re N.S.W. metropolitan
teachers being condemned to spend three years in the
backblocks, the majority of teachers brought up and
trained about Sydney manage to stick there, while those
without influence niay be sent anywhere. On the other
hand, the teacher who has been brought up in the back-
blocks rarely gets the chance of a metropolitan school.
The rule is that a teacher who obtains a 2nd-class cer-
tificate out of the training-school shall take charge of a
small country school before being eligible for the higher
positions in the service, and shall be two years in a large
school, as assistant, before being due for a country ap-
pointment. And these appointments, as a rule, are at a
salary from £136 to £159. The only teachers at 15s. and
thereabouts are pupil-teachers, and it is the rule of the
Department to have these young people placed in schools
as near as possible to the homes of their parents or
guardians. The statement about a girl being required to
leave her Sydney home and “do for herself on 15s.
a week ” won’t hold water. I am one of the teachers,
by the way, who unwillingly subscribed to the Patriotic
Fund, because I knew that, if I didn’t, I should probably
be a marked man.
» * • *
“ Trav.” to The Bulletin :
Re your comment (12/5/’00) on the Barsch case. The
rate of pay for male and female teachers in charge of
small unclassified N.S.W. schools is the same as in the
case of third-class teachers. Single teachers (male or
female) are paid as follows :
Ist Class Provisional .. £72 per Annum.
2nd „ ~ 88 „ „
10th ~ Public .. 91 ~ ~
9th ~ ~ •• 118 ~ ~
Bth „ „ •• 136 ..
7th „ „ •• 159 .. »
3C, 38, and 3A, are the classifications required to hold
the various public schools. Married teachers (whose
wives teach sewing) are allowed £lO a-year extra and
residence (or house rent where there is no residence
attached to the school). So, in a school such as the
Wellesley one, the salary would be the same for either
male or female. As to there being a dearth of men at
the low salary, I know of young men rushing from the
Northern coastal districts to the extreme West and South
of the province to take charge of such schools and
clad to fret them, however disappointed they may bo
later on, when they find how slowly their promotion
comes. All the same, the salaries paid for these remote
localities are ridiculously small, and the circumstances are
not likely to conduce to morality, because the young men
who are sent out to these places are, generally, not much
out of their teens, and are placed where there is little or
no decent society to keep them in the straight path.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin. —I note your determina-
tion to regularly look up the “religious” papers
for amusing paragraphs. Following are gems
from the diary of Rev. John Walker, now stump-
ing the country for subscriptions towards the
Presbyterian Fund. He aims at collecting
£lOO,OOO ; and judging by the judicious blending
of begging and praying as depicted in his
“ Itinerary ” (published fortnightly in the I RESBY-
terian), he has a chance of realising his dream.
Up to date he has collected promises and guineas
to the tune of £21,000 :
After tea, worship. Followed by cheques.
Lengthy interview with Mr. and Mrs. O • ouos.
W Next called at Mr. H ’s. Subscription. Worship.
On a mile to Mr. J. M ’s. Spent an hour talking.
Subscription. Worship. ...
After lunch drove to Mr. John N s. Prayer with
him. Subscription.
Called again on Mr. B . Subscription, 15 guineas.
Next on to Mr. L 's. Worship. Subscription.
Music, singing, Scotch stories, worship.
Talked, wrote, worship, bed. .
Called on Mr. and Mrs. M . Tea, worship, subs.
—Yours, Kirk
THE SAVELOY.
“ Hi l mister, I’ll have a sav—be surean ’ ketch us
a young ’un.”
Ernest Osborne, of Brixton, London,
wishes his brother Frank, of Melbourne, to write
to him at G.P.0., Sydney. Urgent.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
ROSES.
In my heart is a red rose,
In yours is a white ;
My rose is a dark rose,
But yours full of light ;
Take care lest my red rose should darken your white !
If the wind bend my red rose,
Fanning its glow,
The white rose will fold it, and
Drown it in snow ;
O, heed lest your white rose should melt in its glow !
H[?] M.


[Forecast for ap Ipdefipite Period.]
Froip MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
BCisiQ?Ss apd Clear” generally, tboCigb
“Storrpy” at certaip tinges of tb€ year.
Tbe prescot ipdicatiop poiots to distftrbapec
“ AOttiipp FaSbiopS.”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
What a hero-worshipper is lovely woman.
On Mafeking Day in Melbourne she was jubila-
ting in her multitudinous and shapely thousands.
Neither riot, nor crushed hat, nor dishevelled
back hair could crush her enthusiasm.. And the
charm of her lovely form (as a rule) showed she
had got as near as possible to the idol of the hour,
the gallant 8.-P., by putting the beautifying P.D.
corset next to her heart.*
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
Ticht^
Running
5 MACHINES
*
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
fg
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
GLOBE TEDS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 29, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
Hast 1 riday, there was such a mysterious affair
on; closed doors, no women admitted, and no
press allowed near. At the University, too!
And what was all the mysteriousness and sus-
piciousness about? A Young Men’s Debate,
where they settled nations and solved the problem,
“Is Modern Journalism a curse?”
His Ex. came, and along with him the Hon
Charles, our new aide. While I think of it—him,
I mean—let me tell you what a “ dear boy ” every-
one votes him. His Ex. sent Home for somebody
who would love everybody. Out came the Hon.
Charles, quite prepared to do it. And, do you
know, it looks like a case of “Do unto others,”
and the end of the quote —particularly the end.
He is a fair, curly-haired boy, with plenty to say,
shrewd, jolly, and hanging out a sense of humor
that ought to be gratified to the top of its desire
at Govt. House this winter, when the Evening
Parties are turned on. In short, a delightful
secretary to bring into a gloomy, moony place
like Sydney a.d. 1900,
In looks and voice His Ex. is marvellously well
represented by his new secretary. The likeness
is striking. The only difference to a casual
mind is that Charles can say what he thinks,
while His Ex. can’t even think what he says,
always. At the University, though, it was
different. At any rate, we like to imagine so.
For, believe it if you can, His Ex. took the Curse
side. No. He didn’t believe in Modern Journal-
ism. No. He did not approve of Personal para-
graphs. His Ex. did not say so, but I fancy his
notion of the Modern Journalism, which he so
strongly condemned, was clinging wholly to the
thought of that sort of item beginning, “Lord
Beauchamp is a mild, very refined-looking young
man, with the manners of a dove,” etc. Though
where on earth His Ex. could have ever seen such
a par. I cannot imagine.
. Then came the subject of a Red Paper that
isn’t steeped in gore. Said His Ex., very nicely
and in his own words, “I admire The Bulletin
for all it has done to foster Australian literature,
and I admire it, too, because it has taken The
Opposite Side about the war, and because it has
stuck to that side, stuck to it, and has not sacked
its editor.” Evidently His Ex. thinks an editor
is something that can be sacked, like Rome. I
don’t know whether the rest of the comment was
m a similar strain of admiration. My informant
suddenly grew a little confused just here.
But you will be glad to hear that soon we are
going to stop being Dormice. Things are getting
ready to wake us up. Govt. House starts with
an evening party on June 25. Music will pre-
dominate, arranged by Herr Vollmar, our distin-
guished ’cellist. I hear that the music, by Lady
Mary’s special request, is to be as English as pos-
sible. Italian opera rigorously excluded. Is that
patriotism ? Or just pure pity ?
Speaking of patriotism, how glad you must
have been to hear that N.S.W. won the Great
Cable Competition. Little. Booridgeree, too —a
main street, some kerosene lamps, three public-
houses and two policemen. You wouldn’t expect
a little place like that to be so brilliant. “ Con-
gratulations /: Booridgeree all boozed—admires your
courage. ”
After Booridgeree,—but out of Competition,
unfortunately—was the telegram a fat lady was
laboriously sending through a suburban office
lately. Even the operator grinned as he read
aloud, “ So-glad-to-hear-you-are-made-a-lady.”
By the way, N.S.W. Birthday honor falls on a
woman universally beloved (it isn’t my place to
make personal remarks about the man, although I
could say something nice there too.) A thin, grey-
haired quiet-mannered woman, who unobtrusively
slips through life, keeps off committees, and dis-
penses her unflagging charity at home and abroad
without the aid of advertisement.
Theatrically, what an excellent time we have
been having lately ! Fascinating Nance O’Neil
m a long succession of plays. Change after
change at the Royal, where the Broughs, alas,
are now putting in their last nights. Packed
houses haven’t been the rule anywhere, though.
Ever since plague took it, the theatres have been
very coolly treated— shuaned, in fact. Well, you
must admit, that if you don’t want to catch fleas
you should keep away from theatres. Luckily
for the theatres, there are always a few people
who like to catcli them. This sort of discourse
would be most vulgar at any other time, but so
deteriorating is plague that we can now talk of
fleas at the top of our voices, and be considered
merely scientific.
To return to the theatres, a huge, packed house
watched the Broughs “Sowing the Wind” on
Queen’s Birthday. Mrs. Brough looks charming
as Rosamund—one of her best parts, per-
haps. She wore a costume-frock of brick-
colored velvet, high-waisted, and very be-
coming, with a floppy brown feathered hat.
Grace Noble’s giggle legitimatised one’s current
desire to slap her for her mincing little manners,
which mince to such an extent sometimes that
only her dainty taste in dress is left whole. Bessie
Thompson, of the clear, clear voice, played a
slavey showing men the door; which was a pity, I
thought, as the back of the gods takes no interest
whatever in slaveys, and the d.c. doesn’t know a
slavey out of doors. Dartrey made one of his
biggest hits as Bob Watkins. The aged crinkle
in his legs was a marvellous match for the crooked
old quaver in his voice. As a wicked old man,
Dartrey is hard to beat. ( Not apropos of the last
remark, off the stage Mr. Dartrey is an intelligent
edition of beautiful Marcus Julius Superbus, the
Only.) And I must not forget the Leading
Juvenile m a moss-green costume-suit. Girls who
never could settle the question before, suddenly
made up their minds once for all that Lovell in
green velvet was the Lovell they were going to
pin their longest faith to.
Mr. Gregan M‘Mahon, a well-known amateur
actor, who was reading for the Law until lately
has joined the Brough co. Mr. M‘Mahon has
often delighted Sydney audiences, chiefly with the
University Dramatic Society, in comedv r parts
He was married last year to pretty Miss Molly
Hungerford, whom you have also seen with the
University dramatics.
And Game and Kingston are both going back
to England. Carne has always been much ad-
mired, despite his persistent shunning of anything
like an afternoon-tea, and also despite the fact
that, seen near, he is almost an old man. As for
Kingston, I really believe it is too much admira-
tion that is driving him out of Australia. All
men are vain, and generally a man’s vanity gives
him away (whereas a woman’s is her safe-guard).
But to shower an actor with bunch after bunch of
roses and pink ribbons, as they do at Her Majes-
ty’s every first night, is carrying admiration back
to the prehistoric days, when a man showed his
admiration of his squaw with a hard knock on the
head. Ridicule is too hard a knock for an actor.
‘‘You’ ll never sleep a wink if you see Nance
U .Neil as Nancy.” I was so solemnly assured of
it that I stayed away until the very last night.
But what a disappointment! I was quite sleepy-
before the end of the play.
Certainly, Nance strains realism pretty thin,
and without much excuse. She is dragged out of
the room by Sikes. Then comes an awful moment
of suspense. You hear blows. That’s Sikes mur-
dering Nancy. Then Sikes conies back with red
hands. And presently the door opens, and Nancy
crawls in, her hair down, almost on the floor.
Her dark hair falls all over her face, and
you can see nothing sensational. She crawls
and crawls, and the house gets ready to faint
or shriek. High up the room she crawls
gagging along on her red, red hands. Then she lifts
her head. Limelight, too, on her face, and you
cannot miss a detail. I calmly looked, hard, and
—laughed. Mind you, if you can’t laugh, that
murdered face might get on your nerves. The
eyes are gouged out, blood streams from an im-
mense gash on her forehead, and every night at
least three ladies faint in the audience.
And yet someone said to me, coming out, “Why
don’t they have the dog in, and let him walk
down the stage with blood-stained paws, leaving
footmarks behind him ? ” If Nance wants to play
B. Sikes’s best girl in the country, where they
like a lot for their money, she might consider that.
To turn to something pleasanter. The Ama-
teur Orchestra gave a feast of a programme to a
splendid house at the new season’s concert last
Thursday. . Perhaps the menu read a shade better
than it tasted. “ The Invitation to the Waltz ”is
alight, exhilarating number, which the A.O.S.
took too seriously for my fancy. Still, we owe
Hazon and his Society hearty thanks for the kind
of music they prepare for us. “The Pastorale
Symphony,” for instance, formed the chef-d'oeuvre
of Saturday’s concert. Like Wagner, his disciple,
Beethoven makes great demands on all the instru-
ments, but “The Pastorale” employs extremely
simple musical means—except in the Tempest—
and the A.O.S. gave an excellent local rendering.
An interesting item was a bit out of Ernest
Truman’s new opera, “ Mathias,” founded on the
well-known “Bells.” It was an Intermezzo from
this that we heard on Thursday, and as far as
one could judge from the first performance,
the music had “something in it.” Miss Grace
Fletcher, prettily gowned in white satin, was the
only warbler. Her French accent was more re-
freshing than an interval.
Very charming, very cultured, very musicianly,
a'.u Elsie Hall’s recitals now going on at the
Y.M.C. A. I went to the first on a wet Wednes-
day and found a fair audience only, where a big
crowd might reasonably have hurried in. The
gentle pianiste wore a pale pink frock, spectacles,
coiled hair, and no hat. As for her playing, her
style has broadened by leaps and bounds. The
Chopin Sonata in B. Minor bore ample wit-
ness to this. To myself, I always call this
“The Sonata of Appeal,” regardless of anything
Chopin may have said about it. (Why not, when
everybody gives the name “Moonlight” to a
sonata that Beethoven meant to suggesft a Swiss
lake?) Maestoso, opening a little coldly, until
the poignant Chopin feeling that one can never
mistake suddenly flows into the music. Scherzo,
with its vagaries leading into the heavenly Largo,
low chords in the left hand, the high notes striking
out the loveliest lagging melody. The appeal dies
hard. And the end of the sonata, is it a triumph
of renunciation ? Elsie Hall’s interpretation was
a surprise. A little more glow of spirit, if you
insisted on asking something, but her touch is
deeper and fuller, less spectacled, and you will be
glad to hear that she plays this sonata again
shortly.
If the Haddon-Chambers family—who live in
Sydney, and play the organ, and sing hymns as if
there was no such person as the gay Haddon
painting London red—are correct in tneir informa-
tion, Australia’s distinguished playwright is not
going to marry Melba. They say that Haddon is
already married. And, strangest part of the
affair, they are evidently deeply and darkly
opposed to the very thought of his mating with a
public character like the great Melba. They take
it as a wound. They don’t like it at all.
The Birthday Dinner —in honor of Her Gracious
—showed that several of Sydney’s tip-top digni-
taries—the Governor, the Admiral, and General
French—aren’t “playing speaks,” The bottom
of the quarrel is shrouded in mystery. There
were this year three rival dinners. The Admiral
hastily got up a dinner of his own. General
French gave a dinner of his own. Therefore,
the Governor’s representative dinner came off at
Govt. House minus Admiral Pearson and minus
General French.
Mrs. Arthur Tooth, of Darlinghurst, has started
a terrifying variation of the “Novel” tea and
other-quotation afternoon. The guests are
requested to bring portraits of themselves
as children, and the game is to find' out
who’s who. But will not identification of person
also include identification of age? Because the
child with pantalettes to the ankles obviously
belongs to a further-back generation than the one
whose stick-out frock barely conceals the edge of
her lace-covered bifurcations, while the lady who
can show her infancy with her sash swathed above
her knees and her hair waved rather than in
tallow-candle curls can assert a still further degree
of juvenility. The game is hardly likely to com-
mend itself to the elderly spinster or the cold-tea
married lady who explains tier 16-year-old cub by
the frequent assertion that she was such a child,
but Tom simply wouldn’t have a long engage-
ment.
The people Mafekined on Saturday afternoon
in a steady, mechanical sort of way. The banners
which had been drying before household fires all
the week now disentangled themselves from little
Jimmy’s flannels and waved gallantly among the
citv chimneys. Queen Victoria held a reception
at her square. She wore a bridal wreath of white
and green, and was otherwise profusely orna-
mented ; but Albert the Good merely had his
pedestal smartened up and an electric wire fes-
tooned round his ankle, which latter decoration
made the deceased prince look as if he were
meant to represent a Potts Point great-grand-
papa. In the evening the city retired into obscurity
and became merely a background for fiery
messages of peace and portraits of 8.-P., Roberts,
Queen Vic. and other people more or less responsi-
ble for the Relief, with various colored lights,
wreathed like flowers, surrounding the latter’s
bronze presentment in the Square. On the harbor,
the Royal Arthur, outlined in yellow lights,
looked like a huge topaz, in its setting of black
velvet. At 9 o’clock anyone who wanted to go
down King-street had to take the tram. There
was no other way. Numerons sensible women
carried small children into the crowd, and chival-
rous men who proffered assistance wandered about
with babies that didn’t belong to them, in their
arms, and other men’s better halves clinging to their
coat tails.
The great Nance finished up the end of last
week with “Magda” revived. Nance’s pride of
form still incites her to adopt garments which
magnify her to abnormal proportions. Therefore,
in the first act, she continues to make a square of
herself with the vast black-blotted cloak, which
she afterwards throws over half the stage ; and in
the second, has her blue dressing-gown tailings
flying to each wing of the stage as she careers up
and down “rousing”on papa. The scene where
papa tries to throttle Magda in the interests of
virtue is irresistibly funny. Papa rushes up at
Nance’s majestic throat, and the effect is some-
thing like one man trying to stem Niagara.
It cleared up on Saturday, but evidently not
quickly enough to permit such of our Best as re-
main with us to race into their best frocks and
make for Randwick. So that resort was mostly
filled with bookies and the racing lydies who
never miss seeing a “bit of blood,” or putting
their sovs. on the horse they dreamt of last night,
or on the certain information given them by their
best boys. Chiefly the sort of lady who wears the
feather-trimmings of her hat down her face, her
hips fashionably large, and several sheaths of
crumpled gauze skirts trying to look like one.
The Hay-Burdekin alliance eventuates in Sep-
tember. Miss Burdekin’s 19th birthday, 26th
May, was spent in receiving congratulations on
her engagement.
Amott House, Wynyard Square, Sydney, so
long associated with the name of the late Mrs.
Casey, is the first instance in Australia of a
boarding-house run by the local R.C. priests for
the accommodation of lay persons, male and
female. Mrs. Casey bequeathed the property to
the clergy. The house was called Amott after
one of the dead lady’s husbands —“ one of my
various husbands,” as she would say (Mrs. Casey
was both lively and enterprising when the city was
young). The brother of Mr. Amott was the Cork
baronet who died a millionaire about a year ago
and by his will divided a large Dublin newspaper
property among the employes thereof. A score
of years ago Mrs. Casey was offered £17,000 for
the house on Wynyard Square and lived*to regret
not accepting it.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The front of Parliament House during the
Mafeking Relief demonstration was not a dressy
show. The Govt, had reserved the steps for the
members and their womankind. The politicians’
feminine possessions are very frumpy as a rule,
most of the family income being needed for cricket
clubs and church bazaars. Waxellency Madden’s
wife and daughters, however, somewhat redeemed
the crowd on the front, the lady in a mauve toque.
The Madden girls looked picturesque but most
frozenly solemn. In the effort to look dignified
and live up to Govt. House, they only succeed in
being wooden. Pretty girls should never try to
look dignified. A woman should be content to
look graceful until she is thirty-five, and dignified
when she puts on flesh ; grace before meat as it
were.
“Mayor McEacharn’s management of his horse
was the comic feature of Melbourne’s Mafeking
procession. If Malcolm Donald’s boats didn’t
steer better than his nag, the coast of Australia
would be strewn with wrecks and the casual
citizen would not be able to sleep for fear of a
coastal steamer putting its nose into his front door.
“What a Vic. Bushman’s contingenter got in
presents from the crowd between St. Kilda-road
barracks and Port Melb. : 24 handkerchiefs, 13
odd gloves, 2 gold rings, 1 brass do., 7 tin match
boxes (one containing a miniature ivory elephant
and another a set of dice), 6 letters—one being an
offer of marriage upon return from the war—
numerous ribbons and photographs.
“The two tall, slim daughters of J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C. —perhaps the dressiest girls in Mel-
bourne during the Mafeking celebrations—paraded
ln bnght blue with a white turned-down laee
collar and a thin band of red ribbon round the
neck, working the three colors in cleverly and
with taste ; which was much better than merely
sticking on a slab of the tri-color anywhere. Alice
Crawford, the young Bendigo elocutionist, was
smartly dressed in bright navy blue with a white
sailor collar, and a big red bow underneath an
acre or two of white picture hat. Most women
had red, white and blue somewhere. French
visitors no doubt thought the affair was all on
account of the Paris Exhibition.
.Remarks heard in the streets during the
Baden-Powell term of lunacy remind me of Arch-
bishop Carr’s return to Melbourne. After the
thanksgiving ceremonies in St. Pat’s Cathedral, I
saw two old women with tears streaming down
their cheeks standing on the steps, and heard one
t° the other, ‘Och, Glory be to God, sure
he 11 never see another day like this until he dies.’
, ”P n Mafeking night a smart audience saw
Pinafore” at Her Majesty’s. Prominent ex-
hibits m the circle-show were some naice white-
frocked bridesmaids escorted by one of the hunting
U atsons. Also Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Lyon (nee
Calvert), back from their honeymoon. Before
opening night (May 19th) lessee Williamson had
100 hands working hard at Her Majesty’s, and
the whole neighborhood smelt of burning brim-
stone. So that the Naicast and Smartast may
forgive, even if they can’t forget, the fleas of long
ago.
“ In ‘ Pinafore,’ dainty little Josephine (Carrie
Moore) wears a chippy white walking-frock, tan
shoes and hose, feathered white hat and a white
bow at the end of her jaunty pig-tail. When she
dons her scrumptious white evening gown a big
white bird roosts on her head. ‘Pinafore’ being
a nautical opera, said snowy fowl is most likely
‘ a "hid sea-gull, a bold sea-gull.’ To this scrilie
it looked like the albatross that haunted the
Ancient Mariner, but that night ‘God Save’
and ‘Rule Britannia’ had been sung and re-
sung, and gaudy flags had fluttered, till
one’s nerves played up. Dorothy Vane, as
Buttercup, appears as a l>ow-logged frump
in goggles, nlaid shawl, and down-tailed red
petticoat. However, she’s less appalling than
that outrage on the sex, the amorous spinster
(Sallie Booth) in ‘What Happened to Jones.’
Stage love-sick old girls should be prosecuted as
libels by the Society for the Protection of Petti-
coats.
“ On the first night of ‘ Pinafore,’ Brownlow, in
naval uniform, provoked the maddest feminine
excitement. Girls shook showers of posies,
streamered with red-white-and-blue, at the lime-
lit vision, and gasped, ‘ Oh, the darling ! I want
to kiss him.’ Meantime, Kenningham, acting 40
times as well, fell comparatively flat. Mummers
should never flaunt their marriage-lines. Let
them be as much married as Solomon, if they like,
but don’t send the bellman round with the news.
“I witnessed a lovely little comedy in one spasm
in the Princess’s dress circle t’other night. Arnold
deals out filtered ice-water to his D.C. patrons
these evenings, and a large, stout, hot matron, who
was well dressed but had hardly a rag to her back,
was suddenly Confronted by an affable small boy
bearing a tray of sparkling glasses. The red
dame, who had been looking depressed, beheld
those glasses as in a vision, and her face lit up with
great expectation. She reached for a glass, bore
it to her lips, and then her nose discovered the
error. She shuddered, recoiled, and hastily re-
placed the water untouched, and sat through the
rest of the interval with the air of a person whose
confidence had been imposed upon and whose
tenderest sensibilities had been ruthlessly out-
raged.
“ No Birthday honors came to Victoria this year.
It is doubtful whether recommendations for titles
and stars made by a Lieut.-Governor, not per-
sonally known at the Colonial Office, will carry
much weight. Hopetoun caused an unusual
number of knighthoods to be made, and Brassey’s
record was not bad. But it is many years since
not even a bit of ribbon has come Victoria’s way ;
and there are poor old Fitz., and George Jenkins,
and Speaker Mason, and others who have been
expecting and hoping such a long, weary time.
“ Before Society discovered the Japs., the
’Varsity girls froze on to them, and oame in for
ship-teas, and sich. In consequence, the little
brown men take all Melb. women for blue-stock-
ings, and act accordingly. Miss Bums is intro-
duced to Lieut. Jappy-jap-Jappy ; he asks
eagerly, ‘ Descendant of Scottish poet ? ’ If your
Christian name is Beatrice, a chubby little middy
drags Dante into the confab.
\ ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/0 per Day,
»r £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all."
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Premier Life Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
dfg
OF NEW YORK.
dfg
£197,808,013 9 6
Outgo.
Claims incurred under Policies
(no re-insurances): —
Losses by Death ...
Matured Endowments ...
Surrenders
Annuities
Cash Bonuses to Policy-
holders
Commissions and Expenses of
Management, including Taxes
Amount of Insurance Funds on
December 31st, 1899...
£ s. d.
45,477,842 6 9
9,642,438 3 7
28,929,879 8 4
1,315,040 17 5
20,548,135 2 7
30,327,224 15 9
61,568,052 15 1
£197,808,613 9 6
Note. —In above Statement the pouncLsterling is taken at $4.87-
For full information regarding Policies apply at any of the Company’s Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, Qetveral Manager.
Company’s Building, Martin Macej-Sydney.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not for most. The Sydney Safe Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst-by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and Co’s.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOB ALL STOCK AND POULTRY. ■'
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of Hypophonphlteft.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Agent for N.S.W.:
E E Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk' Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly now sports three
knights—Lyne, Abbott, and Mat. Harris.
Marshall Hall: “I am dazzled by the
magnificent injustice of Britain.”
According to London Daily Chronicle,
Lord Roberts may be the first Governor-General
of Federated Australia.
It is wired that Oom Paul has been
putting away a “stocking.” Evidently not an
“Absent-Minded Burgher.”
T. C. Just, who died recently in Hobart,
was at one time member of the Tas. Assembly,
and made the island-record stonewall speech of
eight hours.
Archbishop Murphy, of Tasmania, is the
only surviving bishop, with the exception of Pope
Leo, appointed bv Pope Gregory XVI. He was
bom in 1815.
There are strong symptoms that Premier
Lyne’s most intimate friends are determined not
to call him “Sir William.” He is, they say, to
be “Sir John.”
The Bulletin congratulates Premier Lyne
on becoming a Knight. Anyone who absolutely
belongs to the head-station should bear the brand
of the head-station.
A picturesque figute at the Sydney Birth-
day levee, in full uniform, was the bent form of
Surgeon-Major Crooke, aged 86 years—and still in
practice as a doctor.
Zadkiel’s prophetic almanac for 1897 made
Queen Victoria die in 1899. Even prophets are
not always good business men. Good business
talent would have stuck to generalities.
London Sphere recalls the fact that
General Pole-Carew—familiarly known among his
intimates as “Polly Carey”—was private-secre-
tary to Hercules Robinson while Governor of
N.S.W., 1872-1879.
At North Melbourne, the other day, an
a-icient Hibernian of 90 was fined for failing to
send his son to school —said youth being only 12
years of age And the old boy said he was “ good
for a few more off-shoots yet ! ”
The able Henry Gullett, erstwhile editor
of the Australasian, associate-editor of Sydney
D.T., and afterwards editor (in Mr. Cumow’s
absence) of S.M. Herald, is spoken of as a
probable starter for a N.S.W. seat in the Federal
Parliament.
WAITING FOR INSPIRATION.
THE HUMORIST'S WIFE : “John, dear, the doctor
and undertaker have sent in their bills, baby is
sickening for the measles, and there's not a
scrap of food left in the house. Don't you think
it's time you sent in some more jokes to the
papers? ”
THE HUMORIST (gloomily): “Well, can't you see
I'm trying to think of some ?”
Strange that Justice Stephen and Justice
Owen, of N.S.W. Bench, have not been knighted,
whereas late Justices W. M. Manning, George
Innes and Windeyer had not long to wait for the
bauble. Is it that Justices Stephen and Owen
have never dabbled in politics ?
Mr. Levy, an ex-Australian in London,
claims to have originated the Bushmen’s Contin-
gent idea, and Mr. Cohen, of Sydney, cabled
along the Mafelcing congratulatory message from
Sydney Chamber of Commerce. Which is as it
should be, for England and Australia are fighting
mostly for Levy and Cohen.
The list of N.S. Wales J’s. P. lately
gazetted contains scores of names twice and thrice
presented to the Reid Govt, for appointment, but
always rejected. That is one advantage of
changing a Government. The new party can
make its own fellows J’s. P.
The attendance at Melb. Govt. House
Queen’s Birthday levee included old John Mad-
den, father of His Waxellency, looking hale and
strong at 80 years. But the reporters knew not
the ancient, whose name was the only one not
given in full in the morning-papers’ lists.
The Prince of Wales “guardedly” ap-
proves of the Pearsonian advertising scheme to
erect a monument in London to the British
victims of the S’African war. Albert Edward,
before “enthusing,” wants to know exactly where
the Pearson man proposes to paste his poster.
Among the people the first Australian
Eleven met in ’Frisco in 78 was M'Cann,
ex-Victorian M.L.A., who, having com-
pleted in Melb. Gaol a sentence for for-
gery, had taken a new name, and was
doing well in a business to which he was
not trained.
Walter Montgomery had his eccen-
tricities. He once stopped the coach by
which he was travelling from N.S. Wales to Vic-
toria to enable him to desecrate the grave of bush-
ranger Morgan.
Though Sydney D.T. cabled (per J.
Randal Carey, President ”) to Lord Roberts and
to Baden-Powell its congratulations on the relief
of Mafeking, no Queen’s Birthday bauble arrived
at the office. But let them have patience. To
run a big Jingo paper in Australia as surely
means a knighthood now-a-days as to be twice
elected Speaker of the Assembly.
An old Sydney identity passed over last
week in the person of Butcher “Billy” Buttel,
aged 66 years. Mr. Buttel was a native of Sydney,
born in Druitt-street, and was full of old Sydney
lore. “ Buttel’s Cow ” was a prominent figure in
King-street for many years, as, “all on her own,”
she wended her way to and from the Domain,
poking her head into hotel bars for provender.
If Donald Macdonald is to get the legiti-
mate measure of kudos for his Ladysmith book, it
should be issued immediately in London. The
material is as good as any that the war has brought
out, but the race is to the quick, and men like
Julian Ralph and veteran Burleigh knew what
they were about when they published their per-
manent records before even leaving S’Africa them-
selves.
Fred. Co wen, recently appointed conductor
of the English Philharmonic Society, speaks
gratefully of the good time he had as chief of
Melbourne Exhibition orchestra eleven
years ago. He then conducted 3(50 con-
certs, including 30 oratorio performances,
with a choir 700 strong, and so “ gained
the experience of a lifetime in a few
months.” Cowen’s father, it seems, was
private-secretary to the late Earl of
Dudley—the musical potentate who
wore his hair very long in order, it was
said, to hide a pair of bogus ears—a
result of being found trespassing in the
Sultan' of Turkey’s harem.
The late James Hopkins, M.L.C.,
was not the last M.L.A. whom a
N.S.W. electorate supported by sub-
scription. Jacob Garrard, ex-Minis-
ter, and now on Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board, enjoyed that class
of support for several years. No
N.S.W. legislator who accepted pay-
ment from his constituents died with-
out regretting it. David Buchanan paid
by gold-diggers, A. G. Taylor by
feneral voters, Garrard by Mort’s
iockers, Dalgleisli by ironworkers,
Angus Cameron by carpenters, and
Hoskins by miners, have all condemned
the hard fate of having to collect their
stipend from constituents.
Plain Bill Lyne has held the one seat for
twenty years. N.S.W. political history makes it
doubtful whether Lyne, K.C.M.G. will be as
lucky. When Jack Robertson became Sir John
his constituency kicked him out. Ditto with
the hairy Parkes. Ditto with the lengthy Dibbs.
Premier Lyne the other day said he was
“ particularly pleased that Major-General Hutton
had been put in command of the colonial troops,
and for reasons that would in future be made
known he was delighted so much had been
achieved by the Major-General.” Which indi-
cates ?
Evelyn Pitfield Shirley Sturt, P.M., who
presided at Melb. City Police Court in the last
generation, would not have any adjournment, be-
cause he feared people wouldn’t come back sober.
A pub. opposite used to give away drouthy red
herrings, and there was apt to be a fish-like smell
about the court.
First verse of thanksgiving poem by sur-
vivor of the Sierra Nevada, wrecked outside Port
Phillip Heads :
HIS AMBITION.
Old Gent : “ Now, my boy, you know you'll never
grow up to be a man if you smoke so young!”
Small Boy : “ That's all right, mister—I want to
be a jockey !”
Nothing so far has been publicly said as to
the trouble apparently existent between Gov.
Beauchamp and Major-General French, command-
ing the N.S.W. military, who seemingly was not
invited to the vice-regal Queen’s Birthday dinner.
The row is understood to be over something about
the non-turning-out of a guard.
An amazing spectacle during the Melb.
Jingo bout was a Supreme Court Justice, who
worked himself into a frenzy at the big meet-
ing, tossed his shiny head-gear about, worked his
arms like semaphores on the loose, and lost every
oz. of the dignity he has accumulated by years of
dirge-like homilies to the unfortunates passing to
the gallows through his hands.
General Hutton was the loudest-swearing
commandant the N.S.W. military ever had. When
he arrived in Sydney, a D.T. reporter went to
hear his first address to the forces, which went—
“ Well, you’re a pretty decent set of men, dammit,
but you’re blanky badly officered.” And so on for
a column or more. But the oration didn’t go into
print that way ; a discreet editor submitted the
proof to the General.
A newly-appointed J.P. was fined at a
N.S.W. country Police-court the other day for
being drunk and disorderly. Yet when the list
appeared, including this character’s name, as well
as that of an unoertificated, bankrupt, no notice
was taken by the Minister of the people’s objec-
tions, and the necessary documents wore for-
warded so that they could be sworn-in as
magistrates of the province.
Ballington Booth has lodged a preliminary
legal application, in the U.S., to change the name
of his twelve-year-old son William Booth to
Charles Brandon Booth—which naturally excites
curiosity. Is the General’s name a contamination
to his grandson ? Interviewed, Ballington is made
to say that he will give startling reasons for the
change. It is reported that the General, when
last in America, had a talk with him.
Concerning Ben Harkus’ death, Trooper
Barclay, of Singleton, writes from Bloemfontein :
I suppose you will have heard of Harkus’ death by the
time you get this letter. The poor fellow died the other
day, presumably from enteric fever, but more likely from
a broken heart. Since he rejoined us, he has never been
the same man as when he left us. Some of the boys asked
him how he came to volunteer after going home. He re-
plied, “ A man couldn’t live in Sydney.” His last words
were to ask for his children.
Melba, it is printed, avers that she is
delighted to get rid of her husband, “Kangaroo
Charlie ” Armstrong, and means to be happy with
her spouse-prospective, Haddon Chambers, the
Australian playwright, in view of which happen-
ing she has already bought a house in Great
Cumberland-street, London. Haddon Chambers
(who, by the way, was born in Sydney, where
some of his people still live, and practically started
his literary career by writing for The Bulletin)
is a smart and vivacious man, who threatens to be
eternally young.
Dear Bulletin. —Why insist on calling
Premier Seddon “Digger Dick?” Although he
has graduated from a small goldfield township
into prominence, Seddon is not, and never was, a
digger. He has lived long on the goldfields of the
West Coast, and still represents in Parliament his
old electorate of Westland, which no doubt makes
people think Dick had been delving for the pre-
cious metal. As a matter of fact, during his long
residence on the goldfields his occupations were
storekeeper, gold-buyer, publican, and mining
advocate.—Ki \vi.
Bertram Mackennal, the brilliant young
sculptor who has caught on so well in Europe, had
no honor in his own country. A few years ago
his modest little studio in Swanston-street, Melb.,
was an unfrequented place, and when he sent to
the trustees of the Public Library opposite the
fine bit of statuary which was afterwards awarded
a high distinction at Paris Salon, he received no
encouragement. Mackennal was starved out, and
left for London. His father, a very talented
designer, is one of the most genial and popular
men in Melbourne.
Like the late Frank Grey Smith, whom he
succeeds as chief manager of the National Bank,
J. G. Addison got most of his training for the
office in Adelaide. A dour Scotsman is Mr. Addi-
son, whose “Your cash, please,” when he was
inspector, sent cold-water down the backs of
several branch officers. It was his father—he died
only a few years ago—who, accidentally sitting on
his old clay pipe, rebuked himself with, “Auch
mon, ye ocnt to be cairfu’. Twa for a happenny
at hame, an’ I gi’ed a penny for it here.” And
still the old gentleman was the head of a really
generous, warm-hearted household.
Hopson P. Walker, Chief Clerk in Equity,
and bugbear of Melbourne Law Courts, has retired
and his place has been filled by G. H. Neighbour,
one of the few barristers who took advantage of
the Amalgamation Act and practised as a solicitor.
His backsliding gave him an insight into practice
which he would never have obtained by remaining
a mere advocate—hence his reward, £l2OO a year.
The late Chief Clerk,was noted for two things—
his fiery temper and his affection for red tape.
The first practical joke played on every articled
clerk was to send him into Hopson P. Walker’s
room with a tapeless bundle of papers r
Premier M‘Lean, of Vie., is painfully
lame, and is compelled to hobble about slowly
between two sticks. He owes his affliction to
having been badly gored by a mad cow. One
day, while selling a penful of cattle, he straddled
the fence in the orthodox manner, when one of
the animals suddenly became infuriated and
charged him. Both horns penetrated his thigh,
lacerating it horribly, and dragging him into the
midst of the savage mob of cattle. Mr. M ‘Loan had
a narrow escape for his life. Like ex-Premier
Turner, M‘Lean has not a personal enemy on
either side in the ’Ouse, and very few outside.
When young C. G. Trevelyan (Sir George
Trevelyan’s son) was in Melbourne David Syme
Eaid him many attentions, inviting him to his
ouso at Kew to meet many people, and revealing
to him the greatness of the land as seen through
Syme’s spectacles. Evidently the young man was
duly impressed. Since returning he has been
elected to the House of Commons for Elland divi-
GEORGE LANSELL, the Bendigo Quartz
King.
sion of Yorkshire. In the course of the recent
debate on Imperial Federation in the House, Tre-
velyan spoke. He referred to the Age as the
leading newspaper in Australia, and begged
Chamberlain to pay regard to what Syme’s organ
said on the question.
Cherubic Dr. Bevan, the parson with
speeches to make about everything that’s going
around Melbourne, managed to get his tongue into
serious trouble the other night. One of his Con-
gregational Church brethren had dared to spout
in favor of a “native trained ministry,” and
Bevan, (who was himself imported on a fat salary)
said that the other, fellow’s doctrine savored of
Protection, “ which as everybody knows is a
coward’s platform and a coward’s policy.”
Whereat the good shepherd’s spiritual flock gave
him to understand by hisses and other un-kerris-
tian evidences, that he was fluting the wrong tune.
The words to be particularly noted in Dr. B’s ex-
posure of his fiscal faith are “as everybody knows.”
The much-flattered and over-rated tonguester sums
himself up as Everybody.
And am I spared, and am I still alive?
So few were saved ; am I one of the five ?
I was o’ervvhelmed and swallowed bv the sea,
Yet here I lie. God has been good to me.
Yes, I was dazed a bit, and I have been
Re-living o’er and o’er the solemn scene.
I got some bruises and some cuts you see.
I’fl soon be right. God has been good to me.


Franz Josef Lager Beer
... The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
MAGONOGHIE’S
Dainty Foods Obtainable Everywhere.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
the tastiest dishes during the hot
WEATHER.
No Picnic Complete without Them.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
for the hath.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
for THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden. London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
“Myall ” : To R.W.S. (B. 12/5/’00). The
blacks on the Maranoa River, S.W. Queensland,
make fire as follows. They take a piece of dead pine
and out two notcho* in it, which intersect at right
angles. They then rub a sharp-edged piece of
hardwood, usually brigalow, in this notch. The
sawdust, formed by the friction, as it smoulders,
is lifted up by a blade of grass and they then
throw fragments of dead grass on it, blow gently,
whereupon the grass lights. The whole operation
when once the sticks have been prepared does not
take more than 3min. On the Mitchell the blacks
use a pointed stick which, by rubbing lietween the
palms of their hands, they cause to revolve rapidly
in a hole on another flat stick. The tinder is then
applied as in the other method.
• • • •
“ A.C.0.” : Re animal chivalry. It is not
usual for the male quadruped to feel any interest
in his offspring —or, for that matter, in his own
mother when she is nursing another family. 1 do,
however, know of a pa cat who takes an interest
in ma puss while she is engaged in maternal duties.
He is a big orange cat living next door to the
matron ; and, every morning for the fortnight
since the birth of her one kitten, the orangeman
has brought a food-offering, such as a young rat or
a bird. Once it was a lizard. He never enters
madame’s house—that she will not permit—but
comes to the kitchen-door and calls, sometimes for
an hour before the lady appears. When she does,
he lays the present before her and sits by whilst
she fastidiously examines, and occasionally eats it.
She doesn’t appear at all thankful for the attention,
and once gave the donor “one” on the ear for
merely looking at the kitten.
• • • •
“T.G.F.” : Re “ W.M.B.’a ” bush recluse
at Narrabri (8., 5/5/’00). On the Dubbo-to-
Cobbora road, a few years ago, lived “ Mad
Mary” who, for 15 years, tramped regularly
between Dubbo and Cobbora, seldom remaining
more than a day at either end of the journey.
Her husband, who had boen a hawker on this
ioad, was burnt to death one night whilst sleeping
under his van, and the poor woman became de-
mented in consequence, and started on the old
beat in search of her husband. She would accept
food, but never shelter, even in the worst of
weather. I saw her early one winter’s morning
near Ballimore mineral springs, lying near a frost-
covei-ed log. She was at last found stiff and cold
a few yards off the road, clutching in her hand
her old black “billy-can.”
“ W.M.F.”: Recently saw two
eagle-hawks operating on a hare. While
one chased the quarry the other wheeled
round, waiting. Every time the hunter
stooped the hare dodged and disap-
peared in a cloud of dust, but by cun-
ning work the one hawk drove the hare
towards the other. Then a sudden
swoop of the latter and the play was
over—for the hare.
The drought has pretty near put a stop to
alluvial mining in N.Q., and hundreds of old fos-
sickers are at their wits’ end. Rain or Dunwich
asylum it now means to them. And—the irony of
it—just when tin is so high in the market, too !
Came upon a pair of ancients looking for their
dinner t’other day. They carried a dilapidated
muzzle-loader charged with tin and minus a cock,
a small shoeing-hammer, and a forked stick. I
became interested in the proceedings and watched.
Soon they sighted a lonely cockatoo perched high
up on a tree. Carefully they stalked the quarry,
and then one of them adjusted a cap and took
careful aim, resting the barrel on the fork.
“ Now !” he cried. And with a gentle tap from
the shoeing-hammer the other exploded the
charge—and the cockatoo flew off. However,
they assured me, amid much regretful profanity,
that such a miss was an exception, and their
mediaeval hunting method was nearly always suc-
cessful.
* • • *
If Australian bush law take pattern from
the Narrabri brand adversity will get cruelly home
on the swaggy. A pair of “travellers” were
lately haled before a local Rhadamanthus charged
with “languaging” a squatter who refused them
rations, and were ordered to quod. “But,”
Rhadamanthus said, “apart from the abusive lan-
guage, I can send you to gaol for being unlawfully
on premises, begging being unlawful.” Squatters’
runs are therefore “premises,” and a footsore
swagman asking work or a ration to carry him on
is doing an unlawful thing on the premises,
and may be arrested. Swaggy’s days are darken-
ing. He will have to retire from the bush and
take to an infected area in the capital.
* • • +
A country bank-manager’s story, illus-
trating the progress of knowledge of man and
things as it moves in the out-bush. Jim had £lOO
on fixed deposit in the local bank. This repre-
sented the savings of years, and in the eyes of the
unsophisticated Jim tne £3 per annum it earned
him was an income. Jim went to Melbourne, and
stayed a month. Shortly after his return his
deposit came due, and the capitalist called upon
the banker with the importance of a man whose
business meant a great deal to the institution.
“Well, Jim, are you going to renew again?”
“ Renew ! ” said James, “no fear ! Look here — I
lost a hundred quid through havin’ that capital o’
mine tied up here. In town I met a cove what
offered to give me a hundred in hard cash if I
could show him as much that I’d saved out o’ my
own earnin’s. And I hadn’t more’n two Jim in
my kick. No more fixed deposits for me.”
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Stated in B. 5/5/’OO that
the banana seeds only in the Andaman Islands.
What about the wild banana that seeds plentifully
between Rockingham Bay and Cairns (N.Q.J?
Except as regards the seeds 1 could see no differ-
ence between the wild banana and the tame one.
-D. M*K.
* » • •
“Gar.”: Not generally known that out-
back in Queensland many of the squatters who
work their stations with aborigines get up opium
in cases, like jam ! No money passes, for all the
station hands are paid in opium ; and it is pretty
rich to anyone in the “know” when these said
squatters (who are generally J's.P.) heavily fine
any Chow caught supplying the nigs with opium-
charcoal !
* * * *
“A.P.F.”: Re emus swimming (“ Mut-
ton-8.,” 8., 12/5/’00). Last year myself and some
others ran an emu into a bend of the Namoi River
and surrounded him, when, seeing he had but one
way of escape, he rushed into the water, and to
our surprise, dived and came up near the opposite
bank, which he soon reached.
• • * •
As Dunedin (Maoriland) is to the Scotch
colonist so is Kelly’s Basin (Tas.) to the Irish.
The Basin (in Macquarie Harbor) was named
after Capt. Kelly, an old Hobart identity, and is
now the terminus of the North Lyell Co.’s railway
and the port generally for the Darwin and North
Lyell mines. It is populated almost wholly by
Patlanders. The principal hotelkeeper is a Lynch,
everv second man in the street is called Pat, every
third man Mick. Kathleens and Marys are as
plentiful as rain-drops ; gintlenien who pay the
rint infect the moist air and plough the streets
with ferocious persistency, and every family roo-
ster wakes the dawn with a distinct brogue.
• • • *
“80-Peep”: “ Gilgai ’’-holes occur only
on the plains west of the Blue Mountains, espe-
cially in the region of the Bogan and the Mac-
quarie, and then only where the subsoil _is
calcareous; the cause of these depressions being
the unequal subsidence of the limestone; which
again may have some relation to the action of
artesian currents. The holes generally extend in
a long chain —sometimes for miles, though single
holes are not uncommon. Gilgais occur also on
Victorian plains, but are there called “crab-
holes.”
* • * •
“R.W.S.”: I know of a case in which a
large watermelon placed on the table for dessert
was found, when cut open, to have been hollowed
out by mice, and to contain a small brown snake,
which had presumably
followed a mouse in
and had gone to sleep
after the meal.
“ W.M.”:
Anyof yourreaders
ever seen crows tackling
fowls? Intliisneighborhood
(Aberdeen, N.S.VV.) they will, if they get the
chance, soon put an end to any fowl that shows
signs of feebleness. Never saw them tackle any-
thing larger than a three-months’ chick elsewhere.
Strange, too, that in some localities magpies and
butcher-birds are death on young chickens, while
in others they never touch them.
« * * •
Some idea of the ravages of drought
in Queensland may be gathered from these
facts. Saltern Creek, formerly running 187,000
sheep, now possesses only a few thousands. Cor-
nish station has come down from 30,000 to 0000.
By the middle of April 320,000 sheep had been
booked for the coast on the Central Railway,
and 240,000 on the Northern line. One station,
which, a year or two ago, ran 300,000 sheep, now
keeps 70,000 alive by the use of maize. Archie
Meston recently made-a lengthy Western journey
and saw patches of grass twice in 1000 miles. The
locomotive and cattle trucks are important factors
just now. “Fight the enemy along the railway
line” is the motto just now in both Queensland
and S’Africa.
“ R.W.” : Some dumb animals can show
man lxiints in selecting leaders (they don t do it
bv inriutncc. anyhow). In every dairy-yard one
cow is always boss, though liable at any lime to be
defeated and supplanted. Same with
brumbies, sheep. pigs or fowls—there
is always a leader, which is followed,
if the lot are chased.
. .. a
ON MAFEKING DAY.
J OHNSON: “ Give us — hie—a first-clash return
ticket—hie !”
CLERK: “ To What station , sir?”
JOHNSON: "Oh, I don’t mind—what ’avc yer got
left?”
“Trotter”: About the biggest shock 1
ever got was when, rafter drinking tea with a man
engaged in burning dead sheep (there was a
dam-full of dead mutton), I asked him where ho
got his water ? “ Out of the dam,” said he coolly.
Told me he boiled it; allowed it to cool; then
boiled it again. Nevertheless !
“ YV.M.B.” : In drought-stricken West
Queensland I came across a curious bullock turn-
out. Painted on the waggon in large white letters
was— “still living,” and from a kind of tent on
the top of an enormous load of wool seven little
heads gazed out at me in wonderment. The old
woman (pronouncedly Irish) drove the team, and
made it evident that in the shape of cus3-language
she had nothing to learn from any male “per-
suader.” The old man was not visible, but I
presumed he was asleep on top. Amongst the
pots, pans, and so on\underpeath the dray,
were tied two goats, followed by as many
kids, and a dissipated-looking parrot in a
battered cage suspended from a pole en-
livened the mournful procession with numer-
ous profane remarks on his own
account. The cavalcade was brought up
by an equine skeleton vainly casting
round a lack-lustre eye in search of the
grass which “ was not.”
“Old Bus”: Be “ Wil’s ” par. (B.
12/5/’00). On the road from Walhalla (Vic.) to
Moe are hundreds of stringybarks which have
been almost entirely stripped of their bark by
“black cockatoos” in search of grubs. Grubs in
this non-agricultural district form their staple
food.
* * * *
“A.A.A.”: Mooney was just out, and
joined the party at White Cliffs. But you
couldn’t tell him about your mosquitoes. He
wasn’t afraid of “such flies as thim.” First night
out the camp was pitched in a small gully, and all
squatted around the dung-fire bar Mooney, who
went aside to a small hillock and lay down on his
blanket, after telling us what lie thought of our
cowardice in being afraid of the mosquitoes, which
had now begun to swarm. .Very soon, however,
groans and scratchings were heard from the direc-
tion of Mooney, who at last jumped up and
rushed over to the fire. “ I give in, bhoys—-I
can’t sthand thim no longer,” Then we had a
look and found on the poor devil dozens of bull-
dan ants which had stung him from head to foot.
He had camped right on top of a “ nest ” !
A man recently fined, in a N.S.W. coun-
try town, for gross cruelty to a horse, pleaded
thnt thp arprnot was lazy, and ho haul to us* a
barbed-wire bridle!
“A.F.":In a boot-shop in
Queen-street, Brisbane, t'other
day 1 saw a crowd of camel-
drivers, dressed as usual, some
with one sleeve rolled up and the
other down, dirty dungaree pants,
and blucher boots, and all more or
less begrimed with the red dust of
the West, whence they had just
come. After they left
I remarked to the
manager that he must
have had a good deal,
“Not at all,” he re-
plied ; “all that was
sold to them was a
penny pair of boot-
laces.lt is a
peculiarity with
these people that
if one of them
makes a pur-
chase, no mat-
ter how trifling,
the whole par-
ty must come
into tlm shop.
“Perrus ” :
On bigstations
rabbits are
skinned by
chopping the
tail and legs
off close to the
body, then the
skin, being
pulled from the
tail, peels right
olf. Don’t see
why ’possums
shouldn’t be so
kinned also.
Would save
half the time,
and not
damage the
skin any
more than
the present
plan.
• •
“ R.W.S.” :
Recently saw an
echidna (porcupine ant-
eater) at work upon an army of ants,
and was astonished at the speed with
which he “ scoffed ” ’em. When he began,
there were myriads of the insects round him,
but in smin. there wasn’t one left!
• ♦ • •
“ N-d-NV ” : Should like to know on what
authority “ Chas. F.” (B. 28/3/’00) states that
rabbit-proof netting (I suppose, netting fencing)
is no got si, 1 have had many years’ experience of
netting-fences, and I can’t understand how rabbits
can “crawl under” netting sunk Gin. in the
ground, or how they can “break through ” ordin-
ary 17 gua. netting, which gives a boar-pig a tough
job to break. And who has ever seen a rabbit
climb a netting-fence? 1 have seen a rabbit in a
netting-trap make frantic rushes at the netting
and scramble nearly to the top, and possibly a
hunted rabbit might do this in the case of an
ordinary netted fence, and fall over, but to say
that bunnv climbs fences is simple bosh. Also,
how does'the “swaggie” who wants work,
manage when he “heaves rabbits over a fence?”
Does Tie carry a few traps in his swag and catch
bunny that way, and (after setting his broken leg)
heave him over, or does he (swag and all) run him
down on foot? And, suppose a rabbit is fool
enough to let swaggie catch him, how does latter
hope to obtain work by heaving him over a fence ?
As for the effectiveness of a properly-constructed
and properly-looked-after fence, take the border-
fence between N.S.W. and Q. I have seen rabbits
in thousands on the N.S.W. side with the country
absolutely bare, while on the Q. side was plenty
of grass and not a rabbit to be seen.
m • * •
At a recent tangi over the body of a Maori
child the proceedings extended over three weeks,
and interment was not thought of until the coffin
actually explo led. After the funeral one of the
bearers was taken to hospital suffering from ty-
phoid.
• * * *
“ Yarrum ” : The philosophy of the iguana-
cim-snake business is simply that while the iguana
looks upon the snake as food, the snake objects to
that view of the case—hence the scrimmage.
» • * •
“ W.S.D.” : On opening a newly-killed
iguana once, I was surprised to find the heart still
beating. I then cut the heart out, and watched it
pulsating regularly (not merely twitching) for
fully 2mm. Have since heard of the same pecu-
liarity from other bushmen. Dots the brain con-
trol muscular action ? [The brain does not control
the involuntary muscles, of which the heart is
one.—Ed. B.]
R.T.J.” : lie animals drinking salt
water (“ V.,” B. 12/5/’00). I have frequently seen
rabbits, and once a dingo (iq dry, saltbush coast-
country), drinking water trickling from the sand
after the tide had receded. Probably percolation
absorbs much of the salt from sea-water.
THE TIN-KETTLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mickie Halligan had married on the sly,
And his neighbors were indignant at the slight.
Twas a month before the people of The Fly
Knew the news, and then they gathered in the night,
And they marched to little Mick’s
With their nail-kegs and their bricks.
At the racket sundry cattle died of fright.
Then came Halligan in anger to the door.
Mick’s dress was scant, the night was rather chill.
He dispelled the awful clamor with a roar
And a threat that he was armed and primed to kill.
“ Shut yer noise,” he said. “ Them jokes
Ain’t fer dacent married folks,
An’ ye’ll wake me little babbitt, so ye will 1 ”
B.S.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Klizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be houorably treated. H. Newman Is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
d
25/G
42 /•
hnj initials in Monogram, as above, 2/6 extra.
The “Fx and R” Watch.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE ACE.
nin movements are on the never principle.
THEY have Brcqudt overcoil balance springs.
THEY are Jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel rubv rollers.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
TH E Cases SCREW together.
THEY are specially marie to stand rough riding and
knocking about, and iro with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25/0 each in Oxidised Metal Case#, and
42/- in Solid Silver Cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX and Rrttr.TS,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
A travelling clergyman reached a Vic.
mining town just as the news arrived of the Re-
lief of Mafeking. Free drinks were the order of
the day, and every able male inhabitant was glori-
ously, patriotically drunk. The parson stood
alone —the only sober man in the street. This
strange fact excited the curiosity of one very full
digger, and he regarded him curiously. “Bill,”
he called to a bibulous individual close by,_ who
was trying, without much success, to maintain an
upright position— “ Bill, heresh a blanky bloke as
doesn’t know Mafekingsh relieved.”
* * * •
Country poet on Mafeking relief :
Hurrah for Powell and his locust-fed legion,
Who so no! ly defied the Boers’ besieging.
“Locust-fed legion ” is distinctly good.
» * * *
“ Wiljar ” : Some people go often pain-
fully near being smashed up, eventually to die out
very easily. Know a man who
fell 30ft. through some scaffold-
ing, but escaped so well that
he would have continued work
if permitted. Another time he
fell into a liver, sank, and be-
coming entangled in the roots
of a tree was only brought back
to life with great difficulty.
Later on, a tree fell on him,
breaking his leg and smashing
his foot. Again, one dark
night he fell over a stump,
severely injuring his neck,
from which he endured tenable
agony for many weeks, recover-
ing at last to catch a cold and
die of dysentery in a few days.
“T.G.F.” : In the muddy
waters of the back country
creeks is found an eel which,
when caught, will strike with
its head, on which is a sharp
bone, a prick from which is
painful for an hour or more. This eel seldom
glows to a great size, and is excellent eating.
Can anyone snv why it is known as the “Louthen”
eel?
This looks like the champion snake-lie :
Dear Bu .letin, —“ R.H.L.” (L. S/5/’OO) found a snake
round h.s pick and shovel and another in his dish, on the
Wentworth. That’s only three snakes, after all. On the
adjacent Nicholson River there is a creek named Stutter-
ing Fred’s. My old mate and I paid a flying visit there,
and were so impressed both with the prospects and the
snakes that we decided to locate to dig, and, for the
snakes, my mate struck an original idea. He caught two
goannas, and starved them. Led them over on a string.
Snakes w \re pretty plentiful; I killed 73 going to the creek
for a billy of water, and 69 coming back. A frequent
remark about the “stripping” was (say), “3ft. of wash,
OLn. loam, and about Ift. of snakes.” YVe had lots of
trouble in preventing the goannas from swallowing their
prev ; they might have got lazy if too well fed. But one
night the biggest fellow got off the chain, went straight
for the tucker-box, and swallowed up everything, so he
was ignominiously booted off the claim. Then the other
one died of a broken heart and overwork, and the snakes
crowded us so bad that we had to leave, although making
250 z. per day each I —P.J.II.
* • * •
More about rabbit-speed :
“ 0.L.” : To say (“ S.” B. 28/3 ’00) that a smart man can
run a rabbit down on a hot day is about as sensible as to
say that a cow in hobbles can run down a racehorse when
the ice is bearing. Also it takes a mighty smart dog to
run a rabbit down. As to rabbit-coursing with fox-
terriers, rabbits are the most timid animals on earth, and
when set down in a strange place, get absolutely stupid
from fear. A very high authority (Beilby) in the “ Dog
in Australasia” says : “ By no reasoning can a fox-terrier
be considered an equal in pace to the rabbit. . . . For
men to gather in a small enclosed area to hunt captured
rabbits, in many instances so paralysed with fear that
they quietly squat down to be worried, is incredible bar-
barity, and the few rabbits that do attempt to run are
KICKIN' UP THE DUST.
DAVE (from the backblocks): “ She’s trarllin orrighl , Joe; yer can tell
by the way she’s kickin' up the dust behind
half-starved, or are suffering from cramp through confine-
mem.” Again, who has ever seen “an average dingo”
wear down a kang-aroo in good condition ? Once upon a
time the dingo may have so far exerted himself as to try,
but not in these days of sheep and calves.
Curious fact. That tapping on the skin
of a sheep, the meekest of animals, arouses the
most fiery martial ardour in the breast of man.
If Kipling wants to befriend Tommy
Atkins, now is the time. Let him in the heyday
of success strike a few vigorous verbal chords for
an all-round rise in Thomas’ pay, pay, pay. If
R.K. doesn’t do this it may well be supposed that
he regards Tommy merely as a nice red dummy to
hang picturesque yarns upon.
Lamentable facts for the Cold-tea apos-
tolate ! Guinness of Dublin brewed last year
nearly 70,000,000 gallons of stout, using, roughly,
70,000 tons of malt, and paying £091,173 duty.
Bass came next, with about 57,000,000 gals. And
these are only two out of the countless brewing
establishments on this drinky planet.
According to Liverpool Journal OF
Commerce, the new Norddeutscher Lloyd monster
“TWO GENTLEMEN
OF-."
1st PUSHITE (to mate): “As a gen’lcman friend
o' mine sez ter me, 'Bill,' scz’c, 'way didn't
yer bash'im on ther gorb!'"
steamer is to exceed the Oceanic’s length—not by
2ft. as first stilted—but by 48. Sho is to bo 752 ft.
long and will develope 40,000 horse power. The
order for this largest ship the world has ever seen,
is placed with the Vulcan Co. of Stettin,
*
Concerning Broken-hill Yvater :
o r. . a , . „ , , ~ .
. N.S.W. Govt. Analyst Hamlet, after making some blast-
mg reports on samples of Broken-h.il water from the co’s
TT’ n ? w breaU l cs a modified benediction over water-
»bed.an(J reservoir. The only thing he withholds h,s
blessing from are the filtration works. That is only so far
as fhe co. controls matters. On the catchment area the
oaal , town , aoun<al has appropriated a gully, in which It
h™ digged trenches, whither for years past It has nightly
s , en^. tho necessary person we never mention. Mr. Hamlet
declines to breathe over that gully either. The council
has done what it could it has built a dam at the
creek-end of the gully. Once the dam was earned
away by flood waters ; what happened then he
doesn’t speculate. .Still, the reservoir is seven miles
away, and so couldn’t have got much of it. Mr.
Hamlet tells the council to shift its depot. It is the
council,-by the way, which has been telling the co. that
it ought to he ashamed of itself for supplying such water,
Also, the officer recommends the co. to filter its water
better ; but he doesn’t tell it how to do so. And thirdly,
he suggests better supervision over the piggeries aiid
slaughter-houses on the catchment. When these things
are done Broken-hill water will lose all its flavor, and the
local people will probably fi.v to alcohol. In spite, how-
ever, of depot and piggeries and s’aughter-yards and dead
rabbits, Mr, Hamlet concludes that, (hough it is not a
perfect water supply, the stuff is good enough to drink,
lie mentions, in fact, that he took a whole tumbler full of
it—and the report is dated several days after that hap-
pened. YVh c i shows that all the brave and hardy men
have not gone to S’Africa.
Lord Roberts is a
teetotalistc force in the
arm\'. Said that 30
per cent of the white
troops in India are
total abstainers nowa-
days, the reform being
largely due to Roberts’
endeavours. For that
matter the old Indian
“liver,” identified
with the Indian life
of the military and
civil services in the old
bitter beer and brandy
drinking times, is now
almost a tiling of the
past. Scotch and Irish
whiskies are driving
Bass and Hennessy off
the market, and whis-
ky well diluted
seems to be the one
strong drink which
gives the consumer a
chance to preserve his
health in Calcutta.
A German Catho-
lic newspaper prints
that the Pope has re-
solved to enforce
celibacy among the
Soul-.. American priests. A large order Out
0 f 15,000 priests in (he infected area, 3,000 are
r p nMr f o ,i tn U i nnn i • u-
i t 0 b 5, *’ 4,000 kee P u, & concubines,
aua suspected.
Lieut. J. C. M'Kenna, a Vic. tvarrior
writing from Mafeking:—
I was slightly wounded in Deo. A lib. Maxim shell
came into my room as I was getting into my bath, and
one °* the fragments—after it burst—cut me slightly
seclt'5 eclt ' I am sorry to say it was not
scratched looking o“7a trench wheToieof
the Boers fired an explosive bullet, which burst on the
bags. lam afraid these wounds will fade away too.
Contemplate the grief of the brave soldier with
no wounds to show, or, worse still, with a wound
where it can’t be shown.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice- will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent, by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Las. : Certainly—“ Britannia rules the waves,”
and as much of the land as she can get M.A.W. : Use-
less writing to him ; he must see j'ou. You can’t pos-
sibly diagnose your own case—you can’t accurately
describe your condition even if you write 50 columns
about it.. .-.Sabocq (Q.) : Must decline to take one of the
literary productions of “ ‘ Dooley ’ and point out to .you
where and how it is funny or clever! ” Difference be-
tween you and Dooley is that he is a conscious humorist
and you are an unconscious one Plastron : Two pages
of nonsense. You see, present writer was intimately
acquainted with Ricciotti Garibaldi—and also with his
brother Menotti. Ricciotti was never more sincere os a
politician than he was as a school truant-officer... .Balla-
rat Joe : Thanks.... W.M. Ed. : The Bulletin is a demo-
cratic paper. It is Radical at heart, and would be more
Radical still if it had a million a year. It has no social or
political ambitions, has no majors or colonels on its direc-
torate, never goes to Govt. House, and isn’t pulled
by any fashionable staylaces or petticoat-wires : it has
no one to please but itself. And it would for-
ever despise and loathe itself if it helped to pull
down the flag of Human Liberty and Cosmopolitanism
and hoist that of Greed and National Prejudice....
Tukwatu : A quaint little tale—too quiet and thin—with
black persons of unpronounceable names dropping in and
out of the yarn like badly-spelled shadows Billy Wel-
lington : Presume the lamented Bill Adams is now 'in the
Benevolent Asylum.... P.A. : Dear friend, the writer has
lived for years in Maoriland, and really knows something
about the country. Better send these wonderful “ facts ”
to a more credulous market Rex : True, but wants to
be much more brightly written. The greatest truth can
be made to look mean if written badly enough Bar:
“ Uncle Dan ” is indeed a curiosity ; they’d think we lmd
“ rats” if we printed it A.L.S. : Good, speedy verses
they flew out of hand about as fast as light travels
Olga: Tender twaddle Outpost: Wooden as any other
post M.D. : Nothing in it Fitz: Too muchsliriekee-
shriekee H. Pertinax :We merely pointed out that,
after much elaborate counting, the Ilare-Olark system
had, where last tried, returned exactly the same men
who would have been returned at the first count under
the old, Ineffective system. And you don’t venture to
deny this. Apparently it has a habit of coming out at
exactly the same hole it went in at, and leaves
all the old evils very much where they were....
Guyt. : Leaden—and on botli sides of paper... .Beyell :
Bloodless —A. Con. : Too much like a lump of gray
nothing in a fog Cosmo: Don’t waste your time oil
tepid sentiment; send boiling passion, if you have any....
C.G.B. : One awful verse, for the mere truth of it—
I tell you, Bill, it’s awful seein’ old and feeble men
Humpin’ bludy same as you and me.
You and me lias chances, but it isn’t so with them.
Blow me. Bill, it’s pitiable to see.
Aus. .I. : No grit. Eat beef every day An Aus-
tralian Briton ; Sorry we cannot invest you with imagina-
tion and give von to understand how Fat Man and his
daily press would deal with you were you thus demon-
strating in a workers’ cause, in a cause of their class
only, and not one representing loaves and fishes and in-
fluence, more flesh-pots and extended powers for Fat in
“ the Empire.” Had the cause been other than that of
the unbounded Money Grub, you would have found your-
selves the objects of virtuous diatribes against these
“ brainless ruffians.” Perhaps you weren’t in Australia at
strike-time when the fashionable young-bloods got into
police-uniform to ride down the men in moleskins....
YanUo-Corustilk : Verse uneven and bumps grievously
K.A.D. : Large, dry poem. Only wants a cow’s skull in
the middle of it to be a far-ivest selection in summer
C. Bill : A grave-digger’s D.T. isn’t any better material
for a story than anyone else’s D.T. when his D.T. is just
the plain, ordinary kind of D.T. And this D.T.
is that D.T Rex; Either say something new or
say an old thing well. To say an old thing worse
than usual is Gehenna J.T.8.: Rather smellful
E.B. (Vic.): Not force or interest enough. MS. returned.
YVon Hi May use Larrikin: Not much in
“ Brown’s Hat,” except that a pretty girl proved to be
married to a Chinaman.... Yeb : A failure as a story....
Leo : No climax, and not much thrill, and only a smatter-
ing of incident... .Kuthwick : Ain’t it sickenin’ ? P.H.:
Not good enough Ben : “Toll-bar” rather too weak.
Louis M.: Verse too ordinary ; possibly sketch goes,..
P.J.11. : The too-beautifully-moral poem doesn't interest
u 5.... Ahau : Possibly “ Moonrise ” ; others lack force....
Larry : Stamps sent lliverina Bill : Yes, send in any
new bush jokes, adventures, curiosities; but cut ’em
short. Clip out pars., and send monthly to accountant,
who will remit Glengariff: Doubtful,.. .Rex : Unus-
able 6 x 6: Joke too small and ordinary F.O.S. :
You and your “ bulbous bosoms” ! Poetry, indeed !
Arthur B. : YVe don’t profess to know Tom Moore by
heart. Moore wrote some gems, and we could probably
recognise most of them ; he also wrote some hogwash,
and a lot of pretty-decent, girl’s-allmm sort of stuff,
which nobody could remember except the man whose
reading was exclusively Irish and who regarded
Moore as a literary God. Hundreds of thousands
of equally good, and better, verses are entombed
in the columns of newspapers all over the world
M. T. (Hawthorn): Your about the intruding
bounder who took possession of the balcony of a swagger
club is a very thin yarn. YVhy didn’t those Johnnie mem-
bers of the club summon the waitahs to remove the
truculent one? S.R. : Unavailable C.lv. : YVe gave
you an ounce of encouragement by printing a paragraph ;
now vou send us four tons of dull M.S E.F.A. (T.):
The 'style of your letter proves conclusively that you
couldn’t please us C. Cameron (B.B.): No, neither
have been republished F. : Probably the Mafeking
Frenzy would not have been half such a mad frenzy but
for Baden-Powell’s performance in the last act of the
siege. The crowd's cheers were mostly for the man who,
after seven months’ waiting for a warm fight, had managed
to get his enemy’s head in chancery YVatchem : Many
thanks—hut we don’t propose to take any notice
Savage YV. : All more or less striking, but we had better
use none of them, out of consideration for the just-
returned officer, who lias borne himself in a modest and
manly way Nikau : Seems to be a case of “ the last
slialfbe first.” Miss R. : YVe do ; but the item sent is
worthless Edwin C. : It is life-like, and may be used.
Harper B. : Hardly finish enough Cidaric : Too
slight l’.G. : “It is my first offence.” Discharged
accordingly, under the F.O. Act. Theme too well-worn
fo£ such mediocre treatment Riverina : YVe couldn’t
“ make it publishable," because there’s no story in it
Luck: Not worth while Pelican: Menu story old
Stranger : It has either no point or an unprintable one...
M.A.C. : The Bulletin isn’t a journal for schoolmisses....
A. E.C.: Not good enough. Last issue forwarded
YV.J.C. : Sorry neither up to mark, though the versifica-
tion is smooth enough. You can send along anything—
briefly worded—that you think would be of interest
Arthur L.S. : Looks as if you’d “got ’em again.”....
Native : “ Least of Three ” has simplicity and pathos ;
may use Ben Sun : Two of them are worth considera-
tion Awakiino : Rat-poem carefully cremated Rex :
Doggerel of deepest dye John Garew : Smoothly tame
and uninteresting...'Camolin : Put “ Religieuse ” in a
four-line epigram—same with “Esther.” “Hermit”;
better done already A.M.B. : Clippings received
E.G.B. : Let Parkes’s sleeping sonnets lie S.O. F. : Not
up 8.8.8. : No merit whatever. Same with your
brother X.X.X Hawera: Received.. ..J.A.O. : Good
suggestion; but it won’t do as it stands Fa.vre : Not
distinction enough A.D.A. : YVants to be brighter
R.L.D. : Thanks ; but he says it isn't the same idea at all.
YVattle B.ossoni: You’ll have to practise awhile yet.
R.K.C. : Bit too heavy Junee : Thanks
A.E.M. (N. Adelaide): “ Strange episode” declined
YV.P. (Koorawatha): Grow perjury received Sphinges:
Good material—not a story E.C.A.: Pleasant, but too
SKETCH AT THE ANIMAL-DEALER'S.
placid J.J. : Can’t say, but Dr. Ashburton-Thompson’s
pronouncement that “ In South AuHtruliu they have their
own views of the Plague, which are distinctly peculiar,
and they would probably not have profited if they visited
Sydney,” is no doubt a ripple from the eternal Adelaide-
hospital feud VV.P. : Easily written—easily rejected.
H.l\ (MX.) : Pretty cheap, eh?... .Vox 11. : Thanks ; but
unusable Oloola":■ Not up this time.. ..A.lt.: Moral
nursery-rhymes have no show here Old B. : You are
“ pulling our leg.” Iguanas don’t swallow snakes alive.
They eat them bit by bit E.P.A. : Sorry no time to
write private letters to unknown intending contributors.
....Oarabne (Melb.): Ancient idea G.M. (P.,M.L.):
“ Laha, the Waikato ” has not the real flavor of Maori-
land. Might ns well have been about Laha the Bed
Indian or Laha the Mozambique... .Maoko : VVe have no
use for petty local details. Send us something of all-
round Australasian interest Maffra : Mr. Chanter, we
believe, is South Australian by birth... .Tim. B. : In the
woman-franchise item, it is not sufficiently obvious
whether you are joking or not. We like to have these
things niade clear... .Reader : Everything depends on
how the lease is drawn up. There are people in Sydney
who actually live by “ slipping up” landlords per medium
of cunningly-drawn leases and, similarly, there are land-
lords who by “clever" agreements keep tenants under
the whip all the time. Never sign a lease without con-
sulting a lawyer unless you “ know.”... .T.T. : The
gentleman’s oid-time dabblings in spiritualism have been
paragraphed ad nauseum Melb.: Your “Stately
Homes in Melbourne ” are nothing to gush about—in Tub
Bulletin, anyhow G.D.: On your own showing the
girl had improved her case at the second hearing. P. :
Does Fitz Gibbon live in a mere house? We thought he
lived in a majestic contemplation of his own importance.
....A. Me. : Your informant was probably fooling you.
No such case was reported in the papers. His episcopal
Nibs is a much kinder-hearted person than he looks
O’B. : Father Moore didn’t “ discover ” little Miss 0. The
enthusiastic widow (Mrs. Doubleday) who risked her little
bit of money in bringing the damsel before the public
at Melb. Town Hall concert was the “discoverer.” In-
deed, the friends of Mrs. D., who sympathised with her
seemingly wild speculation, were the initiators of the
Castles boom. Father Moore was a good barracker for the
boom after it had started, but it wasn’t he who made the
singer’s notoriety Gubbins : Hardly sufficient interest.
Trader : As we read the Act it doesn’t apply.
A Carter’s Catastrophe.
Mr. E. Cummings, who has been connected
with Messrs. Henfrey & Co. Aerated Water
Manfacturers, of 13 Castlereagli-st., Sydney as a
driver and collector for many years, has given our
reporter particulars of the results brought about
by an interesting though unfortunate experience.
“We drivers in large cities,” said he,“ have
long rounds and are exposed to all sorts of weather.
If we get wet through we cannot change our clothes
until we finish. As a result of a wetting three
years ago I contracted rheumatic fever, and I had
to give up work. A sharp pain first came in my
big toe, that apparently being the weakest
spot. Then it extended to my feet and
ankles, and two days later I could not raise
myself in bed. My wife had to put her
arm round me and hold me up while she
fed me. My feet and ankles swelled greatly, and
the pains were excessive round my heart, in the
legs, and in the left side. It was agony for me to
move and I could not let my feet touch the floor.
My doctor paid me every attention, but without
permanent benefit. Sciatica and lumbago came
on, so that I had a continuous gnawing ache in my
thighs and legs and in the muscles of my loins. I
then decided to use Dr. Williams’ pink pills. The
third dose benefited me, and shortly afterwards
the pain lessened a little ; four boxes cured me.
After my recovery I told the doctor that Dr.
Williams’ pink pills had cured me. His reply was
that he had heard of several cases in whicn they
had been efficacious. My cure is permanent for I
have had no return of my ailment. ’
The last remark is very characteristic of the
result obtained by the use of Dr. Williams’ pink
pills ; they do not produce a temporary result like
ordinary medicine, which acts merely on the
symptoms and effects of disease. Dr. Williams’
pink pills remove the cause of disease, and thus
give permanent cures in many different disorders.
Amongst the ailments they have cured are chronic
insomnia, neuralgia, dyspepsia, anaemia, effects of
influenza, heart palpitation, consumption, general
debility, ailments of ladies, and all skin and blood
disorders. Dr. Williams’ pink pills are sold by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, and by all chemists and storekeepers, two
and nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three—But
mind you ask for Dr. Williams’. Mr. Cummings
resides at 128 Campbell-street, Surry Hills.
“ Melb.’' : A deadbeat stuck me up to-
day and confessed he had been in gaol, but the
Salvation Army would not help him, because his
imprisonment was not recent enough.


CLAUSE 74.
Once upon a time a Lion, assisted by a Kangaroo, made war on a Boar. And when the war was well-nigh over and the Boar was at its last gasp, the Lion said to the Kangaroo, "You fight very well-very well indeed!" And the Kangaroo was beside
himself with joy, as he naturally expected some striking proof of the Lion’s favour. But the Lion continued, "As I previously , you fight very well, and, as a special mark of favour. I'm going to cut off some of your chews!"


-VO-
;Sfs t y
k kw y* jtj;; L*
V eWKW 1 ;’, fe
* 1 bWT'ten-i* «r
|P L^.
* "•*»«. •» «%3?
l VC »S feJ>otleA, '
■ftsfetaMj yC
f '
porAjrt W \
P \t) oVAtr jl^rV
L-w* r g|
oW'ev'.
1
C<W
1%
•l^Vc
b»i^-
boy •. ...
-■-iteobJa^V
e 6' n
->5
><jp
Joji) -ijifkr («,$
is 17 dee-1
L °{ ty
A,
£oo
H ~
\jor;or- f°>' "7 £ • L 4»ni~
t ~\ \o Vitw Ifue Oi'lTsV
I *ll "
PRISONERS JUBILAItt.
A curious incident occurred at PWitritfge
on Sunday last. The prisoners of the
Church of England, Wesleyan, and Roman
Catholic denominations are compelled by
the gaol regulations to attend rehpous ser-
rices at 9 o'clock every Sunday, and, haring
received the intelligence that Mafeking had
tieen relieved, the men of each persuasion
Sang “God Save the Queen” at the conclu-
sion of the services, Although this out-
break of patriotic enfhufiosm is a decided
breach of the regulations. the convicts were
Allowed to finish the anthem.
„ \K>^
~vr
> v V
V* **>
"'-V -o ■
* V
*\ 4 V
6ir MAl-
leetm M'JSacham had a great reception, a»
he rode at the head of the Scottish Regi-
ment oh a charger newly clipped and exu-
berant, with a dockpd taiLjnd .arvjineasy
«je.
, %«*»*/ w°f r Ke ,
rtyu\ir fkmo'tts’7 '&<* *)*g\j
sfs c s^y.
Ocay 6/Hyh/ \
* j
Vis e*x l°b
tje \
QrlTotj}
APPERTAINING TO THE MELBOURNIAN DRUNK.


Weacling: and Blrtlidav GUftg Direct from London House.
Si
A. SAUNDERS’.
Hair Brash, Pure Silver, in Silk lined Case, 80s.
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ Lemalre" Field and Opera Glass, 255, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Bilver-plated, Various Styles of
Engraving, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, £2, £2 10s,£3'.
Send for Pattern Book.
R~smKml St
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
78 6d, lOs 6d, 12a 6d, 15s, 21a, 25a, 30a.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
r.
w
j&T u,r ■‘xxn^n.^t
A. SAUNDERS.
A o’clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, In
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
fient.’s “ Companion,” or Letter Book, Pure
SU/er counted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Kgg Cruets, Pure Silver-plated,
20a, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, Luh 6d ; other
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s.
A WARM FRIKXD.
Silver - plated, 10s,
12s fid, 15s, 20s.
A A'ioe Present.
Biscuit. Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 'los, isa.
c
557
51
2
rs
&
V:
1/
V
Child's Sets in Silk-lined Cases, 10s, 15s, 30s,
255, 30s.
HANDSCME STRIKING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Clock, GiL Mounts, 5• ; without Mounts, 355. Useful Present.
GuiuanteeJ M Years.
V • • f
EMMM
A. SAUNDERS.
R«(fert" Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 30s, £2, £2 10».
m
LARGE SIZE CAKE OR FRUIT
BASKET.
First-class Pare Silver-plated, 255.
Extra Ornamented, 30s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Cruet, 6 Bottle*, Pure Silver-Plated,
See, £2, £2 10*. £3, £3 10».
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Qilt Inside,
I i -st-cl s i English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Slyl £2, £2 los, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver, 17s 6rl, 21s, 255,
B's. We do up equal to
new Discolored llair
Brushes, 2s.
•!
‘
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £l, £2 ios, £3.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21s.
Similar Style, 265, 30s, 355.
'g
■r
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 15s (Id ; large, 20s.
S
3
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle, 10s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated.
Red Glass, 12s Gd pair.
Jam*. Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Red Glass, as above, 15s 6d ; round, 12s 6d.
,ii— —
WMmm.
/sM&£2£ZmMi
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests. Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s 6d, in Silk-lined Case.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s Cd, 15s, 20s
Neat and Useful Clock.
fwiarxr
wm
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass
8s 6d ; Bound, 10s.
f\
1
H
B
Toast RrcV. Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Call and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition —A Splendid Display;
OR SEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
post free anywhere.^
_A__ S-A.TTDSroE:R,S
LEADING ART JEWELLER ,
815 & 817 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


A BEAUTIFUL COMI’LKXTON.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Hulpholine developos a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London.*
Again the Private Railway!
Ln'Theal’s book, “The Portuguese in South
Africa,” issued in 1896, occurs the following p
sage:—
On the 14th Dec., 1833, the Portuguese Govt, granted a
concession for the construction of a railway a -
miles in length, from Lourenco Marques to Komati Poore
on the western boundary. The subsidy offered " as J ’
■tall it was only in March, 1887, that a c° m P a > r he
formed to carry out the work. In November, 1888, t
line was opened to a point which was believed to be
on the Portuguese boundary, though soon
was ascertained to be some distance short, and then,
oould not be completed within the stipulated time, t
Govt, took advantage of the opportunity, and on tne
of June confiscated the railway. Thi3 led to interferen
by Britain and the U.S. on behalf of the shareholders but
after much negotiation the Portuguese authorities
retained the line, and the amount of condensation to >
awarded to the company was referred for decision to
three Swiss lawyers.
The other day the cable told us that the three
Swiss lawyers had unanimously awarded to Great
Britain and America, as compensation for the
shareholders, £640,500 in all, to bear interest from
1889. The cable also said that the award was
two-thirds below the amount expected (amount
expected was £1,920,000)), and the leading papers
“had difficulty in repressing their indignation,
and the Americans talked about rejecting the
decision and recovering “their rights by other
means. However, the three Swiss lawyers are
going to give their reasons, according to a later
cable, and then the Yankees and the British may
have to listen to a lot of truths about themselves.
Australia and Maoriland have both, had bitter
experiences with private railway co. s, and yet
almost every co. that has tormented this portion
of the empire was a reasonable affair beside the
combination that laid its withering paw on
Delagoa Bay. When one reads the company s
history he begins to wonder if the cable has not
made a mistake and if the award, which is to
carry interest since 1889, is not meant for the
Portuguese Government as compensation for the
worry and humbug and breach of contract on the
part of the shareholders.
• • * *
Ever since the days when the Boers smashed
Mosklkkatzk and had time to consider their rela-
tionship with the outside world, they have
directed their eyes towards Delagoa Bay. in
President Burokrs’ time they actually had
railway material brought to the Bay by arrange-
ment with the Portuguese Govt, to connect their
country with the Port. But the Transvaal was
stone-broke then, and the material rusted away
and was stolen by the “ Dagos ” as old iron.
After the retrocession the idea again cropper. up,
and the Transvaal began to build railways and
informed the Portuguese Govt, that if it would
build a line from the Bay to the Transvaal frontier
at once the Transvaal would continue it on to Pre-
toria. This meant practically new life to
the Dago port, for gold-mining was beginning
to pay in the Transvaal, and there were
tremendous possibilities in the scheme. So
the poor Dagos struck the brilliant idea of
building the line by means of a subsidised co.
They granted a concession to Edward MacMurdo,
an American Colonel, and in return for building
the line he was to be allowed to work it for 99
years, and charge his own tariff, and to receive
a huge subsidy. Knowing what a hurry the
Transvaal was in, the Portuguese bound the con-
cessionaire to send an engineer to Lourenco
Marques within 40 days from the date of the sig-
nature of the agreement, to examine the line, for
which trial surveys had already been made by the
Portuguese Government. Also, he was to present
his completed plans for the line within 140 days
from the same date. The plans, in fact, had mostly
been already prepared by the Portuguese authori-
ties. But the Dago officials did not know the
ways of the syndicate. Edward MacMurdo
had as much idea of building the line as The
Bulletin has of irrigating Hades. He wanted to
make his golden fortune out of the business by one
stroke. He wanted to sell the concession. Un-
fortunately he could find no buyers at first, so he
had to makeapretence of doing something. When
bis engineer, Alpuovidge, went out to Delagoa
Bav it did not take the Portuguese long to dis-
cover that he was there merely as a matter of form.
When the 140 days expired in which the plans of
the whole line should have been prepared, he had
bare!v completed the plans for the first section of
ten kilometres or so. Even then the concession
bad lapsed by breach of contract, but the Portu-
guese extended the time and anxiously inquired if
they could render any assistance. Then the
engineer took a long, long rest.
• * • •
Meanwhile, far away in Europe, MacMurdo
was fooling about with delientures, forming com-
panies to buy the concession (he formed at least
four companies at different times), and buying the
concessions back from the companies, and jobbing
in shares, and indulging in all the curious, mys-
terious juggling by which the gold is poured
many times through the same hands and
diminishes in Quantity as it pours Mao-
Murdo had raised the wind on debentures
in London once, when lie suddenly found
that he could raise it a lot cheaper in Brus-
sels, and he broke faith with the London lenders
and’straightway commenced more juggling. All
the while the Transvaal was fuming and threaten-
ing to find another route to the sea, and the
Portuguese were lieginning to see through
the ways and methods of the co. The weary
Dago Government entreated and threatened by
turns. MacMurdo complained that Ins origi-
nal agreement to build the bridges of stone ai)il
iron and brick was the cause of the delay. J he
Govt, implored him in the name of the Virgin to
build them of timber or anything else, so long as
lie built them and got his trains running. I lien
MacMurdo wanted more concessions. He wanted
to carry the line round sharper comers and up
steeper grades and spend less on station accommo-
dation. The Government let him have his own
way. Then the co. wanted another year to com-
plete the line in, and said it might have the good
luck to get the works commenced before J une,
1836. It had been fooling ever since Dec., 1883,
and not yet made a start. About May 18th, 1886,
the co. discovered that it could not possibly start
work by June of that year, and without a blush it
proposed that the Govt, should start building the
line itself, with its own money, and later on, when
the co. had made arrangements for cheaper capital
in Brussels, it would take the works over if it felt
so inclined, at a price to lie agreed upon. Why
the Portuguese Government did not at once take
over the whole business is i nly to be explained by
its amazing reverence for British and American
capital. But, anyhow, the thickheaded Portuguese
actually did commence to build the company’s rail-
way with their own cash. They started the work in
fear and trembling, and found that nothing dread-
ful happened, and that every day the line crept
further inland. Then they began to regret that
they had fooled around with the boodlers. A
British engineer came along and told the Com-
mandant-General that his Portuguese Government
was composed of drivelling asses, as the
co. would bleed the country white in 99 years
if allowed to charge its own tariffs. _ lie
glinted out that even in England the British
ovt. didn’t allow the co.’s to charge their own
rates, but kept some sort of control over them,
and besides, there was always competition, whereas
the MacMurdo co. had stipulated that no com-
peting line was to lie built for 91) years. 1 lien
the Dagos made reflections u|>on the wisdom of
their fathers, and cursed the 14th of December,
1883. Just about this time it dawned on
MacMckdO and Co. that the Delagoa Bay line,
instead of being the “cat” they had all along
imagined, and a mere means of Stock Exchange
jugglery, was a really promising work, and
thev (iii March. 1887) flabbergasted the men of
Lisbon by taking over the line, and paying the
Govt, cash-down for the part it had built (though
it got the part very cheaply), and starting work.
• • • *
The concession expired on October 30th, 1887,
and the Hue was only half built. The last section
was not even commenced, and what was made was
in an altogether half-fledged state. None of it
was ballasted, and culverts and bridges on the
section the co. itself had built were only
the temporary structures with which to carry on
the work of construction. The co. asked for an-
other three months. It got it. '] l ic.-e Portuguese
were awful fools, they had no Dick Seddon among
them. Then tlieeo. wanted to open the half-made
line for traffic. The Govt.. consented, and the line
was declared open. Shortly after it was working,
floods came along and wrecked it in spots, washing
awav six of the half-made bridges, and bunged it
all up. The line mostly closed again. Repairs
went on at a snail’s pace. Meanwhile, the ex-
tended time was rapidly drawing to a close. The
co. said it couldn’t complete the line to the
border m the border wasn’t fixed, and never
had been quite certain. The Govt, fixed the
border at the pass of Incomati. This was about
five and a-half miles bevond the place which the
co. had hitherto regarded as its terminus, and the
co. said it must issue more debentures, and it
wanted an enormous compensation for making an-
other five and a-half miles, and it wanted the
Govt, to issue a decree that would clear up any
possible doubt that the co. could charge what it
pleased in the way of rates, and it started a scheme
for forcing the Transvaal Govt, to let it make all
its lines too. But the last demand, for com-
pensation fur finishing its own line, was too
much. The Portuguese worm turned. It swore
by the head of Camoens and Henry the Naviga-
tor that if the line was not finished right up to the
pass of Incomati in eight months, being the end
of the extended contract time, it would confiscate
the whole show as provided by the agreement.
The co. declared that eight months was not enough
time in which to make miles of railway.
Finally when the 24th of June arrived the co. was
only starting on the 5$ miles section and had
cleared about a mile of scrub, and the Portuguese
Govt, kept its win'd and took possession. 1' or once
it rose to Dick Seim ion's level. By July 20 the
Govt. Imd made arrangements to complete the
hue, which it has since finished and worked.
• • * •
For all that delay and those many breaches of
contract oil the co.'a part, the Govt, paid the co.
£28,000, and the Swiss tribunal has awarded
another* £612,500. with interest, and the co. is not
satisfied and is trying to work up its two Govts,
with their huge fleets to bounce the Dagos ty pay
two-thirds more. And somehow it doesn’t look a
fair thing. Over £040,000 seems a pretty high
tiriee Hi pay for 47 miles of mostly unballasted
line with wooden bridges many of which had
already fallen in, and absurd gradients, and
practically no rolling stock. It was close on
£I4,IKK) a mile, and the Transvaal lines, over
rather more difficult country, only cost £lO,OOO
a mile completed, with all rolling-stock. More-
over, the eminent engineer whom the Swiss
arbitration court sent out to overhaul the lino, de-
clared that the cash value of the 47 miles of ram-
shackle railway was only £225,000. The co. had
spent several times this amount in boodling and
office expenses, and commissions, and pickings,
ami stoals, but the legitimate outlay on the rail-
wav was only £225,000. And the co. has been
awarded over £640,000. And it is raving mad
liecause it didn’t get £l,ooo,ooo—ftbout nine times
the cash value of its property. Truly the daughter
of the horse-leech iau t a circumstance to the rail-
way syndicate.
We loam by cable that the University of Ox-
ford has decided to confor the degree of doctor of
civil law (D.C.L.) upon Mr. Donkin ; Mr. J. It.
Dickson, the Queensland Fodoration delegate i and
Sir Philip Fysh. the Agcnt-Oonetal and Fedoratioo
delegate for Taiuwttiiv.
THE WHISKY OF THE WISE.
CHANCSCHLLOR OF UYIVERSITY: " Accept this bottle, Dr Deakin as the outwardwand spiritial evidence of the degree now conferred upon you, and tell the grent
Australian
People that a [?} of D.C.L. Soitch WHISKY Fetohed £80 in Ladysmith daring the Siege."


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
- or Station and_Out-door work our Silk &tripr
Mattaeassk and other Unshkinkablb Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A uxtralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisfran*. q'land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
0n...
Hr. Fra ok Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney.
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRAIMUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful ? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists i
THE BUBHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
X
Only One.
There is only one known specific for diseased
and disordered kidneys, and that one is Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Warner’s Safe Cure has saved more people from
untimely deaths, and is keeping more people in
perfect health to-day, than any other medical dis-
covery ever known in the entire history of the
world.
It carries off the body’s impurities, thus enrich-
ing the blood. It regulates the action of the liver
and kidneys, driving out disease, building up the
system, and giving fresh life.
If the liver or the kidneys are weakened, dis-
eased, sluggish, and incompetent, instead of
hurrying the poisons out of the body, they act as
a dam, and with every beat of the heart the poison
is forced through the system. There is but one
recognised specific, used by thousands, not only in
Australia, but in Great Britain, on the Continent,
and in America, and that is Safe Cure*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLCV » CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a cempeteat staff.
fSgT" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Transvaal War : Boers v. Bourse.
News heading: “Mr. Chamberlain feels
the Australian pulse.” Yes, but Mr. Chamber-
lain has not yet listened to the normal Australian
heart.
In S.A. Leg. Council, a chamber of 24
members, the Liberals are now in a minority of
four, and, unless Federation brings an unexpected
change, S.A. Council will be as effective a barrier
to Liberal measures as of old.
The first N.S.W. Parliament under Re-
sponsible Govt, met six months after the pro-
clamation of the Constitution. The world moves
more quickly now, and the Federal Parliament
should get together well inside the term allotted
in the Bill.
When the N.S.W. Govt, begins to over-
haul the titles to the proposed-to-be-resumed area
beside Darling Harbor, Sydney, it will come on
some interesting news. And unless the facts are
smothered the people will come on some interest-
ing news also.
To settle a vexed question, somebody
should ask a prominent Vic. politician whether
the land lying between the Deddick and Snowy
Rivers and N.S.W. boundary was withdrawn
from selection whilst he was in power and had a
lien over certain cattle running thereabouts.
Late cables indicate that the Boers, realis-
ing that the utter destruction of the Johannesburg
mining plant and workings would be the only
way to actually strike the real authors of the war,
have not abandoned all idea of, in the last resort,
using dynamite where it will do most harm.
After all, it appears that the N.S.W.
Licensed Victuallers’ Association does not consist
of over 300 members, and that of these a large
proportion are spirit-merchants and brewers. Yet
this is a body which for years has awed poli-
ticians, and flaunted its power to make and
unmake Ministries !
Letter from a recently-imported Finn to
Cairns Advocate
But we may be “ law-abiding citizens” because the
Government of Queensland has lurked us with illusory
reports to come to this unlucky country where we found
more capitalistic anarchie than at home.
“ Lurked us with illusory reports ” is particularly
quaint and picturesque, and deserves to be remem-
bered . >
Next year’s census will probably upset
very badly the annual estimates of the population
of these provinces. Last census did
the same, and there is no reason to
believe that things have improved.
In Maoriland and Tasmania, where
all arrivals and departures are by
sea, the official estimates should be
accurate, for all such arrivals
can be recorded ; but in
the provinces with a long
land border, where popu-
lation goes to and fro
in droves without at-
tracting any special
notice, it is quite
different. There are
some curious features about
these estimates. For in-
stance, out of the 10 years,
1889-1898, the records
assert that in 9 years
N.S. Wales gained
largely by excess of
arrivals by sea,
while in 7 years it
lost heavily by ex-
cess of departures
overland. Unless
someone can show
a reason why people
should naturally come
to N.S.W. by steamer
and leave it on foot or
per train or bullock-dray,
this sheds a lot of doubt on the estimates.
An accommodating paper is Sydney Daily
Telegraph. In its leading article on Premier
Lyne’s knighthood he is described as being “ both
in public and private life sans pew and sans re-
pruche.” And yet there was a time ! Where now
are the snows of autumn—the virtues of the D.T.’s
discarded idol Reid?
Queensland Govt, exports the flower of
the province’s young men as Absent-Minded
Beggars, and imports Russians, Finns, Swedes and
others under the scheme of immigration. This
policy is, of course, highly approved by such cor-
porations as the Chillagoe Manes and Railway Co.
as said imports work for 4s. or ss. per day.
The natural question of a scoffing foreigner
on the night when every Australian city went
mad over the raising of the little siege of Mafeking
(defending force about 700; British force assisting
outside under Plumer about 1100 ; Boer attacking
army at first about 5000, afterwards about 2500):
“MonGott” or else “Meig Dieu, did you Aus-
tralian people never have a biy fight ?”
Household suffrage has lost one supporter
as a result of the S.A. Council elections. Four
sought re-election and two were defeated, but in
the Central district one Labor member was dis-
placed by another. In ’99, at a general referen-
dum, 50,000 electors asked for household suffrage.
The aggregate vote which returned opponents at
the recent Council election was only 16,000. So
the anomaly is seen of 50,000 being beaten by
16,000.
An English paper points out that the
existing Privy Council appeal is not to the Judicial
Committee, but to the Queen-in-Council, and the
distinction is more than verbal, for
there are cases in the books, involv-
ing political questions, when the
committee has not been exclusively
composed of lawyers ; and the Lord
President, not being a lawyer, has
occasionally been a member of
the board. In other words, what-
ever it may be in practice, in
principle the Privy Council as
a Court of Appeal is radic-
ally unsound, since the
Judicial Committee can
at any time be packed
by politicians to secure
a verdict based, not
on law and legal know-
ledge, but on political
bias or necessity.
‘ ‘ Hoodoo ”: Why
so much pother about
the Early Closing Act
driving people out of
shop-keeping ? Com-
merce and Law and
Banking—none of them
wealth-producing fac-
tors—have about rid-
den this country to a
standstill, and any legisla-
tion which drives the people out of these
employments into farming, squatting, mining,
manufacturing or other wealth-producing occupa-
tions is a blessing in disguise. For years the
country has been bossed—entirely in their own
interests—by hucksters, big and little, lawyers and
bankers. Let the commercial progress of the
country have a rest, and let us see if the agricul-
tural, mining, manufacturing, and general wealth-
producing interests cannot be raised to the same
status as the commercial.
The Mayor of Orange (N.S. W.) cabled to
S’Africa :-
To Field-Marshal Lord Roberts. Citizens of Orange,
future capital federated Australia, congratulate you on
the relief of Mafeking.— Oiias. J. Smith, Mayor.
Roberts has now received aoout eleven cables
from the same number of future Australian capi-
tals. Orange hasn’t got much chance, anyhow—
unless Smith spells his name for the future with
a “y.”
Alien-coddler Cowley (Q.) pleads piteously
for a supply of prophylactic
Should this particular disease (plague) break out in our
midst the bulk of the kanakas would probably succumb
to its fatal effects ; next year’s sugar-crop would be par-
tially or entirely sacrificed and the industry receive a
blow from which it would take years to recover.
The tender humanity of the kanakopliile; his
sweet yearning for the welfare of the community ;
his gentle compassion for his black henchmen—
and, above all, his touching solicitude for his
beloved Sugar l
ART NOTE.
J ONES: “ There is one thing I don’t like about
Dorba—he puts his name so conspicuously on
his pictures.”
S MITH: “ Oh, that’s to let the critics know they re
not by Michael Angelo!”
Kingston is still determined not to stand
for the Federal Parliament till he has secured
reform of S.A. Council franchise. The House of
Lords he looks upon as quite a democratic body
compared to the local upper chamber. He appeals
to 150,000 Assembly electors who will vote at
Federal contests to boycott every candidate who
refuses to help them in liberalising their own
suffrage.
Minister O’Sullivan promises during next
session of N.S.W. Parliament a measure making
eight hours a legal working day for all classes, and
an old-age pension scheme. If the O’Sullivan can
QUITE PLAUSIBLE.
T EACHER ( to boy discovered “ copying”) : “ Jones,
what are you doing? ”
JONES (confusedl y : “Please, sir, nothing, sir—
only adding up my subtraction.
carry tnrougn tnese two ideas much military
grovel and waving of banners and warlike whoop-
ing will be forgiven him, and a great deal of
pounding on the foolish timbrel will be blotted
out of his account.
A couple of thousand pounds was raised
among the N.S.W. State school-teachers for the
so-called Patriotic Fund. “A striking proof oi
what can be done by united effort,” remarks a
Sydney daily. At least fifty teachers have written
The Bulletin denouncing the departmental cir-
cular commending the fund to their notice as dis-
guised blackmail. Pay or oe secretly black-
listed ” —is what it conveyed to them.
Despite the rumpus lateiy raised con-
cerning tno appointment oi two mere boys,
sprigs ox Queensland nobility, as lieutenants
in the fourth contingent, the infants con-
cerned actually went as officers after all. In the
face, however, of certain recent appointments in
Bananaland civil service, this affair was only a
flea-bite. As to the Queensland public—it oan
stand and does stand any sort of insult.
At Bunbury (W.A.) two men were dis-
cussing whether John Forrest was Federal or
anti-Federal. The dispute raged over eight beers
without getting any forrarder, and at last one
arguer said: “No use quarrelling. Let’s toss
up ! ” So a penny was sent spinning in the air.
It struck a chair during its descent, rolled across
the floor, fell into a crack, and—stood up on edge !
Even so small a thing as a penny wouldn’t commit
itself about Bigjohn’s politics.
Of the eight candidates who succeeded at
the S.A. Council elections, May 19, Bice, Gordon,
and Kirkpatrick are on the side of electoral reform,
and Duncan, Lucas, Pascoe, Stirling, and Vardon
against it. Bice, Duncan, Pascoe, Stirling, and
Yardon are S.A. natives, Lucas and Kirkpatrick
are Irishmen, and Gordon is Scotch. Kirkpatrick
and Vardon, who are colleagues in the Central
district, are both printers, and Kirk once worked
as a journeyman for his Tory colleague.
Chamberlain is of opinion that the Wes-
tralian goldfields don’t require Separation because
the new electoral law gives them a little more
representation than they used to have (it provides
that there shall be about one-tenth as much repre-
sentation per head on the goldfields as in the
squatting districts). Therefore the goldfielders
will have to think of ways and means for convinc-
ing Joseph of his error, and if there is a Cromwell
among them this is the time to trot that Cromwell
out.
R. D. Meagher, M.L.A., referring to his
heads of income before the Full Court, the other
day, omitted all mention of his Parliamentary £6
a-week. Legally he was right. Through the statute-
fiction that the £3OO a-year is a recoup of expenses
incurred,, a N. member who earns nothing
otherwise can actually testify in a court of law
that he has no income whatever. The statute
would not have passed when it did only that anti-
payment members were placated by the specious
wording of the Bill.
Let the community not hastily and hys-
terically erect big war-memorials of any sort; let
it sit down and wait. In six months after peace
comes the glitter will have vanished from the
alleged “glories” of the Transvaal war; in two
years the memory of the thing will be covered
with fetid slime. The Jingo game will, of course,
be to rush the erection of a VVemher-Beit dead-
house. Let us not hastily proceed to commemor-
ate a sordid crime the recollection of which will
stink down all along the ages.
Rumored in Maoriland that a great pub-
lic works policy, and another great boom and
burst, involving an expenditure of £4,000,000 of
loan money, will soon be announced. Maoriland
c °uld raise £2,500,000 of this as a permanent loan
without interest merely by making the issue of
bank notes a State monopoly, and by adopting the
Canadian system of requiring the hanks to keep
40 per cent, of their cash reserves in State notes.
±>ut the British loan leprosy is too deeply rooted
m the bones of this unhappy country.
The letter of Symon, Q.C., to the Age re
its attitude towards enemies of the Commonwealth
-Bill, is about the roughest kicking of an editor
that a great daily autocrat in Melb. ever permitted'
to happen in his own columns. Evidently David
oyme thought his long footnote an adequate anti-
dote, but discovering later it was nothing of the
kind, he returned to the charge, and called Symon
C.C., the animal that was “the crapulous creation
or Dean Swift’s nasty imagination.” Which implies
great tenderness in the Symean withers.
The English papers are filled with fierce
dia,tnbes against the purveyors of army shoddy,
and from late reports from S’Africa, Australia
already has her shoddy army-contractors at work.
Roberts asseverates that many of the boots sup-
plied are so much rubbish. A British private
writes : “We are a detachment of Roberts’ Flying
Column, and we have to march 15 or 20 miles with
bits of wood strapped to our feet.” Good old
commercialism ! How it loves its heroes, and how
it rewards them ! Again, band ! “Soldiers of the
bjueen !! ”
For the first time in S.A. history, saving
a small break, the Legislature is without a King-
ston. George Strickland Kingston, the sturdy
father of the present ex-Premier, was the first
Speaker of S.A. Assembly. Away back in ’45
through his efforts the province escaped being
made a dumping-ground for convicts, and he lea
the opposition to state-aid to religion a little later.
It is a coincidence that the father strongly, but
ineffectually, opposed the property-qualification
tor the Council which the son is now, 40 years
after, attempting to remove.
The elections in several S.A. Assembly
divisions and in the N.E. Council district are con-
trolled by the German vote, and in many cases
the voters can neither speak nor read English,
lhey take their politics in that, and most other
cases, from the Adelaide German newspaper,
winch is hopelessly Tory. Despite the patriotic
fervor on the subject of the Transvaal war which
has recently swallowed up much of S.A.’s common
sense, it is still a fact that while thousands of
naturalised aliens are enfranchised for the Leg.
Council, the vote is refused to tens of thousands
of natural-born Australians. Out of 152,000 adults
province and on the Assembly roll only
4o,0(M) have the Council suffrage.
Manchester Guardian correspondent—
to sample opinions expressed all over Britain, and
never voiced in the Australian dailies :
It is as certain as anything in this world can be that
Conner), Bright and Gladstone— these great ones of the
past would have thrown all the weight of their influence
against this iniquitous financiers’ war No
true Radical can observe the spectacle of these two tiny
Republics slowly gasping out their life’s blood in the iron
grip of the most powerful monarchy in the world without
feeling strongly moved, and when we know that the
power of England has been set in motion by capitalists
with a view to oust white labor in favor of compulsory
native labor our indignation is increased. When we con-
sider that wages form 55 per cent, of the cost of working
the mines, and that wages in the Transvaal are higher,
with shorter hours of labor, than in Kimberley, we see a
strong motive for the war on the part of the capitalists.
“ I want some soldiers now ! "
To Paddy says the Queen ;
“ You won’t be punished any more
For Wearing of the Green.”
CONFESSIONAL.
(F OR THE BULLETIN.]
God of the Jingo, brass and gold—
Lord of file ravening millionaire—
Beneath whose hateful sway we hold \
Honor and Faith as light as air—
Mammon and Mars, he with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget.
ne ever-present wranglings cease ;
The conflicts of the Market go ;
For, in the name of pure-eyed Peace,
We turn to rend a weaker foe.
Mammon and Mars, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget.
We go to mend the bruisfed reed,
We go to the smoking flax,
To succor brethren sore at need,
To liberate the groaning Blacks.
Father of Lies, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget.
We crush a budding nation’s life,
We fill a people’s heart with pain,
We kindle unrelenting strife—
We win a Goldfield for our gain.
Mammon and Mars, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget.
We will avenge our brother’s ill,
We will become the orphan’s shield,
Lest we forget Majuba Hill,
Lest we forget the Monthly Yield.
For canting phrase and boastful words
Are incense to our dreadful Lords.
TUR BUICH[?]


RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Type writers, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside* other makes.
m
H
s
m
jgnVT '
* l^-*,^r vj«s
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Colline Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
43T Agents also for the NLAV CENEXJIiY and I) EN S 310 HEt
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
$
W ■
WITH THE MOISTED
THAT THE
National
Cash Register
~. will .. .
Save and Make for Yon
in a Few Years .
You don’t understand why ?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PIIICES ON APPLICATION to
national Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
BEWARE
Of Imitations.
fg
Are only genuine
when the cover and tube
are embossed
with this
Trade Mark.
i^F
dfgd
Cyclists
Save
Money
BY RIDING
MULTIPLEX
I
their
durability
making
them
the
Cheapest.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Foremost Ever Since.
First in 1888.
The Dunlop pneumatic Turn C°- of Australasia Qimited,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
150 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
The Sydney Wharf Resumptions.
The Lyne Government’s great project for the
resumption of the wharves and wharf-frontages of
Darling Harbour, Sydney, has many good points
about it—also it has a large number of noticeable
deficiencies. The proposed resumption doesn’t
extend far enough back to give any opportunity
for straightening and widening the hideous tangle
of slum streets and slum lanes and blind alleys
which lie between George-street and the water-
side. That is one very bad defect to begin with,
for a great deal of the f uture value of the property
will depend on the ability of the Government to
afford some sane means of access to it. Also it
doesn’t go far enough back to make provision for
railway extension to Dawes Point. The scheme
is an isolated patch on a dilapidated old garment,
and it doesn’t appear to be associated with any
plan for the repair and reconstruction of Sydney
m general. Nothing definite has been heard yet
of any intention to base the resumption on the
existing municipal valuations the valuations
which the owners all accepted as being quite high
enough, or else a great deal too high, when it was
a quastion of paying taxes on them —with a fair
percentage added for “disturbance.” Apparently
a tribunal of some kind is to be appointed, as
usual, to decide values, irrespective of the values
which have been decided already; and it will be
guided by “experts” as usual; and the expert
who swore quite recently that a property was
worth £10,300 when it was a question of paying
land-tax or probate duty on it will turn up as
usual and swear that it is worth £35,000, and
be listened to quite gravely as a reliable
witness. And the country is still waiting to hear
that there will be some clause in the Resumption
Act, providing that, as soon as the newly-acquired
property begins to pay interest on its cost and
leave a surplus, that surplus will bo applied to pay
off the debt incurred in the resumption, instead of
being dumped into the goneral revenue while
the debt stands for ever. The Bulletin is
waiting in a very loud voice to hoar something on
this latter point particularly.
♦
About Ben Harkus. Writes a N.S.W.
trooper from the Transvaal: —
It woa very sad about Ben Harkus, poor chap. He gave
way to his trouble too much. I reckon myself, public
opinion drove him here, and public opinion killed him,
and nobody will ever make me believe that it was
cowardice that took him home in the first place. As soon
as we got word of his death, we got together a firing
party, and started for town to perform our last sad duty,
sending on a fatigue party ahead to dig the grave. It
was late before we got him buried, along with three
others, also victims to the fever. It was a most im-
pressive sight, four open graves, the tall elderly form of
the pastor clearly defined in the candle light, and his
steady solemn voice as he read the burial service.
When one man's name is idenlifiod with a
great public question another man with a similar
name breaking into the question should by some
means endeavor to protect the public from a
natural mistake. A letter of Mr. G. B. Barton’s
in the London press, adversely criticising certain
principles of the Commonwealth Bill, points this
remark. Fifty per cent, of the readers of the
letter took it to be from the pen of the writer’s
brother, Mr. Edmund Barton, and for a time
could not be made to understand the delegate’s
apparently contradictory positions. By the way,
many will regret to hear that Mr. G. B. Barton
has been d rostrated by a serious attack of
paralysis.
The Cremorne land over which North
Sydney and Mosman Bay Borough Councils rend
one another, arid which the Lyne Govt, will need
to handle very warily in the public interests, was
in the first instance alienated to the father of the
late politician, ex-Premier and Minister for Lands
John Robertson. Robertson sen. struck Sydney
in 1820 with a wife and six children, living there
for over a dozen years and speculating freely in
inland and water-frontage properties. He after-
wards took to farming on the Hunter, where young
Jack picked up the elements of the land-knowledge
which made him in later years a power in N.S.W.
Parliament. North Shore Milson, like Robertson,
coveted water frontages, and in 1833 the latter
bought Cremorne from the former for £4OOO.
A N.S.W. Minister, whose magnificence
since he reached “ Hoffis ” is almost too great for
this poor country to stand, lately left Sydney for
the way-back to lay the foundation of a small post-
office. He took a stone with him ; but just before
he started the awful fact broke in upon him that
in the rough and tumble of a long journey the
stone might get broken, or stolen, or mislaid, and
so he wired instructions to have a duplicate
instantly prepared on the spot; he wasn’t going to
lose that chance for the sake of a £5 note —of some-
body else’s money. But when the stone arrived
safe and sound the question arose what should be
done with the duplicate. Just at this point some
obsequious person remembered that there wris a
half-finished school-building in the district. “Ha,
ha ! ” said the Great Man, “ I’ll give the stone to
the Education Department, and I’ll lay it at the
school! ” So he and some public officials went
from the post-office to the half-built school, and
there the Important Person breathed a speech
about Himself and education in the buzzing ears
of the reporters.
Artist John Longstaff has been commis-
sioned by Premier M‘Lean to design a medal to
be given to the Vie. Boldiers who have served in
S’ Africa.
Stipendiary Magistrate Delohery only re-
ceived the appointment to the vacancy on N.S.W.
Public Service Board after a keen struggle with
Mr. F. Bridges, Chief Inspector of the Public
Instruction Department. Mr. Bridges has now
been appointed as a temporary member of the
Board for one month during the absence of Mr.
G. A. Wilson, the only non-civil servant on the
Commission. Other public servants on it have
been Govt. Statist Coghlan, Collector of Customs
Powell, and Under-Secretary for Lands Houston.
A curious feature about this last appointment is
that for four weeks Mr. Bridges will sit in judg-
ment on the recommendations of the Under-
secretary for Public Instruction who for the rest
of the year is his superior officer.
As Edmund Barton holds no seat in
N.S. W. Parliament he will not, on his return, be.
able to give effective aid to the Governor-General
in arranging the first preliminary Cabinet. To
give him the locus standi his federal position en-
titles him to in this matter some members talk of
again making room for him in the Assembly by
resignation, but others more fittingly propose
that Lyne should appoint him Vice-President of
the Leg. Council. In that capacity he would have
a seat in the Cabinet and could, without any charge
of irresponsibility, lend valuable assistance to tjie
Governor-General. Premier Lyne, despite gossip
to the contrary, cares little about being first
Federal Premier, especially as the first Cabinet
business will be almost wholly an arrangement of
details.
Tlie long and bathetic cablegram' from
“ C. Arthur Pearson,” sent to Melb. Akgus and
published by other Australian dailies, concerning
“ a worthy memorial in London to those who have
fallen in the S’African war,” is wholly and solely
the cold-blooded handbill of a cheeky Cockney
advertiser. “C. Arthur Pearson” was erst-
while the Man Friday of one Newnes, who,
beginning public life as boss of that eminent and
elegantly-named thief-paper, Tit-Bits, engineered
himself into a baronetcy. Pearson has been
running a scrap-paper of his own—and so success-
fully that he has been able to start a daily ; which
he now seeks to advertise. The first time Aus-
tralia hears of Pearson’s daily paper it is in con-
nection with his publication of a since-contradicted
yarn to the effect that Uncle Kruger had “humbly
sued for peace.”
S.A. political amenities. Symon, Q.C.,
on Baker, M.L.C., an old-time ally of his :
You, the President of the Legislative Council, to say
you will not descend to my level—and then to sink head-
long to a pit which, in his worst moments, Mr. Kingston
never approuohed. He was original. You borrow his
abuse. You quote him with approval. You (ill the role
of the second-hand slanderer. Facilis descensus Averni 1
Where is the President of the Legislative Council now?
Hitherto I thought it was only the dogs of Constantinople
that fed on stolen garbage.
Let me assure the President of the Council, who, in his ■
own person furnishes one good reason for its abolition—
that my mental health is excellent. Even that enquiry
he either borrowed or purloined—your President is such
“ a barren rascal.” Yet it was complimentary to attribute
it to my “powerful intellect.” His friends need have no
solicitude on that account. Their fears arise from quite
another cause. They find that a weak intellect and a dull
moral sense are the most frequent sources of aberration—
sometimes, indeed, of imbecility.
“ Tfingata ” to The Bulletin from
Dunedin: —
The recent annual meeting of the M.L. Women’s
National Council, at Dunedin, ended in an unexpected
flare-up. So long as the ladies confined themselves
to “ The Relation of the Sexes,” “ The Servant Girl Pro-
blem,” and such, the local Jingoistic type-liars had
nothing but praise for the “ combined intelligence of the
women of Maoriland ” —even when one delegate went so
far as to state “ that any man who poisoned the atmosphere
with tobacco-smoke was as guilty as the Boer who
poisoned the wells for the British soldiers.” But what a
change when one daring female person announced that
she hoped for the success, in this war, of those defending
their country against the greed of unscrupulous mono-
polists. Then did the bloodthirsty pen-and-ink warriors
arise in their wrath ; the Mayor in a lofty letter with-
drew his “ patronage ” from the Women’s Council’s final
conversazione, and even the local “Melba” got a cheap
“ ad.” by refusing to sing for her unpatriotic sister. Then
the poor Women's Council let down its back-hair and
went sadly into committee to recast its ideas of
“ Humanity " to suit the times.
The appointment by the Lyne Govt, of
Mr. A. A. Atkinson, as Chief-Inspector of N.S.W.
Coal Mines for another three years, proves once
again that appointments objected to by members
when in Opposition may be considered superla-
tively proper when the Opposition becomes the
Govt. The Opposition, three years or so ago,
raised a Parliamentary row because Sydney Smith,
in seeking a Chief-Inspector, inserted advts. to
that end in London papers. Mr. Atkinson was
picked out of 93 applicants, many of whom were
residents of Australia, and was described as being
recommended by the Agent-General and Sir Wil-
liam Lewis, Sir William Lewis is, by the way, a
director of Sydney Harbor Collieries Co., and the
greatest living enemy of the claims for higher
wages of the Welsh miners. The sponsor was not
.above criticism, but so well apparently has Mr.
Atkinson behaved that the Lyne Govt, now re-
appoint him.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—■
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3NT.S.A7V.
U|ont deplete D.’II.C°->[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
3* Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879. *
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin » Brid e e - et - ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Hates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Einp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachby, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
file Bank of florth Queensland
LIMIT ED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
--THE-.
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. SM.xoo.noo 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23,A/’OOI .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esci., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon, N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsf/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNIiT - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Hay market, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
F
I air girls and gray
HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/G.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., June 2, 1 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 9, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyongr, Tues., June 12, 5
p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, June 2, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 5, 5 p.ra.
Peregrine, Sat., June 9, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, June 2, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., June 9, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb€ TrGstccs, €*€cGtors,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £160,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1809 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; O. M. Offloer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Bydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per oent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government, .. .. f>oo,ooo
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apHy to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market -street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
ladies^Tailorinc
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Bady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets);
6s 6d A Watch & Chain for 6s 6d
-if
Y\7 E sold 4700 in
' 1899. To every
purchaser of one of
our 2s 6d “Burmese”
Silver Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 4s extra,
an OPEN-FACE
FULL-DAY KEY-
LESS WATCH which
we guarantee a per-
fect timekeeper.
There are no con-
ditions or guessing about this watch. We send the watch
and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of postal note
for 6s 6d and 6d for postage. We make this extraordinary
offer merely to circulate our price-list and advertise the
quality of our goods. Watch and chain sent on approval;
if returned within 14 days, money refunded.
H. POTIER & CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney.
VWVSxyv*
Stamps.
7 Transvaal, 6d ; 11 Cape, 1/3 ; 5
10 Orange F.S., 6d ; 7 Natal, 1/- ; 4 British
South Africa, 1/- ; 9 Borneo, 1/6 ; 10 Brazil,
6d ; 40 Japan, 1/6 ; 21 Heligoland, 1/6 : 100
Africa, 5/-; 4 Tunis, Id ; 15 Swiss, 4d ;
Packets 250 (mixed), 1/-; 500, 2/-; 1000
3/6 ; Postage 2d. Remit P.N. or stamps.
ACKLAND & CO.,
105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatiofy
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioo-
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &e., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MOANA
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA,
Tons.
Leave
Sydnej
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland,
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
4000 .June 6.June ll'June 29
3158 July 4iJuly 9 July 27
3158 August 1 August 6 August 24
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey ab Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books allowing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
PCRCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
“PRIMUS”
BATH
HEATER.
For K.EKOSENE. A. Hot Shower immediately.
ft
rrm
. . HOT WATER INSTANTLY , .
No Chimney Pipes or Plumbers’ work required in fixing.
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL.
PRICE : With 2-Burner Kerosene Oas Stove—without
Shower, 755. ; with Shower, 955. Price with 3or 4
Burner Kerosene Stove, 10s. per Burner extra.
“PRIMUS” ROOM WARMERS can be fitted to an y Kero-
sene Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), 15s. each ;
Brass, 255.
fg
df
gd
. Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM—
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
June 1.
S.S. Wollowra (from
Melbourne), Tuesday,
June 5.
BRISBANE
HACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
June 1.
Hest <£• Cheapest lioute to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKIIAMI’TON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornianton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Ciile hi e unr I vailed.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N'. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH I). Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy- Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows:
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
HIMALAYA
OCEANA
PENINSULAR
BRITANNIA...
CHINA
6898, T. Leigh ... ... ..June 2
6603 L. H. Crawford, 0.8.R.N.R. June 16
5287 W. A. Wheler ... ...'June 30
6525 F. 11. Seymour ... .. |.July 14
8000 T S. Angus ... . 'July 28
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, .£'6s to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAVVNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, Parker g Co’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOItAUT,
LAUNCESTON, ‘WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND POETS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(D‘|luiraith,(l|‘EacliarnB (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietay Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and'patterns sentfree by post. Hatte’s suits of Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes (with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
Government Notices.
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD,
50 Young-street, Sydney.
18th May, 1900.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of Candidates (male)
for employment as “ POSTAL and TELEGRAPH
ASSISTANT” in the Postal and Electric Telegraph
Department will be held in SYDNEY, and at VARIOUS
COUNTRY CENTRES which will be fixed as far as
possible to suit the convenience of candidates, on the
2nd JULY NEXT. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made is 100. Candidates must not be less
than 16, nor more than 19 years of age on the Ist day of
examination. They must be of good character, and in
sound health. Persons already employed in the General
Division of the Public Service will he admitted to the
examination, provided their age does not exceed 39 years.
The subjects of examination will be as follows : —(1) Hand-
writing, (2) English, (a) Dictation, (b) Composition,
(3) Arithmetic, (4) Geography. The successful candidates
will be appointed on probation as vacancies occur, and be
paid at the rate of £39 per annum for the first year, and
£52 for the second year. On completion of the second
year of service they will be examined for permanent
appointment, on passing which they will be entitled to
receive £BO per annum, with periodical increments under
the terms of the Regulations, copies of which can be
obtained at this office. In future, vacancies for Telegraph
Messengers at Branch, Suburban, and Country Offices
will be filled as far as practicable by candidates who pass
this examination, on the understanding that they deliver
telegrams, letters, etc., and assist in other postal and
telegraph duties as required, and that they be styled
Postal and Telegraph Assistants, and shall not be required
to wear uniforms. Application to attend the examina-
tion must be made on a form for the purpose, which can
be obtained at the office of the Board, or from Clerks of
Petty Sessions in country districts, and must reach the
undersigned not later than the 11th June next. Candi-
dates will be required to pay an examination fee of 55.,
which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions or
the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to the
Secretarv of the Board, with the form of application.
Persons already employed in the Public Sen ice will not
be required to pay any examination fee.
By order of the Board.
9a96j J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
[>» Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis ( Steele Rudd ).
axtra, illustrated, 6s.
Cloth
Writes a lady to The Bulletin
Sydney postal authorities rarely use their common
sense except when not required. A lady recently acci-
dentally dropped a parcelled-up pair of gloves into the
letter-receiver of a local P.O. Naturally, she went right
in and asked for them. “They cannot be returned to
you, madam,” replied the clerk ; “ they have been
posted in the ordinary way, and must now go straight on
to the dead-letter office.” The lady also went straight o n
to the dead-letter office, but did not receive her gloves.
The official had no option ; as the placing of the
parcel in the receiver made it, pro tern., the pro-
perty (legally) of the Postmaster-General.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ali
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no* reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Store*,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b -x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents-. ELLIOTT BROS.. Sydney. Purchasers ehou.d
look for the registered trad*- mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
w
CLASSICAL
and School MUSIC.
20,000
WORKS TO SELECT FROM
ALLAN & CO.
Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
IF you are disBatisfied___ —^
with your Draper call in or write to us for
our New Season’s Patterns and Prices.
HORDERN’S
LEAD THE VAN.
A Post will place you
in communication with us.
Pitt St.
FOR
EVER.
Please Mention The Bulletin.
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues? It
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from.
HALL’S
HALL’S
DINING : ROOM SUITE, very
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and
Leather, 10 Guineas.
strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroo
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color ; Wardrobe, with P la te-glass
Door and Deep Drawer; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached ; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £0 15s.
HALL’S
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 Ls. bd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George Street, Sydney
(BRICKFIELD HILL).
Goods Stored Free until
street for
iil required. Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
■ Hairs. Close—Saturdays, 9 p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Tho Hon. HENRY N. MAOLAURIN, M.L.O. ; J. RUHSBLL FRENCH, general Marnier.
.(ESTABLISHED 1817.)
Reserve Fund, £1,250,000. Reserve Liability of Proprietors, £2,000,000.
Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Bank of New South Wales, March 31, 1900
LIABILITIES £ s. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 910,170 0 0
Deposits and accrued In-
terest 21,272,199 4 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident
a. d.
22,188,376 4 6
Fund)
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
2,000,000 0 0
1,240,404 14 1
120,249 2 7
2,757,055 4 7
3,372,653 10 8
£28,318,684 5 9
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits and endorsements,
as per Contra 191 » 341 6
£28,510,025 11 0
s. d.
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. .. 6,481,445 2 8
Money at short call in
London 734,024 4 5
Advances to Govern-
ments .. .. 450,000 0 0
British anti Colonial Go-
vernment Securities .. 1,049,027 7 ‘2
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 139,974 7 11
Queensland Government
Notes 161,865 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 14,073 0 0
Due by other Banks .. 119,517 14 2
s. d
9,149,920 10 4
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit 3,036,444 12
Loans and Advances to Customers .. 14,882,312 17
Bank Premises 9 9
£28,318,684 6 9
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra 191 ■ 341 6 3
£28,510,025 11 0
Dr.
Profit and Loss, March 31, 1900.
1900.
Mar, 31.
To Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date ..
„ Dividend at the rate of 9 per
cent, per annum
~ Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund
~ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” New Account
s. d.
6,373 10 0
90,000 0 0
3,595 5 11
26,280 0 8
£126,249 2 7
1899.
Sep. 30. By amount from last Account..
1900. „ „■
Mar. 31. „ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing the
Valuation of Bank Premises,
and including recoveries from
Debts previously written off
as Bad . ..
Cr.
£ s. d.
20,016 9 0
Reserve Funcl,_March 31, 1900.
106,232 13 7
£126,249 2 7
Cr.
1900.
Mar. 31.
To Balance
(of which £600,000 is invested
in BritishGovernmentSecuri-
ties, and the balance is em-
ployed in the business of
the Bank)
£ s. d.
1,250,000 0 0
£1,250,000 0 0
1899.
Sept. 30. By Balance
1900.
Mar. 31. ~ Premiums on New Shares
sold
~ Amount from Profit & Loss..
£ s. d.
1,200,000 0 0
46,404 14 1
3,595 5 11
£1,250,000 0 0
1900
Mar. 31. By Balance £1,250,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
fg
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KMRKACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 30 Chrotnos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6rl.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Bealtt’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide,; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, bv Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover's Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter; Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained fyom him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYPNEY.
THE BOARD AND THE VELVET.
“A Thkone,” said Napoleon, “ is a board covered
with velvet.”
Strip the velvet from the throne, and you have
nothing left but bare, vulgar boards ; replace the
velvet and you have the most coveted symbol ot
human power and glory. How easy the transition,
how vast the difference !
There is no operation in chemistry more sharp
and sudden than that in human life whereby ex-
tremes of feeling follow each other— tears rarefy-
ing into smiles, and smiles condensing into tears.
Is happiness, or is power, so poor a thing, then,
that it drops into its antithesis at a touch ? at a
breath ? Let us not be too hasty with our answer,
as we may be wrong. The great French Emperor
was a cynical fellow, and right well he loved a
throne, even though it was only an upholstered
board.
And we all love life and its blessings even
though they are uncertain and shaky.
Hence, when we hear a man say, “I had no
pleasure in life, ami did not care what became of
me,’ we are interested to know the reason why.
The person from whom we quote these words
explains himself: —
■‘For over two years,” he tells us, “I suffered
from loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and nervous-
ness. Prior to May, 1894, I had always been
strong and hearty. At this time I began to feel
that something had come over me—l felt so low
and weak. After eating my face would flush, and
the food gave me great pain across my chest and
at the left side. 1 had a cutting pain around the
heart, and bad attacks of palpitation.”
1 beg to interrupt our good friend a moment at
this point. The burning of a barn or a hayrick
may make a bigger blaze than the burning of the
cottage we live in. But the latter alarms and ex-
cites us most because we do live in it. On the
same principle a very painful ailment of the hand
or foot may cause little or no mental anxiety,
while a disturbance of the heart’s action does, for
the heart is one of the three houses which life
resides in, the other two being the brain and the
lungs. Yet, as generally happens in so-called
heart troubles, the worry was needless, as we shall
presently see.
“For weeks together,” continues the narrator,
“I got no proper sleep, and, in truth, so bad was
this condition that / dreaded going to bed. My
nerves were thoroughly unstrung, and affected the
left side of my face, which was quite drawn. I
suffered martyrdom with facial neuralgia.
“ As time went on I grew to be so low and
miserable that i had no pleasure in life, and did
not care what became of me. I consulted a doctor
but none of his medicines helped me. Better and
worse, I continued to suffer, until a friend told
me about Mother Soigel’s Curative Syrup, and
persuaded me to try it. I got a bottle from Mr.
Pulliam, Crocer, Spring Road, and after taking it
a short time I felt it was doing me good, ( slept
well, and had less distress after meals. This en-
couraged me to persevere with it, and gradually I
got stronger, and the nerve pains wore away. I
now enjoy good health , and have recommended this
medicine to many of my customers. You can
publish this statement as you like. (Signed)
Harry Wenden, Hairdresser, 171, Spring Road,
St. John’s, Ipswich, July 17th., 1890.”
Mr. Wenden s explanation of his loss of life’s
pleasure is commonplace after all. And yet how
much more important than if it were unique or ex-
ceptional ; because the commonplace is the uni-
versal. it is disease, my gentle reader, that tears
the velvet from thrones, that robs the cottager of
his sleep, that makes the baby cry in its cradle,
that strips the strong man of his vigour, that wipes
the bloom from the cheeks of fair women, that
hurries humanity to the churchyard with bowed
heads and bleeding feet. And the most pitiless
ogre of all diseases is the one from which Mr.
Wenden suffered, and which Mother Seigel’s
Syrup cures—indigestion, dyspepsia. Even
without the velvet, Health is the best of thrones,
and this great remedy helps to keep you seated
safely and happily upon it.
His Honor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Me. Julian Fitzboom was roused in his tent-bunk
by the shouts of Selector Small. Fitzboom was
sleepy and disinclined to respond, but, the yells
becoming savage, he pulled on some clothes and
walked across the creek. A man was stretched on
his back in front of the hut, and Selector Small
was sitting on the man’s chest.
“ Caught the beggar at last, Fitz; found him
humping off one of the killing wethers. D’yer
know him ! ”
“Why, it’s Joe Moran. How’d you get your-
self in this mess, Joe?”
Joe groaned and spat some earth off his teeth.
“Now, Fitz, I want you to look after this
gentleman while I go for the traps. Can’t do it
under four hours; but the fire’s alight, and the
billy’s hot; make yourself comfortable. And, one
thing : give me your word of honor you won’t let
this chap escape—l’d rather lose fifty quid. This
is the third time he’s been at it, and the game’s
about played-out. It would be a real sin to let him
off.”
“Honor bright, Small, I’ll keep him safe; you
can trust my word for it.”
“That’s good enough for me, old feller; so
here’s off.”
Save for the spitting of the gum fire and the
quick ticking of the clock, there was silence in the
hut. Fitzboom sat across the door, smoking ; Joe
at the table, thinking. Presently the latter spoke
out his thoughts with a jerk : —“ Mr. Julian, I’ve
a young wife at home.”
“ So 1 believe, Joe, and I’m sorry for it.”
“ And I want to see her afore the traps come —
I want to square things—l want for God
A’mighty’s sake, Mr. Julian, let me out, and I
swear I’ll give myself up in the morning—Mr.
Julian ”
“1 can’t do it, Joe; I’ve given my word to
Small.”
“ Damn Small! What’s Small’s troubles to me
or my missus? I’d have let you go if I’d sworn to
Small on the Bible.”
“ Your ideas of honor and mine run on different
lines, Joe.”
“Put yourself in my place, Mr. Julian, with a
young wife at home sittin’ up and expectin’ yer.
My God ! what’ll she think—what’ll she dp if they
•lag me i Let me out—come with me—tie me up
and drag me, but let me go home this once.”
“I tell you, Joe, I can’t do it. I’ve given my
word to Small. My honor is at stake. I’ll go first
thing in the morning and break it to your wife,
and do what I can to oomfort her. Depend upon
it, I’ll smooth things over for you. It would
ordy make you feel worse to see tier. Far better
face the music first —I know it’s hard ”
“ You don’t know—you can’t know what I feel
—what I mean. I tell yer things have to be
squared. Let mo out, Mr. Julian, and 111 pray
for yer—we’ll both pray for yer—all our lives.
What chance would I have agin them traps if you
did let me go ? I’d be snapped anyhows. What’s
the difference to you? What d’yer want to keep
me for? Have I done uou any harm ? What the
h ” . . _ T ,
“ Come; come, Joe, you re getting excited. Ive
given my word of honor to Small. What would
he say, when he returned, to find you gone ? _ I’ve
told you I’ll comfort your wife as far as lies in my
power—more I can’t say. Be a man and face the
trouble. Be” .
“ Lot me out, Mr. Julian; that’s the biggest
comfort you can do my wife. Just let me go
tell Small anything. That I rushed you—smashed
the door through—anything.”
“ I won’t tell a lie for anyone’s sake.”
“ For my wife’s sake ? ”
“No.”
“Oh, God—God—God !”
And so on, all the weary night.
• * * *
Verdict—guilty. Sentence—two years. But
Joe’s wife was comforted, according to the promise
of Fitzboom.
11l news not only flies fast, but also penetrates
far. It percolated even into Joe’s gaol-yard.
What Joe heard was worse than the Judge’s ser-
mon. For his wife had been “ comforted.” You
see, Fitzboom was a man of his word; his
“ honor ” had been at stake !
C. H. READ.
Rev. Barnabas Cope’s ritualism rapidly
endeared him to the hearts of all Gunyahvilie, but
now he has fallen below zero. Visiting a
matron who was impai-ting maternal nourishment
to her infant, he felt himself at a great loss for
small talk, and, seizing the incident before his
eyes as a possible escape to his dreadful tongue-
tiedness, thus ruined all chance of ever becoming
popular: “Is —is madam—that sweet child
yo’uah youngest ? ”


DON'T be left behind on a “Good enough.”
A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
is cheaper in the end.
Faoiories Toronto, C a nada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
rancheis-Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
T. J. M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia,
MELBOURNE.
F. L. BISHOP, Manager for New South Wales,
SYDNEY.
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Public Notice.
R- ROBERT BYRNE, respectfully begs
to inform his numerous friends that, after
a period of indifferent health during two years, he
has again Resumed Business at his old address
333 Collins-st., next the Commercial Bank, Melb>
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfkieoza CoCigb-
df
A feature of Merit.
Found Only in
1900 Model
Red Birds.
Another new feature, which is most important on account of its
simplicity and general excellence, is the Eed Bird seat post fastener-
composed of three pieces only.
A twist of the wrist turns the small nut and the seat post
adjusts. No big wrench required as with other internal adjustments,
and no distorting of the frame-tube as with bolt and nut fastenings.
This is only one of the many little features which makes the Bed Bird just right and
superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Cbe 6oold Bicycle Co*, Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Haents—everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King~BT., Sydney, Head Office in Auetraua.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vio.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-bt., Wellington, N.Z.
PRICES: £lO, £l5, £2O, and £3O.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
First day of S.T.C. Birthday meet at Randwick
was bleak, wet and sloppy ; attendance poor. Betting
made Claymore look a “ cert ” for the Hurdles ; he won
by 10 lengths. La Hogue (outsider) downed Battlefield
(hot favorite) in Amateur Stakes. Taipo and Crusado
were first and second favorites in the “Steeple” and
finished that way, with Taipo a furlong in front (the rest
of the field refused the second hurdle). For Turf Club
Handicap 14 ran ; the uncertain Alix (8 to 1 against) got
home first, 3 lengths in front of Hope. Bar La Hogue,
which was fairly well backed, Ikej 7 had a good time.
Dandy's triumph in Sydney Royal Stakes,
Queen’s Birthday, was a great effort. Twenty-three lined
up. Flying Handicap winner (Bob) at Tattersall’s meet-
ing Saturday before was backed down to fours ; then
came Bulletin’s tip, Oast Iron (sevens) and Dandy
(eights). Half the journey over, Cast Iron was lengths
away from the field and. entering the straight, looked
like finishing solus ; 350yds. from the judge, Cast Iron led
by six lengths, and his backers regarded the race as won
Dandy now showed out: laying his ears back, he over-
hauled the leader yard by yard and o night and beat him
by half-a-neck in the last couple of strides. Rarely
has such a finish been seen. In the final ljfur.
Dandy placed 10 lengths between himself and the balance
of the runners. Rider (Barden) was a mass of mud from
neck to heels. Race was the slowest (1.19.1) Royal Stakes
on record, but conditions were strongly opposed to fast
time. Dandy had 8.10 up, and is by Martini-Henry—
Vain Glory. Same stable, Kelso’s (it had Duke of Kent
fourth), supplied two of the first four on this occasion,
and won with Akarini in ’96 and Caledonia last year.
From a weight-carrying point of view, Dandy’s achieve-
ment is the second-best on record, for, barring Sedition’s
feat with 9.3 in the saddle, in ’B9, latest winner humped
the biggest burden over the journey—6fur.
* * * *
“Gun.” Mayn’t be generally known that up to
the last half-hour Dandy (winner of Royal Stakes at S.T.C.
meeting) was a doubtful starter, and that the night before
Wotton, owner of Ace of Diamonds, who won the Birthday
Cup, had made up his mind to scratch that nag if the rain
continued. The expression “they run in all shapes”
applies more to Ace of D. than to any other equine racing.
He is all angles even now, though carrying more beef than
for a long time. Ilis gallop on Saturday suggests some-
thing a heap better when it’s wanted and he’s fit.
*•» * .
Minister Tom Hassall had bad luck in both the
’chases at Randwick with his recently-purchased Crusado.
On first day the horse was interfered with by one of the
baulkers, which sp >ilt his chance, and on second day he
lost his rider in the lake, which unlooked-for obstacle
proved formidable to every horse in the race.
Trainers as a rule dislike showing their hand
over a maiden at a short price, but J. Burton proved the
exception at Randwick last week, when he won with
Claymore, who started in both hurdle-races at a very
short price, and won easily in each case. Strange to say,
Claymore’s greatest danger in both events lay in jump-
ing through a broken hurdle at the last obstacle.
• • * •
N.S.W. Postmaster-General Crick’s threatened
bill to “clip the wings” of the A.J.O. is heard of. Word
comes from Maitland, that Gillies, M.P., is to introduce it
next session, and that it is to “ define the rights of the
people to the use and occupation of all lands dedicated, or
leased to, or otherwise occupied by companies, clubs’ or
associations for horse-racing purposes, to provide for the
estanlishment of a representative tribunal to control all
matters affecting horse-racing; to repeal in part the
A.J.O. Act, and for other purposes.” Writer thinks it has
just as much show of passing as had Crick’s measure
(upon which it is based) some years ago. The A.J.O.
isn’t doing too badly for those who want to have things
as they should be—howls about ill-treated owners and
Star-Chambered jockeys notwithstanding. The chief de-
fects of the club arise out of the fact that it is conducted
on altogether too haw-haw a basis.
* • * •
Though unlike his brother-in-law, “ Bill ” Long
the late W. B. Dailey was not prominent on the turf he
dabbled in racing in dilettante fashion. In the early days
of Sydney Tattersall’s he used to figure as steward at the
club’s meetings, and occasionally had a horse or two in
training, but never seemed able to get hold of a good one.
* * * •
“H.S.” : As an old “cross-country” man, I
commend the recent alterations in the Randwick (Syd-
ney) “ steeple ’’-course, which now not onlv furnishes a
better test of stamina and all-round cleverness in the
horse, but is, from a spectacular point of view, much im-
proved. Let us hope that the club, having provided
such an excellent “ convincing ground,” will now see its
way to making the steeple prizes worth competing for by
the best horses in Australasia. Then we shall have the
cracks from Maoriland, South Australia, and Victoria tak-
ing a “ fly ” at Randwick—with the certain result of a big
increase in the club’s revenue.
• • » *
In a recent Sydney police-court oase an oyster-
merchant said that the profit to retailers was lOd. per
plate, the actual cost being about 2d. Yet the charge in
the paddock at Randwick racecourse for a plate of oysters
is Is. 6d.
•'• » •
Q.T.C. Autumn gathering at Eagle Farm ended
Saturday with fine weather. Ikey had a good time. Tote
held £4919 ; total for three days, £15,488 10s. Velocity
(at 10 to 1) annexed the New Handicap (6 fur.), and 67 of
1060 tickets drew £6 18s. each. Heavy-weight Handicap
(7 fur.) went to Gadfly—7 to 1 agst. Of 789 tickets 103
picked it and got £3 7s. each. Boreas 11. (5 to l)was first
fa' orite for Moreton Handicap (1J miles) and landed the
money easily from Longford. Machine showed 1052 with
261 on the right pea—they got £2 10s. each. Leger div
went 11s. better. Time was 2.17J —3Jsec. slower than
Dundonald’s win last year. Second Novice Handicap (14
miles) fell to Nor’-West (6 to 1). Of 888, 159 found the
winner and received 295. each. Gozo gelding Ohio was
first home in the Royal Stakes (1 mile and a distance);
he started at sevens and paid £3 15s. to each of 123 of 1063
who played up their half-sovs. Lauri’s number showed at
the finish of Epsom Mile. Books offered sevens ; tote
paid £5 -for every 10s. to 131 punters out of 1504 invest
ments.
• • * *
At the Q.T.C. meeting, Sir Jean, who won the
High Weight Handicap, paid £52 10s., and the Brisbane
Cup winner—the well-performed Boreas ll.—panned out
£l9 Bs.
* * * *
Adelaide R.C. meeting opened at Victoria Park
on Saturday. Though heavy rain had fallen before,
weather was almost like that in Sydney. Tote showed
£12,149 10s. as compared with £13,241 same day last year.
Fleet Admiral scored at last by annexing the City
Handicap with three-quarters to spare from Howlong and
Harpist as named. Machine held £3261 10s., and div.
was £5. Winner of Adelaide Stakes (Ariadne) by
Thunderbolt—Calirrhoe, paid the biggest amount. £24
19s ; £205 15s. went on.
* * * *
That respected sportsman, W. R. Wilson,
ownqr of the famous St. Alban’s racing-stables, and erst-
while big Broken Hill speculator, died on Sunday night,
after a lingering illness. W. R. made his pile at the
“ Hill ” when piles were made there over and over again,
and put a lot of the money amassed into the breeding
establishment mentioned. His nags won races innumer-
able, but none of them got home in Melbourne Cup,
which was the dead sportsman’s greatest ambition. Mr!
Wilson did much for racing in Australia by ever running
straight and importing new blood ; he brought out aristo-
cratic mares, and was also responsible for the advent of
Bill of Portland and Eiridspord here. At the same time
he had Robinson Crusoe, Trenton, and Carnage in
active service. Some other nags owned by Mr. Wilson at
different times were such big and blue-blooded performers
as Strathmore, Wallace, Elusive, Aurum, Bobadil, Havoc,
La Carabine, and La Tosca. And almost at the same
moment is reported the demise of the plucky and popular
Donald Wallace, whilom owner of Australia’s equine god.
Carbine. H °
• • • •
Trenton’s list for 1900 filled some time ago in
England at 100 guineas a mare. Abercorn (strange to
say), Aurum and Patron are doing none too well at half
that figure. Some authorities think Abercorn was a
better performer than Carbine. What makes the matter
puzzling is that each went off in his fourth season. When
Abercorn was four Carbine was three years old,’ when
Carbine was four Abercorn was five. Still, Abercorn
hasn t done anything equal to Carbine’s Melbourne Cup,
nor his Cup—a still better performance.
** I*. A.” : Phil Hey wood refused to take Carbine
at £3OOO and then gave £3050 for the gigantic Tradition,
who never won a race after. Carbine’s subsequent suc-
cesses are a matter of history.
* * * *
M.L. Govt. proposes giving a practical applica-
tion to the much-mouthed, but little-believed-in theory
that “ horse-racing improves the breed of horses” by set-
ting aside a portion of the totalisator tax to really encour-
age horse-breeding of the right sort.
* * « *
Monday’s Vancouver mail brought bad news for
Australian followers of pugilism. Champion middle-
weight of Kangarooland, Tim Murphy, who went to Frisco
months ago with a flourish, succumbed to Californian
Neill (a comer of first quality) April 27. Battle is said to
have been the fiercest ever seen in the State. Platform
was “hemmed in by howling, swaying thousands.” Fight
lasted 11 rounds. Murphy’s grit and savage punching
were outgeneralled by the Yank who raised big welts over
the Australian s heart. Murphy’s body-blows, when they
did land, shivered the ’Frisco champion from stem to
stern. In the seventh round Tim went to his corner
stooping ;it was the beginning of the end. Bights and
lefts from Australia fairly whizzed in the ninth term,
but Neill blocked or ducked and a stiff right-hander
ultimately felled the boy from these parts. Murphy came
out for the “ last round of this memorable fight ” with gashed
face glaring eyes ; he fought in desperation. A fearful right
on the point sent Tim prone. Game as a pebble he rose
and rose thrice more after being bashed to the floor, and
was a fifth time struggling up when the fatal “ out ” came.
Americans have gone crazy on Murphy’s grit; he got a
terrible heap of stoush, and gave some, too. Crowd was
the largest seen at a fight in ’Frisco for many a day. Two
of Tim s seconds were old Melbourneites—Jimmy Anthony
and Tommy Tracey.
* * » •
. "‘Old Timer” : Saw a tough struggle, Saturday
night last, at Golden Gate Club (Sydnev), between two
developments of the novice-tournevs—Watts and Turner.
It was slog all the way in a 20-round draw. Both were in
prime trim. Turner forced the game, and Watts res-
ponded as if ’twas life to him. Turner fouled frequently,
but fouls don t weigh much with latter-day referees, some
of whom have an interest in the “ gate ” and want to give
the crowd plenty stoush for its money. It would, any-
how, have to be a strong foul or persistent fouling for a
pug battle to be lost that way these times. Haven’t for
many a day seen men ladle it out so hot and thick as
Watts and Turner did. They were strong all the time
and finished strong, though with sundry abrasions, dis-
colorations and fleshy mounds that weren’t noticeable at
the outset. The crowd looking on went crazy, applauding
and yellmg from end to end, bar the minute spells. Said
that same two are shortly going to have another cut at
each other; if so, writer advises all lovers of Fierce Battle
to be there at any cost.
* • • •
Australian pug. Jim Richardson, who was “of
Honolulu for some time and is now “of Newcastle-on-
ryne according to ’Ome papers, scored his first English
win about mid-April by sending an old country pug, one
Cock Robin,” to sleep in four rounds. Richardson
promised well years ago. Ere leaving Svdnev he beat
two good uns in Billy Hefferman and Tom Partridge, and
couldn’t get any more matches on though challenges were
thrown out to all comers at the 11.4 limit. Jim went to
o Africa but wasted time and money there fruitlessly, as
no one would take him on. In England Richardson
fought two or three times previous to his latest match
but always played the part of under-dog, which seemed
strange in face of what he did here.
• * » •
“Old Timer”: Visited Brighton Hotel, Lady
Robinson s Beach, Sunday last, to see Peter Jackson, and
marvelled at the improvement evidenced. Peter looks
good for another big fight or two ; but, all things con-
sidered, that’s too much to expect. He was lately taken
in hand by a leading doctor, has put on about 121 b.
during the past month, and seems like keeping at it.
Jackson may in time fight one or two limited-round bouts
with any good man who might happen Australiawards,
but his mind is made up to go in for teaching. Two or
three privately-formed classes are already waiting
anxiously till Peter feels up to it. The sciatica has almost
wholly disappeared and the effects of that attack of pneu-
monia, which left life hanging by a hair in the hospital at
Victoria (B.O.) for three months, are fast disappearing
Writer was amused at that picture in a Melb. sporting
paper giving Peter a corpse-like expression in the face.
At his worst the big black never looked so bad as that
and .probably wouldn’t even if he did “ peir out ”
• • * •
The elongated dude-black, Peter Felix, and
Bill Doherty are to have another go, in Sydney for
Australian pug supremacy. A £lOO a-side match was
made on Monday, to eventuate inside seven weeks.
Petah” won’t take very kindly to doffing that long
frock-coat, high hat and aggressive button-hole, which
have been so much in evidence in Bourke-st., Melb for
such a long time past. He’s not too far gone on’the
game either, though clever enough to beat the best
available now, which isn’t saying overmuch for the
champion. On their previous go, writer doesn’t see how
Doherty figures, out his chance of winning as being good,
but the money is up, and money talks.
• • • *
Mailed that that very peculiar pug.-develop-
ment of N.S.W., Tom Lees, and whilom Maitland
(N.S.W.) blacksmith Paddy Slavin indulged in a wild and
woolly struggle at Dawson City (Klondyke) about last
mid-winter. Admission was 25d01. per head, and the
huge barn-like structure was packed with fur-clad gold-
hunters. Slavin was top dog from the jump, but. Lees
shaped full of grit. Half-breeds among the motley throng
were so excited that the Supt. of Police stopped the fight!
Stakes were big and Slavin got them. By-and-by the
police batons had to be brought into requisition, and a
lively half-hour resulted. Latest is that Paddy runs a
big sawmill.
• * * *
“Leash”: National Coursing Ass. of N.S.W.
absolutely excelled itself with opening meeting (last week)
for the season. Hares at headquarters (Rooty Hill) were
reported dying unaccountably weeks ago. Investigation
demonstrated that absolute starvation was the sole cause
Any properly-managed body would have postponed opera-
tions, to give the animals a chance of pulling round * not
80 the N.O. Ass. of N.S.W. It sent up some oats (which
subsequent happenings indicated never reached their
destination), and went on with the show. Result: hares
hardly able to crawl, much less run—you could have
knocked them over with a stick. A little terrier
took to one, and collared it and killed it as if puss
had been a rat. Forty-five (comprising all fit to move. ap-
parently,) of the stock were caught quickly, and settled
one after the other till the thing became monotonous.
The ruling body of N.S.W. Coursing then decided to shut
down despite the fact that two days had been advertised
and the classic events (Oaks and Derby) with 7 and 8
respectively still in, and the Birthday Stakes with 8 left
were unfinished. Nominators of hounds that had not been
beaten got their own subscriptions whacked among them
less the usual 10 per cent, deduction. Worst feature of
the whole thing is, that Belmore Coursing Park and
hares could have been had on reasonable terms. The
outcome is that the honor of winning three of the bit?
events of the year is divided among 23 dogs ! The writer
had something to say about the lack of management or
knowledge of the game evidenced by those running the
N. S. Wales N.C.A. Last week’s happening emphasises
the view then taken.
An attempt is being made to resuscitate the Sir
Joseph Banks (Botany, Sydney) footracing handicaps on a
scale somewhat less ambitious than when the late Frank
Smith was promotor. The smaller prize-money will make
little difference, for the game has sunk so low; that a
tenner will produce more genuine triers than 20 times the
amount would have done ten years ago.
* * * *
T. Hayward, England’s best batsman, has
started well by making 120 not out against London
County (Grace’s team). Abel made 65 in same match.
For London, A. E. Trott took 7 wickets for 122 in a score
of 294. Grace made 15 and 1, and his side was beaten by
an innings and 34 runs. Richardson failed to take a
wicket in either innings, but Lockwood got 5 for 8.
* * * *
Clem. Kill has blossomed out as a broker on
Adelaide Stock Exchange.
* • • *
The Vic. Football League made a “patrioti-
cism ” of diplomacy—not to say necessity—on May 19th.
All the club-grounds in Melbourne were unfit for play
owing to the recent soaking rains, so as soon as the cable
news arrived and the mind of the multitude was palpably
“ off the ball,” the League issued its mandate : “ All
matches postponed in honor of Relief of Mafeking.”
• • • •
In the opening match of the football season at
Waihi (M.L.) recently, a half-back had to be ambulanced
early in the game ; thereafter every shin was a legitimate
target. The referee was ornamental and quite harmless,
and blood fairly streamed when hellowing barrackers
took the field, and were repulsed with great loss, some
getting a bad flatironing as a reward for their inter-
ference. The ball meanwhile disappeared, but was
eventually recaptured from a bull-terrier. The affair was
a mixture of Killaloe and Waterloo —and provided a rare
afternoon’s sport.
• * • •
Auckland (M.L.) Rugby Union is creating a
season-fund for disabled players, in preference to handing
over a lump-sum to an insurance co. Knocked-out battlers
will receive £2 a week. _ The Union is also drafting, for
submission to N.S.W. Union, a scheme providing that in
future each province shall finance its own touring teams.
* * * «
The unconscious humor of the “ comp.” In the
now-defunct Melb. Telegraph, a football report, which
should have read, “ The captain of the visitors, an old
Bendigonian, having won the toss,” &c., was cheerfully
altered to, “ The captain of the visitors, an old beery
onion,” &c.
* • * •
The N.S.W. rowing centre appears to have
been transferred from the Parramatta to Coraki, where a
successful regatta was brought off last week. The Beaten
Stakes handicap was won by Messenger, 21 secs., who beat
Tressider (2sec.), Pearce (ssec.), Bishop and Kemp (I7sec.),
and Towns (20sec.). Messenger comes of an old racing
stock. His grandfather, in 1853, beat Candlish over the
Thames champion course ; and in ’67 was defeated over
same course by Harry Kelley for the world’s champion-
ship.
» * * •
The particulars of a “ Botany Handicap ” of 100
sovs., distance 130 yards, are advertised in this issue.
Nominations close on Bth August with Win. Hunt, Kelso’s
Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.*
Beneath the legend, outside a Salvarmy
barracks, “What shall I do to be saved?” a
patent-medicine fiend wrote “ Use Popplethorpe’s
Panacea Pills.” But one of the “Harmy,”
noticing the sacrilege, added further, “And pre-
pare to meet thy God ! ”
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
A number of newspapers have never ceased
to howl against Lord Methuen, and Syd. D.T. has
published an interview between its S.A. corres-
pondent and “a gentleman who was in an
excellent position to form an accurate judgment,”
in which it is stated that Methuen was “a brave
blunderer.” Now, when Methuen started for
Kimberley his orders were to relieve that city,
which was said to be hard pressed. He had 12,000
men, including artillery, and about one regiment
of cavalry ; as he had no transport to enable him
to make flanking movements he was virtually
chained to the railway. He won three battles in
one week and then found himself up against
Magersfontein, to outflank which Roberts used
60,000 men and killed 10,000 horses. Methuen’s
force had swelled to 18,000, but he was still abso-
lutely without mounted infantry, and had only a
handful of cavalry and was still chained to the
railway. The only attack he could make with the
force at his disposal was a more or less frontal one,
and in the Boer paper, The Volksstkm, it was
admitted that but for the sudden panic of the
Highlanders, the Boers would have abandoned the
position under cover of night as their right wing
(looking south) was utterly crushed, the trenches
filled with slaughter from an enfilading fire.
Suddenly it was noticed that the British were re-
tiring owing to their failure to carry the left wing,
and the Boers, finding the fire die away, held on.
The South African Review, one of Rhodes’
papers, among other denunciations of Methuen
prints this:
That Lord Methuen succeeded in effecting the removal
of a war correspondent who was too outspoken in his
criticisms of Boer treachery and inhumanity in the field.
Looks as though Methuen’s crime was that he
sacrificed the atrocity-mongers and not that he
blundered against the Boers.
That lump in a man’*
stomach which makes him
irritable and miserable and
unfit for business or plea-
sure is caused by indi-
gestion. Indigestion, like
charity, covers a multitude
of sins. The trouble may
be in the stomach, liver or
bowels. Wherever it is it
is caused by the presence of
poisonous refuse matter
which Nature has been un-
able to rid herself of un-
aided. In such cases wise
people send down a health
officer, personified by one of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, to search out the seat
of trouble and remove the
cause. One of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will re-
move a very big lump, and
act as a gentle laxative. A
short course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills wall cure
indigestion (permanently).
They also cure constipation.
“For the past eight years I
have endured much from
constipation and piles ; no medicine seemed to do
me good,” writes Mr. Wm. Burke, Bridge-road,
Glebe, N.S.W. “ At night I could not sleep, and
by day I was too drowsy to do my work. Noth-
ing I took could free me of pain until I tried Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and now I can say they
are the best remedy I have ever known, as they
do not gripe or weaken, and yet do all that is said
of them. I am a better man to-day than I have
been for years. It is a grand cure. ” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure biliousness, indi-
gestion, constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver
and kidney complaints, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
Erice Is. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d.
ole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd
(Australasian depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.
At Poverty Point.
The big Biograph 00., whose latest films are being
shown at Melb. ALhenamm Hall just now, seems to have
any amount of influence as well as “ oof” at work in the
business. Even the Pope was persuaded to give the
operators a chance. A series of pictures taken at the
Vatican arq probably the most valuable stock in the ce.’e
possession, not excepting the war films.
“T.D.”: What bucketsful of sentiment were wasted after
all upon the leaden dullness which was to creep over the
Melb. playhouses, the ghostly memories which were to
haunt the Princess’s and so on ! It’s only six months
since Williamson had a big and tearful leave-taking and
the Broughs bade us good-bye for two long years, yet
Williamson is on the job again with his Alex., the
Broughs are working back to us, and the Princess’s is
going strong for remainder of the year at least.
Dear Bulletin. — Re the recent statement in your
columns that Steffani was no longer Florence Schmidt’s
instructor. It seems from a letter lately to hand from
Steffani that the lady is still faithful to her yrimo
maestro. Steffani says, by the way, that there are about
15,000 American women in Paris studying singing. Un-
fortunate audiences of the future !—J.A.O.
In private life, Nance O’Neil, the American actress, is
known as Miss Gertrude Lawson. In the States an Irish
name pays.
“J. Pannikin”: At the Broughs’ t’other eve a weird
wonderful wet-night hat blocked my view of stage and I
was savage till a lady behind me (she too was blocked)
loudly described said hat as “ a triumphant combination
of rigid economy and reckless bad taste.” After that, I
felt Good!
Fitzgerald Bros’, new co. includes the Dunbar trio of
trapeze artists (from Barnum’s), the Jandaschevskys, a
new troupe of character dancers, clowns, acrobats and
pantomimists ; Rhodasis, a lady juggler, said to be a top-
notcher; and amongst others, our former favorite,
Adelina Antonia, of the fascinating smile and inimitable
pirouette, who has fallen from the roofs of most of the
great buildings of Europe since she last fell into a net in
Australia. The new co. is said to be a beauty show, as
some 12 new ladies will don tights under the monster
canvas. Tom Fitzgerald remains in Europe some time
longer.
“ 8.0.” : Rumored that Nance O’Neil stays in Australia
till December, and then goes straight to London—so that
those of the co. who expected to get a gratis trip to
Frisco will be disappointed. It is also said that the
ample Nance was not “discovered” by McKee Rankin
until after she had been doing “ walking-on ’’ parte for
two years.
(Continued on next page.)
A “PRINCESS” GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So disdainful an air—’twas in vain,
Such sweet scorn but suggested the stage—
Yet a face that again and again
Thrusts its beauty ’twixt me and the page—
So bewitchingly graceful and fresh,
Though Hell’s pangs I might fail to escape—
I could worship a god robed in Jlesh
Who assumed such an exquisite shape !
From those eloquent eyes—What flashed out
In an indolent glance as she passed i
Did they hint of the boisterous shout
Accorded the curtain up-cast V
Of a maddening smile darted fleet
At the stalls in high-collared array ?
Of a note per an usher discreet
Breathing love that would brook no delay ?-
Of a supper with laughter beset,
Where a dainty pink ear might be told
That a white wrist would gleam whiter yet
Were its ivory blazoned with gold ?
Of a whirl and an eddy of dust
As a dog-cart spins noisily past ?
Of a hans—here a northerly gust
Broke the spell that was over me cast.
“The BEMM."


Et>ery one PIPES the Praises
OF
;
V,
i:
(3H
\
Jt
>.#'l Wl
i
r
Derby
TOBACCO.
PURE,
AROMATIC,
DELIGHTFUL.
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS,
AND TAKE NO OTHER.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney S3T
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
LATEST WAR SOUVENIRS.
MAFEKING’S HERO.
GOLD Rifle Brooches. Price 6/8.
GOLD Lee-Metford Cartridge Brooches. Price 11/6.
1000
Different Gold War Souvenirs to
Choose from at 187 Pitt Street.
Baden-Powell
Gold Pendanta. Price 7/6.
GOLD Lee Metford Cartridge
Charms or Gold Pins. Price 5/0.
N.S.W. Lancers GOLD Hat
Charms. Price 3/-.
(Published for Public Information only, all the Shares having been allotted and the Company Registered.)
The Snowy & Thredbo Rivers Gold Dredging Co.
lETO LIABILITY.
CAPITAL, £15,000 in 15,000 Shares of £1 each. 7500 shares issued to the public; 2s. 6d. on application, and
2s. 6d. on allotment, balance in calls not exceeding 2s. (Id. per month. 7500 shares issued, as fully paid up, to pro-
moters and vendors in full settlement of property. NO CASH.
DIRECTORS : 0. H. KERRY, Esq., 010 George-street, Sydney ; T. F. WALLER, Esq., Poynton, Glenmore-road,
Sydney ; J. WHEAII ROBERTS, Esq., Temple-street, Stanmore, Sydney ; O. A. E. BANKS, Esq., 85 Clarence-street,
Sydney ; Dr. PATERSON, 197 Liverpool-street, Sydney.
MANAGER: Mr. FRANK A. WALLER, 85 Ciarence-street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS: Messrs. F. W. PAYNE and CO., Vickery’s-chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney (Mr. A.
C. PERKINS, Representative for N.S.W.).
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.
The dredging area held by this company consists of 100 acres of river beds at the junction of the Snowy and
Thredbo Rivers, and is distant from Oooma about 40 miles, lying at the foot of the spurs flanking the eastern slopes
of the Snowy Mountains. The whole of this portion of the mountains is a well-known auriferous field, and gold may
be got in almost every small gully and stream. The principal drainage channel of the watershed is the Snowy River,
which receives in its course the waters of the Gungariine, Thredbo, and Eucumbene Rivers. The former, emptying
into the Snowy a few miles above this company’s lease, is we'.l-known to carry good gold, and parties of miners have
for the past 20 years been successfully working the alluvial deposits occurring on its banks.
The Thredbo has given its name to a very rich alluvial goldfield, the principal working centre of which was a few
miles above its junction with the Snowy. In importance the Thredbo field in the early days ranked second only to
the famous Kiandra.
The Eucumbene drains all the gold-bearing country intervening between its junction with the Snowy River and
the Kiandra diggings.
The Company’s area occupies an exceptional position at the head of the Jindabyne Valley, and is the first spot
along the main Snowy River where any important river drifts occur. Prospects and boring operations recently finished
prove the wash to be exceptionally rich, and the gold of a nature easily saved.
In addition to the 100 acres now applied for arrangements have been made on a satisfactory basis with the owners
of properties adjoining the river banks for the right to work a further area of about 60 acres, or so much of their land
as may be proved dreageable.
Reports by Mr. A. C. Perkins, representing the well-known dredging firm, Messrs. F. W. Payne and Co., of New
Zealand, embracing results of boring operations, together with report by Mr. W. S. M'Allister, Manager Bogong
Mines, may be seen at the Company’s office.
The lease of the land applied for on behalf of the Company has BEEN ISSUED BY THE MINES DEPARTMENT.
Tenders have been called for the construction of a suitable dredging plant, having a working capacity of from 80
to 100 cubic yards per hour.
EXTRACTS FROM MR. PERKINS’S REPORT.
Sydney, Bth March, 1900.
Since last reporting on your Claim on the Snowy River, under date 11th September, 1899, I have at your request
thoroughly prospected and tested the property by means of extensive boring operations, and am very pleased to in-
form you that the excellent opinion at first formed by me has been fully confirmed.
Holes Sunk.—Thirty holes have been put down by means of boring and sinking at various points along each side
of the river, and on some of the small islands in the centre of the stream.
Bottom.—The bottom is of soft decomposed granite, and will be very good to dredge on.
Prospects.—The best prospect obtained gave Idwt. l'CCGgr. from a hole 12ft. deep and 3in. diameter; a small
nugget weighing 23‘116gr. was obtained from this. The gold obtained from the whole of the dirt lifted from surface
down is equal to 15dwt. lgr. per cubic yard. The average, exclusive of the nugget above referred to, is 6dwt. 13'5gr.
per cubic yard.
These prospects refer exclusively to the gold obtained from the bores put down on the dredgeable portion of your
lease. They were fairly uniform with the exception of No. 19, from which the nugget was obtained, and are from
various points well apart, extending over a distance of a mile along the river. I consider them to be a representative
prospect as far as could be obtained by this method, and they indicate that the deposits are very rich.
Gold.—The sample of gold is very good, and of a class that is easily saved, and worth £4 per ounce. In my pre-
vious report I stated that the gold was chiefly fine. This referred to the prospect then obtained from surface, but the
boring operations have proved that the bottom wash carries a very rough sample of gold, one piece obtained being
just on a dwt.
In conclusion I have to congratulate you upon possessing what appears to be an excellent claim, the prospects of
which compare most favorably with the best N.Z. properties, which are now returning large dividends to their share-
holders, and I feel confident that yours will do the same.
Yours faithfully,
A. C. PERKINS,
Late Manager Unity and Earnscleugh G. D.,
Molyneaux, N.Z.
“ A TRIP, TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres arid m
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. to 50 h.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot-37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
gI R JOSEPH BANK S’ GROUND.
BOTANY HANDICAP,
100 sovs. Distance, 130yds. First Prize, 70 sovs. J
Second, 15 sovs.; Third, 10 sovs.; Fourth, 5 sovs.
To be run FRIDAY AFTERNOON,
AUGUST 24, 1900.
Nomination, 10s. ; acceptance, 10s. Nomina-
tions close AUGUST 8.
caps appear Monday, 13th. Acceptances, TU ES-
DAY, AUGUST 21. Entry forms and full
particulars may be obtained from
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street,
Promoter.
Sir Joseph Banka’ Rules.
M
m
ALLAN &. CO.
will send you
MUSIC and PIANO
CATALOGUES
POST FREE I
ALLAN and CO.,
Collin* Street, Melbourne.
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Missing Friends.
TJ OBERT CHARLES STONES, of Ulverstone, Tasmania,
last heard of St. Jose Goldfields, Ulam, in March,
1898. Anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with J. Stones, Ulverstone, Tas.
JOHN HARDWICK,
late of Argentine, N.Q., and British Guiana,
S. America, please call or send for important
letter at this office.
WANTED, whereabouts of WILLIAM
FARRELL, from Kilkenny, Ireland;
last heard of at Bung Bung Bend, N.S. Wales,
about 40 years ago.
WANTED, particulars as to Whereabouts or
Decease of WALTER CRAWFORD,
native of Hawick, . Scotland. Remuneration if
satisfactory. Address, John Crawford, Parkhill,
Ontario, Canada.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; lion. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.0.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphrey, M.L.C. ; Mr. W. L. Docker.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; \V. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. \V. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United lOSOraocc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Hates very Loiv ,
THOMAS M. TLNLEY, Manager.
Melba has, for the benefit of her Australian admirers,
denied that she was born in Scotland. But she appa-
rently did not do so in Scotland, when feted by the pro-
vost and corporation of her alleged birthplace.
Said that young Rebottaro got a whack in the eye from
a drunken Melbourne Jingo, t’other Saturday, on account
of his un-English parentage, or because he refused to load
himself up with British beer at the patriot’s expense, or
for some equally “ Mafekinglike ” cause. A pretty story,
if true. Rebottaro, earlier in the day, had assisted to
make things festive by singing Jingo songs at an im-
promptu concert in front of Glen’s music-shop.
With the conversion of Melbourne Alexandra into Her
Majesty’s came an entente cordiale between the dress-circle
and the stage. At the cheerless Aleck it was as difficult
to see much of the action of a piece from a side seat in the
d.c. as to hear much of the dialogue from a centre seat in
the back row. At Her Majesty’s, the circle people can
hear every word that’s uttered and see things they would
rather leave unnoticed. They get the show thrown at
them, so to speak.
“ Joe Rocks ” : Nobody hitherto seems to have noticed
that when Brough stands or walks on the stage his soles
have an affinity for each other. Must be a mere man-
nerism, because in “ Tanqueray ” or other heavy dramas
the peculiarity is hut slightly noticeable, whereas in
comedies such as “Tyranny of Tears” it comes out
stronger, and in a farce of the “ Jane ” order (Lord Bap-
child) said affinity not only affects the feet, but extends
right up to the knees, and reminds one of the time-
honored gait of the pantomime clown. The device,
however, is effective, and goes to show that, in addition
to gesture, face-play, &c., an actor should study foot-
play.
The London Opera season opened on May 14th, with
“ Romeo and Juliette,” and Melba to the fore. Last week
(on Queen’s Birthday night), Lalla Miranda came out as
the prima-donna who falls victim to the wicked duke in
“ Itigoletto.” The cable reports a success of more or less
magnitude for the bright little Melbourne songstress, and
it is certain that her first appearance was looked forward
to as an event. The Daily Mail, in mentioning the engage-
ment of Lalla Miranda, said “whom the Brussels people
declare to have the most beautiful voice heard at La
Monnaie since Mme. Melba first appeared there.” Another
20 years and 50 per cent, of the world’s finest voices will
be Australian. Already, this is pretty well the hub of the
universe for comic opera, chorus singing—and we don’t
know it. Courtice Pounds, who had been a cathedral
chorister before he grew into a popular English tenor,
used to fairly snort at the country which could let the
Firm’s chorus go un-encored after some of its best efforts.
Charles Arnold must feel rather sick of the S’African
war. It cut short his Transvaal tour and sent the co. fly-
ing back to Capetown, where, with Australian business in
view, Arnold raised a £lOOO “ fruit fund” for the benefit
of the Contingents. And now that he is in Melbourne,
and the local Stock Exchange is spending money on bursts
of “ patriotic ” fury at the theatres, the roaring brokers
have forgotten to patriotnise Arnold’s show.
Melb. Age critic takes the Gilbertian humor quite seri-
ously. Talking of Dorothy Vane as the bumboat-womau
in “ Pinafore,” he complained that her hideous make-up
“ destroyed all the poetry of the character.” Evidently
he looks for lingering suggestions of sweet simplicity in
“ Little Buttercup,” although the author's satire is
broad enough. The lady for whom Gilbert wrote
Little Buttercup was chosen for her calm, prosaic
style. She had previously appeared (under Gilbert’s
direction) as the respectable pew-opener in “The Sor-
cerer,” where she folded her mittened hands together and
sang—“ I’m no saucy minx, and giddy—but a clean and
ti-i-dy widdy.”
Some of the casual jokes in “ What Happened to Jones ”
are fresh and human. For instance, the lunatic who
escapes from the asylum in a Red Indian make-up is
humorously sane on one point. When he strikes another
fool roaming about in a blanket he proposes that they
shall start a joint wigwam and furnish it with squaws.
“ Old squaw for you—young squaw for me,” says the
stray crank, but as the other fellow is merely bent on
finding his lost clothes the amorous one yells, “ Both
squaws for me,” and departs hurriedly, followed by
encouraging laughter from the charmers in front.
They had to provide a new screen in “ The School for
Scandal ” at Sydney Her Majesty's to hide the generous
form of Nance O’Neil; that which concealed the rather
emaciated Brown-Potter was far too small.
Olga Nethersole was introduced to the stage by Arthur
Dacre and Amy Roselle, whose violent deaths in Sydney
are still remembered. Writer remembers her as a nervous
little theatrical debutante in the English provinces. She
had been a governess, engaged first to look after the
Dacres’ only child, which died in infancy.
The Dancing G’Earl of Yarmouth was among the little
lot of inferior mummers who went to S’africa as Imperial
Yeomen. Two or three of the others are stage-struck
lords like himself, but the absurd Yarmouth is remarkable
for having made a lucky escape from the army before he
set out to play the goat in Australia. Five years ago he
held a lieutenancy in the Black Watch. Had he stuck to
his regiment his young Nibs might have danced to the
deadly ballet-music of Magersfontein.
Australia gave liberal latitude to Alice Leamar in days
of yore, so it ought to deal kindly with Marie Lloyd
should she come along on top of the “ wave of Imperial
sentiment.” Marie is a beloved English institution of the
red-light and blue type, with the accent on the blue.
Her favorite ballad, “ Everybody wondered how he knew,”
opens up a question as to why a casual friend of the family
regarded the dimple on baby’s knee as an interesting
proof of its maternity. Also one of Marie’s latest is an
announcement that her sister has got khaki twins.
Which ought to appeal to a good many thoughtful Aus-
tralian damsels just at present.
Recent ad. from Ralgoorlie (W.A.) Mixer. A wonderful
example of the fitness of things :
T ECTURE, by Rev. Axaus Kixo, entitled “Parrots
-* J and Parrot-Cries.” During the lecture Mr. King
will sing—“ Soldiers of the Queen,” “Absent-Minded
Beggar,” &c.
“Melb.”: The late Gilbert J. Smith was not identical
with Gilbert Probyn Smith, who is still quite alive.
Willie Nott, one of the very few organists who have
made a name for themselves in Melbourne, died of con-
sumption last week. With good health and good luck
Nott might have achieved brilliant success in his profes-
sion. A clever portrait of the tall, thin, round-shouldered
young man appeared on Alf. Vincent’s double-page of Mel-
bourne Block characters, published in Tub Bulletin last
December.
Said that Bernard Espinasse, or someone else, is slinging
together a bowdleriseil edition of “Sapho” for Williamson
in which Nance O’Neil is to take the part of the giddy
l’arisienne. Well, the most suggestive scene in “Sapho”
is where Gaussin, in kilts, carries Sapho upstairs to his
bedroom, and this writer wishes Kingston or whoever
takes the part (in kilts) joy of the contract of heaving the
colossal Nance up to the second floor. In fact, unless
some invisible machinery can be devised to hoist Nance,
that scene must be cut out.
Beerbohm Tree has produced, or is about to produce,
a somewhat new version of “ Rip Van Winkle” with him-
self in the name part. It will be more of a temperance
sermon than the old, original drama. Joe Jefferson’s Rip
was a joyous boozer who drew no attention to the fact
that the accursed drink had wrought his downfall, but
the new Dutchman will suffer a bad attack of blue-devils
when he gets to the haunted mountain, and a bottle imp
will appear before him in tangible shape.
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Oampbell married when he was 19
and she was 17, and there are two children, boy and girl.
Oampbell was away from England seeking bis fortune
when his wife sought hers by going on the stage, at the
Ad&lphi in 1890, after shining as an amateur.
“ Cecil ” : lie “ P.’s in B. 5/5/’OO. Coming down river
in Borneo in the early 90’s we lay for the night alongside
a Malay trader’s dug-out going up, and were kept awake
for hours by an awful tune played on an awfuller accor-
deon. Next night the serenade was repeated by another
party on an execrable violin, and this continued for a
week, so that the air was fixed for ever in my mind.
Reaching headquarters and attending an “at home” at
Government House I heard the same air played by the
constabulary band, and learned that it was called “ Ta-
ra-ra-boom de ay ! ”
The most remarkable trial that has taken place in con-
nection with the dramatic profession in Australia was the
one in which Walter Montgomery was arraigned before
the Duke of Edinburgh for murdering Shakespeare. The
case was heard in camera in Sydney, counsel for and
against the prisoner being B. C. Aspinall (Victorian bar-
rister of renown) and W. B. Dailey. Those who witnessed
the forensic exhibition say that the display of witty elo-
quence—and that Dailey had rather the best of it—was
matchless.
Curious to remember that Edwin Booth, who after-
wards gained so much fame in America and England as a
tragedian, visited the Australian in ’54, and left no mark
whatever. He appeared in Victoria, being then a young
man of 22 or 23, as a stock actor in Laura Keane’s co.
Melbourne was suffering from a period of commercial
depression, and the co. quickly took its departure.
Dot Boucicault’s versatility as an actor was pretty well
known and appreciated, but not to its fullest extent.
During Fanny liobina’s Melb. “ Jack Sheppard ” season
Dot went on one night for Jack instead of the shapely
Fanny. His make-up and performance were so admirable
that no one in front guessed the change in the cast, and
even the Melb. dailies failed to make a par out of the
incident.
George Musgrove is said to have engaged a very fetching
operatic artist in Madame Caro Roma for his next Aus-
tralian campaign.
Dear Bulletin, —I am a man of genius, and have written
a play. As lam woefully weak in chronology and topo-
graphy, I was glad to see by your note to “ Scriptus ” par.
in Poverty Point of May 5, that it won’t matter a hang.
I was dreadfully in fear of those wretches, the critics,
who think of nothing but showing their own stupendous
learning. Now I shall no longer be troubled with my
besetting ailment—inability to sleep in the daytime. On
looking over my M.S. I find that I have inadvertently
made Bathurst the principal seaport of N.S.W., and repre-
sented the landing of Capt. Cook as being contem-
poraneous with the knighting of the rats’ friend, Mayor
Harris —but it is too much trouble to alter it. When my
audiences get into what critics call the “soulful flap-
doodle ” of the third act, they will neither have time nor
inclination to think of such trivialities. I always felt that
I was a genius : now my topographical and chronological
resemblance to Shakespeare proves it. On behalf of the
divine William and myself I return thanks for your very
sensible note.—J. Cock-Shore.
Charles Mathews used to say that the worst set-back he
ever got was when playing in a favorite farce. In the
midst of the most laughter-moving scene, a languid swell
rose in the stalls and began leisurely to put on his over-
coat. “ You need not go yet, sir,” said the somewhat-
nettled comedian—" there’s more to come.” “ Ya-a-s,”
drawled the exquisite, “ that’s why I’m going.” And out
he sauntered without moving a muscle of his face.
The late “ Billy ” Hoskins and the late J. J. Kennedy
were once playing the twin Dromios in- the “ Comedy of
Errors,” in M.L. Hoskins noticed Kennedy lining his face
very heavily, and said to him : “ Here, what are you up
to ; I ain’t so wrinkled as all that? ” .Wrinkles?” said
Kenned^ - : “ No, guv’nor, these are dimples.”
A London paper takes the trouble to state that
Manager Benson is not the son of the demised Archbishop
of Canterbury. Otherwise there might be the more
solemn horror over the Caliban he lately perpetrated in
Shakespeare’s “ Tempest ”at the Lyceum. Tell it not in
Gath, or to Geo. Rignold, but Benson’s acrobatic Caliban
turns somersaults, climbs a tree, and hangs from a
branch ’lsshis toes.
In an Australian metrop. theatre there is a “heavy”
man, chiefly remarkable for the way in which he juggles
with the English language. The other day one of the
hands-told Turn that Lindley Murray was looking for him.
“ Thanks, old man. Where is he?” said the Heavy
“ Down ip the was the wag’s reply. The actor still
seeks the stranger.
More advt. for “Sapho.” After Olga Nethersole had
been found not guilty of performing an indecent play in
“ Sapho” aforesaid, she had a “ serious nervous collapse.’
“ J.A.C. v Colored basso Loudon, who was in Sydney
years ago tod from whose co. the M'Adoos are offshoots),
was, at’latest, at Glasgow with his “Fisk” Jubilee
Singers, .juflT .exhibiting a war biograph. Apropos, how
long is ibcf/ftfoA old yarn about the Fisk College going to
hold out i yv/


Ex-Judge Forbes, formerly of Vic. County
Court, who died the other day, in the neighbor-
hood of the nineties, was an impressive figure when
on the bench, SO or 40 years ago. Forbes, even on
circuit in the rough old digging days, used always
to wear an elaborate Windsor Court suit, but he
was not so punctilious in certain other respects.
He retired when some of the present-day jurists
worn playing marbles.
A medico who does the post-mortems at a
Vic. lunatic-asylum was engaged on two defuncts
one afternoon, and had left the key of the morgue
in the door on the outside. The job took a long
time, and as it was getting dark one of the
“tame” patients, supposing that the doctor had
left, locked the door and took the key away. The
doc. hearing the key turned, called out,‘but the
lunatio, being deaf, heard him not. There was
but one chance of being liberated that night. At
about 6.30 the engine-driver of the pumping-house
on the creek would pass by on his way home, and
his attention might be attracted. The doctor got
up to the small window near the roof, watched
till the E. -D. came along, and then made all the
noise he could, but in vain—he was apparently
not heard, and seasoned as he was he didn’t relish
the prospect of putting in a frosty night in com-
pany with two corpses. But presently he be-
thought him of the instrument—a sort of chisel—
which he used for burglariously breaking into the
skulls of his subjects, and with this he succeeded,
after much trouble, in picking the lock and releas-
ing himself from his gruesome company.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IN A VERY LOW STATE,
Through a Great Deal of Suffering.
EAR, TOOTH .A-ZtsTID
An Unstrung Nervous System Thoroughly Renovated.
The Case of
MR. WILLIAM HARRISON.
(From the '■* Newtown Independent”)
Maria Street lies in a thickly populated
part of Newtown, and it was here that our
reporter sought for No 138, the residence of
Mr Hairison. The house is readily found,
being the nicest and most attractive in the
street. Mr Harrison, who had just returned
from work, greeted the reporter with a
cheery welcome.
“I wish to ask you, Mr. Harrison,”
inquired our reporter, “ the truth of the
statement that you have been through a
great deal of suffering, and finally found a
sure and perfect relief
“ Yes ; that is quite true, and I am never
likely to forget the time f had. I will tell
you how it started I had had a long spell
of very heavy work, for I may tell you I am
in the building trade, and at best my occu-
pation is very laborious. I got weak,
nervous, and in a very low state of health.
I believe my system was thoroughly run
down, and for nine weeks I had a terrible
time. ”
“ What were your symptoms, Mr Harri-
son ? ”
•‘My great trouble was neuralgia. The
pains would come up my spine and settle in
my head and face, mostly on one side of the
face, giving me the earache and excruciating
pains in the jaws At times the neuralgia
would leave one side of the face and settle
in the other. The pains came on every
night time with distressing regularity, and
lasted till about three o’clock in the morn-
ing. It was a perfect misery to go to bed,
and I was forced to get up and walk the
floor for hours. Sometimes, to get a little
relief, I held brandy in my mouth to deaden
the pain. I became a martyr to both tooth
and faceache. The pains spread all round
my gums, and to this was joined headache
and frequent giddiness. After some time
my legs became affected, and trembled so
I dreaded they would not carry me and that
I should fall down. This convinced me
that my nervous system was thoroughly
unstrung. I would give sudden starts
in my sleep, and wake up with a jerk
for no reason that I could tell. After eating
there was a feeling of wind gathered across
my chest, and it hurt me to stoop or bend.
My back pained me all down the spine, and
I had to have it rubbed to get a little ease ;
and I got that way at last I felt pains from
head to foot; particularly, I noticed that
my distressing symptoms were aggravated
by the hot weather.”
“ Did you leave off work, Mr. Harrison ? ”
inquired the reporter.
“No ; bad as I was, I stuck to my job,
and kept battling through. In fact, I was
that way that work, as long as I could
struggle with it, was the only relief I had
“ Did you seek medical advice ?”
“ Yes ; I went to a doctor, and he gave
me some powders, but they did me no good
whatever "
“ Yeb you got cured, I believe?”
“ Yes ; Clements Tonic cured me ; there
is no mistake about that. I noticed a
decided improvement after the third or
fourth dose, and after I had continued taking
Clements Tonic I got steadily better ”
“ What induced you to take Clements
Tonic ? ”
“ We were living in Hugo Street at that
time, and I remember my wife picked up a
little book of cures effected, and she read
what Clements Tonic had done for
other sufferers And as some of these persons
mentioned were local people that we knew
of, my wife gained confidence that what was
said was true. And it was my wife per-
suaded metogetClementsTonic and take it ”
“ Was your recovery complete? "
“ I got all right again, and as sound as the
bank ; all my troubles went away. The
trembling in the limbs, the nervousness,
headache, and, what relieved me the most of
all, the terrible neuralgic pains and toothache,
disappeared, and I was able to getmy night’s
rest again Remember, I lost my proper rest
for nine weeks, always having to get up
early the next morning, sleep or no sleep,and
I am certain that had my troubles not been
stopped in time by Clements Tonic I should
have got into a deplorable, helpless con-
dition.”
“Will you allow me to make your re-
covery public?”
“ b»y all means. You are quite welcome
to publish what I have said about- my sick-
ness, and what Clements Tonic lias done for
me. It was by reading another man's ease
that I was fortunately induced to try
Clements Tonic, and I shall be glad if what
I say may benefit someone else ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, William Harrison, of Maria Street, Newtown in
the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and sin.
corely declare that I have carefully rend tho annexed
document, consisting of four folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to four, and that it coutains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cur*
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish the same in any way; and I make
this solemn declaration voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment, conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act made and passed in theninth vearof the reign
of her presen; Majesty intituled “An Act for the
more effeotual abolition of Oaths and Affirmation!
taken and made in (he various Departments of the
Government of New .Sou'h Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thoreof, and for the suppres ion
of voluntary and extrajudicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
D.dared at St Peters, this 28th day of June, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
urn l uu OOV .1 »
WILLIAM COX. J P
‘DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Ire you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 30
Ellzabeth-street, Sydney.
K€MP’S
Pat€i)t Sbecp-Braodii)g Liquid.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Asents-E. rich & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Basting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Blacte, Red, and. Blue. 3s 6d per gall, xml IMCellt*. and Sydney; 3a Oc3L per ggbll. In Briabane.
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS.
DA.PTO (Lake
Illawarra), near
syjdktey.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
r
1
Jh
MAKERS 07
" S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAE mid COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAG'S, JEWELLERS’ SV^EEF
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
it is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F°B
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest infant, or toe most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.''
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE ond other Fevers.
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Bssssa M&wanwg
Pills once or twice a week if Constipated; use the AlfaHne y a P.Ms^^r p a mon^or Eg AINS t
Blood is impure take the Alfaline Blood Pills. The PLAGUE AND ALL OTHER FEVERS.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s fid.
Alfaline Blood Pills
yill cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BuXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BI.OOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY_FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
n ecessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
re
m
'm
HERR RASSIWUBSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• - • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to HgiT R£tSSIH.USSGII>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RassmuSSGn
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet aeni free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6a. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tahlets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Boautifler—A guaranteed
pure add harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Boautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfalino Worm Powders -Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
ported, Is 6d.
Alfalino Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder- Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts -Containing powerful find effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for 111 Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfalino Electric Suspender Bandage Tliis
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tune
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE- 160 <:T. oarfir«Bk.«t.-> 0 arfir«Bk.«t.-> » ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st.Cnr.York H’tel) » PERTH,^ W. A.: Hay-st. (next Royal Theatrej
MELBOURSE7ISO Bonrke-st. (Qpp. am. \ N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 LambtonftuayjKALGOOßLlE: Hannan-st. (next Lmdell ,s)
%
Chills
Ever become
chilled through and
through ?
The acute sen*
sat i o n of cold is
followed by fever-
ishness and aches in
all parts of the body.
Finally the whole
trouble settles in the
throat and lungs in
the shape of a cough.
There is nothing
so bad for a cough
as coughing.
jgre rs
them
pectoral
will cure these chills and coughs. A
few doses are sufficient at first. More
time is required later on.
Stop coughing and you will get well.
Keep coughing and you invite bronchi-
tis, pueumonia, or even consumption
itself. Better stop your cough at once
and thus end the whole matter.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
rocnestcr lodge
coiiins place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk Of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Mrs. MCCLELLAND,
Terms Moderate. Proprietress.
T. A. TITES ! , ..
——■waamr Naturally Curly Frimres, 4s 6d
v> 30s each. Ensrlish Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each,
pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
s?
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Sew South Wales . . .
Harbors’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
An old bachelor scribe tells The Bulletin
about Happy Homes :
Wherever you see a Happy Home, the owner has a share
in one of the swindles of the World. Oh, the embezzlers
do make such lovely homes ! What nice wives they have
The typical Mrs. Embezzler is a fairy creature, with straw
hair. Her diamond rings are many-convenient to bolt
with. Who can play the piano hl*e her? Of course, , 1
don’t include the home of the rich author, of whom the
publishers say, “ That’s where our money goes to. Ue
mostly quarrels with his wife. The pensioner has one of
the sweetest of Ker-ristian homes. Over the mantelpiece
is, “Cast all your care upon the Government, because it
carethfor you.” The sweater has abeautiful home, wife and
children. He wouldn’t sweat but for them. He is not a
beast by nature. There is no inherent charm in sweating.
And the usurer! He also is a delightful, gentle, loving
house-father—never even lets his family see him sharpen
his teeth before he goes out to prey like a wolf from a
Thuringian forest. I went (when indebted to my host at
80 per cent, per an.) to the house of such a one I dared
not refuse the invitation. The most luxurious chair I
ever sat in, the choicest and biggest of Havanas, warm
and velvety Bordeaux (out of a magnum), and—l am now
58 and place these things last—the brightest eves and
kindest that ever shone even among the beautiful Women
of Israel. And it was all the expressed and coined juices
of men who conformed not to the Mosaic dietary . While
I smoked that ever-memorable Manuel Garcia Alonso, you
could hear the compound-interest mounting up all the
time ; the heavy silk curtains were red. with the blood Of
the Christian, and the lamps burned bright with the tat
of the Gentile.
“ Anti-Alien ” writes to The Bulletin :
“ The plague has been insidiously advancing
amongst the Sydney Chinese, and the Board of
Health is awakening to the terrible consequences
of a further spread of the malady through the
noisome dens of the Mongolian. If Sydney has
i to suffer an epidemic attack of plague this is the
. source of the greatest danger. Eight cases, seven
! fatal, have already been reported, and with their
i native secretiveness severalmighthave been hidden
I by the callous Chow in the interests of his vege-
table trade. The scouring-out of Sussex and Kent
Streets is nothing to what is. needed in the msam-
i tary uncivilised habitations of almost all the
i suburban vegetable-hawkers. [ln fairness to the
Chinese, it should be stated that overcrowding
I rather than dirt is the main provable charge
against them in this connection. Ihe average
number of plague cases amongst the Chinese is
not greater than amongst any other nationality,
but the death-rate is much higher.— Ed. B.J
According to Sydney D.T.
But in that case how is it that the horses and
cows that ate the infected fodder haven’t suffered
anything therefrom, while the humans who didn t
eat it, or come into particularly close contact with
it, got plague. But President Thompson has his
hypothesis ready—
“ Dr Thompson’s attention was drawn to the fact that
a considerable proportion of the casM of plague had oc-
curred anion o, people who either had stables attached to
their premises, or whose occupations brought them into
connection with stables ; and it was suggested that this
fact seemed to point to the wide disseminations of infected
fodder.”
But how could the rats infect anything outside
the packages of produce in. which they were en-
closed without first infecting the produce itself ?
And if Dr. Thompson has no evidence that infec-
tion is carried by merchandise, what evidence has
he that it is carried by anything —or even that the
alleged plague is infectious ?
“ Some of these rats may have been conveyed in produce
to the premises of purchasers, and in that way the disease
could have spread. But it is not probable that the pro-
duce itself could have been infected, apart from the rats
which might have been concealed in it. We have no
evidence that infection is carried by merchandise ; on the
other hand there is a great deal of evidence that it is not.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6 d., 1/- 4. 2/6
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade <k Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
i rcnv hoj: hivh: ceoo-sd
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Kestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUIt ALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. (id. Postage,
9d. extra.
*53
A#
I
G/?
P
Washington 11. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
■
THE FORCE OF MBIT!
Doing the same thing, in the same manner, a
number of times. These HABITS grow.
Take One Dose of
Sulphur Liver Pills
Twice or Thrice weekly. They Purify and
Energise, keep the Body clean, and a pre-
caution against ill-health in its countless
forms.
. . . Per Post, lj3 . . .
R. Raf Fan, Pharmacist,
55 Elgin Street, Carlton, Melb.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
London, E.C.
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
FR AKTKI JARVIS
hvho has had 20 years' experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles m trie o.n country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N S Wales —HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen .reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W Australia— C. E. STONEHAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.


AN.S.W, medico is amusing himself by
trying to grow a crop of beans from one which he
cut out of a child’s bronchial tube. It was the
same ingenious practitioner who chloroformed a
billy-goat and saved a man’s leg by introducing
two inches of goat bone where it was most needed.
From Auckland M.L. Weekly News,
April 13: —
J3EGLER. —On April 6, at her residence, “ Nor-
man’s Hill,” Onehunga, the wife of Enos S.
Pegler, of another soldier for the Queen.
The Acetylene Gas Company of Austra-
lasia, Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
firemen’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carriage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.*
Re recent death from plague of “Joe”
Redman, managing-clerk for Sydney solicitor
Harry Levien. Said that on the previous Sunday
he was at Sans Souci, and, by way of joke, told
the publican that there was a case of plague at
neighboring pub., Sandringham ; then went to
latter place and told the same story there of the
house he had just left. Following Saturday
morning Redman was in a city hotel and com-
plained of feeling queer, joked a bit about the
trouble being plague, was sent home in a cab and
died that night. Doctors diagnosed his trouble as
true bubonic.
Thus ingenuously a N.S.W. warrior from
the front:—
One Boer commander (General Grobler) refused point
blank to give up his nfle, but when he saw we were about
to use violence, he handed the weapon over to our officer
quietly. Mrs. Grobler reminded one of our boys, in a
loud tone, that the bricks he was standing bn had
recently been whitewashed ; and impressed upon another
that she did not cultivate rose-bushes for him to lean his
rifle against. Miss Grobler told us we couldn’t have much
brains when we came so far to fight. Some of the farmers
treated us very kindly, and I felt sorry for the lady mem-
bers of the Dutch families. Their dress and expression
showed that they had lost someone who was near and
dear to them. They spoke to us in such a gentle and
broken-hearted way, with such a pretty Dutch accent,
that we could not help hut pity them.
After the Highlanders were beaten in their
Jacobite struggle, 1745-46, thus spoke Judge Lord
Hardwicke:—
The judgment of the law is, and this high court doth
award, that you, William, Earl of Kilmarnock ; George,
Earl of Cromarty ; and Arthur Lord Balmerino, and every
one of you, return to the prison of the Tower from whence
you came : from thence you must be drawn to the place
of execution you come there you must be hanged
hy the neck, but not till you are dead ; for you must be
cut down alive ; then your bowels must be taken out and
burnt before your faces ; then your heads must be severed
from your bodies ; and your bodies must be divided each
into four quarters ; and these must be at the king’s dis-
posal. And God Almighty be merciful to your souls.
Truly a delightful anti-climax.
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “ D.C.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind. It preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“D.C.L.”*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Limited, report on Produce market for week end-
ing 26th. of May 1900, that Hides were not so
eagerly sought for and had slumped by about £d.
per lb.; “sloppy” and badly cared for lots and
shipping section slumped most. On Friday, Sheep-
skins of the cross-bred variety seemed inclined to
soar, while all sound-pelted descriptions cheerfully
maintained their end of the stick. Unfortunately
Tallow still continues to slip down. In sympathy
with a London decline of from 5/- to 10/- per ton
the Sydney price slid down by fully half-a-
sovereign, with indications of another fall at an
early date. Marsupial Skins were off last week
but this week (Wednesday) will show a good
catalogue. Wheat is suffering from the effects of
Mafeking, in spite of which the Co. succeeded in
placing a fair quantity at good prices, to wit,
prime samples 2/8 to 2/B£, good 2/7 to 2/7 J, pinched
2/4 to 2/6, chickwheat 2/3 to 2/5 per bushel.
London reports big damage to crops in France
and America, but no change of values in Mark
Lane. Local millers only eager for samples to
blend with their stocks.
Unique In Memoriam, from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Herald
O’DOOLEY. —In fond and loving remembrance of Sarah
Ann, the beloved wife of Thomas O’Dooley, who died
at Cow Flat, April 10, 1894 ; aged, 31 years. Also,
in fond and loving remembrance of Nora Alice, the
beloved wife of Thomas O’Dooley, who died at Cow
Flat, September 10, 1899 ; aged, 34 years.
The end lies ever in my thought,
To see two graves so close and deep ;
Mothers, young and beautiful, there,
Was brought that rocked their child to sleep.
Sleep on, dear wives, and take your rest,
’Tis hard to break the tender cord when love has
bound the heart;
’Tis hard, so hard to speak the words,
That we had to part.
Three locks, and they are wondrous fair
Left me the vision mild ;
The brown is from my wives’ dear hair,
And the bloom is from my child.
Weep not for us, our children dear,
We are not dead, but sleeping here ;
With patience we have run our race,
Kind death has set us free, we have gone to a better
place.
This world was not for us ; pray for us, that we may
be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
Inserted by their loving husband and children,
Thomas J. O’Dooley, Cow Flat, N.S.W.
y Saunders’ Palace Jewellery
Establishment, 815 George-street, Sydney, Mr.
Perrin was recently the recipient of a massive
marble chime clock, which was presented in view
o is approaching marriage. Mr. Perrin was also
presented with a handsome dinner set by his
fellow-workers, and with n chaste silver jam-
older by the juniors. Mr. Saunders, who made
the presentation, spoke in high terms of the
recipient who suitably replied. After various
toasts had been drunk, the company separated.*
* ' r , a .^ fins have displayed, over the relief
ot Mafeking, a depth of enthusiasm they were
never before suspected of. Enthusiasm, after all
said and done is mainly the outcome of internal
happiness. The hard-worked citizen who has
enjoyed a well-cooked and therefore easily-digested
dinner, must ever feel a warm glow of gratitude at
his heart, or thereabouts, for that which has sup-
plied the enjoyment. That is why the enthusiasm
of all who use M'Lean Pros. & Rigg’s Primus
chief stove is so keen and permanent. Send for
catalogue, or call and see the stoves working.
M Lean Bros. & Rigg, Elizabeth-street, Melb. :
George-streeet, Sydney; Murray-street, Perth.*
Ihe practical cave-in of some at least of
the Federal delegates over Chamberlain’s pro-
posed alterations in the Commonwealth Bill sug-
gests that they are being politically poisoned, as
almost every Australian politician is when he is
dined and honored in .London. Their obvious
duty was to say: “Our instructions are to get
the whole Bill, but if you absolutely insist on
making alterations in it you can make them on
your own responsibility. We acquiesce because
we can t help it, but we don’t approve.” Instead
of this, the cable represents Alfred Deakin as
going mad (after a large dinner) with admiration
because Chamberlain proposes to tinker with the
peoples Bill, and assuring him that Australia is
quite agreeable. Who gave Deakin the right to
assure anybody after a large dinner that Australia
withdraws in any particular from the decision it
recorded at the Referendum ’
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
Oh
SYDNEY.. .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
w
Established 55 Years,
All Articles of Good Quality.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., 8/- roll; Weighing
Machines, 4ewt., £4, lOowt., £8 ; Wood and Coal
Scales, £2 10s. ; Earthenware and Iron Sinks, suit-
able for Poultry feeding, 5/- ; Good Quality Fuze,
per case of 500 coils, 4Ad. per coil; Hand rumps,
6/-; Govenour Brand Horse Shoe Iron, l£ xJ, 9/-
cwt. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, 9/- cwt. ; Globe
Horse Nails, slightly touched, 2d. lb. ; Guttering
and Ridge Cap, slightly touched, Bd., Gft. lengths ;
Chaff Knives, 12/- do/,. ; Mixed Paints, in lib. and
21b. tins, per lb. Winnowers, 20/- each ;
Corn Shellers, to fit on post, 3/G each ; Beater
Plates for Thrashing Machines, 3/G pr. ; Plough
Shares, 10/- doz. ; 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to
3Gin. long; Copper Boilers, weighing 3G11»5.,
25 gallons, 1/- per lb. ; Double Barrel Breech-
loading Guns, 305.; Rifles, 7/G and 10/-each ; Pin
Fire Revolvers, 6/- each ; Snaring Wire, 3d. lb. ;
Octagon Steel, lin., £2O ton ; Buggy Poles, 2/G
each ; Plough, Bullock and Trace Chains, 2d. lb.
Mattress Wire, slightly touched, 10/- cwt. ; Soft
Soap, in lcwt. packages, 16/- cwt. ; Disencrusting
for Steam Boilers, 20/- cwt. ; Varnish, in 4-gallon
tins, 20/-tin ; Varnish Stains, Gd. bottle; Fruit
Collectors, with 10ft. handles. 5/- each; Wall
Paper, 2/>d. roll; Wire Nails, taking lOowt.
assorted or more, 10/- per cwt. l£in. 6,7,
8,9, 10, 11, 1-jin. x 6,7, 8,9, 10, 2in. x 5,
6,7, 8, 2-tin. x 5,6, 7, .8, 2iin. x 5,6, 7, 8.
Galvanised Signal Wire, £2O per ton; Rus-
sian Glue, taking lcwt., 7 Ad. lb. ; Glass Paj>er,
7/G ream ; a few coils Steel Wire Rope and Steel
Truck Wheels up to 36in. cheap ; Sewing Twine,
taking lcwt., Gd. lb. ; Large Stock Iron Lifting
Blocks; Brown Wrapping Paper, taking sewt.,
12/- per cwt. Importers of all descriptions of
Builders, Contractors, Engineers, Plumbers,
Blacksmiths, Cabinet-mnkers, and General Iron-
mongery and Painters Material, Cheapest Prices,
One of the Largest Stocks in Australia.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S . W.
The Australian Music Books.
ONE SHILLING EACH.
Containing Songs, Duets,
Piano Solos, Violin Solos,etc.
ALLAN A CO.
COLLIN* *l<
m
u M
Amusements.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
1»00. OPERA SEASON. 1900.
Mr. J. C. Williamson begs to announce that on
. SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 2,
will be inaugurated a season of Comic Opera, commencing
with the ever-popular
H.M.g. Pinafore,
or, The Lass that Loved a Sailor.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRiCES-os., 35., 25., and la
"J" HEAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY. ~
SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 2,
FIRST PRESENTATION IN SYDNEY a i
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Spectacular Melodrama,
WOMAN AND WINE.
WOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy*s.
QRITERION THEATRE,' SYDNEY”
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampibr.
TRIUMPH COMPLETE and CONVINCING of
Alfred Parppier Con>pai)y.
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
New Version of East Lynne.
FIRST APPEARANCE of Miss LILY DAM PIER since
her successful tour of Great Britain.
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
PICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATR E, SYDNEY.
■■ Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS'
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.*
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
A PERFECT FURORE NIGHTLY ACCORDED
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY MoOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA,
THE GREAT RUSSIAN NEWSKY FAMILY.
JAS. BAIN. ARTHUR CRANK. ALMA GRAY.
And all our Great Company.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee anil Manager, Mr. llarrv Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
THE THREE HAYTORS.
Great Ludwig Amann
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, DORA
TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
6r H WEEK!
AND CONTINUED EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS!
• THE LADDER OF LIFE •
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Aerobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
Prices—Bs., 25., Is. Gd., Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
pTiTNCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CHA.RX.ES ARNOLD
And His English Comedy Company.
840 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London,
FRIDAY, JUNE 1, LAST NIGHT of
“WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.”
Saturday, June 2, First Production in Australia of
“ THE PROFESSOR’S LOVE STORY,”
By the author of “The Little Minister.”
Charles Arnold as PROFESSOR GOODWILLIE.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamsox.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, June 1, Last Night of
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
Saturday, June 2, the Young American Tragedienne,
MISS NANCE O’NEIL,
will open her Melb. season with Soderman’s Masterpiece,
“MAGDA’
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
•fOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, at 3 O’CLOCK,
Scbsrek’S Orchestra.
(5G Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR . HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TH€ AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
gd
SAUCE
HAS STOOD THE TEST
FOR AGES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Agents—VlßOOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Halt the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pud dug.
DELICIOUS to Ste.ved R ce.
DELIC OUS to all kiuds of Puddings.
D,-.I,ICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kiuds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
BOODALL'S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes i pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almoud, and Plain
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKKOUSC & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Tra- '.ling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Uagot ltd. Subiacu, Perth, W.A..5.68,King St.,Melbourne
MOI R’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 40ZS.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.


Medical.
ECZEMA- OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mndtl, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, */10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
NATARA.
A SPEEDY CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Bronchitis &c., &c.
Is. 6(1. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., Hoffnung
and Co., Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., and from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Washington H.
Soul and Co., Pattinson and Co., and from the
PHARMACY,
337 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Sent per Post, 6d. extra.
Is. (id. and 2s. (id. per Bottle.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. ROOT, 28, Endsleiyh Gdiis., LO N DO N.
I Cure Fits.
HEALTH and strength
■ A may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Arc you a. Sufferer from had health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains V
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and HOI- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAII CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Cousjhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
fg
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 8/3 each.
PLAITS ami TAILS,
?oin. lone. •'/<*. all real hftif.
CUTTINGS & COM BING§
« or}<e«J up, 2/(1 per oz.
\Ve are the cheapesUi> i«>>
Irnha for all UAir Work.
St ixl Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzell,
JlO William Stebzt,
corner of Palmer-etreeU
SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Dooi..
Send etampe for full Price Lieb.
fngjapt attention given to Country Older*
ddfgdfg
Bubonic Plague
' ,-»* • ' • ■ ■ : i ! 'jt
*
si
EEGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using
ECKERSLEY’S
(Dentholioe.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co=
The Life of the System.
SPA.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
| OUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-LM-'S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone
Brice, £7.
THIS MACHINE
u
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—EREE.
Also on Sale —
-1 Edison Cinematographs complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinenmtographe and 10 Films, J 835.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outtlts, complete.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DETOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Sti’eet. (120 PlTl’ STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
If. J. N. Oldershaw, Manayer. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
df
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINHEFORD’S MAGNESrA-
m
SPARKLING PAW,
a!
m_m_
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with thin
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAK CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDiNGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKE/ & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 41d tie urge Street, Sydney.
0 to
m
rt'hen
writing
please
mention
Tiik
Bulletin'.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired oi STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extre powerful, with suspensory
a.ia Jhnients 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
ti
ON OUR SELECTION,” by
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Steele Rudd.
, Ltd., Sydney.
IT WILL PAY - YOU TO G»0 TEIERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
'““LINCOLN, STUART& CO.
' pnnPßißTinv rnrrrH *
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. St ition).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to sekct from.
&
0 1
Our Suir to order at 42a,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wo 1 Tweeds. Vi-
cunas or merges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A s lend ill Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3*. To measure, capital
Tr< users, very good pat-
terns, 12 s. 6d.
Drpss Suits, to measure,
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
suie, £.».
Kid ng Breeches. 255.
Biding Habits. <kc.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suita
’its.. 25s
famous Ballarat Serge
1 - nits, Indigo dye, 255.
fjonr Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30«»
Kx6t llentTweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vesta,
IBs (id,
Tweed Overcoat* 21s.
W terpioof Coats, full
capes 15s ild. Undressed
White shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs 2s. (»d., 38. id.
ss. (id
He.ivv Warm Travelling
Buys Ids (i 1.. 15s 01.
All won] Crimean Mitrti,
ss. (id., 7s. Od. Travelling
Trunks, Bays In great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s (»ti., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Pants l*9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors, Is. White whirls to measure.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d.. 9s. Cd.
We like to write letters, so don’t bo afraid to a-lc for any
Information. Our book. “The Bhllosophy of press.” and
patterns of all kind* and self-measurmnont forms posted free
Wr re for them. •
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES • • and . .
— Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, Sic.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
READ SECRET SOCIETY
—IN —
Hodgson’s Tales of Medical Students.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. (k!. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 0 Vols., £5 tor £1 6s. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for ±l. Chambers'
Encyclopedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Largo Dictionary, 1&08 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this yayer.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
SEND ton A
BOOK CATALOGUE
ok RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
IJT.XJST r a. ted
(
~YjU ITII numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and enjrrav-
insrs, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the jcrand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stcpage.
, Box 402, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
AuUil-hs, PRIVATE,
g
dfg
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOUKKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
df
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET °BOOKS E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
A MUSICAL EDUCATION FREE.
A Compi.ktk Sklf-InstUuotoji, enabling any one to play
1 i-no or Organ at sigh*, and without difficulty brilliant
ftcc m pan unfits to any song ever written. Puatt’s Chaut of
chohds for Piano or O gan embraces nearly every major and
mi-mr Chord ued in music, adis a short cut to harm, ny lx
IS THE MOST COM PIC ►HKNBIVK YK'I SIMPLEST ( 11A lII' KVKK PUB-
lthhkd. Endorsed by teachers and musicians everywhere.
The price of Pratt’s (:hart alone is 6a., but to in-
~. . ... wjwuce it into every home, we will send free the
Ufant Album of 184 >ongs, words and music, containing many
old and new favorites, together with the Chart for ONLY
2/6 posted 2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address : Anglo-American
rublihliiiig ( 0., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N>. W. Men-
tion this paper when writing. AGENTo WAN 1 Eli
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed S'in, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Kyes, Chapped Hands, I'-ua-he. Neuralgic
and Itheumatic Pains, Tliroat. Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POT 3, Is. lVd each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
y?
■ *W” ! Z3B
.
C'Vvvv\rw’\S
G-O TO HCEX.I.-
IGOLANIi for Pieii.v Ktui|s, but.
if you want real {rood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
fc * * ... .
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS. Beware of Imitations*
S. D. & Oo.’s Special Value jn Waltham Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended as
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
rim capped jewelled movement, En-
. ---vpft Silver Cases, £3 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s 18-ct.'Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong, solid 18-et.
Gold. Engraved Cases, perfect keyless
action, £5 XOs.; Half-Hunting, £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Cases, £2 10s.; open face,
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
S. D. & Co.’s “Excelsior” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best -{-plate movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 la's ; _in heavy 18-ct.
Gold Cases, £22 ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-’
wind Hunting, in massive Silver Cases, at £5. Strongly
recyiujuendcd. . Silver Keyless Hunting Rotherham
English Levers, £6 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event ih minutes and seconds ; the
movement is J-plate lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £8 10s.; Hunting, 67 10s. ; in 18-ct. Gold Cases, open face,
£2O ; Hunting, £22.
S. D. & Oo.’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting:
Lever Watch has fine-quality 3-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l5 10s.; in open face, £l4 10s. ;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Cases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. Gd.
S. D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
ments, ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
are full-capped, dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Rotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s Gold Keyless Wal-
tham Lever Watch, with best
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong
solid Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, £6105., exceptional value ;
Silver" Cases, £3 55.; open face, £3.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladles ls-ct. Gold Key-
less J-plate Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain cases, fine full-jewelled
movements, chronometer*balanee, and all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
5 years. Open face, £lO 10s.; Hunting,
£l2 10s.
D. & Go.’s “ Eclipse ” Watches have finest quality f-plate
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling' silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crystal
Front,.£l 10s.
/
I
M
m
JF
%
&
[\
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s “Eclipse” Sil-
ver Watch has finest quality J-plate
movement, jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Cases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. &Co.’s Ladies’ Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Oases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s.;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
S. D. & Co.’s Gent.’s Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, finest quality f plate movement, fitted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balaime.
Brequet spring, heavy Government Hall-marked
Silver Hunting Cases, £3; in 10-ct. Gold Cases.
£9 10s.; 14-ct. Gold Cases, £1110s.; 18-ct. Gold
Cases, £l6 10s.
Arty of the Watches illustrated above will be sent, securely packed and Post Free, on receipt of remittance.
' ’ ’ * .> 7 77 -
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney, N.S
i
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
PERTH.
AUCKLAND.
WELLINGTON.
LONDON.


California Sprup of figs,
AGREEABLE, MILD. AND SURE,
is a positive, reliable, and at the same time the most agreeable, family romedy
for Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression,
Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and good spirits.
California sprup of figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A luxury as much as a medicine, and an unfailing remedy. It acts as Nature
does. It does not gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It gives relief pleasantly,
leaving the liver, kidneys, and bowels permanently benefited, so that its use
may be discontinued as soon as the system is relieved and cleansed.
California Sprup of figs,
ACTS GENTLY, BUT PROMPTLY,
is strengthening, invigorating, and energising, not weakening and lowering, a 3
most ordinary pills and purgatives are. There is no discomfort or inconveni-
ence. It simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are healthful
regularity, and freedom from dangerous impurities in the system.
California Sprup or figs,
CLEANSES THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
is not an old-time medicine—it is compounded with a knowledge of exactly
what is required of an end-of-the-century remedy. If you always have it
handy, taking a dose now and then, it will put your vital organs in healthy
condition and keep them so. You do not require to lay up to get well.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxative keeps you well while you live as usual.
California Sprup of figs,
AN IDEAL MEDICINE FOR CHILDREN.
It is perfectly suited to their strength, never tiring or weakening the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels, which it cleanses, completely dissipating
at will all troubles of these organs, and then it materially strengthens them.
In action it is as bland and gentle as rain-water, and there is no risk attend-
ing its use.
California Sprup of figs,
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT,
unlike other articles offered to effect the same result—does not require to
be taken in doses of constantly increased strength. The ordinary dose is
always effective, because while relieving the weakened organs of their trouble
it strengthens them against recurrence of the disturbance. Pills and
purgatives merely relieve, and always by over-violent means. Because of
these merits physicians everywhere recommend it.
California Sprup of figs,
THE TRUE AND ORIGINAL REMEDY.
Do not overlook the fact that in order to get the beneficial result.you a«
seeking you must obtain the GENUINE Syrup of Figs, for the imitations ot
ri£ to most important quality-the curative. It is
scientific processes known to the California Fig Syrup Co. only, and therefore
we wish to impress on all the importance of purchasing the true and o g 1
remedy. Remember the full title—California Syrup of Figs. Every package
of the genuine bears the name and trade mark of the
California fig Sprup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. and is. 9a.
DEPOT;—33 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENG.
Australian Colonies-Of all leading Wholesale Houses.
The Incidental Mrs. Bracken-
ridge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was the calmest little woman in the worl
so demure, so quiet, that she was like a sma
sleek, brown mouse. One seldom heard her voice
—one never by any chance heard of her originat-
ing a conversation or doing anything definite ; and
her two little girls were as unobtrusive. So no
wonder big Dick Brackenridge sometimes forgot
their very existence and permitted himself the
freedom of a single man.
Dick came down to Sydney for the sheep-sales,
and took back a governess for the pruning and
cultivation of his two olive-branches. Mrs.
Brackenridge and the children were away on a visit
to her father’s station, and Miss Milby was settled
at Bundaroona before she returned. She meekly
acquiesced in her husband’s choice of an instruc-
tress, and if she noticed _ anything suspicious she
never betrayed her consciousness of it by even the
lifting of her eyelashes. '
She remained as dutifully in the background as
before—only, in a few weeks, Miss Milby began
to have a hunted look in her eyes, and to glance
quickly and apprehensively at Mrs. Brackenridge
when there seemed no reason. But Dick sus-
pected nothing, and his first intimation came with
a shock as he lounged on the verandah one night
after dinner.
Through the open window near him came two
voices—his wife’s and Miss Milby’s. Mrs. Brack-
enridge was speaking in her habitually low tone, so
that he needed to strain his ears to catch what she
said. .
“ You had better pack up your things to-night,
Miss Milby. Peter will bring the buggy round to
your side of the house at 5.30 to-morrow morning.”
Dick sat bolt upright.
“I should like to—to see Mr. Brackenridge
about it first,” said Miss Milby in a very hesi-
tating voice.
“Oh, there is no necessity.” Mrs. Bracken-
rid go’s voice was wonderfully suave. “ I will ex-
plain your sudden departure.”
The other plucked up a little spirit. “Sup-
pose I refuse to go ? ” she asked.
Mrs. Brackenridge laughed the smallost of
laughs. Dick had oraned forward and could
see Miss Milby standing up flushed, defiant, and
sullen, yet cowed and timid withal. Mrs. Bracken-
ridge, seated opposite, was as tranquil as summer
moonlight. Her hands were lying in her lap, her
whole demeanour serene and unruffled.
“Suppose you refuse to go,” she repeated
sweetly, “then my course is decided. Your
father is a clergyman, I believe ? ”
“Yes.”
“ Good !—he will the more readily believe any
evil about you. Of course I shall explain to my
husband that, finding you here in the position of
his mistress—pray don’t stamp your foot, Miss
Milby ; what an exhibition of temper ! —I shall
have to take my children to my father’s station,
and then communicate with your people. My
uncle holds a mortgage over this property. He
can—and will —foreclose immediately. Then my
husband will be ruined —and you, too ! ”
She never raised her voice*from its usual mono-
tone, and for a moment after she spoke there was
absolute silence. Then Miss Milby broke out —
“You are a fiend!—an absolute fiend! Ever
since you came home you’ve made my life a hell —
torturing me; letting me see you knew ; playing
with me like a cat with a mouse ! No one else in
the world could do it like you.”
Mrs. Brackenridge shook her head and smiled
pleasantly. “Oh, come—you misjudge me,” she
said. “lam a most harmless, inoffensive mortal
—in the township I believe they call me the
Woman of No Importance—but I know enough
to keep my husband to myself at any cost. If
these means fail, I think I can work up a very
neat charge of attempted murder.”
Miss Milby started back—genuine surprise and
horror in her face.
“ Murder ?’ she gasped.
“You brought my cup of tea into my bedroom
this morning—l have kept that tea for analysis;
and you got oxalic aoid from the store last week,
Miss Milby ! You can’t deny that!”
“It was to clean a sailor-hat,” gasped the girl.
“ You wicked woman ! —oh, you wicked woman ! ”
“ You will say so,” said Mrs. Brackenridge, plea-
santly, “but that—combined with wliat the tea will
disclose, and your motive for getting rid of me—
will be rather difficult to explain away. And now
I hardly think you’ll question the advisability of
leaving to-morrow morning— before Mr. Bracken-
ridyeisup.” . .
Brackenridge moved noiselessly away, and wiped
the cold perspiration from his forehead. When
bis wife presently brought him his. whisky-and-
soda, as usual, he took it, and drank it meekly
(after tasting it for oxalic acid). Then he stared
m a bewildered fashion after her as she went in.
“ Good God ! ” he muttered, “ to think I’ve lived
all these years with that woman without knowmg
that she, too, had a devil in her ! ” _
NELLIE M. DIELD.
A Mistake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They had been engaged for two years— Bella and
the gloomy-looking overseer. They met when
Belle went up as a governess to Wirre station, and
she made short work of him. He was a most
passionate lover, just suited Belle, made her year
of bush life pass quite tolerably.
But the last young squatterlet went off to school,
and Belle had to go. Gray cut up badly about it,
for life on the run without her would be simply
awful for him. He was so solemn about it that
the girl felt uncomfortable. ‘ ‘ If you were to play
me false,” he told her, “ I believe that I could find
it in my heart to follow you and shoot you down ! ”
Belle, though she laughed, didn’t forget the
look on his face.
• * * * .
Belle had just locked the door of her little two-
roomed house, and settled herself for an evening’s
read. Music-teaching in a bush township doesn t
pay too well, and she “batched’ for economy s
iake. Besides, batching has its advantages.
A knock at the door made her jump. It wasn t
Charlie’s knock. He ; always came late.
“Who is it? An old friend. Open the
d Gray’s voice'. She staggered
against the wall. It was but a month since she
had given him his conge. Then he was at the
Gulf but even from that distance his bitter
answer had frightened her. And now—
Her face was white as chalk when she opened
the door, and she shrank visibly as he entered.
He did not even look at her, said nothing, out sat
down and scared at the fire, Belle watclnng him
furtively.
Suddenly he put his right hand in his coat
pocket, and looked at her with a strange, hideous
smile. Her flesh crept.
“I say, Belle,” he said slowly, “ I came a long
way to see you, didn’t I ? ”
Still that horrid smile. She remembered all
sorts of terrible things that she had read in the
papers. She could see him fumbling with some-
thing in his pocket.
“Yes,” she said, nervously— she could scarcely
restrain her desire to scream. She sprang from
her chair and hurried to the door, backwards.
She could bear it no longer. “ I think the fire’s
going out. Wait awhile, and I’ll get some wood,
she stuttered.
To run over the way and call the Smiths took
but a minute. “You see,” she explained, shiver-
ing, “ I was to marry him once, and he vowed he
would shoot me if I gave him up; and I’m sure
he’s come to do it. He looks insane.”
“By G —, we’ll see about that! ” Bull-necked
Smith got down his gun. “Two at the game’s
better.”
• * * *
Belle came back, presently, pale but smiling,
with two pieces of wood. Gray was sitting in the
same place, only with his back to her. He turned
round with a grin. “ Wood must be scarce in
these parts,” he said. “And now to business!”
He jumped up, still with that hand moving rest-
lessly.
The girl shuddered as he came and stood over
her.
“Well, Belle; and so you’re going to marry
another fellow, after all. That is, if I’ll let you.,
He wouldn’t like to hear how many times you’ve
hung round my neck and sworn you loved dear
Bob, nor the other little games we used to play,
eh ! You never told him, I’ll go bail. But it
would hardly do. ”
She winced. The door was open, and Smith
had such a long tongue.
“ Oh, don’t she wrung her hands.
“ Don’t be afraid. I’m not going to telltales,
and just don’t you split on me. You see, I’m in
the same boat. There’s a pretty little girl at
Wirre going to marry me soon, and she’s jealous ;
so it wouldn’t do for her to find out. I’ve brought
you your letters, and I want mine back, too. ’ He
brought out a packet from his pocket.
Belle nearly choked with rage and fear, but she
gave them to him. A whistle sounded. Gray put
on his hat. “My train goes in five minutes. Ta-
ta, sweetheart. Kiss for old times? No, thanks.
By the way, why did you get those two fools to
stand outside and listen ? Ha, ha!”
4 * • *
Belle isn’t married yet, though Charlie is.
Gray’s pretty little girl in Wirre must have found
out, after all, for he isn’t married, either.
Music-teaching in that township doesn’t pay
now, and Bello’s moved to another. Smith s long
tongue 1
GRIZZLER.
The Flesh-Burden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Crowds thrilled me! The rustling, hurrying
feet, the turbulent drone of voices, roused me to
wild dreams of power and glory, or soothed me
like gentle rain when swooning to sleep. I was a
Roman Centurion thundering at the enemy’s
gates—a Paris dallying with Helen while Troy is
lost, with the human sea around ?
My life was mechanical, but for this phantasy.
My work, the fellows with their fool jokes, thp
girls exacting monkey-tricks from their lovers, the
pious old couple I live with, who, though filled
with a dull hatred of each other, eat and sleep
together in deference to the bugbear decency, were
a tedious color-scheme that the crowd—my solace,
recreation, theatre —splashed out. Ihe joys and
sorrows of the crowd itself were nothing to me.
In a tempest of cheers and groans I scoffed at
their paltry excitement. The tumultuous, swaying
throng enthralled me by galvanizing my sensations
and emotions into life. .
I was musing on the fringe of a crowd one night
when some girls halted near me. The mob surged
and threw one girl into my arms. She laughingly
released herself and we stood together. Her face
attracted' me. It was kind and worn like one
tired of the deadly waiting for a laggard lover.
In some strange way I guessed all the genteel
subterfuges of her life; the yearning, reckless
wish to be loved; the hesitating retreat from
doubtful men; the hateful return to the old
genteel waiting. Here at last, I felt, was my
dissatisfied, longing, passionate complement. We
were so close that my breath stirred the curls on
her neck. I knew, by her tremulous gaiety to her
companions, that she was responsive to my sudden
tenderness. At last I touched her foot boldly—
my hand caressed and tightened on her arm, when
the crowd swept us apart. I let her go quietly.
Something told me that Pate had fore-ordained
this meeting, and a future one. I went home
elated. I was convinced that we would meet
again. For the time I had something tangible to
dream about, and I haunted crowds with a new
zest. My savage dreams were lost in tender
reveries. The time dragged often, but everi
gathering quickened my hopes.
Lost in vague memories, a year later, I wa,
hustled and displaced in a crowd watching a torch-
light procession. I found myself wedged next to
a group of laughing girls. _ “What a crush ! the
one thrown against me said apologetically, and I
turned startled, to see startled recognition in her
glance also. Fate had thrown the same girl in my
arms again ! The crowd threw me behind her. A
big man crushed where I had been. She looked at
him with disappointed resentment. I slipped my
arms firmly round her. She tried to loosen one
arm timidly, but I gently put her hand away.
The crowd rocked us in a celestial cradle. O the
witchery of that crowd ! Pale, dark faces, glowing
into radiant life, and paling to sad cameos in the
torch glare, soft bodies swaying together in a tense
lull now, and now a mad surging. God ! I could
have died then. My rapture was brief. Her
companions were cursed with the idea of inter-
cepting the procession. My love demurred. They
retired I had perforce to loosen my areas and re-
lease her. I, so often Alexander marrying myself
and my legions to a race of captive women by a
mere hand-signal, was desolated by a few foolish
eirls' I laughed aloud. The people near me
edged away. All I could do was swear solemnly
to second Fate’s suggestion the next time—if there
were forty girls with her I would drag her away
and detain her. I went home and dreamt of her
encircled by a ring of intoxication.
I haunted crowds—now, indeed, with a set pur-
pose. I lived for them—they were mv comfort
and calendar. Her'face and form were ahvavs be-
fore me. I followed any woman with a chance
resemblance to her. Again and again m-crowds I
looked in her eyes and read my welcome there.
Yet I never saw her, and I grew savage and
hatchet-faced. Crowds wearied me at last.
To-night I passed a man and woman in the
street. Weakness suddenly numbing me told me
it was she ! They turned and I drew back to the
dark. A wedding ring blighted, the hand by her
side. He looked a cad in a good government
billet.. The respectable niche he had fallen into
restrained his weariness, but he eyed passing
women stealthily already. The worn look was
still on her face, but she smiled continually. She
knew she must be gay to please this man.
I stumbled along cursing. All good things
ended then for me. The crowd filled me with
nausea. What is there left ?
M.E.L.
Unlimited demand for Australian rabbits
in England just now—one Sydney firm has in hand
an order for 240,000 head. The present figure
paid to trappers is Bs. per dozen pairs—not a bad
price—though there is something whimsical in the
contemplation that rats just now are costing 12s.
per dozen pairs in Sydney.
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent for-
wards some passages of Maud Gonne’s article
which led to the recent suppression of Dublin
United Irishman by the British Govt. :
In truth, for Victoria, in the decreptitude of her 81
years, to have decided, after her absence of half a century
to re-visit the country she hates, and whose inhabitants
are the victims of the criminal policy of her reign—the
survivors of 60 years of organised famine—the political
necessity must have, been terribly strong. For, after all,
she is a woman, and however vile and selfish and pitiless
her soul may be, she must sometimes tremble as death
approaches when she thinks of the countless Irish mothers
who, sheltering under the cloudy sky, watching their
starving little ones, have cursed her before they died.
Every eviction during 63 years has been carried out in
Victoria’s name, and if there is a justice in Heaven, the
shame of those poor Irish emigrant girls, whose very inno-
cence renders them an easy prey, and who have been
overcome in the terrible struggle for existence on a
foreign shore, will fall on this woman, whose bourgeois
virtue is so boasted, and in whose name their homes were
destroyed. Taking the shamrock in her withered hand,
she dares to ask Ireland for soldiers to protect the exter-
minators of their race Queen, return to your
own land ; you will find no more Irishmen ready to wear
the red shame of your livery ”
After that the police.
N.S.W. railway Commissioner Fehon telF
Newcastle Jockey Club that he can’t reduce thfc
cost of carrying horses from Sydney to Newcastle,
but adds, “ If three horses consigned to one person
be conveyed in one box no enquiry will be made
as to whether the animals are all the actual
property of the consignee or not.” The reduction
for these is reminiscent of N.S.W. State Schools
Act, where three from one family get in cheap.
And an analogy also exists, “What’ll I do,” wrote
a pedagogue to his department, “in the case of
the O’Farrells? there’s five of them. But I’ve
good reason to know they’re not all one O’Farrell’s;
they throw them together to get in cheap under
the Act.” And the Department replied : “If
they enter under the name of one O’Farrell no en-
quiry need be made as to whether they are all
actually the children of that O’Farrell.” .
A N.S.W. Mounted Rifles qfficer in the
Transvaal tells Sydney Star some things not seen
elsewhere:
One Sunday, on the Southern Cross, on the voyage out,
Father Patrick had just started his sermon, having
already read the gospel of the day. Now, on board trans-
ports, where there are horses, the officers of the ship are
most careful about the water supply-, and wifi -allow no
one to use the pump except under supervision. The
engineer oil board was not remarkable for his .gentleness.
Well, Father Patrick had got as far as “ My dean soldiers,
—The gospel which I have just read y6h shows
that when our blessed Lord said to His disciples ”
—“Let go that pump will you!” This was
the voice of the burly engineer. It broke' up the
congregation, but not Father Patrick, for he con-
tinued, after catching his breath once or twice. . . .
There is a big split in the ranks of the senior war corre-
spondents of the big London papers. The juniors got up
a dinner the other night at the club, and asked Lord
Roberts and Rudyard Kipling and others to dinner with
representative war correspondents. The big guns, Ben-
nett Burleigh and co., knew nothing of this, and now
there is war to the knife, and some of the juniors are
likely to be sent back by their seniors. There is no end
of a commotion, and now rules and regulations are being
drafted by a committee of war correspondents for the
future guidance of war correspondents generally.


Up-to-date advt. from Winton (Q.) :
NOTICE.
r JOHANNA ~ of , hereby offer FIFTY
POUNDS (£5O), to be paid by my Solicitor, to
any person who shall, within one month from the
publication hereof, proVe anything against ray moral
character.
I have held situations as Housemaid and Waitress
at the following places —Ravenswood, Cooktown,
Qeraldton, Millchester, Mareeba, Ayrshire Downs,
Winton, and lastly at Hotel, .
JOHANNA .
By her Solictor. Dated 7th May, 1900.
EDWARDS’
*
g
I
THE CHEAT
HAIR PRODUCERS RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
Aißi
a
m
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
6 MARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
dfg
d
Full description and directions for use In 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUGHT to contain A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing* & Curing by Natural Means
m
m
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness oftthe
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SCARLET EEVER > pyemia, erysipelas, measles,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
over estimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, IN fact, NATURE S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— .Vr capsule marked ENO’S 1 FRUIT iSALT.’ Without it uou have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared omy by J. C.ENO, Ltd., at the FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J.C. ENO’S Patent.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
&
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Ch emists :
From Dr. REDWOOD, Ph.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Lale Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“ My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBOBNE, Esq.,
liL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Sall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Fh.D., &c.,
-itcfurs)' on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
The Pearl of Them All.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
G-aily in front of the stockwhip
The horses are galloping home,
Leaping and bucking and playing
With sides all a lather of foam.
But painfully, slowly, behind them,
With head to the crack of the fall,
And trying so gamely to follow,
Comes limping the pearl of them all.
He is stumbling, and stiff in the shoulder,
And splints from the hoof to the knee,
But never a horse on the station
Has half such a spirit as he;
Give these all the boast of their breeding,
These pets of the paddock and stall,
But ten years ago not their proudest
Could live with the pearl of them all.
No journey has ever yet beat him,
No day was too heavy or hard,
He was king of the camp and the muster
And pride of the wings of the yard;
But Time is relentless to follow,
The best of us bow to his thrall,
And Death with his scythe on his shoulder
Is dogging the pearl of them all.
I watch him go whinnying past me,
And memories come with a whirl
Of reckless wild rides with a comrade
And laughing gay rides with a girl;
How she decked him in lilies and love-knots,
And plaited his mane at my side,
And once in the grief of a parting
She threw her arms round him and cried.
And I promised—l gave her my promise
The night that we parted in tears,
To keep and be kind to the old horse
Till Time made a burden of years ;
And then, for his sake and one woman’s . . .
So fetch me my gun from the wall !
I have only this kindness to offer
As gift to the pearl of them all.
Here—hold him out here by the yard-wing,
And don’t let him know by a sign !
Turn his head to you,, ever so little,
I can’t bear his eyes to meet mine !
There—stand still, old boy, for a moment . . .
These tears! how they blind as they fall . .
Now, God help my hand —to—be —steady !
Good-bye—to the pearl of them all !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The London Crimean monument has the
word “Crimea” in big letters. Passing it with a
friend, Bright said, “The ‘A’ is at the wrong
end.”
Driven to It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was lying on a dishevelled bed. There was a
box against the wall with her name—Stella
Lorreyne—cut off a day-bill, and a portmanteau
with Other initials under the bed. A pair of worn
silk tights hung over the washstand for a towel,
and a kerosene bucket in the fireplace had been
used to make tea in.
Her features were pretty, but troubled; and
trouble was evidently a novelty to her.
A man—Poverty Point incarnate —entered the
room without knocking. “ The profession is dead,
and I am almost,” he said, flinging himself on his
side of the bed.
She rose with petulant tragedy.
“ Wuat are we to do ?’’ Her voice had few dis-
cords in it, as though little used to complaints.
“ I’ll go mad if I have to stay here any longer.
You, at least, are walking about seeing people,
the shops, and things.”
“ You can go out too.”
“ You know I haven’t a dress fit for G-eorge-
street. No, I must stay here, without a cup of
tea, while the odour of the lodgers’ dinner comes
up from the kitchen. Ted, you must get some-
thing——
“ How ? ” came sleepily.
“I don’t know—that’s your business—you are
the man. I’ve always had somebody to do that
for me.”
“ You’d better get someone now; I can’t.”
She looked reproaches. Her love was of the
patient, all-enduring variety, while his was merely
acceptance and toleration. He had been stranded
before this, and with tho easy optimism of his
class, felt assured of something turning up! Just
now he was tired and ill-tempered. After a day’s
hard idling round street corners, a home-coming to
reproaohes was not fair.
“Ted, isn’t there something you can do—l
mean outside the business. Aren’t there unem-
ployed offices where you-get work?”
“In Heaven’s name, woman, why don’t you
try to get something yourself ? Your face and
figure need never starve. The world is full of flats,
if you’re a pretty woman. Let me sleep, will
you ! I’m not hungry when I sleep, and I’ve got
no tobacco.”
He slept, and she came down the stairs, past the
door where the boarders were playing nap. They
whispered about her as she passed out. A young
man was standing on the verandah. He wished
her good-night. She looked at his prosperous
waton-chain, and thought how long it would take
her to make him give her a few pounds. But he
did not follow up nis civility, and she passed into
the street, her vanity dead within her.
It was early evening. She stood in the gaily-lit
streets, starving, ill-clad, and jostled by pleasure-
saekers. She was not ordinarily hungry. She
was beyond that, only miserable, weak, and con-
sciously growing weaker.
A man was whispering to a girl with a rouged
face. Stella heard—and remembered Ted’s last
remark. She knew she would be just as pretty as
that girl had she her rouge and clean print.
Suddenly she remembered a man who once said
he loved her. He was a chemist; his shop was
some way off, but it would be open.
“ Why didn’t you ask your Ted ? ” The chemist
had thrilled when his “adorable bundle of rags
entered the shop, but hardened at her request for
money, as she treated him too impersonally.
“ Oh, Ted !—l’ve left him this six months. You
see we—that is—the company are stranded ——”
She staggered and fainted. When she came to,
the taste of brandy was in her mouth and soft
words in her ear. He repeated his old offer. Two
pictures rose before her. One sordid and miser-
able, painted with despair, the garret, Ted, the
long scramble for the husks ; the other a suburban
cottage, a garden radiant with ease and elemen-
tary luxury.
But she could not love the chemist. She hated
herself because she allowed her love for Ted to
influence her, and hated the chemist because he
could not make her love him. Therefore she was
right in continuing to deceive him. He urged his
request, adding a piano to the visionary cottage.
She assented.
“ But not to-night—l must get my clothes.”
“ I’ll buy you new ones.”
He caught her in his arms. She struggled when
a knock came from the shop. It was a customer
who thus saved her. She passed out —making an
appointment for next day—with two sovereigns
in her hand, to buy clothes with.
* * * *
Ted stumbled up-stairs thirsty and footsore.
He at first thought it was a trick. Over the
washing-stand was a bottle of stout, a plate of
sandwiches, a plug of tobacco, and a greater,
though by him unnoticed miracle, a whole candle
burning. But it was all real, as were also a pile
of shillings by the sandwiches.
Stella was in bed, listening with delight. She
opened her eyes and caught his—flaming with
some terrible suspicion. She had her little lie of
explanation ready, but when he clutched the bottle
like a weapon some deadly fear made her leap
from the bed crying, “What are you going to do ? ”
He swung the bottle like a club, but the stout
gurgled and an overwhelming desire to drink rose,
grew, culminated, and finally swamped other
passions. He laughed.
“Why? drink of course. Here’s —looking at
her with meaning—here’s success to you, missus,”
and he put the bottle to his lips.
Then he devoured sandwiches. Stella was
surprised and hurt. She wondered why he did
not ask questions.
“ Ted, I got it from ”
He arose in fury. “ Don’t tell me —don’t speak
of it as you value your life.”
* * * *
This went on for a week. Stella kept playing
the chemist off —her clothes were in pawn, not
here, but in Melbourne —as soon as they arrived
she would ; so Ted had his three meals a day and
sundries. But he was morose and silent. One
afternoon Stella came in at dusk. A stranger was
in her room—bending over Ted’s portmanteau.
He turned—it was Ted in a new and gay summer
suit.
She knew in an instant, and between a choke
and a scream cried, “ You’re not leaving me ! ”
“ Yes, you flinging her off with the worst
of names—to a woman.
She put her hand to her ears.
“What—you think that of me ? ”
“ Where else did the money come from ? ”
“ How dare you —how dare you ? ”
Her small form dilated, her voice cut like a
knife, the purring kitten of a woman became a
tigress. He was frightened.
What else could I think—you never ex-
plained.”
The black passion of her vehemence faded sud-
denly. A horrid laugh came from her tense lips,
and her face grew like a white fire as she said with
the utmost deliberation and icy distinctness.
‘ ‘There—is—no—explanation— your—suspicions
are—-perfectly —true —l—am—what —you say
—so —you —who—have—been —living on—me—
are—a ” she retaliated with the worst of names
to a man, the nadir of reproach to which further
retort is impossible.
Then a clock struck ; he remembered he was
losing time. He turned to his portmanteau. All
her pride melted. She clung to him—weeping out
the whole story.
“ He only kissed me, I swear, and I hated him
for it. I did it for you ... it was all I could . . .
and he only kissed me . . . you won’t leave me
now, will you ? ”
He went on packing, telling her to go back to
her chemist.
“ I can’t. I told him this afternoon I was only
fooling him for money.”
“What!”
“I couldn’t keep it up any longer. He took me
to the shop to buy furniture for our—his—cottage,
and I couldn’t keep it up any longer—it was such
lovely furniture, and I wanted it, and I—l don’t
know, only—don’t leave me, Ted, don’t leave
me.”
“ What did he do?”
“Nothing—gave me this when I said I was
stranded and told me never to come near him
again.”
She showed a handful of money. “ Take it.
Ted.”
He put out his hand, obeying a habit, but a re-
vulsion came over him—and he told her to keep it.
The clock struck again. She clung to him, begged
piteously, promised impossibilities, vowed, sobbed,
screamed, raged, till he grew angry, struck her to
the floor, caught his portmanteau and rushed down
stairs.
The rattle of his cab revived her. She followed
and called another, losing time over the cabman’s
hesitation at her appearance. She showed money
and bade him drive to the wharf.
Ted was just in timo to meet a well-dressed
woman and carry her portmanteau, with his own,
up the gangway.
Stella was just in timo to see them disappear
into the salobn as the steamor swung in mid-
stream. The light went out of the sky and her
soul as the steamer passod out. She turned and
walked home as one condemned, stopping by the
way to purchase a pot of Rouge Fin.
T HE BTEOLLER.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
£
/
i
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with liis photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. ,It (s additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World's Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS—A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
■ WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION
W until it has become
■ a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
■ Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
'N,I
tish 1
junglonic
No
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
‘his I
es.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at I*. lid., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, A Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corraioßT.
w
NO DECEPTION.
Pbofessor: “Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will show
you a simple and easy triek about which there is
no deception, and one that all may learn with great
advantage to themselves. In one hand you take a
glass of water, and in the other a few BEECH AM’S
PILLS; you place the pills upon your tongue and
take a sip of water. The pills will do the rest.”
IMFORTANX AKnxrOXUSrOBMBKTT l
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
JEH-sem
Pe*ruue
mm? ease
mmm
f Sen-Sen
[fARRINGDOK AVI ENUtI
LONDON.
IWAWABLE TO
, SINGEBS & SPEAKERS
8£
fgd
fcet
fet
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
will cure That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINCTON’S PILLS
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
M ANUEACTURERS
AN® . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
“ l proper treatment all Diseases can be
OVRED
but not all patients, and this depends entirely on
the condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
if iii an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blood is the Jesuit.
Hence the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the cause—not the result, that will leave of its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything,
but the undersigned only professes to cure Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and RHEUMA-
TISM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
in the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOB.
One Disease, and during my long experience I have met
these diseases—resulting in Constipation, Spinal Troubles,
Contracted Muscles, Stiff Joints, Asthma, Chronic and
Acute Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, (lout, Neuralgia,
Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc.—not only in persons
walking about, but on their backs and in their beds.
Stiff from head to foot, locked fast, immovable and dis-
figured, with but one desire, viz., that they may die.
These are the cases that I have grappled with, and have
cured with the Remedies which I will send to any part
of the globe on receipt of
ONE POUND!
with full particulars. The digestive organs are made
healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys thoroughly
cleansed, thefi the food makes rich blood, and disease
takes not only a back seat, but clears out altogether.
ARTHUR MALCOLM, Specialist,
169 Grafton-st., Woollaura, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE WORTHINGTON
.... IS THE ORIGINAL ...
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fg
A Simple
TANGYE
PUMP
60
Represented in Australia by
BENNIE TEARE and CO.^^
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltli HT It !*] I4jT, SIDNUt
(opp. Centenary Ilali).
Country Orders by post /rom all Ilia colonies promptly
atlenifed to.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUI. -COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
0. LTD.
FOOD
&
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that.these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send yoiir Orders to US, and we will deliver it at vour doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
toad toutter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
df
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE
-/V-ixriD
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Boasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
IN STOCK
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL.
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds, WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST PANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
Blake Steam Pumps
-•
I,
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping 1- - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
M. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS U*™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN JCtERY FAMILY.
Hollow A.Y S pills and ointment.
There is not a country in tire civilised world whefe
the healing virtpesof these errand medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments sf humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest direction* are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUTFEU, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxfobd-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 628 Oxford street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND
ASST)
WpEW FURNITURE
(Bent Quality).
BUY FROM US AXP
SATE 51) I'ER CE?U'.
tl Saved is equivalent
to JES Earned !
Krery reqnisite for the Furnishing <*f the HOME of h<*«t
quality at tally 50 per eent. less than prices charged els#-
where.' r CalI and inspect.
JNO C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georgre-st. (B doers past Huneer-st.). STDSBV
Telephone 102«.
