

McE WAN'S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GTJ A.R AKTXESED PITRE COCOA AMD EXTRACT OP MALT.
S 3. G. WATKIKTS «&£ GO..
107 Kent Street, Sydney, "
„ fr . . —FOR—
S mmg and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
__ EXPI OSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2i<iu _iyaro-*i attract rs doid and at work
*iO HSLBOUBNB VISITORS.
WIMPOI.B-S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kuda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C a
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Susrar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
3
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS
sdf
RACKAROCK
!*!CL
A^N,
or $\
OB^rtT.
Hadley’s Qrieat fiotel.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another tiling they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “ FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
so
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- ELDBIDaE &c GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltiiL hiltEEt, SYDNKY
(0pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by poet irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Cc/&,
oo
*
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
sd
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The -Leading Beit o± Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ty address.
J. G. LUDOWICf& SOM, LTD.,
IX7 "STorls. E3fci*'©©'fc,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia % Hobart, Tasmania"; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
k'RICE Is. ... per Post Is. od.
JOSHUA’S i
BOOMERANG BRANDY
The London Times : —“ A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet : —“ Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality second
to none.”
The British Medical Journal : —“ A Pure Product, well
worth the attention of the Profession.”
These qualities are further testified to by
many hospitals and medical men.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
: —;t * .
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
<A V IN AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 21. —A a 1051
f Saturday, April 7, HJOO.
Fprstered at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty i
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Yerse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers,
l‘J3 pp. ; 6d.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Australian Tropics. By
Ernest Paveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 6d.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. Gd.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top, ss.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top, ss.
On Our Selection :
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). Cloth
extra, illustrated, Gs.
In Preparation.
Castro’s Last Sacrament, and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by Ames Hebblethwaite."
Others to Follow.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or Post-free
for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of any Austra-
lasian province, from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney
and Brisbane.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
LO''
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON. CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q*
SYDNEY DEPOT : r. and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ”
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
THE UNHAPPY QUEEN.
From a lithograph by Stewart Carmichael (The Dome).
THE CARD-DEALER.
Could you not drink her gaze like wine ?
Yet though its splendour swoon
Into the silence languidly
As a tune into a tune,
Those eyes unravel the coiled night
And know the stars at noon.
The gold that’s heaped beside her hand,
In truth rich prize it were ;
And rich the dreams that wreathe her brows
With magic stillness there ;
And he were rich who should unwind
That woveii golden hair.
Around her, where she sits, the dance
Now breathes its eager heat;
And not more lightly or more true
Fall there the dancers’ feet
Than fall her cards on the bright board
As't were a heart that beat.
Her fingers let them softly through,
Smooth polished silent things ;
And each one as it falls reflects
In swift light-shadowings,
Blood-red and purple, green and blue,
The great eyes of her rings.
Whom plays she with ? With thee, who lorist
Those gems upon her hand ;
With me, who search her secret brows ;
With all men, bless'd or bann’d.
We play together, she and we,
Within a vain strange land:
A land without any order,—
Day even as night, (one saith,)—
Where who lieth down ariseth not
Nor the sleeper awakeneth ;
A land of darkness as darkness itself
And of the shadow of death.
What be her cards, you ask ? Even these
The heart, that doth but crave
More, having fed ; the diamond,
Skilled to make base seem brave ;
The club, for smiting in the dark ;
The spade, to dig a grave.
And do you ask what game she plays ?
With me't is lost or won ;
With thee it is playing still; with him
It is not well begun ;
But’t is a game she plays with all
Beneath the sway o’ the sun.
Thou seest the card that falls,—she knows
The card that followeth :
Her game in thy tongue is called Life,
As ebbs thy daily breath :
When she shall speak, thou It learn her tongue
And know she calls it Death.
D. G. Rossetti.
Artists in Australia.
IV.-W. LISTER LISTER.
YOU may say, if you choose, that
Lister’s two sailor-years helped to
fix his destiny. The continual
contemplation of sea and sky
merges Nature and the beauty of Nature
into the mind of many a mariner, never to
be wholly withdrawn. It is the vagueness
of space which gives that vague and peculiar
charm to the prose of Loti and Conrad ; the
cadenced beating of the waves has made the
slow and melancholy music of their
sentences. And . the permanence of the
Sea’s influence upon Lister is indicated in
his air ; he needs only the uniform to look a
sailor still.
The Sea caught him in the affectable years
from 22 to 24. Born in Sydney in 1860, he
was taken to England six years later. The
artistic impulse held him early : at 17 he was
exhibiting in the Royal Scottish Academy.
Then a practical father, distrusting Art and
the rewards of Art, bound him to engineering
for five years ; then he went voyaging ; and
at 24 began to paint in earnest. At 29 he
returned to Sydney, where he has remained.
The local artist’s life is a round of pupils
and pot-boilers, with an annual picture or
two accomplished in the interests of the Art
Gallery. Endowed with more energy than
most, Lister has given more time to large
canvases and careful work. Gradually he
has acquired a mastery over the minutiae of his
craft which ranks him as one of the most
skilful Australian landscape painters. Few
or none attempt water-colours on such a
scale ; and his oils are no less distinguished
for pains and talent employed to mirror
Nature effectively.
Several of Lister’s pictures hang in N.S. W.
Art Gallery—both oils and water-colours ;
but, though exhibiting year after year, it is
nine years since the Gahory has purchased
any result of his work. This is not credit-
able to the judgment of the Gallery trustees ;
for Lister’s technique has markedly im-
proved in nine years. He is less cramped
in his means ; more certain of its effects.
The breaking waves which he depicts, for
example, in “ The Ever-Restless Sea ” are
solid paint compared with his nowadays sea-
scapes. The effect of wet, gleaming sand in
the foreground of the picture he has pro-
bably never surpassed.
It is rarely that Lister paints a waterless
landscape : the subjects of the interesting
exhibition of his work just closed are
nearly all coastal and river scenes faith-
fully and dexterously presented. A great
artist. Lister is not; but there is no more
conscientious workman. With stroke on
stroke, wash on wash, he works up his pic-
tures until they accurately embody the scene
and sometimes a little more. Not much
more ; for Lister adds little of his own per-
sonality to his work : it is deficient in stimu-
lus and human emotion. To represent calm
Beauty—to catch the subtle tints of a beach,
the warm hues of a weathered rock, the
effect of a tree seen against a clouded sky,
and to preserve- the individual character
of a landscape—these are of his objects,
and here is his success. To mark the
distance he has advanced one may compare
the air, the light which he puts into his pic-
tures, with the dead surface of paint shown
in some of the tyros’ landscapes hung on the
walls of N.S.W. Gallery. That Lister’s
merit is by no means over-rated in Sydney
would appear from the success of his pic-
tures sent to England with the Walker col-
lection last year, when the two sold to the
collector Seigelmeyer—a man of European
reputation—secured the highest prices of
the shipment. But Mr. Lister has the same
experience as others—for the time and
ability spent on large canvases there is no
reward in Australia.
Mr. Lister has been for several
years vice - president and president of
N.S.W Art Society. He was recently
nominated by that Society as a repre-
sentative on the N.S.W. Art Gallery
trust. To his energetic and unselfish influ-
ence local Art and many local artists are in-
debted.
♦
In the matter of Chopin, “ Aletes ” writes
to The Bulletin—
Chopin is the idol of the soulful woman. In his
life she petted and clung to him ; now, she grate-
fully remembers, tearfully appreciates. Whilst
there is a feminine heart-string, musically attuned,
be it in man or woman, it will thrill to liis name.
See how he figures on the modern programme !
see how she predominates in the audience ! The
understanding is mutual. He expresses her to
herself, voicing her mute aspiration. Hence the
murmur of adoration; hence comes “Mdlle.
Crotchet ” to lay her charming tribute at his feet.
Here is an artist with unique gifts of expression,
a genius of original insight. Limited? But, ah—
how complete ! A small palette ? But look at
the consummate handling of the colour ! sniff the
delicate aroma, taste the piquant flavour of these
melodic blossoms ! If you are a woman you will
be satisfied, you will stay here to idolise.
Yet listen to Runciman. “ Chopin’s sweetness
is a boudoir sweetness, corrected by a poisonous
acid or sub-acid quality.” The women smile dis-
dainfully. But some will wince. The shaft is
keen, and a little bitterness of truth tinctures the
point. Something lacks in Chopin. Is it the
intellectual stimulus ? Does the strong soul long
for more invigorating nourishment ? To Chopin
we can listen, pleasurably, with a tired brain ; our.
nerves are soothed ; languor supervenes. Yet—
lengthen not the propitious moment. Irritation
may come—a mental craving steal upon the sense
and rob it of its joy. Or the soul may catch fire,
become violently athirst. Ah ! Chopin can kindle,
that fire, but cannot feed it; can create that
thirst, but lacks power to allay. His niggling
draught becomes a mockery. Bor tlie royal and
generous flood that alone can sate, we must turn
to Beethoven. Ay, we must leave the company of
this refined and courteous aesthete, this gentleman
that beckons to cloudland ; we must join a strange,
uncouth individual(‘ ‘ peasant” Runciman calls him)
a rugged and defiant autocrat, who drags us after
him with almost brutal violence, poises us on the
verge of an awful abyss, and, while we tremble,
sings to us an enchanted song that banishes the
universe.
Chopin and Beethoven—strange bedfellows ! Is
it not a proof and a measure of woman’s idolatry
that she dares the contrast? Yet—-both are
lovable ; let us give a hand to either ; ‘but not at
once and together—the mood must decide. In the
early morning of day and of life, when the senses
are alert, the pulse bounding, and the soul strain-
ing on its fleshy leash, I would have Beethoven.
He is the Shakespeare of music. Profundity of
thought; power, variety and richness of expres-
sion ; the blended voice of humanity in its joy and
sorrow ;we find it in one as in the other—l can
never dissociate these two—they are so mutually
suggestive; their currents of emotion so overlap
and mingle. To the artistic temperament they
are the quickening tonic.
Chopin is a narcotic, an opiate. In the poetic
world I find not his parallel. He spoke so much
in sighs and whispers. Rossetti comes nearest,
yet he is born of earth and fire, Chopin rather of
air and water: the former is physically, the latter
spiritually sensuous. Yet Doth are great son-
neteers, both are aureoled by the same atmosphere
of perfumed women.
The musical creations of Beethoven had little or
no attraction for Chopin. We shall never know
how Chopin would have affected Beethoven—but
we may surmise. What does the shoreless sea
think of the land-locked lake ? Even a beautiful
lake like this, with a sky of diaphanous cloud, an
encircling landscape full of rich autumnal tones ;
tempestuous days with silent flashes; nights of
twilight, quiet and pensive; and ever over the
scene the brooding spirit of unrest. But the sea—
its beauty, wonder, and mystery—above all its
intense loneliness !
Australian Natural History.
Man is not the only animal who is a naturalist.
At Rookwood, N.S.W., in 1801, T made the
acquaint-noeot a e.>t with a pas on for enomology.
It was a lady cat. When 1 hist knew her .she wars
just emerging from kittenhood, and I expected to
see her in the course of a little while take unto
herself a Tom and become the mother of a family,
as most lady cats do. However, it quickly
appeared that she had other views for herself
having, as it seems, taken a vow of celibacy for the
purpose of devoting herself to science. Lombroso’s
pet theory of Genius as a Phase of Degeneracy
might have received some confirmation from this
cat, inasmuch as she possessed only one tooth. She
preferred frequently fresh vegetables to meat, anc
had a passion for common sticking-paste such as
the ordinary small boy displays for jam. In
consequence of her confirmed celibacy, she
became enormously fat. Her favourite occupation
was to prowl about in search of some' strange
insect, which she would then watch oloselv to see
where it would go and what it would ao. At
times the insect would be caught travelling and
lazy. It would, so to speak, down bluey and cry
smoke-ho. Then the cat, having so far tailed it
up like a shadow, would sit down to await fresh
developments. If the insect remained inert too
long, she would gently stir it up with one paw. A
spider’s web had great attractions for her. She
would sit patiently for hours watching the capture
of flies, etc., but what chiefly interested her was
the combat which would sometimes take place
when a large and ferocious insect entered the web,
or when a predatory spider of a different species
challenged the rightful proprietor of the web to a
fame of “survival of the fittest.” If the com-
atants, from fatigue, fear, or cunning, took a
turn at the “ waiting game ” for more than ten
minutes or so at a time, she would dexterously
twitch the web to excite them to renewed activity.
I have seen her occasionally digging .up the soil m
different spots, and comparing a pebbly portion,
the little stones of which she industriously
separated, with one consisting of loose mould
only, This happened after some severe storms
that produced little drifts of gravel wherever the
water had found a channel, and from the look of
extreme wonder and perplexity with which the
cat proceeded about tier examination of soils I
was convinced that, incredible as it may seem,
she had formed from these' new drifts, and was
seeking to verify by digging, some rudimentary
concept of geology. The cat belonged to the Rad-
cliffs, now printers in Underwood-street, Circular
Quay, who were then running the Rookwood
Chronicle.
At Smithfield, near Fairfield, on the Liverpool
line, I was witness to the following on the part of
meat-ants. For the information of those who are
not well up in ant species I may say that the
meat-ant is a black ant with a light cedar-red
tinge in the head ; it is about three-eighths of an
inch long, and does not sting, but nips with its
jaws. The ants got into a meat-safe containing a
shin of beef ; one would have imagined after-
wards that the meat had been held up against a
running saw, so jagged was the entire surface,
whilst the bottom of the safe was covered a quar-
ter of an inch deep with a red “ sawdust,” consist-
ing of small pieces of meat which the ants had cut
off to carry away. It is these ants which particu-
larly perform the work of scavengers in the coun-
try, in consuming the bodies of dead beasts, birds
and reptiles ; they have also, for some reason
which I have not yet been able to ascertain, a
great liking for feathers—probably they extract
the oil from them.
On the nest of a colony of these meat ants I
placed a large green caterpillar—which, being
attacked by them, defended itself furiously, snap-
ping at them with its powerful mandibles. One
ant had its abdomen taken off, and ran away be-
wilderedly in its mutilated condition, until dis-
covered by a party of its fellows. They, after
communicating by touching antennse with the
wounded ant, examined the place where its
abdomen should have been, and appeared by all
their actions greatly shocked. After a. consultation
among themselves, one of them stood in front of
the sufferer and continually stroked its head,
whilst the rest, after a single touch of the antennse
with their dying comrade, hurried to the ant-hill,
where the fight was still raging. And now from
there parties of about four began to come down
suQcessively, touching antennse with the wounded
ant, and returning to the scene of strife to liberate
another party for the farewell visit. But when
the ant died a messenger went up to intercept the
party then approaching, and they turned back at
once, nor did any more set out. Meanwhile, an
examination of the corpse was conducted by the
ant that had,acted as doctor or nurse, with a num-
ber of stragglers as a jury ; the “ doctor ” conduct-
ing them to the body, and apparently explaining
the injury, after which they formed a ring and com-
municated with one another by their antennas.
When this was over they left, with the exception
of one of the stragglers, apparently deputed to
perform some duty. This one picked up the dead
ant, carried it up a stem of grass, and hung it up
there by the folded legs. I had seen dead ants
hanging to grass-stems, but had supposed them to
have been killed in that position ; but now I per-
ceived that this was the method of formal sepul-
ture.
Among these ants moves a creature very much
resembling them, but, as well as I have been able
to judge, of the spider kind. It seems to hang, on
the outskirts of'a crowd when they are busily pre-
occupied, and to endeavour to stalk unwary indi-
viduals that may become isolated ; but I have not
seen it actually attack them, and its mimicry of
ant-aspect may have some other purpose.
There is, however, another spider guilty of imper-
sonation with intent to murder. When imprisoned
on the charge of seditious libel I had numerous
opportunities of studying the creature, which
abounded at Darlinghurst. It is about the size of
a common fly, and closely mimics the latter in
general appearance, even the wings being imitated
to a not too near view by the manner of projection
of the upper part of the hind legs. Tbe gait of
the fly is exactly copied. Thus disguised the
spider can approach within a moderate distance
without causing alarm; after which he sneaks up
behind a fly’s back to within jumping range.
Should the intended victim or a companion chance
to turn towards the spider the later instantly
becomes motionless in the most deceptive attitude.
Finally, he leaps upon his prey, seizes it by the
back of the head, poisons it to death, and retires
with it to suck out the juices.
It is not generally known that there are winged
insects which prey upon others as hawks upon
small birds. The best example of these insect
“ hawks” is the common horse-stinger. He preys,
by preference, upon the yellow butterfly, giving
ohase and hovering above it till he can swoop
down, when he flies off to the trunk of a tree and
settles there to devour his meal.
The notorious bull-dog ant, a good inch long, is
a similar hunter among wingless insects. He
prowls about among the grass and under bushes
looking for a prey upon which to leap. In this he
is unlike the majority of ants, which, whether
vegetable or animal feeders, work in gangs. He,
on the contrary, hunts alone. But he does not
live alone. He consorts with his fellows, and
every occupant of the nest is registered, with the
particular beat ”on which he has gone. Should
he fail to show up again, scouts are sent out on his
track, and woe to man or beast found in suspicious
proximity to his dead body.
Among the ants themselves, when those of dif-
ferent species come into collision—by way of mere
quarrel, however, not of war—the most formidable
is the tiny black ant, not exceeding one-eighth of
an inch in length, which is distinguished by its
aptitude for surviving in our cities ; and it is per-
fectly laughable to see a great negro ant (a severe
stinger half an inch long) jump away in terror
from one of the little fellows like a woman scared
of a mouse. When it is a matter of war, which
happens between rival communities of the same as
well as different species, the ants behave precisely
like human beings in forming regular armies, ar-
rayed in tactical formations, with- heralds to go
between and apparently make formal demands;
when the heralds break off their conference and
hurriedly rush back to their respective sides, the
battle commences. In one engagement that I had
the opportunity of watching throughout, the
two armies relied on two different formations.
On both sides the first line of battle was drawn up
in the form of a circle, but on one side the
supports were drawn up on the right flank
as a solid square, on the other side on the
left flank, but more towards the rear, in ex-
tended echelon. The latter formation proved
superior. On the return of the heralds the
“squarites” dissolved their circle in a furious
charge upon the circle of the “echelonites.” The
square followed a moment later ; then the echelon
cnanged to file and advanced to victory. The last
to enter the field had been able to select individu-
ally their places of combat ; whereas the square
was moved as a solid mass, and its interior re-
mained practically useless. Its very formation
was quite inappropriate to the purpose irrespec-
tive of the opposite support, for it had to back up
the line of battle wherever this might be getting
the worst of the fight. The enemy's supports, on
the other hand, arriving in straggling order, went
straight to where they found themselves needed or
saw their opportunity ; and if the square had made
quite a different move, the echelon could have been
converted to cope with it in the most appropriate
way. Brobabiy a campaign between different
species—these combatants were of the same—
would have been still more interesting, so far as I
could judge from the appearance of the battlefield
after the conclusion of a struggle that I had just
missed witnessing. There had been a great
slaughter on both sides, and from the positions of
the dead there must have been some intricate
manoeuvring, as each party seemed to have
attacked toe other in the rear.
J. A. ANDREWS.


Second-hand
AND
New furniture
(Bent Quality).
BUY FROM U 8 AND
KAVE 60 PER GENT.
' £\ Saved in equivalent
to £6 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of hjest
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (8 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYHE.
fs
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLARRHffiA, <kc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIG1JN Al,
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
30 Days’ Trial.
/
■n
n
m
n
We grant every purchase*
of our
electric
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can he
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.—Before purchasing,>e prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
■A
*
/ Cures all EYE
/ Disorders. Get a genuine
/ pot from any Chemist.
/'Proprietor STEPHEN GREEN,
/210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
tor my invaluable little pamphlet^^^^
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
discovery.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to ‘by well known physicians, hromall
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and "
MALYON, Manufacturing- Chemist, BALLARAi, Viu
MELDS
BRAIN & NERVE PILLS
A PERFECT REGENERATOR OF THE VITAL POWERS.
Price, 2s. 6d. ; Postage, 2d.
Sole Agents:
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO„
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €ii)brocatioi)-
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the mea.ns of erne
t o all ’sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressee
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
W. JNO. BAKER’S LOCK BACK
Write
■for
Free
Illustrated
Catalogue.
•r~'
.J
SKINNING KNIFE
Length when closed, 6 inches.
With Smooth Horn Handle, 3/6 Post Jree.
With Ordinary Spring, 2/6 Post hree.
W. JNO. BAKER, CGtler, 3 NGijter-st., Sydney-
The Life of the System.
DUHISPL
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company, Ltd.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enable this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the COJNbUlj -
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The Following will be our Charges to the Grower : —
COMMISSION .
WAREHOUSING
| Per Cent.
(including Receiving into Store, Fire
Insurance, Weighing, Lotting, Re-
packing sample bales, Advertising,
Cataloguing, etc.) —On Wools reali-
sing over 6d. per lb. the charge will be 3s. 9d. per Bale
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. 2s. 6d. per Bale
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under Is. 6d. per Bale
ON PRODUCE other than Wool—viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., SPECIAL
RATES will be quoted on Application.
THE 1
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co
* LIMITED.
Offices
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Centkal Wharf.
SOLIS CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers,
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
fflßimillliniiijr
r SPECIAL v
£
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
A-ND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
df
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
, 2* rive, £7.
• J
• >)
o i * "
Carriage Paid-
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SING-S,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Itintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia — EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
Ijr jr V . Oldershaw, Manner. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
AMUaKMKNX for OLD and TtOUNQ.
X
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Seven Different .Artiolei,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of fc
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter;,
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in rest ana
blown out to life-size, to the-astonishment of all), wuaiu
Fish (gives the delinition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards («« «
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direo-
-11 This'splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. (id.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY c °.,
71614 and 718 George-street, 8 Y ONLY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
WHAT
IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the
vy lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy, it
has no equal.
sd
MEDICATOR.
Rainey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, Oa
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, o
send order direct to
Home Catarrb CCirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
te Q@])f M O N SENSE EA-E DETJM-
■the]
heaf
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing,
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street,'Melbourne
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack “ remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medioine. NEUROZONE ib a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Hypnotism
f
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful forpe of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H\ pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po eible to the Hypnonist.
Through H ypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
„ ra tlfy your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
lust Issued in bonk form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully ezplain*
the mysteries ami secrets
I of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For * short
time I -will »«nd this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth*
lnjr. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
notize. It is'* chance of a
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
doctors fake |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
m
i
LVUM
jsnsm
35 RROftDWAV. SYDNEY
163-167 William STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN. .
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
WINCHCbMBE, CARSON & Go. Ltd.,woos Brokers,
SYDNEY (Selling Agents only).
BEST FIRM IN AUSTRALIA for the SALE Of WOOL, SKINS, TALLOW, BARK, LEATHER, WHEAT, etc.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO.
ADAMS, Hotoart.
Doncaster H.
April 14.
35,000 Subscribers at B»
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address.
• *
April 16.
Sydney 0.
50,000 Subscribers at 8b
To TATTERS ATT.
Address
Adelaide 0.
May 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address.
s
Birthday C.
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at A.
To TATTERS ALL,
Please allot me.
.shares in above.
Name.
Address
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OR THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ .shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Newcastle C. June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
f. To TATTERS ALL.
"j Please allot me shares in above.
Name ____
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Oeo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
X
m
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Hl*
fcHjS ,
Alb I
» rIrWV
BEWARE:
sd
FEDERAL
PALACE
fsd
NOT€L
r l'f .i. --rr'll’i
4 lg===s\v • , :== r^=' l K **!
frhsf-:
i .] *1 lj>"2 !tC ■■ "I t : i- -j- ;|lig*
-U'!lU"~ --:il *-<
Fisa:4M§iMs3»iit
flWßlfißTtnwiiir "I't-" 1 .
r-*-
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 395. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
XJ3E
Spooner’
:
SLIIIbSIb
ROTM.MAII DIESSMC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECUONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
f'or Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), Gd. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressing's, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
f
GO TO HELL-
-IGOI/ANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
Australia!} HOtOal ProVideQt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On (security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any line.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
w W
MM I
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£3 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Luckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
R3T Send for Price List. Is3l
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
sd
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Snssex-Btreet.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
&OKO
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
'&& jy% /*y&
* l'Mjl *4\ CtsLSij ag
t \fi\Ji
hup £ax>-^,
J^s^r>r*^j* / Ul*> f o****QA Vo
tc44
'V'vv
KOKO
i
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimon als prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, a Invigorating, i -, 2 6 & 4 6 siz--s, of all Chemists,
Stores ac. THE KOKQ MARICOPAS CO.. LTD.. I*. Marks, LONDON, ENG.
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“ DEY REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
D
EVMAJSSOM A CO.
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth iiispi ction ;
or write for particulars.
sm
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.’
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH BEGTSTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
Block Arcade, Melbourne Agent.
IST.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNBY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do yon want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay IB per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
fsd
Delivered at any Wharf «r
S.B.W. Railways, Station
701 013?
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Westerlies Blow!
There’s a blight in the land
When the Westerlies blow ;
There are lashings of sand
When the Westerlies blow ;
There’s a wage for your sin,
There’s a scourge for your skin,
There’s a grave for your grin,
When the Westerlies blow.
There’s a throat all a-thirst
When the Westerlies blow ;
There’s a land that is curst
When the Westerlies blow ;
And the Devils they jeer
With a venomous leer,
In the depth of your beer,
When the Westerlies blow.
We’re a slouch and a slave
When the Westerlies blow ;
We’re a noodle and knave
When the Westerlies blow ;
And we loaf and we lie,
And we frizzle and fry,
And we scowl at the sky
When the Westerlies blow,
And the plains are a-glare
When the Westerlies blow,
And the hills are a-flare
When the Westerlies blow;
And the breeze is a stew
That the villainous crew
Of Gehenna must brew
When the Westerlies blow.
And we growl and we grill
When the Westerlies blow;
And we swelter and swill
When the Westerlies blow;
And we roast till we rave
“ If no Angel will save,
Let a vat be our grave—
When the Westerlies blow.”
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG.
A Song of the Free.
Ho ! sing a song for the unfenced runs,
And the ways of the unknown track,
For the blood-horse free in the clean-skin mob,
And the man who brings him back;
For the reckless life and the careless creed
That throbs with liberty,
For the heart of a man who scorns all greed,
For the deeds of the Must-be-Free ;
And the thin, brown, wiry horsemen
Who ride through the dawn and dusk,
To triumph with life’s sweet kernel —
And leave to the readers—husk !
When the drought lies fierce on the plains of heat
And the hills are brown and bare,
When the shades that fall from the kindly night
Are palls to a deep despair
That would break the heart of a weaker race,
And would choke a meaner soul,
They droop their heads in a dogged pace
And ride for the distant goal,
With hearts that are fixed and earnest,
All reckless and something more—
Right game to the feeblest flutter
And true to the inmost core !
When the woods and the tracks have vanished
In the foam of the ten-mile flood,
When the moan of the wind is eerie
And the wild night chills the blood,
They pace by the struggling starlight,
They ride by the broken banks ;
And, drawn by a fancied far-light,
Leave gaps in their changeful ranks,
With the scent of the thick flood-waters
Where dull back-eddies flow
And riderless horses racing,
And voices hushed and low.
Ho ! sing a song for the Men of Men
Who ride in the way untrod,
Who pay no tithe to the power of priests,
But deal direct with God.
Ho ! sing a song for the dauntless heart
And the mind that knows no’ fear,
That fights its way to a broader path,
And holds its freedom dear.
For the pale-browed, deep-eyed dreamers
Who scout for the human race ;
For the grim and earnest fighters
Who win for the world its place.
WILL. H. FLEMING.
“Sienna” lays down the law for the
benefit of whom it may concern
The principle appears now to be clearly established
that in art, as in other matters, no trustee of a national
trust shall be permitted to traffic with the trust of which
he is a member. The principle requires, however, to be
carried one step further. A reasonable time ought to
elapse after the retirement of a trustee before his work
should be purchasable by the other trustees. This is a
good principle of equity applicable to trusts generally,
and the courts regard with suspicion all dealings with a
trust by a retired trustee until after the lapse of a reason-
able time. Moreover, no trustee should be allowed to
have hand or part in the purchase by the trust of works
by his pupils, his relatives, sons, daughters, sisters,
cousins, or aunts. In short—it is better not to have
artist trustees at all. Cultured amateurs are better, as
they don’t sell and have no pupils.


THE
PLUM
f
Price—SINGLH RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 215.; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. od. each. This Razor is-superior, to any
in the market, and never, requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
ORA.IO & A.ITKEW, 680 GEORGE ST., BYDRTE 'y.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
T H<SSOCIETY,in addition to transacting all the usuafforms is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
t't R f , ?> iBS J on °* of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
„ Board, op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHfiRS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accxinxxilntcd Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 AnnnnZ Income
exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Speoial Prospectus.]
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary,
TattcrSall’S Hotels
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. j. m™., «*»«*«.
Four Minutes to Leading 1 Theatre*
and G-.P.Oi
This Hotel has been built for
this purpose i —-To give visitors
to Sydney the best cuisine,
accommodation, attention, and
facilities in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
NOBEL-SLASSOW EXPLOSIVES
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
Jlfti
LMA
(to
%
C^ASC q '
sd
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITE*
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
H
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over =£2500 at Gun Club, Netting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over <£looo more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PARVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Balgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
nI
B
\
•I*
Ih
Brand
Unrivalled
BRIAR
PIPES”
STICK T©
\
11
fs
CIGARETTES
I FI!
*
4-
*
5v
i
= m
wi;
mm
m
WiK
zip
f '-1.
wv, •;
£
5^
in
r#
11
ISSII
E. RICH A CO., LTD., SYDNEY
ADVANCED ASTRONOMY.
There, my hoy, is a new and important star in the Roofing Constellation.
Its name is P & B RUBEROID.
Watch it closely /
E. RICH A CO., LTD., BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Ojfice, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1051.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1900.
Price 6d.
“YOU DIRTY BOY!” —Revised version.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydnet,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only) i
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. AU communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. —it. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. E. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some deg ree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l Id. on -a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by “the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
yTteT&xilleZzQi.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1900.
Concerning a Person Without Manners.
Last week Australia heard, in an amazed
sort of fashion, that a new snag had arisen in
the path of the Commonwealth Bill—the
same being Agent-General Reeves, of
Maoriland, or rather his chief, “ Digger
Dick ’’ Seddon. This interference was so
grossly unfriendly, as well as so vast an im-
pertinence, that for a time there was a
general inclination to think that some curi-
ous mistake had arisen. Therefore Pre-
mier Lyne, of N.S.W., ceased to pursue
the bubonic rat for a few moments while he
wired to his contemporary for an explana-
tion, and Seddon, of Kumara, promptly
wired back in these terms that there was no
mistake whatsoever :
I am in receipt of your telegram of 23rd. I forwarded
copy to our Agent-General, and following is his reply : —I
have been at great pains to circulate explanation that
New Zealand wishes certain amendments to be obtained
in a friendly manner, but otherwise we have no hostility
to the Australian Commonwealth Bill. With reference to
your telegram from the Prime. Minister of New South
Wales, some misapprehension has arisen from the incorrect
statement in the St. James’s Budget. It was promptly
corrected by me as soon as I saw it, and the delegates
have been informed accordingly. Previously to this I
sought an interview with the Australian delegates, but
they replied that their mission was to secure the passage
of the Bill without alteration. All we wish is the “ open
door” policy, which the Bill, as it now stands, does not
provide for. We claim that it would not have been our
place to have interfered in a friendly manner when the
Bill was before the Australian people and the Parliaments.
The matter now being before the Imperial Parliament, it
is our duty to see that the measure as passed shall not be
unjust in its incidence to New Zealand or to any other
outlying State. I understand that one of the colonial
delegates had an interview with the Chronicle, in which
he used language which was very free, especially in refer-
ence to Sir John Forrest and myself, and he certainly did
an injustice in stating that I wished to stop the people of
New Zealand from expressing an opinion on Federation.
From this statement it would almost appear
that Seddon, in springing his surprise on the
federating provinces without notice, at the
eleventh hour, and demanding that the long-
postponed and long-toiled-for Commonwealth
should be again put off to suit the conveni-
ence of a politician who has hitherto
scorned to take any notice of the movement,
thinks he is acting with special courtesy.
Most people on this side of the water view
the matter in a different light. Their
general impression is that he has suddenly
shown himself as the most discourteous
political boor in Christendom, or there-
abouts.
* • * *
What Richard, of Kumara, principally
desires is that the Federal Constitution shall
be so altered that Maoriland can come in
at any future time on the same terms and
conditions as if it had been one of the
original States. It doesn’t promise to come
in. All that Seddon asks is that the
Commonwealth shall be bound to take Maori-
land in if, at any time, that province
finds it would pay better to come in, and
that Maoriland need not come in if it would
pay better for it to stay out. If the Com-
monwealthParliamenttookoverthe debts and
railways of its own States it appears possible,
under Seddon’s proposed system, that Maori-
land would be able to borrow fc!40,000 ; 000
and make unpayable railways all over the
two islands—and then join the Common-
wealth, whereby its debts would become a
Federal liability and its railway deficit a
Federal loss. If the Federal Parliament
enacted that the Central Government should
take over the debts or deficits or liabilities
of its own States it would at least be dealing
with known quantities. But while it agreed
to take over their responsibilities it would
also assume power to prevent them
piling up more responsibilities than it
could afford to take over. On the other
hand, if Maoriland, without being an ori-
ginal State, were to have the privileges of
one whenever it chose to assume them, the
Federal Parliament would at the same time
be taking over an unknown quantity.
Seddon’s demand that Maoriland should be
privileged to come in at any future date,
with all the advantages of being an original
State, and take a share in the work it didn’t
do, and reap where it didn't sow, sounds
merely like a demand for the same represen-
tation as Victoria, or S.A., or Queensland.
But it means a great deal more. In the
matter of the debt alone it may mean a very
great deal more.
* * # #
Moreover, in every partnership the part-
ners have a right to select their own com-
pany. Queensland, N.S. W., Victoria, S.A.,
and Tasmania have agreed to be partners.
Each has decided that the other four
are sufficiently honest and not too cantan-
kerous or unbearable, and that it is
possible to get on with them. If Maoriland
had offered to come in they would almost
certainly have decided to the same effect in
its case ; but it didn’t offer, so the question
wasn’t considered. If it had proposed an
arrangement whereby it might, come in later
on with the privileges of an original State,
it is quite possible that even that would have
been agreed to, if any agreement could be
devised whereby the unknown quantity thus
introduced into the Commonwealth’s calcu-
lations would not be too confusing. But
instead the Seddon Government treated the
whole Commonwealth movement with cold
disdain, and then, at the eleventh hour, it
requested the British Government to force
the federating States to take it in on its own
terms and at its own convenience. It went
out of its way to be boorish, offensive, arro-
gant and objectionable, and to make what
would have been an act of friendship and
brotherhood a humiliating surrender to
compulsion. Maoriland, which refused the
hand held out to it by Australia, now
demands from Australia better terms
than any of the Australian provinces receive.
The federating States agree to share the
losses or gains of union, whatever they may
be. Seddon proposes that Maoriland shall
stand out and see how the thing works,
with the right to come in and share the pro-
fits, if there are any, and to stay out and not
share the losses if that process pays better.
* * * *
Australia spent five solid years in building
up its Commonwealth so far as it has got.
It held more Conventions than anybody
cares to remember now. It had an election
of Federal delegates in four provinces. It
held nine separate Referendums—two each
in N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., and Tasmania,
and one in Queensland. Eight Houses of
Parliament wrestled with the Enabling Bill
twice, and also went over the Draft Consti-
tution once to suggest amendments. Four
Houses of Parliament wrestled with the Bill
once. Hundreds of thousands of pounds
and thousands of tons of literature were
spent over the struggle. Federal and anti-
Federal orators by hundreds stumped about
a thousand million acres of country—much of
it such awful country as the average Maori-
lander never saw—telling the people things
that were true about the Bill and things that
were not true. Four capitals got drunk
twice over it, and one capital got drunk
once. Two of the most prominent apostles
of union practically ruined themselves in the
struggle ; they devoted so much time to the
public interest that their own private in-
terests were wholly neglected. Several
patriots lost their health over it; some
probably lost their souls. And in the end
a scheme was agreed upon, and carried in
three provinces by a large majority and in
two by a comparatively small one.
* * * *
And now a high-handed boor who stood
apart from all this labor and responsibility
demands that the whole structure erected
with such stupendous labor be pulled to
pieces, in order to insert-a proviso that he
hadn’t the grace or courtesy to ask when it
could have been so easily granted. And he
distinctly implies that he knew all along that
he wanted the alteration in question, but
waited out of pure cussedness and want of
the ordinary decencies of civilised intercourse.
His explanations are painfully feeble. The
statement that “ it was notour place to have
interfered in a friendly manner when the
Bill was before the Australian people and
the Parliaments” can only mean that Seddon
holds it was rather his place to interfere in
an unfriendly manner, and endeavour to
override the Australian people and the Aus-
tralian Parliaments. The remark that he
merely wishes to secure the “open do6r ”
policy is mere cheerful arrogance. No man
has a right to demand that another man shall
keep his door open under compulsion. The
same applies to his statement that he
wants to secure trade reciprocity. Feder-
ated Australia will make commercial treaties
with Maoriland if it feels so inclined, and if
Maoriland feels so inclined, but Seddon’s
appeal to the British Government to force
Australia to reciprocate—that is apparently
what he really means—is flat insult. And
the plea that he feels compelled to see that
the Australian Federal Constitution ‘ ‘ shall
not be unjust in its incidence to Maoriland ”
is one of the silliest excuses ever put in
print by a responsible statesman. The Con-
stitution merely provides that the five pro-
vinces which have hitherto governed them-
selves and attended strictly to their own
business under one set of conditions, shall
do the same under slightly different condi-
tions. It imposes no disabilities on Maori-
land. Maoriland, while it stands out of the
Commonwealth, has no more right to interfere
with the internal government of the Common-
wealth than with the internal government of
Russia. It has no more right to demand
that Australia shall keep its door open, so
that Maoriland can come in some day when
it feels that way, than Tasmania has to
demand that Britain shall compulsorily alter
Maoriland’s Constitution, so that it can com-
pulsorily unite with Maoriland when it feels
inclined, or not unite if it doesn’t feel in-
clined. Maoriland was invited to come in,
and it refused—or Seddon refused for
it. Now Seddon demands an arrangement
whereby he may be partly in and partly out,
and a league with five States inside and one
half-way in, and camped like the dog on the
mat, is an anomaly.
* * * *
If Maoriland asked admission at any future
time, there is no possible reason to suppose
that it wouldn’t be received gladly, on terms
as liberal as those accorded to the other
States. But the man from Kumara ajiows a
gay a" 1 clumsy disregard of everybody
else’s interest and convenience, which is
intensely aggravating. If the Constitution
Bill is materially altered, it must be again
submitted to the five Australian Parliaments.
They accepted the present Bill, but if it
becomes in any sense a different Bill, they
must accept it over again. Upper
Houses, at least, are yearning for a chance
to get rid of the whole affair, and loathe
the democratic Federal Constitution from
the depth of their Tory souls. They only
sent it to the people because they dared
not say they didn’t trust the people, and
they accepted it when it came back from
the people because the popular majority
overawed them. If a different Bill comes
back from England, and the acceptance or
rejection of it is left to Parliament, and the
new Bill hasn’t the weight of a great popular
vote behind it, they will probably put it
in the waste-paper basket with great joy
and break up the Commonwealth. They
will say : “ As the people have no chance
of rejecting these ruinous new clauses by a
direct vote it is necessary for us to do it as the
guardians of their interests." If the Bill is
sent to anew Referendum in order to force the
hand of the obstructive party there will be
great delay and great expense, and in the
two provinces where the Federal majority
was narrow it is impossible to say for certain
what may happen. The new clauses will
certainly be misrepresented by the Pro-
vincialist party and the Provincialist press
as loaded with huge, vague dangers and
responsibilities, and the result may be
disastrous—or again it may not.
* • • *
If there was any reason why Premier
Seddon couldn’t have asked for his
“open door” two years ago, Australia
probably wouldn’t mind all this extra
toil and delay, and the extra risk of
wrecking its laboriously-constructed Com-
monwealth at the last moment, and pulling
down all that has cost such infinite labor to
build up —but there was no such reason.
If Maoriland was really coming in, Australia
would gladly take all the labor and danger —
but it doesn’t even profess to be coming in.
Seddon demands that all this enormous cir-
cumlocution shall be undertaken in order to
admit his province—and then it may not
come in for 20 years or it may never come at
all. And the final aggravation is that, after
the Commonwealth is established, Maoriland
can be admitted, without danger of wrecking
anything, by merely passing a Bill through
the Federal Parliament —a Bill which that
democratic body would almost certainly pass
by acclamation ; while ; nOw its admission
requires the assent of five Parliaments
and involves the risk—considering the
anti - Federal character of two Upper
Houses—of wrecking everything. And the
whole trouble arises because Digger Dick
chooses, for no visible reason, to be a
Goth, and a person without manners, and
insists, politically speaking, in putting his
front feet in the trough when he could feed
quite as comfortably with them on the floor.
A Great Man’s Opportunity.
Last week was a time of strange and awful revela-
tions in Sydney. ' The Government snatched con-
trol of the “infected area” out of the palsied
hands of the City Council, and Premier Lyne
proceeded to clean up with a strong arm and a
remorseless heart. As an original legislator Lyne
may not have shown any very striking ability,
but as a bitter and vigorous cleaner-up he
has revealed many valuable points. And the
revelations brought about by Lyne’s cleaning-up
were awful beyond description. Prom one block
measuring roughly 170 yards by 80 or 85 yards his
sanitary corps removed 900 tons of filth—mostly
very ancient filth, the accumulation of years and
years, during which the municipal authorities
have dozed and dreamed to no purpose. Tons
and tons of manure, decaying mattresses, decay-
ing rags, decaying bones, and decaying food and
produce, 'defunct samples of every domestic
animal common to a city and of less dimen-
sions than a pony, rats, cats, hats, boots, and
sundries were all there. The alleged earth wasn’t
really earth but garbage trodden hard underfoot.
And this was one block in a busy part of the city,
and that not the worst or dirtiest part. And
Sydney is an allegedly civilised city, and a capital
of which its inhabitants are proud, and it has had
a municipal government for about half-a-century
to keep it clean and look after it, and its people
are shocked at the alleged dirtiness of the Boers,
and John See, who had his own premises in this
den of horrors, is a member of the Cow-Shaking
Ministry.
* * * •
The infected area is a very small part of Syd-
ney, and there hasn’t been time to officially in-
spect the rest of the city yet. But the Waterloo
inspector of nuisances woke up sufficiently the
other day to prosecute some people on these
grounds:
O’Brien’s house was in filthy condition. The floors were
covered with fowl refuse and dirt —almost every room, as
well as the passages. There were several children in the
place, the smell of which was very offensive. Maxwell
had a load of horse manure on his premises, besides old
bedding and other rubbish. Keys had heaps of house
garbage and human excreta on his premises. The closet
pan was stopped up. Rafferty, a butcher, had two bags
of putrid meat on his premises, and there was a very bad
smell. Graham, of Redfern, deposited a quantity of
rotten fish and a number of dead cats on the property of
Sir Daniel Cooper, off Bourke-street, Waterloo, without
having first obtained permission from the owner. The
putrid fish —half a load—was partly covered over, but it
was put near to houses. Defendant said, when the sum-
mons was served on him, “ I was ordered to take the
stuff away from Redfern, and I didn’t know where to put
it.” The smell from the fish and cats was very offensive.
In Larzour’s school and church there was a quantity of
nightsoil littered all over the place, which was very filthy.
When even a church in a populous suburb has
manure in it, and a minister of the Gospel has to
be hauled up on account thereof, things are in a
bad way. And yet the dirty individual who left
his fish and dead cats on the property of the great
absentee, Cooper, had some excuse. There is no
destructor where such things can be utterly
abolished. The municipal dust-cart, which is a
small vehicle and arrives occasionally, objects to
taking ton-loads of refuse at a time. They can’t
well be burnt on the owners’ premises, and in a
populous suburb they can’t be buried with any
kind ot safety. So two sets of habits have arisen:
the very dirty man leaves the garbage where it is,
and the moderately dirty man takes it away and
drops it somewhere else. And Redfern was quite
satisfied when the fish and cats were taken on to
Waterloo, and Waterloo was only angry because
they weren’t taken on to Botanv.
* * * *
The Daily Telegraph rose up last Thursday in
a moment of energy with the question “Why not
resume and remodel the infected area ? ” Why
not, indeed? The Buj.letin has been asking
that question for ten years. There is hardly
a building or wharf in the infected area that
doesn’t deserve to have sentence of death
passed on it forthwith. The wharves and
buildings want to be rebuilt on a very
different plan, and the streets laid out anew
and made straight and wide, and the lanes
abolished—and the old proprietors hanged, if pos-
sible. But it is no use confining the question to
one infected area. Inside the metropolitan area
there are two or three dozen or more. Typhoid
and diphtheria and other dirt diseases are quite
as distinctly plagues as their bubonic brother,
and just as deadly. It is absurd to confine
the resumption and remodelling to the small
area where the small plague is once, and allow
the huge area where the great plagues are
constantly to pass unnoticed. To start resuming
and remodelling the small area in a hurried, spas-
modic, damn-tlr e-expense- it -will - be- paid -out - of-
loans fashion is mere paltering with a great
question. What is wanted is a resumption and
remodelling, not only of this one little slum, but
of all the slums, and all the narrow, crooked streets,
and a systematic attack on all the plagues. There-
fore, the first thing to do is t<3 pass a cast-iron
Building Act and an Act regulating streets and
lanes, which will prevent any more wooden shanties
and angular lanes and alleys and slums being
created ; there is enough work ahead in dealing
with the woe that already exists, but if jerry-
builders and foolish suburban corporations are
allowed to create two new slums while the city is
thinking of abolishing one old one, the case of
Sisyphus wasn’t a circumstance by comparison.
And the next thing is to create a new authority
to control the whole metropolitan area, and
with full power to do the things that are
required. The third essential is to provide the
plan of operations—the scheme and specifications
of the new Sydney that is to be when the slums
of eminent citizens have been resumed and pulled
down, and the 75 tons of garbage have been
shifted from the eminent citizen’s backyard.
Fourthly, it is essential to provide for raising the
money, and if it must be borrowed money, for
► making sure that it will be repaid out of revenue
in a reasonable time.
* * * •
The only Sydney daily which has said anything
very definite about the matter is the Daily
Telegraph. Its theory is to wait and to strike
when the iron is cold. Its view of the case is thus
expressed in another leading article :
One of the means excitedly suggested in some quarters
for stamping out the plague is to “ call Parliament to-
gether.” With many people, the childlike faith in Parlia-
ment’s omnipotence is quite pathetic to behold. They
imagine that Parliament can do anything from coining
money out of stones to curing epidemic diseases. Hence,
as soon as anything of a disquieting character occurs, the
demand is for Parliament to immediately assemble, with
the view of making speeches and passing resolutions con-
cerning it. It is only another phase of the same fatuous
credulity which prompts less civilised people to try and
scare the plague away by beating tom-toms, and other
public demonstrations of an equally effective character.
There is no doubt that with the Legislature is a consider-
able amount of practical power for preventing such
calamities as that which is now upon Sydney. It is to
the absence of wise sanitary laws, which should have been
passed long ago, that the present trouble is largely due.
Had Parliament done its part in the way that has been
repeatedly urged, by thoroughly reforming the effete and
incompetent civic government of the metropolis, things
in a sanitary sense would now be far different to what
they are and the plague visitation shorn of half its terrors.
But this is not the time for that fatal oversight to be


remedied. Legislation is a very slow process, upon which,
in fighting the plague, it would be madness to wait. It is
the duty of the Executive now to anticipate legislation, to
do whatever is practicable for coping with the pest, and
leave the formal discussion of it to some more convenient
time.
And the N.S.W. Parliament has been waiting for
a more convenient time for how long ? At least
five-and-twenty years. All that while it has been
almost persuaded to do something with the dilapi-
dated municipal system which made the plague
and the 900 tons of filth possible, but it always
decided that there was no immediate reason for
undignified velocity, and that it was a large sub-
ject, and shouldn’t be dealt with in haste because
suddenness led to unwisdom. Then something
has happened which is calculated to compel the
Legislature to consider the problem, and it is
seriously urged that nothing should be done until
the old peaceful conditions supervene once more.
Three months hence Parliament will probably
meet to find the plague gone, and to realise that
there were only 80 or 90 deaths in all, and to decide
that the panic was quite uncalled for, and that
any “ hasty or ill-considered legislation” is to be
deprecated.
* * • •
At the same time there is no possible use in
Parliament assembling now unless the Lyne
Ministry has a plan to lay before it. It wants a
huge plan—the biggest and most comprehensive
plan N.S.W. ever had. The opportunity calls for
a man with great ideas—another Napoleon 111.
and another Baron Haussman —somebody with all
their energy and daring and originality, and a
great deal more than their honesty. What is
wanted in the first place is to put all the metro-
politan area—all the 41 municipalities which now
pass the decayed fish and the late cat along to
each other—under one government; to make it a
popular government elected solely by the people
instead of almost solely by landlords with plural
votes ; to give the new body practically unlimited
powers, and at the same time to lay upon it the
responsibility of remodelling the city on certain
fixed lines and to decide how the expense of
so doing is to be met. A big man—such a muni-
cipal statesman as Chamberlain—would revel in
such an opportunity. Is William John Lyne a
big man? Or is he only a conscientious, tem-
porary washer-up ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Golden-haired Shooter.
“ Cockney ” on the Fraser ease:—
Seems to me that many an Australian husband will need
to “mind his. eye” for some time to come. The moral
effect of the Fraser case has yet to make itself felt. This
particular angel who blinded her lawful partner on one
side of his face, and paralysed him on one side of his body,
is not the only specimen of her rampageous type. There
are others —and Lord help the men they may lead to the
altar ! Dr. Fraser had been a long time married to his
fair Kitty when she —by the showing of her own counsel,
Purves, Q.C. —impulsively fired a bullet into his brain.
They had lived together at various places, each making
the other’s life “ a hell upon earth,” if they are both
to be believed. Evidently Dr. Fraser suffered from an
infatuation for his wife, or he would not have come back
to the domestic Sheol after having once got away to Eng-
land when the lady wasn’t looking. And Mrs. Fraser,
for her part, was perhaps addicted to a sort of fondness
for the doctor. She found a pleasure in being wildly
jealous of him, or pretending to be jealous of him, and
she is credited with having hurled dangerous missiles at
her unexcitable partner on sundry occasions—which is
indirect evidence of fondness in a woman of her ripe-
busted, theatrical type. Those whom such goddesses
love they invariably endeavour to make mad, and
when the endeavour fails they themselves grow madder
than ever. As to whether Mrs. Fraser was really
jealous, or merely shamming jealousy because she
couldn’t help it, there is no evidence to show. The
one thing certain is her inability to prove any good cause
for jealousy. Had there been any proofs available, the
clever little woman would have produced them at the
trial. As a matter of fact Mrs. Fraser, when called to
account for her putting of a bullet into her husband’s
brain, had no reasonable excuse to offer. There was some
evidence of violent language, and Mrs. Fraser’s counsel
did his best to make Dr. Fraser look an injuring rather
than an injured party when he was under cross-exam-
ination. But considering that the man with a bullet in his
brain had good medical reasons for wanting to speak as
little as possible, and was obviously disinclined to
assist the Crown’s perfunctory prosecution of his
wife, the counsel for the defence may be said to
have scored only a moderate success. Mrs. Fraser and
her counsel met with no interference worth mentioning
from the other side. They had the whole field to them-
selves, the counsel leading the way, and the lady following
him up to a certain point, where she set forth “on her
own ” and won an astounding verdict. Counsel Purves
represented Mrs. Fraser as a sweet hysterical wife driven
by her husband’s alleged cruelty to a sudden act of des-
peration, i.e. , the act of wilfully shooting the said husband
without malice aforethought. The golden-haired lady’s
statement from the dock was tearful and contradictory.
For “ nine long years,” said Mrs. F. to the jury, her life
had been “a misery” to her owing to her husband’s
cruelty. “ She had worked for him day and night
and made money for him, but in return he had
only insulted her,”, so “ she bore him no malice
at the time of the shooting,” and inasmuch as
he had lately left her, she begged him to return to his
dear little money-maker and resume the life of conjugal
misery which he wished to terminate. “She spoke to
him kindly, calling him by his pet name,” and when he
repeated his refusal to live with her, and “ come home
drunk and drag her about by the hair of the head ” as of
yore, she (the money-maker) cried, “ Then, what is to
become of me and my child?” A minute later “some
dust blew into her face, and she put her hand into her
pocket for her handkerchief. In taking it out the re-
volver, which she did not know was in her pocket,
came out too and got entangled in the hand-
kerchief. She recollected nothing more until she
realised that her husband was shot. She had not the
slightest intention of shooting him.” The jury affected
to believe Mrs. Fraser’s yarn. At any rate, they acquitted
her on the ground that the small Colt revolver (which re-
quired cocking before it could be discharged with a hard,
trigger-pull) went off by accident. In acquitting Mrs.
Fraser, the jury practically accepted all her statements
as simple truth, whereas, if they had judged the beginning
and the middle piece of her story by the brazen impudence
of its tail end, they would have come to a very different
conclusion.
The Patriotic Fund Muddle.
The first demand made on the N.S.W. Patriotic
Fund showed that alleged charity up rather badly.
One warrrior went away, leaving his wife unpro-
vided for. He didn’t even give her the usual order
to receive part of his pay, so she and her little
ones are starving. And the Patriotic Fund
£33,000 odd) won’t give her a farthing because it
is only raised to benefit injured soldiers or the
wives and families of soldiers who inay lose their
lives in the service. So it can’t be used to help
the starving families of injured soldiers (only the
injured soldiers themselves), or soldiers who
become incapacitated or die after leaving the ser-
vice through illness brought on by hardships
during the campaign, or the wives and families of
such soldiers. The exact wording of the resolu-
tion on which the Patriotic Fund is based :
That this public meeting of citizens affirms the desira-
bleness of the formation of a New South Wales Patriotic
Fund, for the purpose of assisting where necessary such
members of the New South Wales Contingent to South
Africa as may he.injured in the execution of their duty,
or the wives and families of those who may lose their lives
in such service, and of establishing the said fund on a
permanent basis for like purposes in future.
The administrators of the Fund must stick to the
exact letter of this resolution, or if they depart
from it they do so at their own risk, and are
guilty of misappropriation of the cash, ■po, to pu
the matter in a condensed form, the following
classes are left wholly unprovided for :
(1) Sick or starving wives and children of soldiers away
on service where the soldiers have made their patriotism
an excuse for desertion. .. ... j
(2) Wives and children of injured soldiers (the fund
only provides for the injured and incapacitated soldiers
th (3)'Soldiers who become incapacitated through disease,
the seeds of which were acquired during the campaign
(getting the seeds of consumption or other disease, espe-
cially if the results are not manifest till after leaving the
service, isn’t strictly “ being injured”—at least the ques-
tion is a very open one).
(4) The wives and children of such soldiers.
(5) The wives and children of soldiers injured m the
service but who die after leaving the service. These men
didn’t “ lose their lives in such service —they lost their
lives after quitting it. So while they survive they can be
personally relieved as “ injured,” but as the t und doesn t
deal with the wives and families of the injured the latter
won’t come in anywhere after the injured fathers die.
When all these limitations are considered it looks
as if fully half the cases that the Patriotic t und
is vaguely supposed to relieve are inexorably shut
out from receiving any benefit whatever. Who
drafted that famous and very remarkable resolu-
tion which is the basis of Fund, and why did
he do it ? Also, why was the resolution adopted .
*
How Pharaoh softened His Heart.
Melbourne Tramway Co.’s so-called concession
of the 48-hour system to its gripmen • and conduc-
tors, which, with a keen eye to business, it
worked into nearly a half-column advt., is by no
means as gaudy a boon as it looks. Practically,
it amounts to a rise in wages of 2s. Id. per week
for first-class men only—nothing more. The divi-
dend-making machine still works these men GO
hours per week. The wages for first-class grip-
men were formerly £2 25.; and £2 Is. for conduc-
tors ; the co. now pays time-and-a-quarter for the
last 12 hours, thus increasing the “screw” by one-
twentieth =2s. Id. The second-class men, who
work from 3G to 44 hours per week, gain nothing
whatever. But the sweating monopoly hasstalled-
off further agitation by this crafty move, and will
now reply that it has granted the eight-hour sys-
tem and has increased wages. The real fact is
that it has only nominally reduced the hours,
for in cases where it permits a man to
knock off after doing 48 hours, it actu-
ally reduces his wages to 355. 3d. per week.
The original trouble was that the co. agreed to
work its men eight hours a day, anything beyond
that to be paid as overtime. Then it paid them a
reasonable wage for eight hours’ work and worked
them ten hours or thereabouts, and now when it
goes back to the eight hours it cuts down the
wages correspondingly. So where the men get
the eight-hour limit, which the co. agreed to give
them all along but didn’t, they get the rights they
have been so long defrauded out of but get them en-
tirely at their own expense. And where they still
work GO hours they get a rise of 2s. Id. per week
at most. Both Age and Argus describe this as
a “concession,” and, like the granting of one day’s
rest in seven, it certainly is one —that is to say it
is mostly a concession to public opinion at the
men’s expense. It is to be hoped the public
and the Councils will remember this when
the co., as is intended shortly, asks for an
extension of time of its own “concession.”
The co. has received one extension of its lease
already. It is now engineering with a view to
getting another extension in return for consenting
to cut up its lines into penny sections. Judging
by the experience of penny-sections in George-
street, Sydney, it will thereby make more money
than it does now, and the co. is trying to arrange
to get its monopoly extended for a number of
years in consideration of its graciously condescen-
mg to make more money. The apparent reason
why it does not start the penny sections now, and
make more money at once, is that it would there-
by have to blurt out the fact in its monthly re-
turns that it was making an extra profit, instead of
a great sacrifice to the public convenience, and it
needs to get its extension before that fact
comes out if it is going to get it at all.
When the Tramway Co.’s proposal for a length-
ening of its lease to make up for the loss
it is going to incur by establishing penny sections
comes before the authorities the wisest proceeding
would be for the latter to say : “ Try the penny
sections for six months first. The loss, if any, as
compared with the corresponding six months of
previous year will be certified to by our auditors.
At the end of the six months we will either offer
you sufficient extension to make good the loss, or
you can abolish the penny sections again, and the
loss already incurred can be deducted from your
payments to the sinking fund.” That would be
business-like. In dealing with a concern like the
Melbourne Tramway Co. it is impossible to be
too business-like.
The Remarkable Crown Witness.
Vic. Crown Law authorities have just now a fine
chance to show their impartiality and love of that •
justice which they are supposed to uphold. In a
case at Melb. Criminal Sessions last week a young
man was charged with maliciously wounding Con-
stable Graham, said wound being caused By a
revolver-shot. Accused averred it was an acci-
dent. Judge a’Beckett, in summing up, said
that “ perjury had been committed on one side or
the other ; the evidence had been most contra-
dictory. The constables stated that they had
only one revolver among them, while the opposing
witnesses said they had distinctly seen two pro-
duced. The police denied using a life-preserver,
but three of the witnesses for the defence said
that a life-preserver had been used.” After a
short consultation the jury acquitted accused.
Also, two days later, at Castlemaine, in an arson
case, Judge Hood said that “the whole case
hinged on one boy’s (a Crown witness’s) statement;
the boy must either be a liar or accused was
guilty.” And again the jury disbelieved- the
Crown’s witness and acquitted. Wherefore the
C.L. Dept., which, whenever an accused
person’s statement is discredited, rushes
around in great haste and sets the law in
motion and gaols the prisoner some more for
his gross and premeditated perjury, is cordially
invited to show its bona-fides in the matter by
prosecuting, its - own witnesses for what these two
juries put down as perjury. By way of making
the need for a perjury prosecution more urgent
an interesting side-light showed up in the first of
these two cases. The revolver with which the
shooting was said to have been done, when first
produced was rusty and unworkable, so that it was
practically impossible to shoot with it, but when
handed to the jury next day it was found to have
been oiled and cleaned, so that the statement
about the shooting looked quite feasible. Of
course, nobody knew anything about it, and as
the Judge’s associate stated it had never been out
of his possession, the weapon apparently cleaned
itself up and oiled itself for the express purpose
of strengthening the case against accused. That
revolver is an ideal Crown witness, as they grow
in Victoria. It was there to secure a conviction,
and no trouble or expense was to be spared to
attain that end ; and if the evidence wasn’t
Strong enough it was prepared to strengthen it by
greasing itself as the case went on.
Stuck Fast.
Apropos of the Greater Sydney movement, or the
stoppage of the thing that never really moved fast
enougli to be called a movement —what is the good
of waiting till the 41 city and suburban councils
agree on a plan of Municipal Federation ? Seeing
that the first and worst complaint against these 4i
institutions is that they are hopelessly stagnant
and don’t move, it is absurd to wait till they move
before instituting the reform whose great purpose
is to make them more movable than they were
before. And the second objection to them is that
they don’t represent the people but only a small
squad of plural-vote property-owners, so it is still
more absurd to hang up a great people’s move-
ment till it gets the consent of certain institutions
whose woe and trouble is that they don’t represent
the people. If the councils as at present con-
stituted haven’t sense enough to so conduct them-
selves as to be worth preserving, which is the reason
of the Greater Sydney movement, it is foolish to
expect them to have sense enough to know that
they aren’t worth,preserving, or to have conscience
enough to say it if they do know it. Waiting for
the councils to decide on the need for their own
abolition is just the same hopelessness as waiting
for a criminal to try himself, and find himself
guilty, and hang himself. The short way out is
for Parliament to draft a scheme for complete
municipal reform, and then submit it to the vote
of the people —or else not submit it at all. Waiting
for the municipal councils to decide that, owing to
their incompetence and ignorance, and the
wretchedness of the system which allows such in-
competent and ignorant and dirty people to lie in
municipal councils, it is advisable to abolish them-
selves as a failure and a nuisance, is too slow a
process. The people have occasionally risen in
insurrection and shifted an incapable ruler, but the
incapable ruler who rose in insurrection and
shifted himself is a very rare product, and takes
much waiting for.
From Daylight to Dark.
Melbourne Employers’ Union President M’Car-
ron, in his inaugural address recently, expressed
grave doubts as to the beneficial effects of I ac-
tories Acts, and was painfully exercised over the
fact that this betterment of the conditions of work
for town workers drew men in increasing numbers
from the country ; therefore this president, in the
plenitude of his wisdom, thought these Acts
should be viewed with caution. He wouldn’t go
so far as to advocate their abolition, but he had
his doubts. “Was it to be expected,” said he,
“that men would work on farms for 15/- or 20/- a
week, from daylight to dark, when they could earn
6/- or 7/- for eight hours’ work in the city ? The
Government should do all in its power to encourage
people to remain on the land.” Precisely ! Quite
so! ! And the simplest and most profitable way
to do so is to improve their conditions of life to the
standard of the workers in the cities; to raise
their wages and to lower their hours to the same
level. If you have ten cows in a well-grassed
paddock, which will only feed that number, and
there are ten others outside fighting to get in, the
most sensible way to meet the difficulty is not to
turn all twenty on to the bare plains outside, but
to provide another equally desirable paddock for the
other ten. To the ordinary intelligence there
appears no earthly reason why the Factories Act,
with its hour-regulating and minimum wage pro-
visions, should not be made to apply to -the
employe 200 miles as well as the one 2 miles from
Melbourne Post Office. Why should the agricul-
tural laborer work from daylight to dark ? What
has the butter-factory hand done that he should be
forced to put in 70 to 80 hours a week ? And
what’s the trouble with the rouseabout and saw-
miller, or the baker, or tailor in the country
township ! When certain democratic members of
Vie. Assembly proposed to permit country muni-
palities to take advantage of the Act if they so
desired, the hide-bound Tories, backed up by
sundry country members themselves, objected
strongly. They didn’t want any Factories Act;
the people were not yet educated up to that
standard; the time had not yet arrived; and so
forth. So the country worker, failing to get the
same small measure of justice grudgingly yielded
to his town cousin, has begun to take the matter
in his own hands and to rush the cities, and while
the State deliberately sets to work to make
country life less desirable than life in the city
what else does anyone expect ?
The Mayor of Sydney made a mournful observa-
tion the other day when stating that he intended
to proceed against the owners, of some filthy
premises ; he said that he hoped this time “aider-
men would not be asking him to withdraw the
summonses.” When the average person is sum-
moned for keeping his premises in a state of filth,
and thereby bringing typhoid, diphtheria and
death on his neighbors, he presses his alderman
to get the proceedings withdrawn, so that he
may remain filthy and murderous ; and the aider-
man, for the sake of the dirty man’s vote,
hustles round and worries the mayor, and the
mayor weakly consents lest that alderman becomes
a nuisance and blocks business. If every adult
inhabitant had one vote and no more it might not
matter so much —there are actually some aider-
men who wouldn’t connive at the murder of their
fellow-creatures by typhoid and diphtheria for the
sake of one vote. But when the dirty inhabitant
has, say, four votes it is different. Most aider-
men would wink at the murder of any number of
people by typhoid to propitiate a man with four
votes.
“ C.C.” to The Bulletin, from Hobart: —
If filth spells Bubonic Plague, what sort of a, chance
has Hobart of escaping it ? A few of the inhabitants are
already writing to the local rag concerning the awful state
of the streets in their stinksome village ; hut the editor is
too busy sooling on the pups of war to take any hand in
sweeping his own doorstep. Most of the correspondents
only draw attention to such.every-day matters as gutters
blocked up with manure, decaying meat, fruit, dead cats,
and other unconsidered trifles; but one grumbler takes
exception to the fact that the city’s ineat-supply is hung
up in close proximity to stacks of sanitary pans collected
by the man who “ stalketh at midnight,” and the flies pay
and return calls between the pans and the meat. The
sanitary arrangements of the slothful village are far below
the same in a black’s camp. From every house in the side
streets the household “slops" run into the gutters—
gutters formed with uneven chunks of blue metal, so that
the filth lodges in the. crevices. Just smell them when
after a light fall of rain the sun brings out the aroma ! In
the houses whose back premises abut on to the footpath
one may notice instances where the “ pilgrims of the
night” have forgotten to close the little trap-doors
through which they remove their spoils. Yet, when a visitor
notices and remarks upon the absence of all sanitary
decency in this filthy village of Hobart, the native looks
surprised and says, “ Oh, we never notice it at all. It
only looks so bad to you because you are a new-comer ! ”
The civic authorities only grunt “ Whaffor?” in reply to
all remonstrances, and as the proprietary of the local rag
is intimately connected with the Municipal Council and
the Upper and Lower Houses of Parliament, the editor is
discreetly silent upon everything but the doings of the
filthy, ignorant, and treacherous Boers. Present writer
went to look at a house to let in the heart of
the village, which was so full of pestilential filth
left by former tenants that the agent offered to allow
a fortnight’s rent for the removal of the decaying rubbish
in the back-yard. Offer declined. In spite of the enor-
mous expense incurred by the stringent precautions
adopted here to prevent the plague striking us (we tar
the hawsers of the Sydney boats !) writer will take short
odds that it will break out shortly in Wapping, where the
houses abut on to an open sewer filled with indescribable
horrors. Hobart won’t even flush its open sewers when
the tourists’ season is over.
• ♦
Editor Bulletin. —During last month (March)
there occurred in Sydney no less than nine scaf-
folding accidents (of which I send you a list), two
of them fatal and the others involving broken legs
and arms, &c. There also occur many accidents
which are not reported, because the victims are
not taken to hospital ; and, in fact, legislation is
badly needed to give protection to painters, car-
penter's, and others of the building trades. Fac-
tory workers are protected from dangerous opera-
tions, and inspectors under the Act have power to
compel precautions for the safety of operatives.
But the building-trade workers are completely at
the mercy of the stinginess of masters who provide
faulty or insufficient scaffolding. Split planks,
rotten ropes, worn-out ladders are almost univer-
sal in the painting, plumbing, carpentering, and
allied trades in Sydney ; and failing a stringent
and strictly-enforced Act, the slaughter will go
gaily on. Dibbs appointed an inspector to deal
with the evil, but Reid promptly sacked him and
left things as they were. — Jack Shay.
At a meeting held last week, at Paddington,
N.S.W., to bring into existence a Citizens’
Sanitary Vigilance Committee, J. A. Philp, one
of the speakers, said that, as these vigilance com-
mittees would be formed in all the suburban muni-
cipalities of the metropolitan district of Sydney, a
Sanitary League, with representatives from the
committees, would bd a natural development of
the movement. The incidence of the plague had
brought the Greater Sydney question at one stride
into the sphere of immediate politics, and Premier
Lyne had intimated that he was looking to the
municipal bodies for the skeleton of a measure to
secure amalgamation. Now, continued Mr. Philp,
the basic curse of the frightful hygienic condi-
tion of Sydney (“like a fat corse which lies
and stinks in state ”) was the property-franchise
which enabled callous property-owners with an
ignorant impatience of taxation to rule the roost,
and he had no doubt that any draft legislation
emanating from the municipal councils would be
designed to perpetuate the property qualification.
A sanitary league could render inestimable public
service by working the people up to an understand-
ing of this important point to the end that the
principle of manhood, or even of adult-suffrage,
would be incorporated in the Bill. Two months
of such a league might well be a Greater Sydney
—and a cleaner; and no quarter to the old brigade
in the Sydney City Council.
♦
About the meanest people claiming a big share in
all the military glory that is going are those who
have been naturalised in the Transvaal, but have
refused to fight for their adopted country, and
now expect to be regarded as patriots by the
British people upon whom they lately turned
their backs. These people generally call them-
selves Englishmen still; and when one of them is
told to go to the front with the other burghers,
he having, when he was naturalised, under-
taken to do so when called on, the Jingo
papers ask us to picture the horror of
it! What really is horrible is that, in the- hope
of making a few pounds more, people should have
renounced Britain and their rights as Englishmen,
and now parade as patriots. If there is one set
of men in the world who deserve the name less
than others it is these ; for they have sold not
only their native land for a mess of pottage, but
their adopted land as well. If we honestly expect
the thousands of naturalised subjects on this con-
tinent to be true to Australia when she gets into
trouble, by all that is sensible let us give over
cheering these naturalised subjects of the Trans-
vaal when they prove false to their adopted coun-
try. Perhaps it would be just as well not to ex-
press too much horror even when the Boers do lead
the false ones outside and shoot them. It is not
worth while giving the idea that we wouldn’t do
anything like that, because, as a matter of fact,
we would, without any doubt at all. They have
universal military service in the Transvaal and the
bom or naturalised Boer who doesn’t serve when
called on is a deserter. Every country shoots
deserters in war time.
4,
Editor Bulletin. —Seems to me that Sydney’s
susceptibility to the bubonic plague is in some
measure at least the result of the city’s much-
overrated system of drainage. Under former
conditions all storm-water (along with house-slops)
was allowed a free run of the gutters ; and then,
if, in dry weather, the house-waste accumulated it
was obvious and cried aloud for a remedy ; while
in wet weather or during rain-storms the storm-
water served a good purpose by sluieing and flood-
ing all parts of the surface. But now by a
“ scientific ” system the storm-water from all the
roofs (which are practically the catchment-area of
the city) is conducted at once into the sewers and
wasted. Consequently there are countless areas
into which down-pipes previously discharged that
now never get washed-out, and the sluicing of the
streets mainly depends, even in the heaviest rain-
storms, on what rain actually falls on their own
surface. Wash, wash, wash—everything, early
and often —seems to be the best antidote for
plagues. Therefore, Sydney’s drainage system
should be modified so that the storm-water from
the roofs can scour out yards, areas, alley-ways,
lanes and other likely germ-beds. Otherwise there
should be compulsory washing-out of all enclosed
or partially-sheltered areas on which the natural
cleanser, storm-water, does not get a chance to
act. Hundreds of Sydney back lanes, yards,
alleys, &c., have not had a proper wash-out since
the old-time surface-discharging down-pipes were
altered and connected with the sewers.—S.O’B.
♦
The Southern Times (Bunbury, W.A.) cries to
John Forrest (Bunbury is John’s own constitu-
ency) to turn Federationist before his anti-Federal
attitude drives, the Goldfields into lawful or un-
lawful separation:—
If Federation is accepted, then, though it may he a
very bitter pill to swallow, let it be taken kindly, or worse
may have to be swallowed in the future. On the other
hand, if we stand on our dignity or persist in being
obstinate, we are bound to lose a large slice of territory,
and that to this district spells R-u-i-n. The moment the
119th meridian becomes the eastern boundary of this
colony, as a district we are doomed. We would lose all
that market for farm, dairy, and orchard produce, the
Collie-Goldfield railway scheme would fall through, the
harbour might just as well be allowed to silt up with
sand-spin, and Bunbury would become a deserted village.
The reasons are patent to the most obdurate. Given
Separation with Federation, and the first thing that
would be undertaken would be the construction of a rail-
way from Kalgoorlie, or Coolgardie, to Esperanee, and the
formation of a good harbor there. Where would the Wel-
lington and adjoining districts be then ? All supplies for
the Eastern goldfields would then come from Adelaide,
Melbourne or Sydney. Our produce would be stopped at
the 119th Meridian, shut out by the Federal Customs
duties. Where would we find a market? Those who,


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1899
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1899
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
£58,373,185
4,546,248
12,711,975
793,123
r\ 670,088
,L 012,322
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS- K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING-, Esq., M.D.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Clyde Engineering Cog. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
SWG-XNJBS
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
■<
Iggff
.
i
r
m
□
i&a
now that this new light had been shed on this question,
remain anti-Federalists, must supply the answer for
themselves. We repeat that Federation, though distaste-
ful to many people, must come. If we stand aloof, it will
be to wail a melancholy dirge on a lonely shore, our
misery being intensified by the shouts of triumph and
pteans of joy which will be wafted to us from the east, and
which will find a welcoming echo in the heart of every
Briton in the dear old mother-land.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Youth.”
Royal “ The Happy Life.”
Lyceum “ Defender of the Faith.”
Palace “Lady Dolly.”
Criterion Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Little Red Riding Hood” (last
nights).
Theatre Royal “When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Euou Rickards’ Variety Co.
A very large and cordial house welcomed
the Broughs back at Sydney Royal, and looked
with a friendly but rather difficult eye on Louis
Parker’s comedy of the “Happy Life.” This
work is called a comedy because Mrs. Brough is
insensible in the first act through falling down
stairs, and is in tears all through Acts 11. and
HI. ; and most of the other people are miserable
also. And it is called the “ Happy Life ” because
the two most prominent characters invent so
many new ways of being profoundly and horribly
wretched. Lovell —the hero of all the broken-
hearted joy—lives alone in chambers because he
is a noble-minded young pessimist with a great
soul, and dreams, and a mental haze, and a misty
yi arnf ulness, and many lopg-haired emotions. And
one Xmas eve a lady in evening dress stuns her-
self on the stairs, and remains insensible in his
rooms all night through unprovoked assault on
the bottom step with her head. He insists on
marrying her because she is “compromised,” in
the dirty eye of the world, by being stunned alone
on his premises, and she marries him because she
tllinks she is compromised and because the
back of her head is still swollen. They re-
solve to be nobly miserable ever after,- and it is
tacitly agreed that they will never, never smile
again. Within three weeks each loves the other, but
the wife assumes that her husband must loathe
her for falling downstairs, and the husband knoivs
that the wife hates him for not leaving her on the
cold back-step all night. So they only moan in
private and don’t explain. They crawl up the
stair at night and listen at each other’s keyhole,
and then they crawl down again, and wish they
weiedead, but don’t like to commit suicide lest
the other party should be annoyed at the corpse.
Every time he is going out of the room she rushes
after him to explain, and if she only took him
firmly by the coat-tail she might explain, unless
the tail came off, and even then she might tell
him how the case stood when he came back to ask
why she had dragged off the tail. But she always
stops halfway, as a kitten does when it rushes at
nothing and doesn’t arrive, and then goes back
and weeps bitterly on the sofa. And over and
over agai l he is inclined to seize her kindly but
emphatically by the skirt when she has finished
grieving in the drawing-room and is going to sob
in other parts of the house, and to tell her the
whole truth, even if the skirt comes away from the
waistband—but he doesn’t. In the end, a judici-
ous’but impatient friend shoves them together in
the last act.
* * * »
The casual side characters are more in-
teresting than the hero and heroine. They mostly
wobble about something, while the others wobble
about nothing. Brough, as the heroine’s father,
is the oppressed sort of old brown man who is
always married to the sort of woman who keeps
a hash house. Poor old Brough writes some kind
of a book in his old age, and lus kindly but miser-
able son-in-law secretly buys up all the copies, and
the ancient is so inflated at the run on his volume
that he rises up in weak penny arrogance, some-
what after the fashion of a worm attacking a
fenced city, and speaks severely to his benefactor.
Trough’s feebleness, and brownness, and crushed-
ness, and his weak indignation, which is like the
fury of a pint of skim milk, and his arrogance,
which is the arrogance of a man who is halt-
in' lined to assert himself, and insist on having
butter on his crumpet whether his wife likes it or
not, is an exceedingly clever study. Miss Bessie
Thompson, as Brough’s oppressor, a smooth and
venomous lady who offers a home to young gentle-
men, is likewise a clever and attractive work of art.
Everything Miss Thompson does is done well, and
on this occasion it is done quite as well as usual.
A certain flushed and swollen cad played by Percy
Brough calls for honorable mention, as do a few
more or less casual parts filled by Joseph Carne,
Leslie Victor, and Misses Noble and Temple. The
two leading characters are the most depressing.
Lovell’s hero is depressing merely because the
part is that of a bleak and cheerless ass, and all
that Lovell can do leaves it the same inherent ass
after all. Mrs. Brough begins to be a failure in
damp and melancholy parts. She doesn’t weep
gracefully ; she always grieves with the same set
of hard contortions, and at critical moments,
instead of suggesting picturesque woe, she is only
a rather large lady in a moist state. As a stunned
intruder on a stranger’s premises at the dead of
night she looks well, but for the rest of the time
she is only variable.
** * *
Sydney Liedertafel’s production of “ Lady
Dolly ” at the Palace Theatre. Sydney, may be
honestly commended as something far above the
average amateur standard. In certain ways a
large and capable amateur organisation like the
Liedertafel has advantages even over a good pro-
fessional company. The chorus hasn’t all the
same wooden hired smile ; it hasn’t been measured
for its smile ; it doesn’t feel that it must smile or
bo sacked ; and its look of gladness isn’t the look
that comes of hope deferred and 18s. a week. Its
giin may be somewhat out of step, but at least it
arises from the fact that the co. is proud and
happy, and part of it feels that it is capable of
playing Lady Macbeth, and the other part feels
that .it is having a night out and making a cheer-
ful, joyous ass of itself. Its clothes are new and
varied, and it isn’t harassed by the knowledge that
its grandmother is in the back row, and it will be
there itself by-and-bye. A good amateur co. is
often as good as a professional one while it is doing
things. It is when it isn’t doing things that its
weakness appears. Very often the last person
doesn t know whether to accept the encore or not,
and the next person doesn’t know whether the last
person is coming back or not, consequently the
foot of the last person sticks out of the wings on
one side, and the head of the next person sticks
out on the other side, and both wobble and hesi-
tate while the stage is left empty. But it is only
occasionally that the Liedertafel crowd bobs about
like this. It is a composed body, and keeps its
head wonderfully. Moreover it really has a head.
A great many people that keep their heads haven’t
got any.
* • • *
“ Lady Dolly ” is an opera with a very thin
and feeble plot, one or two respectable songs and a
lot of very good music. The thin part is by Margery
Browne, and the music by Alfred Hill. It is
propped up by a very powerful orchestra, and is
well staged, and well danced, and on the whole
well sung and acted. Misses Hetty Holroyd,
Bertha Caldwell, and Mabel Hastings and Mr.
Bums-Walker are good all round. Mr. Beattie
sings his part well and is an impossibly wooden
bpamard when he acts, and the veil of charity is
hereby drawn over the other leading character.
The veil of charity is made large in this country
to keep off mosquitoes, so it can cover many
things.
** * *
“ Constance Clyde ” writes regarding
“ Defender of the Faith ” at Sydney Lyceum :
The Lyceum play where the mad people are thrashed in
a mild, mechanical way, and given spangled silks and so
forth to be insane in at the Queen’s expense, has several
melodramatic characteristics besides the heroine who
says “Do not touch me ; there is danger in me,” and
when she is touched merely squeals and says that she is
a T . woma . n - (The number of occasions when Dora De
Winton informs the audience that she is a woman is in-
finite, and even gets on the soul of John Saunders, who at
other times manages to get a little reality into his
pasteboard characters.) Me the curfew that didn’t
ring that night, the author honorably confesses
to the steal which anyone can see half a mile
off, but keeps a steady silence regarding one or two
other “ coincidences ” which, maybe, are not so obvious.
The “ curfew ” isn’t much of a steal, anyway, because the
girl, who is standing on a solid support merely catches
hold of a magnified tea-bell, which isn’t swung by a deaf
bellringer far below, because he is only 2in. below and
isn’t deaf, and ought to have noticed something had gone
wrong just overhead. And the noble girl doesn’t swing
far above the roofs of the village, but merely waves her
floating drapery, by means of runs and jumps, about the
ears of the chief soldier-man, who forthwith exclaims,
“ What trickery is this ? ” whereas, if he had said, “ What
frippery is this? ” it would have been much more to the
point. When the dramatist confesses his indebted-
ness to the authoress of the immortal ballad
which metaphorically plants the English flag even
on the solar luminary itself (“ Slowly England’s sun was
setting”) the author is skilfully silent on the extraordin-
ary likeness between the small boy-child in the “ De-
fender” and the small girl-child in the “Flesh and the
Devil.” In both cases the small child has an incurable
disease and believes its persecuting father a great, good,
misunderstood man, and in both cases the father is bam-
boozled into releasing about-to-be-burned captives be-
cause the small child stands by prepared to fall down
dead if he finds out that the father even injured one hair
of the head of a mosquito. And in both plays the
diseased child guilelessly does a small deceit of its own
by pretending to feel very bad when the stern father
doesn’t knuckle under quickly enough. The moral of
those plays seems to be that in proportion as a man loves
his own children he feels a conscientious and religious
desire to burn and hang everybody else’s.
** * *
After a long and glorious run, “ Defender
of the Faith ” has reached the mournful wastes
of its “last nights.” The “Irishman” is in pre-
paration.
** * *
The great spectacle of “ Youth ” is sup-
posed to end at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) this week.
Miss O’Neil is due at this house on the 14tli with
“Camille,” and the advt. says nothing definite
about the fate of the establishment in the interval
between these two events. “Youth,” on the
strength of the scenery and the fine company and
the loud explosions, should have had a longer run,
but it had the misfortune to arrive just when the
war-enthusiasm had slumped like the jerry-built
walls of Jericho. The capture of Cronje, and
Joubert’s death, and the relief of Ladysmith
flattened out the excitement a great deal, and
then the bubonic germ came along, and part of
the population rushed for the Mountains, and part
rushed to insure its life, and part rushed after
rats, and all this diversion was bad for “ Youth.”
* * *
M‘Adoo’s Georgia Minstrels and Cake-
Walkers are returning to Sydney, and will hang
out their murky visages at the Palace on the 14th
(Saturday week).
** * *
The Rickards co. will resume business in
the new and resurrected Tivoli on Thursday, April
12. In the meantime, the principal item of news
is that Spry and Austin are in their last week.
They are probably the best - assorted couple
Manager Rickards has had during this writer’s
time, and when they go there will be a great void.
*
Alfred Darnpier takes possession of the
Criterion on the 14th with good old “Robbery
Under Arms.”
* * *
Bland Holt is freely spoken of as manager
for Musgrove and Co. at Melb Princess’s—“ co ”
embracing another London partner and a N.Y.
syndicato. Bland, it is said, will continue to run
his own concern. Nobody who knows how B.H.
stews over biz. as it is, can see how he is going to
take on the new thing without duplicating him-
self, or the aid of other miracles. Bland has
prospered by laying to his book, and he has laid to
it so assiduously that practically he has had no
existence outside the “house” for years; and as
he cannot sit up any later or get up any earlier
than he does at present without just getting into
bed at one side and falling out at the other, it
will only remain for him to develop somnambulism
and run the second show in his scanty dreams.
#* # *
At Melbourne Royal the murder of the
millionaire shop-walker and other matters are
thankfully received by large audiences. Consider-
ing that the millionaire is a somewhat penitent
sinner, whose velvet collar and general appear-
ance tend to remind one of what Speaker Mason
might have been if he had taken to the drapery
business instead of politics, Jim Radley’s life-pre-
server falls a little too hard on the gentleman.
But as a means of enforcing the fact that London’s
darkest hour begins “ When the Lamps are
Lighted,” or vice versa, the violent end of the
bloated capitalist is unobjectionable. Moreover,
it paves the way for Johnny Sheridan to push
burglar Jim out of the window in the third act.
Strange to say, the police make no visible fuss
oyer these catastrophes, neither is there any men-
tion of the coroner during the evening. After the
murderer has been manslaughtered by Sheridan
the police come along and arrest a wicked nephew
named Stephen, and the drama ends pleasantly.
The nephew’s name is the only legal evidence
against him, but it is conclusive enough, for all the
Stephens whom The Bulletin has ever met in
melodrama have been bad lots. The Geoffreys, as
a rule, were not much better.
* » * •
“When the Lamps are Lighted ” would
seem a saner narrative if the gloomy portions of it
were put through with more bustle and less shout.
Burglar Jim is unduly slow and rasping in his
delivery, also the alcoholic father, and his erring
wife, and the millionaire (what time he is alive)
could improve the entertainment by running their
voices up and down the scale instead of lingering
heavily on one or two notes. They grow weari-
some when they might be merely depressing.
Luckily there is no fault to find with the “ comic
relief,” wherein Widow O’Brien gets away from
her old identity and proves himself a happy,
snappy, versatile comedian of both sexes. Gracie
Whiteford, too, is always a genial little he or she
when required, and the private rehearsal of Dan’s
new tragedy gives the casual Semolina a chance to
shine.
** * *
Irene Franklin, who calls herself Dainty
and deserves the soft impeachment, is the latest
arrival at the Bijou. Irene sings three or four
clean American songs in a keen American voice,
which harmonises with her auburn hair. Like-
wise, she has a ’cute style of her own, and a pair
of highly-educated hands that appear to work on
swivels, and altogether Irene is a valuable addi-
tion to the Rickards co. The marionettes have
lost none of their weird humor, whereas the
Newsky Family begin to set people wondering
why they were imported in such wholesale quan-
tities. Tom Browne’s whistle is another waning
attraction, but Charles Seel remains firm on the
market, although his songs are thin and bitter,
and his character sketches suggest the things we
see after a cold pork supper.
** * *
The moderately triumphant season of
“Little Red Riding Hood” will terminate at
Melb. Princess’s on Saturday night. Public
opinion has not been very favorable to the panto.,
but the person who didn’t expect much joy from a
visit is satisfied wdth the result, as a rule. To the
writer’s way of thinking, Little Gulliver’s aggres-
sive antics and Miss Dorothy Vane’s legs are the
saddest features of the case at the Spring-street
theatre, but if the idea of putting a full-grown
Miss Dorothy into infantile shoes and socks ema-
nated from the management, the owner of the
wrong sort of legs is hereby forgiven. Anyway it
damaged the effect of Carrie Moore’s best ballad.
A Boy Blue who wants to be king of the starry
night in order that he may confer the Aurora
Borealis upon a besocked- Red Riding Hood is out
of accordance with the eternal fitness of things.
He might as well ask Britannia to let him rule the
waves every time the little girl goes down to the
beach to paddle. But no matter.
* * * *
On Saturday, April 14, old friend Charles
Arnold will (D.V.) take possession of the Prin-
cess’s, and show “What Happened to Jones.” At
time of writing, Arnold and his co. were still on
their way back from South Africa, the place where
the war-cablegrams are invented, and at about the
time when The Bulletin is published, the wily
voyager will probably be telling tales of Oom Paul
to suit the Australian interviewer. If anything
should occur to prevent Arnold coming up to
scratch, as per arrangement, the fact will be duly
notified next week.
** * *
Rumour having so often lied on the sub-
ject of Manager Williamson’s business plans, The
Bulletin will not swear that J.C.W. aforesaid
has taken the Alexandra on a 12 months’ lease,
with the option of renewal. He is said to have
done so. The report goes on to state that the
theatre will be more or less reconstructed within,
and the neighboring shops will be thrown into
the new spec, regardless of expense. Which is a
consummation devoutly to be wished.
Rickards is sinking a thousand or two in
entirely re-building Adelaide Bijou. The former
lessee is now running a waxworks show, poor
Adelaide’s only attraction until the Royal opens
with a panto, at Easter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J.H. : They are a security you can sell at any
moment without any loss (possibly at a profit)—if you
don’t pay too much for them. Better tender at par. If
you don’t secure any, the banks will give you the same
interest for a two years’ deposit.
* * * *
Consider again the marvellous unaccountable-
ness of the average Australian Treasurer! The South
Australian Treasurer, last January, offered to the South
Australian public 3 per cent. Government stock at £96.
In February it struck him that the local investor was
getting too soft a thing altogether, and he put up the
price to £97 10s. Now he has raised it to £9B. And
almost on the same day that the price to the local
investor was put up to £9B, Treasurer Holder offered a
£1,000,000 3 per cent, loan in London at a minimum of
£9U 10s ! Allowing for stamp duty (12s. 6d. per cent, to
the British Government), expenses of flotation (which are
greater in London than in Adelaide), cost of remitting
interest every half-year, and the fact that the London
debenture-holder pays no income-tax to the S.A.
Treasury while the local one does, Treasurer Holder,
even if he gets a big premium, will be offering the
British investor very much better terms than he offers to
the local one. Last year S.A. borrowed £1,500,000 in
London at 3 per cent., and got about £93 per £lOO. And
yet it considered it was doing something altogether too
liberal when it offered the same stock to its own people at
£96. How long is the Australian investor going to stand
this kind of mean and foolish and shabby insult ?
Less than two months ago the N.S.W. Govern-
ment offered £1,000,000 worth of Treasury bills in London
at 4 per cent., with a minimum of i 99 10s., and wouldn’t
let any local investor have a show. To-day it graciously
tells him that he may have £500,000 worth of the same
Treasury bills, issued under the same Act—provided he
will take 3J per cent. John See said the reason why the
first lot was offered in London only was that it was very
doubtful if the 4 per cent, bills would.have realised £99105.
in Sydney (this in face of the fact that Sydney was then
paying £lOO for 3 per cent, stock). He also said that
“ nothing could possibly have been gained bj- selling the
bills here.” Yet the present action of the Lyne-See
Government shows distinctly that it expects to gain some-
thing (10s. per cent, per annum, in fact) by selling the
bills here. In the same way, MAoriland is willing to sell
consols locally at 3J per cent., but when it had £300,000
worth of Treasury bills to offer, about six months ago, it
planted them all on the London market. This abject
crawlsomeness to the London capitalist and arrogance
towards the local one is wearisome as well as foolish.
» * * *
The big carrying firm of Wright, Heaton and
Go., Limited, reports a profit for the half-year ended 31st.
January, 1900, of £6873, which, with the balance of
£16,515 brought forward from previous half-year, makes
£23,388 available. Out of this the co. goes in for having
a great time. It pays a dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum (£1729), a. bonus of 25 per cent. (£8643),
and carries £13,016 forward. This leaves the co. with
reserves amounting to £18,963. Wright, Heaton and 00.
is a profitable institution of long standing. It paid 7 per
cent, in 1892 ; 7£ per cent, in ’93 : 8 per cent, in ’94 ; nil
in ’95 ; 14 per cent, in ’96 ; 11 per cent, in ’97 ; 10 per cent,
in ’9B ; and now it does a gloriously-sensational 35 per
cent. This is one of the concerns that everybody’s father
ought to have left him a lot of shares in, and the old
man’s neglect of his duty in this manner should make him
revplve in his grave.
* * * »
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.
(Sydney) reached the end of its third year on 28th Feb-
ruary, 1900. Its principal doings for these three years
have been:—
Profit. Dividend.
February, 1898 .. £1077 6 per cent. .. £5l
„ 1899 .. 5394 „ .. 112
„ 1900 .. 8788 „ .. 316
The Co-operative Wool and Produce 00. has a paid-up
capital of £11,417, so the profits are equal to nearly 80 per
cent. The 6 per cent, dividend absorbs £316, an addition of
£3,500 is made to reserve fund, raising it to £5,000 : and
£4,550 is handed back as bonus to the clients who entrusted
their produce to the co. for disposal. The remaining
£422, added to previous balance, leaves £1,666 to carry
forward. The bonus to clients reduces the total
commission charged on sales to somewhere about
1£ per cent., which is marvellously cheap as com-
pared with the huge rates chargeable by wool-sellers
before this concern started. But the Co-operative
Co. has a great advantage over many of its rivals
in the same line of business. It never raised
£1,000,000 capital and £4,000,000 debenture money, and
never went in for lending on station mortgages at boom
valuations. It is a selling institution only, and it hasn’t to
screw big profits out of its selling business to make good
losses on foreclosed provinces of dust and bones and dead
sheep. Under these circumstances its business is natu-
rally increasing fast. It sold 14,198 bales in its first year,
33,066 in its second,and in the year just closed it sold
46,056 bales’. These are large increases at a time when
the wool business in general is going downhill, and they
are likely to be much larger in the future.
* • « »
Lately Judge Boucaut, of S. A. Supreme Court,
settled the claim of an insurance society to appear
at the inquest on a “risk.” This particular “life”
had been written lately for £BOOO ; and there was the
usual clause warning him off suicide for 12 months.
Suicide was, however, suggested within the proscribed
limits ; and the society, dissatisfied with the first inquest,
at which a verdict of death from natural causes had been
returned, asked for another. And got it ; but not a
different verdict, though Symon, Q.C., worked hard. The
main question was whether the risk died of chloral
hydrate or fat; whereupon the doctor, an old army sur-


If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, have a
vacancy for a pupil in their ore-testing works. Thorough
tuition in assaying, metallurgical work, ore testing, etc.*
« • f *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melli.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* • • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * » ■
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
» « * •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, have delivered the first set of electrically-
driven triple double-acting plunger pumps for the Junc-
tion Deep Leads. These pumps are a fine sample of
colonial manufacturing skill. The total weight of the
pump is close on 100 tons ; all the gear wheels, which are
Bft. diam. and 12in. face, have machine-cut teeth. The
Otis Co. had to design and build a special machine to cut
these wheels. Two other sets of these pumps have to be
built to go down the shafts on adjoining mines. They
will all be operated from a central power plant, now near-
ing completion.*
* * * •
Insurance Opinion, July, 1899: “Not only
does the vigorous and enterprising Colonial Mutual Society
increase rapidly in point of magnitude, but it also exhibits
all the features that are characteristic of a prudently-
managed life office.”*
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. is still further
extending its already large rock-drilling plant, and an
order has been placed with the Australian agents, Parke
and Lacy Company, Ltd., for twelve more Ingersoll-
Sergeant drills of the most recent type. The number of
drills of the Ingersoll Co.’s make now in use on the Pro-
prietary Co.’s property must be immense. They have
been using them from the early days, and every year more
are added. The way in which the “ Ingersoll ”'has been
almost exclusively adopted, after the most careful and
exhaustive tests with machines of other makes, is an
object lesson to smaller companies undecided what drill
to get, and a further proof, if proof were needed, of the
superiority of this machine over all others.*
* * « »
Of South Australia’s exports of £8,388,396 last
year only £3,945,045 represented the province’s produce.
Nearly all the balance was received from Broken Hill for
export or received from abroad and exported for use in
Broken Hill and Western N.S.W. When a province has a
centre like Broken Hill on its borders for which it serves
as a channel of communication with .the world, that pro-
vince’s trade statistics become a truly wonderful thing !
t
XETZ-5F
*7
TME
MEMBER
mm
MILE
toiei
ZETZ sprincN
'Gcpe#
Famous
Pebueecd
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS,
Cope Bros, & Co,, Ltd,, Liverpool
pr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Agents i M, Rutty & Go,, Sydney.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(o/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any G;m Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
geon, who made the post-mortem and who said “ Fat ”
with much. emphasis, offered to take 40 grains of the
hydrate—which was more than the Man who was Dead
had had. Offer declined ; but it probably wasn’t wasted,
after all. Nevertheless, it proved nothing; for people
have often died from less than 30grs. chloral.
* * * *
The Mutual- Life Association of Australia closed
an eminently prosperous year on 31st Dec., 1899. Some
recent figures :
Prei [lnterest, Total F Added
miums. I etc. ; Income. * jense3 ' to Funds.
1891 £154,198 £45,257, £199,455 £47,080 £76,578
1892 151,066 50,194: 201,260 44,545 73,366
1893 146,762 52,525 199,287 40,959 54,748
1894 141,994 53,2351 195,229 40,698 46,515
1895 141,822 53,513 195,365 38,114 38,782
1896 143,138 54,584 197,722 41,912 47,993
1897 151,203 57,373 208,576 41,676 54,433
1898 158,118 58,079! 216,197 42,502 67,411
1899] 174,645 58,880 233,525 44,117 101,759
The main points are that the Mutual Life Association
had, in 1899, the largest premium income it has shown
for nine years, the largest total income, and by far the
largest addition to its funds. Also, it hadn’t quite the
largest expense bill. The total funds are now £1,359,363.
The expenses, as usual, are heavy, being equal
to £lB 17s. 10d. per cent, on total income, but heavy as
this rate is, it is a marked improvement on all previous
years since 1891. The expense rate, in proportion to in-
come, has been as follows
1891.. £23 18 2 per cent. 1896 ..£22 310 per cent.
1892 .. 22 2 7 „ „ 1897 .. 19 19 7 „ „
1893 .. 20 11 0 „ „ 1898 .. 19 13 0 „ „
1894 .. 20 16 9 „ „ 1899 .. 18 17 10 „ „
1895 .. 19 10 2 „ „
This is the first year that the Mutual Life Association has
got its expense rate down below £l9 per cent, of total in-
come, and it is to be hoped the reduction, which has been
more or less continuous since 1891, will still go on.
The only really depressing feature in the present
report is the fall in the rate of interest earned on invest-
ments. The earnings for 1899 are only £4 10s. per cent,
on the average funds, which compares badly with some
previous years’ interest rates :
1891 .. £6 8 2 per cent. 1896 .. £4 18 2 per cent.
1892 .. 510 2 „ 1897 .. 4 18 7 „
1893 .. 6 7 7 „ 1898 .. 414 11 „
1894 .. 6 310 „ 1899 „ 410 0- „
1895 .. 502 „
The last drop in the interest is the biggest and most
sudden up to date, and looks bad for future bonuses. At
the same time, the drop is universal, and affects all offices
pretty much alike. The Mutual Life Association has now
definitely reduced its estimates of future interest-earnings
to 3. j per cent, per annum. So there is a safe margin of
£1 per cent, between the estimate and the reality. Even
after setting aside large reserves to meet the reduced
interest-estimates, there is a surplus of £68,000. There are
no dubious-looking assets in the accounts, and the Mutual
Life Association still follows the wise and safe practice of
writing off losses and depreciation every year. It is a very
sound and well-managed institution, whose only weak
point lies in the fact that Australia has far more life-offices
than it requires, and the competition makes business hard
to get and expensive.
It would do much good in Australia if it was
legally enacted that nobody should start a new life office
without a licence, and that no new licences should be
granted till the population reaches 10,000,000 at least.
Theoretically, of course, every man has a right to start a
new office if he wants to, and it would be a shameful
interference with the liberty of the subject not to let him
do it. But nowadays all manner of individuals start new
assurance offices for a living, and each new office is a pub-
lic injury. Twice as many agents, managers, secretaries,
clerks, directors, &c., as are really needed have to get
their salaries and their office rent and their advertising
bills out of the existing business, and therefore every new
office not only makes heavy expenses itself but keeps up
the expenses of the old offices. And the policy-holders
have to pay these expenses.
* * * *
The Maoriland dredge which lately produced
1187 ozs. gold in one week is the Hartley and Riley ; its
previous best week gave 756 ozs. Cost of working does
not exceed 10 ozs. per week, and the co.’s capital is
£7,000, so that original holders of this stock are at present
travelling on the royal road to fortune.
» * * *
Dunedin is in the toils of a Dredging Boom. The
national Scotch caution has disappeared like a thief in
the night. Miles and miles on the Molyneaux and its
tributaries—one Molyneaux dredge lately got 1187 oz. gold
in a single week—also in Southland and on the West Coast
have been pegged. There are now on the Mining List
222 co’s., out of which, at the outside, 35 are working,
though the coming winter will see others start.
All the foundries are working night and day, and have
orders that will take them two years to meet; also many
dredge orders have been sent to Australia. On the aver-
age the contributed capital of a co. is not a penny less
than £7OOO ; which means that a liability of over 1J mil-
lions is to be met from so small an area as Otago Province,
for only a fraction of the liability has been incurred by
outside towns. The Boom, to a large extent, had its
origin in the sensational returns of the Hartley & Riley
Beach Co., which has paid in about nine months £4 17s.
6d. in divs. per £1 share. The shares are now at £l4.
Some other divs. paid are :—Golden Gate, £3 3s. 6d. ;
Golden Treasure, £3 13s. 6d. ; Magnetic, £1; Matan, £1
Is. 6d. ; Clyde, £2 10s.; Otago, £1 6s. 6d. ; Dunedin, £1
15s. ; Enterprise, £2 19s. 6d. The Otago Dredging In-
dustry has come to stay : but there will be much bitter
experience. Some cos. have been floated (as in Australia)
to dredge hard, rocky river-bed, with a small strip of
workable ground sufficient to give it a start; while others
might as well try to dredge a quarry. The last year of
the century will close over the heads of many wiser and
many sadder men.
* * • *
B.H, Prop, people say there is no bluff about
their independent water scheme. But they will have to
do some fighting first. Two objections have been lodged
to the granting of the rights the co. seeks —one from the
B.H. Water Supply, Ltd. ; the other from a representa-
tive of the owners of Mundi Mundi station, through which
flows the creek it is proposed to dam when it flows at all.
The former says there is no power in law to do what the
mining co. proposes ; the squatter pleads that and his
riparian rights into the bargain.
Apart from the Water Co., the mining co’s
. already have a water-service owned and managed by a
trust composed of themselves. In General Manager
Howell’s droughty days it was found that the bed of a
large plain, surrounded by hills, from eight to twelve
miles out from the mines, was composed of limestone
good for fluxing. Whenever they sunk more than 12ft. in
this limestone water poured in. The mines, scenting a
supply, put on engines and laid a pipe-track ; and for 10
years, despite a most persistent drought, millions of
gallons have been pumped annually from this mysterious
supply.
The late Henry Dodds’ place on the board of
B.H. North has been taken by H. J. Daly, presumably as
the representative of the English people who lately
wanted to buy the whole of this and an adjoining mine,
but would not give the price. More mill is to be built,
and other plant; and though the ore is still poor and the
metal-extraction ditto, developments below warrant the
additions. Nevertheless there lately have been move-
ments in North and Junction stock which have passed the
understanding of those on the mines ; and some fingers
are going to be burnt.
• • » •
Managing Director Woodhead, of the British, is
on the point of retiring—if he doesn’t actually get there
before this reaches type. He goes to Queensland, partly
to keep an eye on the affairs of the copper co. he lately
floated in England. Woodhead believed in the British
when it was hard work to get anybody else to ; he leaves
it div.-paying, with a good plant, and better underground
prospects than it has had any time since the main work-
ings fell in nine years ago, and this in spite of the fact that
most of its carbonate ore has been gouged out. And there
is still more scope for prospecting in the British than in any
other B.H. mine.
* » * *
Block 10 is the only Broken Hill'mine which
has not changed its general-managers. Capt. Warren,
who lately completed 10 years of service (Block 10 was
originally held by the B.H. Prop., which kept it idle for a
few years), now goes to Europe, recruiting. The co.
called up only £15,000 ; it has paid back over £BOO,OOO.
• • « •
Booth’s United, N.S.W. “Instructions have
been received from London to close down the mine which
never looked better.” Which appears to be the end of a
much-advertised concern that tried to live on assays.
• * • *
Cobar Great Western, N.S.W. 1965 tons for
the half-year for bullion valued at £lll5. Admitted that
the cyanide works have been a failure. The policy seems
to be to go on monkeying with what might be made a
good mine.
• * * *
Anglo-Australian Exploration : The Company
that handled the Gibraltar, Gallymont, and other N.S.W.
mines, under the guidance of Eissler, had a meeting in
London last month ; faith is now centred in the Mt.
Boppy and Bimbimbi mines. One shareholder
complained that he had been induced by means
of the false representations of a certain gentleman to take
shares in the co., which are now practically valueless. He
characterised the way in which the properties had been
foisted on to the co. as scandalous, and said that when
the new Bill with regard to company-promoting came
before the Commons he would lay the facts before a
prominent M.P.
* • • •
How N.S.W. mining ventures are boomed :
“ Yesterday the legal manager of the Mount David G.M.
Company, Rockley, received an intimation from the mine
manager to the effect that he had cut a small leader on
Wednesday in the lower crosscut, showing color of gold.”
“ Yesterday a telegram from the dredge master of the
Turon River Gold Dredging Co. was received in Sydney
stating that six buckets would be attached to the ladder
this week.”
Nice kind of pap to keep up the spirits of the share-
holders who “ came in on the boom.”
• * * *
Months back it was stated by the apologists of
Turon River Dredging Co. that “ the dredge is at present
slowly feeling its way to the famous Golden Point, where
the phenomenal yields were got in the past, and would
reach it in about six weeks, and very high returns may
then be looked for.” It’s evidently not there yet, judging
by the last couple of returns. Reports always carefully
state the number of hours worked, thus: “ 118 hours,
260 z.,” but each return represents a week, for all that,
and if a lot of time has been lost in stoppages and repairs,
so much the worse for the shareholders.
* * • *
Campbell’s Creek dredge : 160 oz. taken from the
top ripples in last clean-up. Sales made at Is. 2d.—indi-
cating that the Victorians have lost faith in it.
* * * *
Bendigo: Eureka, working stone at 3030 ft.,
finds it unpayable at present. In fact, the reefs generally
in the belt, so far as pierced, are disappointing. New
Chum Railway, working a reef at 3200 ft., washed off 330 z.
from 138 tons for its last fortnight’s work. But these
Bendigo cos. do such work ! Here is the Unity paying for
new machinery out of sJdwt. stone. And the N.C. Con-
solidated is even working 2£dwt. stone rather than pass
it. Suffolk will shortly reappear on the div. list, after an
absence of years; but there is nothing sensational in store.
Great Southern is improving again. South New Moon
has its new battery at work ; there will be regular divs.
for some time. Field’s total for first 12 weeks of year :
35,2000 z. (against 47,8700 z. last year), divs. £33,200
(against £41,950), calls £27,200 (against £32,619).
An effort at Stock Exchange reform in Mel-
bourne has been begun which is likely to end in dire
failure. Mr. George D. Meudell has proposed that the
committee consider the question of adopting the
system of fortnightly settlements in use on all European
and American stock exchanges. But the members object
to be brought into line with the more advanced old world
institutions. Business would be increased, risks lessened,
and more money made by all the brokers, while the
general public would benefit by the separation of jobbers
from’ brokers. But the old cash system is good enough for
the majority, and so probably the reform will not be
carried. Besides, it might mean that the Sydney Ex-
change would have to follow suit, and if ever that vener-
able body does get up and shake itself it will fall to pieces
amidst a cloud of dust.
* * * *
Long Thought Of mine, Ballarat. Buyers of
scrip a few months back at 15s. now down to Is. or
2s. The Ballaratians are getting a reputation for
smartness. Lots of people are still chewing the bitter
end of that terrible dragger, Central Plateau.
* * * *
Croydon notes, dated March 19. February
yield, 2049 J tons for 46320z —a good average. This did
not represent output, as several big crushings were hot
cleaned-up at end of month. Divs. for month, £7OOO ;
calls, £450. Cashman’s Golden Gate 3 and 4 south
syndicate is now dividing £4OOO per month. Late crush-
ings : second partial clean-up from Vile’s Block, 5170 z.
from 250 tons. Third clean-up from Cashman’s Golden
Gate 3 and 4 south, 1048 oz. from 340 tons crushed —gold
worth £2 13s. 5Jd. per oz. Rogers’ Golden Gate (John
Bull Co.) looking up under able mine management of J.
Thurston ; late returns nearly 480 oz. from 220 tons ; mine
looking well. By the way, J. Rogers, who formerly
owned mine, applying for leave to appeal to Privy Coun-
cil against recent Full Court decision.——Cuthbert’s
Golden Gate 5 south, at last advices from field, was
crushing a 2000 ton parcel for an anticipated satisfactory
result. Croydon advices, dated March 17, announce
the discovery of tin on the goldfield, about 30 miles from
town, alleged to be payable. Large number of claims
pegged out. Specimens brought into town and assayed
gave returns from 20 to 50 per cent., but no development
work done to prove permanency of lode or payableness.
Experienced miners state tin indications extend in direct
line for four or five miles, with outcrops of ore; but,
except a little trenching, nothing of consequence done
when mail was leaving.
• • * *
Mt. Garnet Freehold has proved ore a hundred
feet or so further south since preparation of last half-
yearly report.
9 * * *
One of general manager Stewart’s pets of the
Chillagoe R. and M is the Queenslander, which appears
to be developing really well. The tunnel, for instance,
has proved over 60,000 tons of ore of a uniform grade of 5
per cent, throughout. And on many of the C.R. and M.
Co.’s mines the gold-contents are wonderfully high. Out-
side of the Ruddigore tunnel’s week’s average of ljoz.,
the Hobson bulked 7dwt. for a big depth in the No. 1
shaft; the P.P.A. went 4dwt. at depth of 45ft. ; and the
Lady Jane is said to have given 7dwt. And in every one
of these oases the copper-contents have also been high.
* * * •
F. W. Bacon, chairman of N.S.W. Co-Operative
Wool and Produce 00. Ltd., threw down the gauntlet in
bitter earnest at the co’s annual general meeting on 29th
March : “ We will stick to our original ground, and fight
the one-eighth until it is killed as St. Patrick killed the
snakes in Ireland.” At the above meeting, one seconder
to a resolution referred to the directors “ as workers, not
ornaments.” Now, Messrs. Bacon, Lfeslie, M'Phillamy
and M'Master are, strictly speaking, not pretty, but they
are perfect de’ils for the siller.
Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet mines: “ The appear-
ance of garnet rock in these mines has caused much
uneasiness, but a reliable authority says the so-called
garnet rock is rich in lime and will be useful as a slag in
the blast furnace and in that capacity will economically
replace limestone.” Alas ! There is altogether too much
limestone at Chillagoe. Garnet rock is usually richer in
silica than anything else, and there ought to be some
garnet rock in a mountain distinguished by its name.
Published last week that the first section of the Chillagoe
plant will consist of six blast furnaces. The reports from the
mine are still as colorless as ever; something the matter with
the mine or the manager, and it is about time the public
ascertained which. The bulk-assay values of all the ore
intersected in the Mt. Garnet property are given every
week and it is noticeable that they are coming down,
although they are still good enough to pay when worked
on the scale proposed.
* * • *
Einasleigh Freehold Copper Co.’s property
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) looks like being a great
copper mine. High-grade ore cropping a great distance ;
main shaft, sunk west of formation, is down 140 ft. and is
sunk at a point 103 ft. west of hanging-wall. Already the
sink is splashed with copper pyrites. Co. gets all its
supplies from Townsville, and sends best-grade ore as
back loading. 31£ tons from the open cut returned 22
per cent copper, 3oz. silver, and 12dwt. gold per ton.
Winding-engine on road, and small smelter to be des-
patched soon.
* * * *
Q. mining items. No. 1 North Smithfield, Gym-
pie, crushed 164 tons for 1014 oz. Favorable developments
in Charters Towers eastern ground have caused a big
revival. Brilliant Centrals have got it good after three
long years ; shares have jumped from 12s. to 395. during
the last three weeks. Day Dawns also in it; many props
and stays of this field keenly interested, as it means new
life to a lot of them. Some results —Kelly’s, 1030 tons,
for 13370 z improvement; Brilliant, 1050 tons, for
13800z.—3d. div.; Victoria and Caledonia, 3d. div. ;
Victorias, 3d. ditto.
* * • *
Lake View Consols : Ex-Manager Callahan
has left Kalgoorlie for London. Stated that he means
to set himself right with the public by proving that
his directors lied in saying that he had led them to believe
the 30,Q000z. monthly output could be maintained in-
definitely. Writer knows that Callahan will be able to
show by official documents, cables, &c., that they were
fully aware of how long this phenomenal output was likely
to last, that Callahan himself only did as he was told in re
gold-production and was also careful in wanting to know
what the directors wanted him to do before he did it. In
his absence the directors insinuated that he was wholly to
blame and that they were quite innocent. They are now
engaged upon the consideration of a scheme with
the view of ensuring a complete check upon the
workings and operations of every department in the
mine, including that of the general manager himself.
As usual, everything passed off satisfactorily at the meet-
ing. One shareholder desired to reduce the directors’
fees and percentages but the chairman, Col. Villiers,
promptly ruled him “ out of order,” whereupon another
shareholder said he would be quite satisfied to give the
directors double as long as their divs. were in proportion.
Great Scott! What have the directors to do with the
gold-production ? Are the shareholders asses enough to
imagine that dividends are regulated by the weight of
their fees? The chairman alone received last year nearly
£3OOO in fees and percentages, and many other thousands
were divided amongst his confreres. In other words they
take each of them every week about £5O for running a
mine the shareholders of which have had the consolation
of seeing the market blocked from £2B to £ll in a few
months. In the absence of Callahan everything went off
well, but—there will be trouble when he gets back.
* • * •
Sydney Evening News mining item: “ South
Kals all right till they start the smelting. Are reputed to
be good buying.” Probably no one knows less what is
meant by this than the author of it.
• * • *
Hannan’s Pride of the Valley. Half-yearly
report: “ The old grey horse is so poor that he is sure to
die in the winter as he is very old and the work is too
heavy.” Pity the sorrows of a poor old horse ! Sydney
D.T. says the report is practically a blank though the
manager indicates that a profit might be made by con-
densing water and the mine can furnish 2000 gals, daily.
The latest by wire : “ Fairly rich discovery made in
Hannan’s Main Reef. Will be permitted to examine
shortly, favorable for us.” Hardly necessary to say that
this alleged Westralian mine is managed and owned in
Sydney.
• » * •
Great Boulder: Last month’s gold production,
over 70000 z., brings output to date up to 355,8560 z. from
154,400 tons—average, nearly 2Joz., of which a consider-
able portion came from tailings. A Sydney Sunday
paper said recently that this mine had 1,000,000 tons of
tailings—about six tons of tailings from every ton of
stone.
* * * *
J. G. Dunne, one of the ancients among Westra-
lian prospectors, claims to have got on to a big thing at
Mt. Malcolm, for Alec. Forrest’s Perth syndicate. A shaft
sunk to cut the lode has been flooded at about 130 ft., so
there is probably a lode there. At surface and in pot-
holes a very big formation shows—32 ft. wide, Dunne says,
averaging 15dwt. ; but shoots run 2ozs. or more.
* * *
The sweeping reduction of charges at the Perth
mint and the competition for the shipping of the gold to
the Eastern mints have not very much affected the first
destination of the bullion from Westralian fields. Of
117,8490 z. exported in Feb., 53,2420 z. went to London in
bars, while Perth received only 31,4860 z., Melb. 18,3170 z.,
and Sydney 96020 z. The last named represented just the
quantity of gold smelted out of Westralian ores at N.S.W.
works during the month.
* * • •
The Associated Northern Co., the new owner of
the Iron Duke, already begins to show that the mine did
deserve some of its early reputation, after all. The old
co. did little but dead work on a most elaborate scale ;
the new is after ore, and has thus far several thousand
tons blocked out.
■ * • •
All the rich stuff hasn’t gone to Paris Exhibi-
tion. The Klondyke claim, at Warrawoona, has lately
given 1080 oz. from 87 tons. Certainly it doesn’t pay to
carry mullock to the battery out there.
* * • *
Associated Mines (W.A.) people have come a
cropper over the Feb. operations. (They clean up on 12th
of the month and call it the preceding month’s returns.)
They have been running in 2oz. stuff to sweeten things.
But the process that secured such good results from
12dwt. ore —extracting at least lOdwts.— takes very little
more than lOdwts. out of the 2oz. stone. And the doctors
—otherwise metallurgists—differ as to cause. Some
blame roasts, some other things. 121bs. cyanide per ton
of ore has been run through some vats in treatment and
re-treatment this month. And cyanide costs Is., or over,
per lb. in W.A. Precipitation in zinc boxes is as good as
ever. Consolation, perhaps, that other mines can do no
better. Cost of production for Feb. is published as £2 Is.
Bid. and a fraction per ton. 5137 tons for 37630 z. cost
£10,722 to produce! “Capital account” a fid “general
upkeep ” bring the total expenditure to £20,072.
“ Total expenditure .. £20,072
“ Note. —Owing to past mismanagement six days of the
Feb. return were included in the Jan. return ; hence the
costs of production are more than usually high.—A. Bris-
towe, Comptroller.”
This is a footnote published with the Feb. return from the
Associated. But how does it agree with the fact that the
Jan. clean-up—a two tcflthree days’ job—started on 12th
of Feb., and that for Feb. on the 12th of March, as is their
usual custom ? Is it only a sly slap at those managers
who lately resigned.
* * * *
In about two months from now the Gt. Boulder
ought to be into the lodes pierced by the bores at 900 and
1000 ft. ; and then we shall probably see some more rocket
outputs.
• * * *
The IST.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Limited, holds its next wool-sale on 25th inst.
* * * »
S. Australia’s old-established copper producer,
the Wallaroo and Moonta, whined lately, when the men
wanted better pay, that it had made forward contracts,
and was not beneiiting half as much as people thought
from the copper jump. Still, the world hasn’t been all
cold for the co., for, besides paying for a lot of machinery,
it has just declared a bonus of 2s. in addition to the usual
Is. div. And, though they haven’t said much about it,
the miners, formerly about the worst paid in Australia,
have been buying butter instead of dripping lately.
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Bow’s Buchtj Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY.
MERGERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOF f FRA NS E FEL 1 .
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
iW IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
TBCE POPULARITY of PHOTOGRAPHY
IS ESTABLISHED BY
HARRINGTON’S
Federal - Commercial - Enterprise
Price, 5/-
(Size of picture, 2Jx2£ in.)
Price, 12/6
(Size of picture, 41 x 31 in.)
Price, 21/-
(Size of picture, 4Jx3J in.
CAMERAS & OUTFITS,
Comprising :
CAMERA
LENS
PLATEHOLDER
PLATES
CHEMICALS
df
DISHES
PRINTING PAPER
CARD MOUNTS
etc., eto.
With
Book of Complete In-
structions for Beginners.
Each of these Cameras is a Marvel in Itself. They may be used for Portraits, Groups,
Landscapes, Seascapes, Snapshot, etc.
HIGH-GRADE INSTRUMENTS -from £3 to 50 GUINEAS.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD., Photographic Merchants,
66 KING STREET,' SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch —
34 Queen-st., Brisbane.
}
Agents in every
Colony.
{
Victorian Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st-, Melb.
SOCIETY
The precedence question between Sydney
Mayor Harris and Premier Lyne will, it is ex-
pected, be determined before the departure of the
Imperial Bush Contingent. Last contingent went
away amid a blither of conflicting etiquettes, the
Mayor, in the end, riding first, and the Premier
lumbering after. Since then official circles have
been looking up and consulting authorities, and
the result will probably shock a pound or two of
flesh off Knight Matthew. In fair play it may be
said that Harris did not originate the rule he so
doggedly enforces. His predecessors in office
lived up to it with all their might, and Harris is
simply trustee of the anomaly to hand it down,
if allowed, to successors. The Mayor of Sydney,
it can be officially demonstrated, takes a place, in
all processions initiated by the Govt., not only
behind the Premier, but behind all the Executive
Ministers.
* * * *
Is it, or is It not, true that when the New
Caledonian Govt, applied to the N.S.W. Govt, a
few weeks ago for some prophylactic serum the
application was brusquely refused ? The refusal
was necessary, of course, for supplies here were
miserably low, but it is alleged it wasn’t even a
fairly courteous refusal. If this is true, how can
N.S.W. have the gall to accept the French Govt.’s
gift of 10,000 doses of Yersin serum now on the
water ?
THE BRAVE DESERVE THE FAIR.
FIRST LYDY (with broken feather in her hat ):
“ I do 'ope Bill-won’t be killed in the
war. ’E’s a ’ero. ’E kissed me.”
SECOND LYDY (with discalared eye): “Then he is
a ’Ero !”
A letter is printed in Sydney Sunday
Times to the effect that, so far, there has been no
Protestant clergyman seen at Sydney quarantine-
station to console the unfortunate plague-patients;
and that patient Haynes, who died in quarantine
last week, of plague, was attended by a R.C.
priest, though he asked for a clergyman of his own
faith. The Bulletin regards the story as in-
credible ; but should it unhappily be true, the
facts constitute a disgrace to religion—especially
at a time when the clergy of all sects are en-
thusiastically whooping-on the populace to war.
» • * *
The Victorian Government should hold a
strict enquiry into the foundering of the small
steamer Glenelg, with a loss of some 30 lives.
Valentine Bundy, one of three survivors, says
that during the gale ‘ ‘ the chief steward called out
to the captain that there was a crack along three
plates under the stern of the vessel.” How old
was the vessel ? Why did the captain have an
idea, as it was declared he had, that he might
never come back ? Was she a sound, well-found .
boat, or was she a basket of old iron ?
The most respectable Sydney papers are
already devoting columns advocating days of
prayer to stop the plague. But is it right to ask
the good God to have mercy on those who have
allowed their oity to degenerate into a mere pig-
sty ?
* * * *
A thousand tons of rotten refuse taken
from the Sydney plague-area in two days ! A
thousand condemnations of the corrupt and stag-
nant City Council.
* * * *
Official English. N.S.W. Government
Gazette notifies the appointment of Matthew
Harris “to be a member of the Board of Health
(during his occupation of the position of Mayor,
and to terminate after that time).” There are
those who wouldn’t regard the “termination” of
Matthew as a national misfortune at the present
juncture.
* * * *
The humours of Sydney municipal filth.
Speaking at a deputation to the N.S.W. Premier
the other day, Mr. Hughes, M.L.A., said that:—
The Oity Council had, in fact, ample powers, but never
used them, and the public health had now been imperilled
by the Council’s “grave and criminal” neglect. He
could give many instances. One was the lane at the rear
of the premises occupied by the . late Oapt. Dudley.
He was informed by Mrs. Dudley that three weeks before
Oapt. Dudley’s death a complaint was made to the Council
authorities as to the state of this lane, which was then
filled up with dead cats, decaying vegetable matter, and
other filth. No notice whatever was taken of this com-
plaint, and it was not until yesterday that the lane was
cleaned up by the Government men, when no fewer than
75 tons of muck were removed from it. He knew a num-
ber of other cases, all of which showed that the Council
authorities were absolutely incompetent to perform their
proper functions.
Mr. Spruson, M.L. A., said the Council had broken down.
It was out of date. For purposes of city government it
was useless. Only ten days ago the Mayor inspected the
infected area and said it was so clean he" could almost eat
his dinner off any part of it. Now it was officially re-
ported that hundreds of tons of awful filth had been
carted away from this very locality.
Mr. Nelson, M.L.A., agreed in the general denuncia-
tion of the City Council. He attributed all the present
trouble and the aggregation of filth everywhere to the
fact that all the employes owed their appointment to
some alderman or other, and their continuance of em-
ployment to his pleasure. He had himself, and only
lately, vainly endeavored to get the Council’s officers to
remove some filth from the vicinity of his premises.
The statement was further made that the municipal
officers would not report on any property owned by in-
fluential men. It was no use, it was stated, for small
property-owners to keep their places clean, when the
large proprietors did what they pleased. No municipal
officer who valued his position ever dared report on the
insanitary state of property owned by influential persons.
* » * *
Coode Island, future home of possible
bubonic-stricken Victorians, is a three-cornered
strip of sand divided from the mainland by Yarra
canal on one side and the old Yarra on t’other.
Saltwater River connects both —hence the isle. It
is thickly covered with scrub and overrun with
rats, fleas, flies, mosquitoes, spiders, and hornets.
Present writer has seen rats in scores galloping
about the low, muddy river bank, devouring the
dead dog washed up by the tide, and attacking
the bullock’s liver thrown out from the abbatoirs.
Footscray Rowing Club shed faces the island ; on
the opposite bank of Saltwater River is the bathing
place of the Footscray youth. Colonial Sugar
Refining Co’s works face one corner of the island
a stone’s throw away, and rats thrive thereabouts
in billions ; also the smell from the distant bone-
mill and the adjacent soap-works hangs round like
a fog. A more lonesome spot than Coode Island
j ’twould be hard to find, and it only needs a few
curlews and a dingo or two to positively scare the
'wits out of the first bubonic germ visiting the
scene.
In view of the proximity of the bubonic
plague in Wellington (M.L.) the Corporation
offers Id. each for dead rats brought to the
destructor (furnace). The public-school children
brought along lots of rats but, not having time to
take them _to the proper place before school
opened, kept them in their dinner-satchels till let
out for the mid-day recess. Shade of the Plague !
• * * *
Every half-hour or so some wild-eyed
individual bursts into some medico’s sanctum or
the Sydney Board of Health office, and takes
charge till someone examines him to see if he has
got “ It.” Here are the symptoms : The first is a
most unholy funk, which absolutely contorts the
face (later on the dread turns to listless apathy).
The speech falters, and the patient breaks off in
the middle of sentences spoken in a jumbled man-
ner with a thick, husky voice (the person who has
this sign is either plague-stricken or drunk; in
999 cases out of 1000 he is drunk). The eyes become
red and congested, and in the first stages the
tongue is covered with a thick white fur,
while the edges and tip remain clean; in
the groin, or arin-pit, or neck, comes a har-
dening that gradually developes into one or more
buboes. Some patients are first attacked with
shivering, symptoms of nausea or actual vomiting,
and feverishness that increases rapidly. Then the
head begins to ache. Uncontrollable fear drives
the sufferer to wander away aimlessly, anywhere
from his present surroundings—often into a public
house. If the patient can pull through six or seven
days there are great hopes of recovery. Ten days
mean almost certain recovery. Apparently pluck
is half the battle with plague, as with many other
diseases. Also, it might be pointed out that it is
about as hard to catch plague as to catch a prize in
Tatter,skill’s —but the resemblance ends there. In
the bubonic case no owner telegraphs to say that
the horse won’t start unless he gets half of what
you’ve got.
DOWN AT DAWES
POINT.
NEWSBOY: “ War news,
sir?”
MAN: “No.”
N.: “ Take no interest in the war?”
M.: “ No.”
N.: “ Cricket intelligence, sir?”
M.: “No.”
N.: “ Take no interest in cricket?”
M.: “No.”
N.: “ What do yer take then?”
M.: “ Sometimes beer and sometimes plague!”
Re plague. Twenty-three of the Brisbane
dairies were recently inspected, and several of
them found in a fairly satisfactory state. In one
place, a cow with its face half eaten off with
cancer was cheerfully being milked. Also, some
hovels were found—in one place, father, mother,
son of 18, and two girls over 12 years, revelled in
a slab hut 10 x 10. Another family of eight pigged
it in two small rooms ! Milk-oh !
* * • •
The young medico emerging from Sydney
University has a “big pull” over the young bar-
rister coming from the same school. The
former has all sorts of house-surgeonships,
travelling insurance billets and country doc-
torships open to him. The sucking bar-
rister nas to possess a private income to
keep him going for the first fifteen years
or so of his precarious professional life,
with a sort of Buckley’s chance of
striking a bare living at the end. But
the young doctor! The other day
a country medical practice in a
rising town 120 miles from Sydney
on a main line of railway, £250 a
year guaranteed and fees over
and above, went begging around
Sydney University medical
graduates with no takers.
But offer a young barrister
£250 a year certain and fees
extra and he wouldn’t call Julian
Salomons his uncle.
The other day an office-boy was advertised
for; salary, 10s. a week. And this paragraph
ought to proceed that there were 273 applicants,
backed by 941 testimonials, and that eventually a
promising lad of 32, with a wife and three chil-
dren, was engaged. But it doesn’t. It says
instead that there was one applicant; he was 14
years old, and demanded 255. to start with. The
Coolgardie Municipal Council was the advertiser.
P.S.—The council was unanimous in snapping up
the only available youngster at his own figure.
At Sydney Salvation Army doss house,
Pitt-street. Soldier, at receipt of tribute (bed-
money) to seedy party with three pennies:
“Where were you last night ?” “Had no money.”
“The night before?” “No money.” “Hum,
we can give you salvation free, but not beds.
Hallelujah ! ”
Overheard in a George-street pub. A
loyal, painfully-loyal, German, who works for a
savagely jingoistic firm, holding forth on the re-
lief of Ladysmith: “Mem Gott! it was
grade. Vhen der Bridish gavalry corned
ter der gades, der peekeet, he gome oud
and zay, ‘ Who vas go dhere ? ’ Und
Gungonald, he zay, ‘ Der reliebing
army.’ Und der Bridish soldier
gome oud of der dam scrub and
vling away his haave-eaden rat
und zay, ‘Mein Gott! I vill
haf some bread und good
meat, haf you broughd
some sausage mit you?’
Und he dell him ze Gen’ral
dine off soup of der boot
last nighd and fried
zole—which is not der
zame as der zole you
get with zauce in der
restorang. It vos a
good yob for der Boers
dat ze reliebing army
gome, else der Eng-
landers gome oud of
Ladysmid und eat der
blangy Boers dem-
zelves ! ” And he
beamed all over, and
the jingoes cheered
him, and filled ’em
up again, und der
German he beam
zome more.
“H.”: T'his
actually happened
to my friend
Whelan. He and his
wife came from Ireland
to Melbourne in the fifties, in
a very slow ship. Whelan
left his dearest friend in Ire-
land, one Tom Hines. Mrs.
Whelan, looking out of
the window of their Mel-
bourne house, saw Tom
Hines walking on the
other side of the way.
She said to her husband,
“Why, there’s Hines!”
Whelan ran out after him
and tapped him on the
shoulder. The man turned
round, and proved to be
not Hines at all, but one
Stubbs. The very same day,
later, Mrs. Whelan called
out again, “ Well, there is Tom
Hines passing now. I saw his
face.” Whelan protested that it was the
same Stubbs. Mrs. W. said, “If you don’t go
after him, I will.” Whelan then ran out again,
to satisfy her, accosted the man and found it was
Hines !
* * * *
Wellington (M.L.) has been laughing
hugely over an objection advanced in all serious-
ness by Count de Courte, French consul, to a
squad of amateur kharkied femininity drilling for
“ Patriotic ” theatricals on a green sward (not his
own) opposite his bedroom window. The Count’s
reason, gravely stated with much dignity, was that
‘ ‘ international complications might arise ! ”
* * * *
Bubonic plague, acting in conjunction with
with Paris Exhibition, is a blessed thing for the
steamship companies. Everybody who can afford
a trip to Europe is booking a saloon passage, and,
if the companies are wise, they will raise the rates
forthwith.
KEEPING THEIR TAILS UP .
N IPPER: “ Father sez ’e ain’t going to ’ave any
boobonic plague round our house. Look at the
rats ’e’s killed!”
PIRATE: “En’ what yer goitern ’ter do with them
now?”
NIPPER : “O, me and Billy’s goitern ’ ter ’ave a game
of butcher’s-shop with them!”


During the hot
Summer weather
LIFEBUOY
DISINFECTANT SOAP
is a perfect luxury in the
bath, and is healthful and
invigorating.
Bracing!
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
BEWARE OF COLONIAL IMITATIONS.
INSIST ON BUYING “CONDY’S FLUID.
The following name and address should be
at foot of label :
CONDY & MITCHELL. 65. 60SW.ELL ROAD. LONDON, ENGLAND
It Beats
.. a ..
Hot Brick
for Sleeplessness from Cold Feet, a kink
in the Back or Neck, a Tight Cough and
Silenced Cough grappling with the
Throat and Bronchial Tubes, and reach-
ing for the Lungs, can be shaken out by
Dr. GREGORY’S COUGH MIXTURE.
It makes and keeps the Voice and Lungs
Strong- and Safe. 1/6 ; per Post, 2/6
R. Raf Fan, Pharmacist,
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tit ted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
sd
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Among the men who voluntarily waited
upon Premier Lyne for the purpose of thoroughly
waking him up to the possibilities of plague in
Sydney was the Sydney manager of Cook’s
tourists’ agency. That gentleman was in Hong-
kong when the plague raged there ; when out of a
population of 200,000 as many as 40,000 left in a
few weeks, while of the poor who had to remain as
many as 300 died in one day. When a Chinaman
got the plague he chin-chinned his Joss, lay down
and died. At night Hongkong harbor was
covered by innumerable miniature boats, each
carrying a light. This was one way in
which the ignorant, superstitious Chow tried to
scare _ the plague-devil away from Hongkong.
At night, too, the air of the city was filled with
the smoke and noise of burning crackers and the
deafening din of tom-toms. In Hongkong at that
tune as many as 60 people were living in a room
loft, square. These people never washed their
floors. When the muck was too thick upon the
floor they got a mat and laid it upon the filth to
hide it. And when this mat became too beastly
they got another mat; and so on, and so on, until
the mats were a foot high piled one on top of the
other. The recent cleansing of Sydney has
shown that the difference between dirty Sydney
and dirty Hongkong is that the local guttersnipes
don’t use the mat. They heap dirt on dirt, there-
fore no measures can be too drastic at the present
time. At whatever cost the work of cleansing and
disinfection must'be thorough. Now is the tune
for Premier Lyne to rise magnificently to the
occasion. Should the plague get a firm hold it
will be impossible to count the cost. It will then be
a case of a few poor wretches putting their backs
against an avalanche and crying out “ Lord have
mercy upon us ”; a case of chin-chinning one’s
Joss as the Chinese do and lying down to die.
Every house should be gone through and ex-
amined by officers appointed for the purpose,
as much of Sydney’s population is too ignorant,
too apathetic, too filthy, and too poor to take the
necessary care of itself. A monster meeting of
citizens should be held for the purpose of
strengthening Premier Lyne’s back, and giving
him any moral support that he stands in need of.
And now is the time ! For should the plague get
a fair, general hold, Premier Lyue’s back and
every other back will be paralysed by the general
helplessness.
• • • •
Nearly nine months ago, ex-Republican
Dibbs, as commander-in-chief of that more or less
farcical volunteer corps called the N.S. W. National
Guard, discharged his corporal, S. J. Byrne, very
suddenly, without rhyme or reason. Presumably
there was a reason, but when called upon ex-
Republican Dibbs didn’t state it; all the same,
Corporal Byrne was fined by a Sydney magistrate
for contumaciously refusing to give up his arms
and uniform. He appealed; and Judge Cohen
overset the magistrate’s decision, with costs
against ex-Republican Dibbs, despite the fact that
a section of the Volunteer Act provides that the
commanding-officer may discharge any volunteer
for any sufficient cause, “ the existence and
sufficiency of such causes respectively to be deter-
mined by the commanding-officer.” Thus Judge
Cohen defied the plain words of the Act, on the
ground that Dibbs’s proceeding was inequitable,
as no doubt it was. Presumably there will be an
appeal to the Full Court. Meanwhile, ex-
Republican Dibbs is saying prayers and hymns
and things..
A BACKSLIDEB.
THE CLERIC : “ I see you're sober for once in your
life , Pat.”
PAT? “ Yes, your riverince. I hope you'll let me
off under the First Offenders’ Act.”
A Sydney fishmonger, the other day,
desired to let his customers know, apropos of the
epidemic among the fish in Port Jackson, that he
sold no fish which had been taken therefrom. So
he bad printed and put in his window—“ All fish
sold in this shop are caught out of the harbour.”
* * * *
At any other time than just now the hang-
ing of William Jones, who left a protestation of
his innocence with the Gov. of Melbourne Gaol,
would be regarded as a shocking matter for further
enquiry. But Australia can’t stop to trouble
about Jones when the newspapers are reporting so
many cases of men getting killed in South Africa
for a crime they didn’t commit —innocent suf-
ferers for the Gilty.
“C.M.G.”: Saw an un-
usual little incident in our
street the other evening.
Noticed a motherly woman
arguing excitedly with a tall
slip of a policeman a few yards
ahead. Suddenly the woman
turned fiercely, and attacked
the Law with her formidable
gamp. The first blow knocked
off the officer’s helmet; the
second took him in the back of
the neck ; then, as he stooped
to pick up his head-gear, the
matron pounded him in a
manner shocking to the
man’s personal dignity,
and ruinous to the prestige
of the force. The police-
man merely put on his
hat, and walked away. As
I came up the old woman
took me into her confidence, re-
marking quite composedly:
“That’s the on’y bye of min
that iver darred disobey me ! ”
“ F.” : Travelled from Parra
matta yesterday morning in a second-
class non-smoker. In the same car-
riage were an American negro, an
Afghan, a Chinese hawker, and four
perfectly respectable, well-dressed,
Europeanised half-caste Chinese
girls. At Macdonaldtown two
yrians got in, one a priest, and
on Sydney station the Rev.
What’s-his-Name, the well-known
Chinese missionary—by the way,
the most gentlemanly-looking
cleric of my acquaintance—was jusi
catching another train, dressed in
the orthodox Anglican curate’s rig. By-and-bye
we shall be a fearful and wonderful nation.
* » * *
Patriotic fervor was running high in Swill-
town, Centralia. When the news arrived that
certain naval officers at Simonstown, S’Africa, had
ducked in the sea an editor of unpopular opinions
and had been fined for the deed, two loyal Cen-
tralians determined to reinburse the naval heroes,
and trotted round making a collection for the
purpose. Before they had got well under way it
dawned upon them that some other town (possibly
Brisbane) might also be seized with a similar
brilliant idea and meanly rush forward to antici-
pate them. Consequently the jingoes rushed
incontinently to the telegraph office, cabled a sum
across to Simonstown out of their own pockets
and then resumed their collecting peregrinations.
At the close of a weary day they had realised
exactly £2 and all subsequent efforts
failed to increase it. Subsequent operations in
the gentle art of subtraction showed that they
were about £lO out of pocket, but the Empire is
richer, infinitely richer, by such an example of
trusting faith and devotion. Swilltown is grinning
yet.
* * • 9
In re the Johnny Aitkenses :
“ A gentleman rider, well I’m an outsider,
But if he is a gent, who the mischief’s a jock ?
* * * *
“ Steff Cassander ” : For peace and quiet
got into an empty carriage. First station we
stopped at in came two nuns. One
was old, rotund and spectacled ; the
other, young, dark and bewitchingly
pretty. They sat opposite me and
looked at their feet. So did I (the old
nun had polished com-bumps). Then
I looked up quickly to try and catch a
flimpse of the younger’s eye, but she
ept her eyes down and started count-
ing her beads. She did this very skil-
fully, and I became quite interested,
so the old lady looked angrily at me
and started counting her beads also.
I seemed to have forgotten whom I
was travelling with for I found myself
comparing beads, and carefully tallying
the younger’s count I said; “ Thirteen,
fourteen, fifteen, sixteen—why, you’ve
got two more beads than mother! ”
They stopped counting, and the little
nun looked out the window; I knew she
was trying hard to suppress a burst.
When she turned round she was very
rosy, and I felt very wicked because
the elder looked at me so fiercely.
When they got up to go, I actually essayed a
farewell wink at the junior. She lagged behind.
“Aha!” I thought, “she is going to speak.” She
did, thus: “Please wipe that black smudge off
your nose.”
* » * *
Letter in London Morning Leader on an
alluring topic:—
The Girl Left Behind.
Let all the fellows who stay at home remember that the
girls left behind are left in trust. A man should scorn to
try to win in another man’s absence (especially in such a
cause) the girl whom he could not, or at least did not,
win in fair rivalry before.—Yours, &c., T. W. Oolk. 23
Jan., 1900.
* * * "S
Editor Bulletin. —I beg to move “ That
as a perpetual memorial of the Plague that portion
of Sydney abutting on the shores of Darling Har-
bor be created a distinct ward of the City to be
called ‘Pest Ward.’” “That the streets within
Pest Ward be re-named after aldermen of
PEACE AND THERE SHALL BE NO
PEACE.
M AMA: “Gam, you old fool, what do you want to
go to the war for?”
PAPA : “ I don't know —for peace, I think.”
Sydney and members of the N.S.W. Water and
Sewerage Board, so that for all time the personal-
ities of the members of these bodies may be
execrated by successive generations.” “ That the
very small and particularly deadly lanes in Pest
Ward be named after such engineers, inspectors
of nuisances, and other officials of these bodies as
are unable to prove that they, in the exercise of
their functions, continuously reported to their
superiors—God save the mark !—the insanitary
condition of the City.” “ That a silt statue of
Mayor Harris be erected in a central position in
the ward with a tablet recording that he had joy-
ously reported the saving of £3OOO by a reduction
of the City expenses for street cleaning one week
before the outbreak of the pestilence.”—Yours
faithfully, J. A. P.
* * * *
“The Govt, is alive to the deadliness of
the plague,” says a Sydney daily paper. This is
reassuring. People feared that the Govt, was
dead to the liveliness of the plague.
* * ♦ *
In Perth (W.A.), very recently, the usual
individual was charged with haying “no visible
means.” He admitted the invisibility, but alleged
that he, like hundreds of others, was trying his
hardest to get work and had so far failed. The
Bench gave him three days in which to find em-
ployment, failing which he would be re-arrested
and get six months. Considering that a man can’t
find employment unless someone has employment
to give, and reckons him a suitable person to give
it to, this was almost as absurd as ordering that,
unless it rained within three days, defendant would
be run-in again. Defendant, who probably knew
a lot more about the chances of getting work than
the Bench did, left the dock, remarking sadly, as
he started forth on the dismal quest after water in
hell, “ I’ll have to do the six months.” Then the
Bench flushed a bright red about the ears, and it
shrieked for the defendant to be brought back, and
gave him one month as a sample, for contempt.
Contempt evidently consisted in the fact that he
didn’t take a sufficiently cheerful view of the
chances of finding work inside three days.
* ♦ * *
The two brothers who look so much alike
that no one can tell which is one of them, or
which is both of them, came up for trial at Perth
last week on the charge of performing an illegal
operation. The evidence was reasonably strong
against one or both of them, but it couldn’t be dis-
entangled. Witnesses swore that they saw either
Herbert or Francis doing something, and later on
either the same man or the other one did some-
thing else, but whether it was a continuous offence
by the same man, and if so which man, or whether
it was done partly by one and partly by the other,
and which part was done by which one, nobody
was quite certain. In the end the jury disagreed,
and both defendants were remanded for a new
trial.
* * * *
A safe double —Twin-screws.
* * * *
From Melb. Age, 23/3/’OO :
A progressive euchre-party was given by the R.O.
Ohurch Committee in the Shire Hall, Rushworth, last
evening, in aid of the bazaar-funds. About 30 tables
were occupied, and after cards dancing was indulged in
until a late hour.
• * • *
“ 5.0.” : Some of the returning-officers
at last M.L. general election still complain of the
trouble caused by the women-voters. In one case
a frowsy woman with a red eye and a blue nose
poked her head in at my booth and said, “ Put me
down for Gearge Fisher,” then ran off. A
scrutineer brought her back, “What’s your
name, Madame?” I politely asked. “Gearge
Fisher,” she husked. “ No, no, your own name,”
I said. “Oh, Mary ahic Minogue aliic Ahearne
ahie,” replied she, smilingly. I was getting
annoyed. “Well, please, are you aMinogue or a
Ahearne?” “Gearge Fisher,” she snapped.
“Thank you,” I said. “Constable, please.”
* * * *
Speaker Abbott states that of King’s
School (Parramatta) boys twenty-three, known to
him, are now on active service in the S’African
war. King’s School, Parramatta, was always
Imperially inclined. The school was originally-
founded by and at the expense of the British
Govt, and the headmasters were for years sent out
from England.
• * * •
A hilarious sensation happened in Lons-
dale-street, Melbourne, during heavy rain one day
recently. A middle-aged female, soaked through
and through, partially with rain, mainly with
beer, was blown before the gale, a tragic, stream-
ing figure clutching an inverted gamp with one
hand, and clawing at high heaven with the other,
till she tipped into the boiling torrent raging in
the main drain. The flood seized upon its victim,
and began to bowl her helplessly down stream,
head over end. At this stage a constable
rushed to the rescue, but just as he grabbed the
woman the flood snatched him off his base, too,
and for one amazing minute the crowd under the
verandahs opposite witnessed a wild whirl of
policeman, female and storm-waters revolving
down hill at a terrific bat. The human flotsam
ran a stirring chance of being sucked into the
sewer a little lower down where the Metrop.
Board employes had left the lid off. However,
much of the female and the greater portion of the
Baw were scooped out in the nick of time, and a
bedraggled and contrite woman was fined next
morning in various sums for one plain drunk, and
one helmet and other losses sustained by the force
in pursuing its duty down a raging drain. By the
way, many years ago a man was actually drowned
by falling into an Elizabeth-street (Melb.) gutter
during a thunderstorm.
* * * *
A Bulletin man in Melbourne witnessed
a very smart rescue of a damsel in distress by a
young laborer on a Flinders-street tram recently.
The knight, looking as if he had been lumping coal
all day, was sitting on the front seat of the
dummy, smoking; the lady on the bike, darting
under the nose of a horse (having just lost her
head, evidently) came directly in front of the
tram, and the car struck her machine broadside-
on. Bnt the muscular hero in front made a
wild scoop, just in the nick of time ; he grabbed
the girl at the crucial moment, and, flinging him-
self back in the seat, held her for a few moments
as a mother hugs her smiling babe, until the tram
stopped. The bike was fished from under the
dummy in three pieces, all tied in hard knots, but
the girl was none the worse, although her pretty
clothes looked as though she had been dragged by
her back hair through a sooty flue.
HEART-BREAKER DAVEY.
“ Please , sir, are you Mister Private Davey? ’Cos’
if you are, I’d like your photooraph.”
A Cassilis (Vic.) miner attempted to drown
himself, the other day, because he was refused as
a recruit to the Australian Imperial Regiment.
Talk about girls running after a uniform !
* * * *
A number of young ladies at Lilydale,
Vic., anxious to give the maiden’s mite towards
the saving pf the Empire, have sent a box of
afternoon-tea d’oyleys to “our brave boys” in
South Africa. Boutonnieres on ice to follow.
* * * *
The verdict in the Fraser shooting case
raises the old question whether—at least in cases
where prosecutor and accused are of opposite sexes
—the jury should not be similarly composed.
Where is the jury of women who would have
acquitted the pretty Kathleen ? With a jury of
young men—or even baldheads—it is nearly im-
possible for a man to succeed against a young and
good-looking woman. With women in the box
that plea, all-powerful with men, would militate
against the possessor.
TO ANOTHER FELLOW’S GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I loved you, dear Lucy, I vow
I had many an exquisite minute,
But the scorn that I feel for you now
Has even more luxury in it.
Thus, whether we’re on or we’re off,
Some witchery seems to await you ;
To love you is pleasant enough,
And oh! ’tis delicious to hate you.
WILLIAM CARTER.


[Forecast for ap Ipdefipite Period.]
Fron> MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
B<isio*&S “Fipe apd Clear” geperally, tboOgb
“Storrpy” at certaip tiipes of tbc year.
Tbe presept ipdicatiop poipts to diStCirbapce
“ACitCiipp FaSbiopS.”
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
Ticht^^
Running
~b^k
./»J
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues 1d. f
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
fs
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
Baden-Powell, the handsome and resource-
ful defender of Mafeking, is an ardent admirer of
the sex ? owing to the fact that he has always
moved in the naicest social circles, where every
charming female form is adorned with the P.D.
corset. The educated admiration of so brave and
cultured a soldier is warmly appreciated by
feminine lovers of the manly devotion displayed
by the gallant P. 8., who is the idol of innumer-
able wearers, the world over, of the artistic P.D.*
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 3, 1900.
Mr Dear Mtee, —
All engagements cancelled at Govt. House, all
the charity balls holding fire timorously—and
what sort of a season are we going to have 1 The
one hop that braves the weather is the Agricul-
tural Ball, whioh was such a brilliant success last
year. This comes off at the Town Hall on 19th
April, during Easter week.
Lady Mary Lygon is coming out again as soon
as she can arrange things with her Duchess. She
had meant to be here in September, but the sol-
dier-brother’s death has induced her to hurry on
her arrangements. She leaves by the Himalaya,
and will be here about May 20 to brighten up
things for Lord Beauchamp. The faithful Lady
Bertha Wilbraham comes out with her once more.
Also, a new member of the Beauchamp family,
Lady Susan Gilder, an elder married sister.
Everyone who was in Sydney oot Saturday
turned up at “Lady Dolly.” In a box sat Mrs.
Brough and Emma Temple, just arrived from
Maoriland. Mrs. Brough was in black satin,
Emma Temple wore a sleeveless white, and they
stayed from beginning to end, looking as if
amateur performances were the only joys in life.
But the whole crowded house was enthusiastic.
Encores were ready for everybody. Then, at the
last curtain, cries for “authors” brought out
Alfred Hill, in his long black curls, and Mrs.
Marjorie Brown, in white with a little fan and a
scared expression. Marjorie Brown, by the way,
is the authoress of a little book of verses called
“ Weeds,” published some years ago.
Hetty Holroyd scored heavily, both in singing
and in fracking, In the first act she wore one of
the very newest skirts, a pink muslin tucked
lengthways from the waist to the knees, and flow-
ing out freely from below the tucks. This was
worn over deep rose-pink linings, and was finished
off with a pink hat turned off the face. In the
second act —the fancy-dress ball scene—the fair
Hetty wore a white brocade princess frock, with
long lace sleeves, and a few cniffon billows round
the feet. To hear the angels sing she put on a
yellow silk “ matinee ” with a big white turned-
down collar that suggested choristers, who are
next door to angels, sartorially speaking.
“Lady Dolly” was dressed more simply by
Miss Bertha Caldwell, who had less to do, and
wore a white tucked and insertion 3d muslin in the
first act with a wide white toque. Her snappiest
dress was her fancy ball get-up of orange silk,
vandyked deeply over short white silk petticoat.
There were some really lovely dresses scattered
through the play. And plenty of opportunity for
dressing, too—dressing of all sorts. A fancy-dress
ball, for instance, is a great temptation to some
people, and I noticed half-a-dozen or so m “Lady
Dolly” who—er—succumbed. King Charles 1.,f0r
instance, with a wig of washed-out curls hanging
in his eyes, and —but let me pass over some of the
others with a sigh.
Mr. Burns-Walker rolled admirably in white
trousers, blue coat and cap of a Jack Tar, but got
into the wrong shade of make-up for his Romeo
costume—a rich-looking dress, by the way, of scar-
let velvet as to the cloak, lined with white watered
silk, over grey satin suit heavily embroidered in
steel. Mr. Willie Beattie played a young and
handsome Svengali from Spain in a big black hat
and cloak, and a sweet baritone voice that deserves
much encouragement. Miss Meta Haytor, the
housekeeper, in dark brown velvet polonaise looped
up over a tan-colored petticoat, made a big hit
with her lively “ Tip it a Wink ” song and dance.
And the choruses sang excellently, and danced not
half as leggily as you might expect. The ever-
green Mrs. Warskitt was responsible for the
dances.
Moths on the ermine, of course. The men’s
legs, for instance. An amateur is deadly afraid
of padding, but with the assistance of a little sup-
port it might not have taken us half-an-hour to
discover —without a programme—that Mr. Harry
Brewer was a Duke. Also, the chorus in the first
act hadn’t the country-house air about it—the
easy, away-from-home manners and swagger-frock-
ing of a house-party at the Duke of Deancliffe’s.
Also, the songs yielded too easily to encores, while
the ballets never came back at all. Furthermore,
amateurs should never be asked to act in a play in
which they have to say the word “Senor.” It
seems too hard and cruel a thing to ask of them.
In “ Lady Dolly ” they played the changes on that
“soft, meandering Spanish name” until it went
from Senna to Senior; thence to Seenore ; thither-
wards to Sinner, where I stopped listening to it.
Alfred Hill has the gift of catching the ear.
Song after song—l have seldom heard such an
opera full of songs—was caught at by the audience,
and, apart from a lot of “reminiscence” about
the music, the house enjoyed that comfortable
feeling that tuneful music alone can give. Now and
then you thought you were at the “Gondoliers,”
or at half-a-dozen of the operas, but always the
music—singable, ingenious, pretty —hinted at a big
future for the author of “Hinemoa,” the work
Alfred Hill is best known by.
Things are not very lively in the mountains just
now. A recent widow is there, going round in a
rather novel costume of black, with a high black
hat, bright brown gloves and golden brown boa,
and followed by a large coterie of —no, not men.
The only available man—Mr. Holdship—fell off a
chair while pulling down a window and broke
his collar-bone, and her following is all women.
Of course the plague scare keeps on sending up
train-loads of people. And, of course, Sydney
hotels and hash houses don’t like that. In fact,
the story that started in Sydney last week that
Katoomba was full of raging typhoid was probably
started by a jealous Sydney landlady without any
“guests.” Anyway, the scare was hard-worked
down here. One’s Sydney letters continually
alluded to the typhoid up there. Katoomba was
on the verge of a scare, but local doctors and land
agents succeeded in flaunting a quite clean bill of
health over the libelled township.
By the way, in Sydney last week two doctors
had their lives taken by the same agent—Report.
For two days it was all over the city that Dr.
Jarvie-Hood was dead of the plague, while Dr.
Goode was permitted to have died of inoculation.
Both these vvell-known medicos are quite alive and
well, and driving about as usual.
Speaking of health resorts, there certainly is one
in the Mountains—l am not going to mention any
names as a lot of Society is settled there for the
Plague Season—where a scavenger is very badly
needed. Old boots, old jam-tins—all the hideous
paraphernalia of the people that moved last week
—lie rotting on the paths and spare grass, un-
noticed by the gaudy Council that spends its
gilded, time looking after the healih of the big
ferns in the show gullies.
The only joke alive just now. “ Heard of the
20 new cases at the Victoria Markets?” “ Good
Lord / ” (properly knocked over, stunned and
breathless) “ who are they ? ” “ Cases of apples.”
Have you noticed the queer advts. going about
this time of year? Brought on by the plague,
perhaps. This one:—
T ADY (whose opportunities of conversing with men
are rare) desires correspond with educated, large-
minded, cultured man (over 30 preferred), to discuss
Current Topics, Literature, Religion, Art, etc. ; no
object in view save the broadening Of her views,
mutual improvement, and edification. Neither cor-
respondent to seek to discover personality of the
other. M.KN.S., G.P.O.
And this—what you get from “Home Notes”
when you seek to pierce the sweet mystery of your
future husband :
I think you will have the chance of marriage in about
two years’ time. The man will be of small build, rather
thin, dark hair and eyes, and indifferent complexion.
His health will not be very good, and will be a source of
some anxiety to you.
And this, referring to the late Mrs. Kiss’ sale at
Randwick:
T ADY’S Writing Table in ivory, said to have been
presented to the late Sir Warren Hastings.
Is this an old story ? Schoolboy, writing :
“ Oliver Cromwell was a very bad man. He took
his king and cut off his head, and he said, ‘ Had
I but served my God as I have served my King
he would not have deserted me in my grey
hares.’ ”
The Broughs’ return on Monday drew a house-
ful of old, staunch friends, so familiar at a Brough
play as to look like a family party. A lady with
the newest way of wearing flowers in her hair had
the dressing all her own way—hair puffed out over
a frame, dressed high on top, and just over the
face a snappy arrangement of red and pink roses
—big rose on one side, little rose on the other.
Somebody says that the very tip-topmost of
fashion doesn’t put its head in a frame, but Syd-
ney, perhaps, has not heard that rumor. The
whole theatre had its head inside sixpenn’orth of
covered wire.
I saw nothing to lose my heart to in the dresses
of this new play, “ The Happy Life.” Grace
Noble sported a pretty round hat —toque rather—
of brown mink with a purple crown, and some
deep upstanding purple in the front. Her yellow
satin evening dress was plain and trainless; so
was Mrs. Brough’s white satin. Mrs. Brough did
herself an injustice with her hair on her neck in
the first act, and somehow she seemed not to make
herself as attractive-looking as usual all through
the play. Emma Temple’s dresses, too, never
accounted for her reckless tearing-up of that £5-
note from Leslie Victor. Miss Bessie Thompson
as a hash-mosque keeper in black looked many
degrees slimmer since she started taking boarders.
As far as clothes go, the men were muon smarter;
but do you like Mr. Lovell in a short coat but-
toned up across his narrow chest ?
The chief moral of the play—a pretty, affection-
ately-written little romantic-comedy—seems to be
that if you want a misunderstanding to last three
acts—or four months—you must never allow the
wife to catch her husband —or the husband to
catch his wife —just when either is going to confess
the love that is there all the time. There was one
time when Mrs. Brough cried “ Cyril! ” and Mr.
Lovell had barely left the room. He was in the
greatest danger of hearing. And if he had heard
that pleading voice—it was then half-past nine—
where would the rest of the play have been ? So
that, when you get home from “The Happy Life”
you feel you have had a series of miraculous
escapes from ending the play at the first act.
Mr. Lovell also had a narrow escape—from
being written down a prig. That time when he
settles down to a happy evening in his chambers.
He gets down his books, and a shiver runs down
your backbone when he announces his intention
of revelling in Homer / The good young hero
who sits up to read Greek at nights isn’t a
favorite this end of the century. Then he reads
aloud—a little coldly—“ And thou beside me sing-
ing in the wilderness,” and the shiver vanishes,
and everything is all right again, for we can re-
concile Omar and a twentieth-century hero with
pink lamp-shades.
Speaking of Greek reminds me that the attend-
ant in the Art Gallery of an Australasian town,
after showing a lady round, suddenly asked her to
kiss him—platonically, of course. But the lady
had no platonic kisses ready ; besides she had a
husband. The disappointed kiss-seeker went im-
mediately and resigned his position, and has left
for other shores, where, perhaps, he will find
ladies that believe in Plato.
The will of a recently-deceased N.S.W. military
officer of high standing dispels a society rumor that
he was dependent on his wife, who predeceased
him, for pocket-money. The Potts Point story
was that each morning he found a sovereign beside
his breakfast-plate. His estate was sworn at
£28,400, which he divided between the four sisters
of his wife.
The many friends of Mrs. Louisa Lawson,
Henry Lawson’s mother, will be sorry to hear that
she is still unable to resume her editorial duties at
the Dawn office. Injuries she received while
alighting from an electric tram nearly two months
ago have turned out to be very serious.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Much sadness hereabouts, concerning the
ending of the twenty unhappy passengers,
who at four o’clock on a bitter morning,
left the wrecked Glenelg in an over-crowded
boat with five miles between them and the
Gippsland shore. Most of them were re-
turning holiday tourists, and so near home one
doesn’t anticipate danger somehow. One of the
missing had arranged to spend his leave in Sydney
but was persuaded to alter his plans at the last
minute because of the plague. One poor fellow,
not content with the searches of police and local
residents, has gone down to scour the district for
traces of his wife and three friends. Which re-
calls the Ingelow poem about “ Elizabeth,” swept
away in the high tide, and her .husband who said,
“Oh come in life or come in death, come my lost
wife, Elizabeth !” just before her body was washed
to his feet.
“ The ‘ Medic’ Women’s Rowing and Yachting
Club will make a desperate bid for some laurels
on the Albert Park Lagoon next Saturday (7th).
For the last two months the girls in blue have
been daily hauling in the main sail, and ‘ dippin’ ’
together (in rowing parlance) on the somewhat
smellful lagoon, and now they are about to dis-
play their skill and muscle before the multitude.
Albert Park goes ahead. It supplies us with a
Rotten Row, a polo course, golf-links, a women’s
bowling, rowing, and yachting club, and model
boarding-houses. The new Minerva’s Paradise.
“Seeing that a certain fair spinster has returned
heart-whole from a dazzling dawdle abroad, every-
one thinks that her devoted lover—son of a brewer,
with brains and money—is to be at length re-
warded with the gift of her lily-white hand in
matrimony. They say that the widowed mamma
approves of the choice, but religion has to be
squared. The Anglican community clings to the
maid’s family as its head and front, and, on the
other hand, the Old Church has the allegiance of
the brewer and his olive-branches. So that there
will have to be a wrench somewhere.
“ Frenchy-looking pasteboards have been sent
out by Janet Lady Clarke, as President of the
Alliance, for a flare-up at Cliveden on
April 26. The date first fixed was the 12th, but
post-cards followed hot speed on the invitations
warning the ‘most desirable’ people that the
hostess would be obliged to postpone her party to
the 26th. Long notices of functions are dreaded
now-a-days. Life —in Africa—is so uncertain.
“ A married candidate for the Vic. section of
the Imperial regiment, who grew abusive ort hear-
ing the reason of his being passed out, was told
that men with wives would not be allowed to en-
list as a means of shirking their responsibilities.
‘Eat lot you know!’ he replied hotly. ‘My
missus told me she’d break my neck if I didn’t
enlist.’
“The curse of over-Respectability has come
home to roost with Melb. Women’s Hospital
Committee. At last meeting of that delectable
aggregation the fact could no longer be concealed
that the finances were getting into a lamentably
bad waju An attempt was made to conceal the
real position by putting up a long discussion about
an alleged reduction of the Govt, grant, but the
device was too clumsy to deceive anyone. Last
year Govt, gave a lump sum, in addition to the
usual grant, to provide for additional buildings,
and because a similar extra was not available this
year as well the committee tried to throw dust in
the eyes of the public by affecting to believe
that the annual grant was to be reduced.
Fact is, the public has grown tired of subscribing
to a hospital mismanaged by the cold crowd of
‘ society ’ mutual-admirationists that still brands
unmarried mothers in its wards ; and thus one of
Australia’s finest institutions may go to ruin
through the frigidity of its fashionable conductors.
An attempt is now apparently being made to
—er— conciliate the press. Mrs. Spowers, wife of
one of the Argus proprietors, and Mrs. Syme,
wife of David of that ilk, are now on the com-
mittee, and probably some female relatives of Sam
Winter, of the Herald, will be added at the cor-
rect moment.
“Photography is the business in Melbourne
chiefly boomed by the war. One newly-established
studio, where a dozen of yourself on cardboard
can be had for Bs. 6d., is simply rushed by the
more impecunious of the girls left, or about to be
left, behind. On a recent Saturday no less than 35
sat before 11.30 a.m.
“But, like everything else in the world worth
having, that much-flattered photograph has been
bought with a price. Most of the women who
yield themselves to the camera first visit a
fashionable hairdresser’s as the chief aid to looking
beautiful. There, seated in one of the revolving
chairs, deft. fingers remove the hairpins, scanty
locks fall sparsely, and a minute later one’s best
friend comes in and, talking the while, calmly,
coldly, critically, takes notes for future reference.
“In ‘When the Lamps are Lighted,’ at the
Royal, Sheridan, as a nursemaid with a knowing
ould face on her, flaunts a trim foot in a tiny tan
shoe. Envious she-beholders accuse said J.S. of
overcrowding his tootsies; but in view of his
buoyant dancing one doesn’t feel much like ‘ roar-
ing and crying’ over the sometime widdy’s so-
called ‘toes in torment.’
“Talking of feet, that seeming sphinx, John
Chinaman, must be more fanciful than he looks if,
as stated in a recent lecture, he calls the cramped
supports of his womankind ‘golden lilies,’ and
says poetically thereof—‘ Every golden lily costs
a jar of tears.’
“ Another deep-down layer of Cabbagee John’s
character is his thin-skinned pride. Nowadays,
local missioners are apt to discourage their pupils’
religious tea-parties, knowing that a Chink con-
vert in the role of host to ‘Clistian fliends and
fellow-countlymen ’ tends to become frivolous and
puffed-up. Ah Sams thwarted in their hospit-
able instincts jabber rebelliously, and have been
known to backslide en c/asse. ‘ John ’ knows that
if he makes no return after being feasted and
publicly prayed-for by adherents of neighboring
missions, he will be branded as ‘stingy’ by the
Naicest local Chows.
“ Someone once said to a mission Chink, laden
with tea, ginger, lacquer-tray, and silk ’kerchief
for the teacher’s birthday, ‘ You like Miss Z. very
much, John?’ ‘No likee muchee. Cousin give
one plesent, more cousin give two, my bludder
give thlee, me give four.’
“To return to the Sheridan Co. Maud Gwynne
as the person with the penniless led-astray past
and prosperous, penitent present shows her white
shoulders above a yellow brocade flounced with
white silk-muslin. Maud Denny, as the dressy
sinner’s innocent offspring, frocks becomingly at
the paternal villain’s expense in cerise-trimmed
white muslin by day, and in pale-blue dinner
gown with Virginia-creeper spray when the lamps
are lighted and rival suitors in dress-clothes shoo
one another off the grass,
“ In same co. an engaging small boy in red satin
blouse is unanimously labelled Sheridan junior on
the strength of his frizzy top thatch and shapely
shins. His natty supports recall those of a four-
year-old French girl, who at a recent military
farewell won general notice, thanks to the
exquisite fit of her dull-red shoes. In simple frock
and hat of white pique with plump glossy bronze
legs showing above trim white socks, it was La
Petite’s shrill parly-voo and Parisian shoe-leather
that smote all beholders. Said a paper-boy from
the top of a lamp-post: ‘ They fit the bloomin’ kid
just like she’s dipped her trotters in red paint.’
“ Apropos of the little Mam’zelle aforesaid,
mothers of fair-haired tots, who witnessed the
brownie’s triumph, tried to minimise the glory of
her ankles by comments on the width of her
vivacious mouth and the sallowness of her dimpled
cheeks. Poor mothers ! How they champion
their bairns. Just the other day, a timid little
Melbourne mother, accompanied by baby and his
photograph, trailed round in search of Justice,
braving one legal harpy after another in his den.
It is a solemn fact that the flustered pilgrim was
set upon bringing a libel-action against the photo-
grapher of her child 1 No friend or relative,
apparently, had cared to lend her countenance in
her hopeless quest, so gathering up Babs and that
malicious caricature, ‘ she had set forth to tread
the wine-press alone.’
“ At last skirts are returning to a more decorous
pattern. Instead of the pleats which rarely met
properly, or the ‘ sheath ’ which showed the fat
wobbling form of its wearer to an amused public,
we are to have a wide fold, which, when it sits well,
is elegant, and even when it doesn’t is better than
its predecessor. For it is decent, while the other
shape afforded glimpses of the under-garments,
and no one is interested in the frill of a blouse,
the band of a petticoat, and various tapes. It is
rumored that the sheath will ‘ stay ’ for evening
wear. If that is so, let me beg that fat women will
have their corsets made to order, that they will
have them as long as it is possible for corsets to
be, and that they will lace them tightly, and have
their petticoats as carefully made as their dresses.
I don’t think they will be comfortable, and I
think they (the stays) will cost a great deal. But
there is no other way out of it. A woman has
only to study another woman’s back in a sheath
skirt as she walks along to see that corsets should
extend over the hips and be laced tightly, so that
the whole form snould look one firm, rounded,
immovable block.
“ In little Professor Gregory, the new geological
expert at Melbourne University, the Yarra-side
city is finding that it has taken a remarkable man
to its bosom. The Prof, has tramped through
Spitzbergen on a scientific expedition, and has ex-
plored in the icy heart of Nova Scotia. He is an
advanced thinker all round, and could take up
political economy in a style that would shake up
the dry bones of the University, if permitted.
He is a D. Sc. of London University, which
means that he had to work for his honors: men
with wealth and influence go to Oxford or Cam-
bridge ; poor students take their degree at Lon-
don. He has known what it is to live, and has
found some phases of his career quite as hard as
the hardest rocks he has chipped.
“Since Mr. John ’Ancock departed this life there
are quite a crop of good mimics of the Brassey ah-aw
style of address in Melbourne, but the Speaker
takes the cake from the crowd. If you listen with
your eyes closed to Mr. F. C. Mason making one of
the labored speeches of Uncle Tom, you can pic-
ture the ancient mariner before you with one hand
thrust through his shirt-front, the other clasping
a chair. Mr. Mason ‘ does ’ several leading
officials cleverly, and is himself taken off to the
life by another figure-head official.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


TMXS T£3ST OF
df
sd
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which, will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Jouraal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
The season for visiting the old country having
come round again, the upper four-hundred of Sydney are
booking passages for London, and as a safeguard are as
usual depositing their plate and other valuables in the
Sydney Safe Deposit. In many cases they are also rent-
ing safes for the storage of their deeds, etc. In either
case the rentals are very moderate, and the business of
the Deposit is, we learn, rapidly increasing. A visit is
freely invited. The address is Ash-street (back of
Paling’s), off George-street.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULT LtY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of //ypoph osphitex.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Agent for N.S.W.:
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There is a movement to transfer the
remains of R. L. Stevenson to Scotland from
Samoa, where they are on German territory. But
surely it is time to give the clever, over-rated
Stevenson a rest!
One of the most popular Premiers of Vic-
toria was twice fined for sly-grog-selling in 1853.
It closed his shop. The merchant who supplied
the liquor was afterwards a member of the Leg.
Council.
Since his arrival in Sydney, Primate Smith
has every year composed a set of verses to com-
memorate the birthday of Dean Cowper, of St.
Andrew’s, Sydney. His hand is now to the plough
for the coming event.
It is unlikely that Major Reay, editor of
Melbourne E. Herald, will again dabble in ink
after his South African blood-bath. He is very
keen on soldiering, and the Herald editorship is
not such a good billet as to wax him to the chair.
At first opportunity Reay will seize a staff appoint-
ment.
Alfred Stephen, late N.S.W. Chief-
Justice, was the first Australian resident knighted
for services in and for Australia. George
Stephen, generally accepted as the first, obtained
Ins title in England and for services performed
there. He afterwards came to Australia and
settled in Victoria.
When James M‘Culloch was Premier of
Victoria he always, at the end of the night’s busi-
ness in the Assembly, moved “ That this Hoosedo
now adjourn.” Graham Berry, with equal invari-
ability, used to move “That this ’Ouse do now
adjourn.” When James Service came along it
was noticed with surprise that though a Scotch-
man he could say “ house.”
The heroism of Labor. Four years ago a
Broken Hill miner had one of his legs so badly
crushed that it had to be amputated ; but an arti-
ficial limb was substituted, and, covered by his
clothes, the leg looked as good as new. So
he held his tongue, applied for work and got it,
and kept his secret until the other day a boulder
came along and crushed both legs !
A very well-known Sydney public man
who has taken a very active hand in plague-
suppression matters, was last week careering
towards the Town Hall to a meeting to stamp out
rats and such sources of infection, accompanied as
usual by his faithful tyke on a chain, when he
was seen to stop, take out his handkerchief and
wipe the dog’s nose with it. Then he replaced it
in his pocket. Talk about plague-precautions !
When Justice Simpson, of N.S.W. Divorce
Court, was on the District Court Bench, the salary
was only £lOOO a-year, and no provision
for pension existed. Thinking the
emolument too small he, after
a short experience, re-
signed, returned to
Bar and politics, and
pressed on the atten-
tion of Govt, and
Parliament the neces-
sity of increasing Dis-
trict Court Judges’
salaries. Premier
Stuart harkened,
raised the salary
to £l5OO, and
fixed the pension
at £750 As
soon as <he
Bill passed he
offered a Dis-
trict Court seat
to Mr. Simp-
son, but, al-
though the lat-
ter would not
have left the
Bench in the
first instance
had the office
carried these
emoluments, he
now decided to
decline, and did
so. He considered
that he would expose
himself to criticism if,
after publicly advocating a
betterment of the position, he availed
himself of the advantage. Which affords a
remarkable contrast to the action of Chief-
Justice Griffith and others.
Dr. Diehl, whose name is now in
most Westralian mining messages in connec-
tion with sulphide treatment, is chief chemist
of the London and Hamburg Gold Recovery
Co., and the “ Diehl process” is really the co’s..
He has been for three years steadily experi-
menting on Kalgoorlie sulphides.
The side-wall of a Melb. building is
adorned with Titanic figures of the Australian
Premiers of ’9B, each carrying a bag as an advt.
for a local firm of manufacturers. The advt. is
appropriate, seeing that all the Premiers, except
Oom John, have been presented with the sack.
Rev. F. J. Chavasse, just appointed
Bishop of Liverpool (Eng.), was six or seven
years ago elected by Sydney C.E. Synod to be
Bishop of Sydney, but was rejected by the
N.S.W. Bishops, who possessed a controlling
vote. The Sydney Synod picked him chiefly for
his rigid churchmanship, and the Bishops rejected
him mainly because the Synod chose him.
Dan’l O’Connor rises up from the political
grave to contest the Sydney seat vacated by
Agent-General Copeland. Daniel’s age is now an
unknown quantity, and the cry of his brogue has
been heard in N.S.W. politics since the days of
Governor Bligh or thereabouts. N.S.W. will
never quite get rid of Dan’l. He stays like the
Great Pyramid, and the depths of his supply of
grease no man hath plumbed.
Dr. William Crooke, M.R.C.S., Eng., long
ago of Tasmania and more recently of Melbourne,
one of the victims of the Vic. boom-burst, and
now battling bravely as a medical practitioner at
the venerable age of 86 in Bourke-street, Woolloo-
mooloo, had a cruel experience lately. The gallant
old man was set upon one evening lately near his
house by three ruffians who beat him severely and
robbed him of a much-valued presentation gold
watch and chain.
Old “Jimmy” Hoskins, M.L.C. of
N.S.W., is dead, aged 77. The ancient, once a
working gold-miner, many years ago got into
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, and, in the long run,
secured office under Parkes, and then under
Robertson; he was one of the nonentities
who formed the joints in that masterful poli-
tician’s tail. Hoskins, when he got office,
hadn’t any money to speak of ; but he steadily
drew his £l5OO a year, or whatever it was, lived at
a boarding-house on a couple of pounds a week <'v
so in all, and made a prisoner of every spare
sovereign ; so when the inevitable cold day came
he was able to make a little fire of his own. James
Hoskins was the only man, bar two, that Ihe
Bulletin knows to have made a competency
however humble, out of politics.
The bad quarter-of-an-hour’s tongue
walloping and table-hammering which arose
lately in a Sydney club because a member referred
to Joseph Chamberlain as a “fraud” had an
almost exact counterpart in Sydney over 60 years
ago. The Radical Chief-Justice Forbes called Sir
George Murray, the then Secretary of State, a
“ rascally ruffian,” and set a jingo dinner-table in
uproar. That was one of the counts which excited
Major Mudie to horsewhip Forbes.
The Bulletin, whose editorial staff of five
all wear fearsome goggles of one sort or another,
is able to truly sympathise with Messrs. C. E.
Dekker and Thompson Leys. The former, editor
of Sydney E. News, and an indefatigable up-to-
date reader, has had to temporarily leave the
office, having worked himself almost blind ; and
Mr. Leys, editor of Auckland (M.L.) Stab, passed
through Sydney, the other day, en route for
Europe to consult a famous oculist.
The new Russian Consul-General for Aus-
tralia, M. Nicolas Passek, refuses to be inter-
viewed. Russia had a consul in Melbourne some
years ago—he died there —who did allow himself
to be seen by the press. It happened that a
Russian Jew refugee made some remarks as to the
way in which his kinsmen were treated by the
Government, and the consul defended his country,
though not too successfully. Evidently the matter
was read in St. Petersburg, and a new consul
apparently comes with something like a padlock
on his lips.
Ex-Professor G. A. Murray, ‘ pro-Boer
enthusiast and successful dramatist, settles in
London. He is cousin of W. S. Gilbert, nephew
of Sutherland Edwards, and son of N.b.W,
Speaker Murray. He is also a Sydney native.
His wife, a daughter .of the Earl of Carlisle, is
more democratic still than her Greek-professor
husband, most of her time being given to the pro-
motion of women’s trade unions. On the other
hand, Mr. Murray’s brother, a Sydney barrister
well-known in boxing circles—he was some years
ago English amateur heavy-weight—has gone to
the war as a N.S.W. contingent officer.
An English writer on Chamberlain :
Joseph Chamberlain smiles ; he does not laugh. This
smile is peculiarly unsatisfactory, as if an adder had
taken to grinning. Mr. Chamberlain, too, has a wander-
ing and uneasy eye,' and a habit of glancing furtively
around him as if he expected each moment to be arrested.
He began life as a debating society Tory. Then he
became a Republican ; and now he has rejoined the Tory
party. All his inclinations, manners and dealings savor
of the shoddy middle-class, whose god is wealth, and
who look upon Heaven as a place where special stalls
are resumed for themselves. The sky will fall when
anybody trusts Mr. Chamberlain ; but the sky is not
likely to fall.
A DEFINITION.
CHOLLY (to the barmaid): “And what is your
idea of virtue? ”
H EBE: “Patience, dear boy, patience!”
EVIDENTLY NOT THE EMPYREAN.
NEWCHUM (who has come out to better himself):
“ Hullo! this is the workingman’s paradise,
is it!”
A Bulletin correspondent:
Bulletin, 31/3/’OO, re the number of N.S.W. police
magistrates of over 65 (two over 70). This looks very like
fish of one and fowl of another. The brave and brainy
Mr. Baylis, P.M. for years at Wagga (whose decisions
have never been upset on appeal, and who personally
tackled Morgan’s gang, and is supposed to have shot one
of them dead before being himself shot by Morgan, a
wound which kept him in bed for months), was retired
about three years ago because he was over 60, and despite
his protest that he was as physically and intellectually
fit as ever. Since Mr. Baylis’s retirement he was offered
and refused the chief magistracy of Norfolk Island.
Perhaps the worst work ever done by the
late sculptor Simonetti was the statue _of Gov.
Phillip in Sydney Gardens —an effigy which could
hardly, by any possibility, have been erected
in any other alleged civilised city. The figure
stands, with both feet on a plane, leaning back
with the weight thrown on the left foot, yet with
the right leg advanced, and bent at the knee as if
about to spring forward. To render such an atti-
tude possible, the right leg would have to be some
Gin. longer than the other. But perhaps Phillip
was lame.
Died recently on the West Coast (Tas.)
Tom Donovan, one of the fast-disappearing class
of “ old-time ” miner. Tom was once deputed to
report on an alleged “good thing” in the early
days of quartz-mming in the Flyspeck. The re-
port, contrary to expectations, was frosty for the
venture, and concluded thus : —“ I believe the
company have several hundred pounds in hand to
open the show. If they desire to spend it on the
ground it could be done by driving a tunnel on the
line of reef, and I firmly believe that the deeper
they got into tiie hill the sadder and wiser would
the shareholders be.” Donovan was never asked
for another report.
John Peters, dead at Dubbo (N.S.W.) was
a full-blooded Chinese with a considerable Aus-
tralian history. About 60 years ago he left China
with an English missioner and penetrating to
western N.S.W. devoted himself to church services
for some years. He got employment subsequently
in the Wellington flour mills and rapidly attained
the position of manager. He next started a
general business of his own and failed. As his
English was good and his Chinese very good
N.S.W. Govt, accepted him as interpreter for the
western courts. Finding time at his disposal he
opened a store in Dubbo and succeeded in building
up one of the largest businesses in the district.
But what he made as interpreter and storekeeper
went in wild-cat mining, so that he died in rather
poor circumstances at the age of 73. He had been
initiated into Freemasonry as a boy in China and
for years was one of the heads of the order in
Australia. He married in Dubbo and leaves a
family.
That recently-deceased Maorilander, the
Hon. Thomas Dick, was an astute person with a face
like an undertaker’s-horse, and was frequently a
victim of the waggery of the late Johnny Sheehan
and other jovial souls who kept the M.L. Parlia-
ment of the early eighties alive behind the scenes.
One mirthful night Dick was dragged before
Sheehan’s Comic Court of ‘ ‘ Parliamentary Honor
and Good Conscience,” and was gravely tried for
the heinous offence of playing at marbles in the
lobby. Impassioned addresses were made for the
defence by Joe Tole and others, and eventually
the jury of legislators, by their foreman (the man
who painted the blemishes off his Berkshire boar
in preparation for a certain historic agricultural
show), found Dick guily of arson in the third
degree ! Dick once lived at the rocky islet of
St. Helena, from which isolated spot, strangely
enough, F. J. Moss, another M.L. parliamen-
tarian and contemporary of Dick’s, hailed.
Moss once ascribed Dick’s habitual solemnity to
the fact that as a youth he was employed as
cicerone to the grave of Napoleon, and conducted
the visitors to the spot with a sonorous groan of
“This way to the t-o-o-o-mb.” Atkinson, after
giving Dick his portfolio, asked old-time journa-
list and wit Charles Otho Montrose what he
thought of the Ministry. Montrose replied that
he thought it was chiefly composed of “Tom Dick
and Harry.”
It is not generally known that Hori G rey
was once offered the presidency of the Orange
Free State.
Premier Make Lean, of Melb., sings as
follows :
There is canny Scotch caution in that last clause.
There’s a distinct reservation in the matter of the
divinity, observe, and it is plainly to be under-
stood that the man who bows his head to
any deity but the one sanctioned by his
father must take his chances. Here is another
helping of the bard M‘Lean :
With iron thews, the tracker’s eye,
Though somewhat slouching mien,
Those horsemen bold, ’neath southern sky,
Have sun and weather seen.
Most of the rest is akin to the above, and
the Premier Poet makes it evident that one
can be a bad poet and an extremely com-
monplace politician. A good politician may
be excused for being a bad poet, but two
wrongs should never make one write.
Copied from the late James Tyson’s
pocket-book, found at Heyfield, October 2, 1899,
supposed to be his own composition :
Ingromba, 16th Nov., ’63.
June 7, 1864.—Made a wager with Mr. Rutherford of
best new hat that James Tyson is not married within two
years.— John Adams, Witness.
Dr. Fraser, it appears, had sound reason
for questioning the right of the Melbourne sur-
geons (at the Alfred Hospital) to operate upon his
perforated head. In his student days he was
lectured into the conviction that a bullet or other
foreign substance in the brain is not necessarily as
dangerous to the patient as an attempt to remove
it. Up to now, Dr. Fraser has the best of the
BEHIND THE SCENES.—A FACT.
MR. IBID GREENE (utility): “ Dreamt last night I
was playing lead.”
MR. G. PAYNTE (character): “ Thank heaven, I
didn’t dream I was in the audience!”
medical argument. Having survived an unsuc-
cessful operation, he is getting along comfortably
with the bullet, and is, moreover, recovering the
use of his paralysed limbs, thanks to a course of
scientific massage directed by himself. With his
one remaining eye Fraser watches his own case
with grave professional interest. Any cerebral
irritation, caused by worry or a chance bang on
the skull, might produce grave trouble at the
bullet-place. The bullet is not placed exactly to
his liking, but he bears no ill-will to his
wife on that account. In fact, Dr. Fraser
is careful to avoid ill-will to anybody, because
it would be a bad thing for the brain, and
if he used any rough language to the nurses at the
hospital he hopes they will regard it as incidental
to the cerebral disturbance which annoyed him at
the time.
The empire slumbers peacefully,
Unsullied by the rod
Of despot rule ; servility
Ne’er thrives on British sod—
That glorious realm of liberty,
Whose rule is just, where all are free,
Where, fearless, each may bend the knee
Before his father’s God.
Let the wealthy have their customs,
And keep the wealth they own ;
But, while claiming all their pleasures,
Let other men’s alone.
Let them boast their halls and mansions,
And live as best they can,
For we have learnt ’tis love and home
That makes the richest man.


Franz Josef Lager Beer
, . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WORCESTER
SAUCE.
NONE EQUAL TO
MACONOCHIE’S.
TRY IT,
It is Most Delicious,
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland's ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
Saw a large black ant carrying home a
sirloin of grasshopper when two red ants, a size
smaller than Darkey, sortied from behind a chip
and set upon him. Watched the fight .that fol-
lowed for half-an-hour, then went home, got my
magnifying-glass, and returned. Had been absent
20min. Fight was still raging. Through the
glass I saw clearly a horrid sight. The breasts of
the two Ruperts were torn away and their vitals
exposed ; the head of one was severed—he, of
course, was out of the fight then ; the other
Rupert was chewing off the near foreleg of Darkey
whose two feelers already strewed the field.
Darkey’s jaws were at work on bis enemy’s
neck, and presently he succeeded in decapi-
tating him also. Time : lh. 18min. Darkey
—write it upon a monument of brass stag-
gered about on one leg, all he had, and that
wounded, looking for his grasshopper-joint, and,
when he found it, tried to resume liis journey,
pushing it before him ! Battles of ants have been
celebrated by greater writers than I. /Eneas
Sylvius gives a good war-correspondent’s
account of one “fought in the pontificate of
Eugenius the Fourth.” The fight I umpired was
fought in N.S. W. on last St. Patrick’s Day, during
the Premiership of Lyne the First.
“ W.M.F.” : Just been watching an inter-
esting ant-figlit. Between the house and the
kitchen is a covered way, of which a pismire com-
munity has long held possession. This morning a
few beef-ants invaded. Pismires came' out in
numbers and killed the invaders, but while they
were dragging away the pieces a strong body of
the enemy arrived, and “ severe fighting ensued.”
In a few minutes the floor was strewn with slain,
and beef-ants could be seen running about with
legs ornamented with a couple of pismires’ heads,
still hanging on, though the bodies had been
nipped off. Some of the beef-ants were real
Trojans. No pismire could approach them with-
out being at once cut in two, but when more than
two of the little chaps got hold of a beef-ant it was
generally a case with him. In some cases the pis-
mires fell foul of each other, but the beef-ants
made no such mistake. In fact, they helped each
other by dragging off the heads of dead pismires.
Gradually the beef-ants beat back the pismires
right across the floor to the grass, where the pis-
mires rallied desperately, but to no purpose, and
after nearly an hour’s fighting the beef-ants held
the field in undisputed possession. It was a
glorious go. Apropos —man isn’t the only animal
that fights for fighting’s sake. Rams lay each
other out from pure pugnacity. Soldier-birds
fight to the death for a day’s amusement. Beef-
ants hold pitched battles amongst themselves,
returning to the same ground day after day and
fighting till sunset. A pair of spur-wing plover
will fight to the death, generally on a moonlight
night, but this is for possession of an island fancied
for nesting purposes. Some stallions will murder
every gelding they can get at. Knew one to put
his teeth clean through a strong bell that was
hanging on a gelding’s neck, then let go and kill
the other horse in one act.
PART OF THE (AMATEUR) BALLET IN “LADY DOLLY ”
(Opera produced by Sydney Liedertafel at Sydney Palace Theatre.)
Photo., The Falk Studios.
Maoriland fifth contingent’s cannibalistic
war-whoop: “E rima ! Patu Tangata ! E rima !
Kai tangata ! Ko kiro ! Kai mati, hi, ha ! ” Freely
translated : “Fifth man-killers ! fifth man-eaters !
charge to the death ! ” And yet there’s not an
aboriginal amongst them.
* * * *
“ P.” : My contribution to Australian
snake-literature. Was at a farm in S.A. lately
when hay was being cut out of a stack. Near the
bottom was found, while I was there, the dried
remains of a snake, head-downwards, body almost
perpendicular. Another had been found in the
“cut” before this, in the same position. Was
told that the snakes thrown into the stacks nearly
always manage to work their way to the bottom,
but cannot get through the hay horizontally.
This was loose hay, not sheaved ; it is doubtful
whether they could move much either way in the
latter. And, anyhow, there would be little chance
of their being brought in from the paddock un-
noticed with sheaves.
LIGHTNING CALCULATION.
"My little darling , you are four to-day .”
LITTLE DARLING: “ That’s one and three others !”
“ Beth ” : Saw a peculiarly - marked
‘ ‘ brumby ” the other day. He had been caught
by chance as a youngster, and as it was incon-
venient to take him along at the time, a stout
strap was buckled round his neck and he was left
tied to a tree. Before the party’s return he got
away and was not re-caught till long after. Mean-
time he had grown so that the strap was in a
groove in the neck fully two inches deep, and was
cut out with much difficulty. The horse was
otherwise perfectly sound.
* * * »
“L.A.M.”: Round about here (Strath-
downie, Vic.) we have a cream-colored parrot,
same size and shape and note as a common rosella ;
goes with a flock of rosella parrots and has been in
the same paddock for at least two years. [Albino
rosella, probably.]
* * * *
“Eller” : Be snakes swallowing one an-
other (B. 17/3/’00.) On the Nepean once I saw a
black shag trying to swallow a fish, which had
stuck halfway down. Saw bird and fish next day
still in the same fix, and shot the former. The
Australian Museum has a stuffed gull with a half-
swallowed fish.
“A. M.” :
Any of your
readers ever
seen a young
ibis? Have seen
tens of thou-
sands of old
birds on the
Darling Downs
and western
plains of
Queensland but
nary a young
one. Where are
the breeding
grounds of the
ibis ?
• •
“ Scotty ” :
Medical item.
When a man is
“on the burst”
his nails grow
very fast and,
consequently,
smooth. You
can count his
recent sprees (if
more than a
week each) by
the bars just as
you tell a cow’s
age by the rings
on the horns,
caused by win-
ter and summer.
“Kunjey ”:
Recently saw a
body of about
70 caterpillars
crossing a bush
road. They
kept so close
together that
some were
forced up oil
the backs of the
others, and were
thus carried
along. All
stopped at the
same time to
rest; then, witli
a beating of
tails on the
ground, which
could be dis-
tinctly heard,
would advance
again. On some
being separated
by an inequal-
iit y of the
ground, the
main body literally ‘ ‘ marked time ” till the strag-
glers rejoined. The insects were about 2Jin. in
length, brown and hairy, and left behind them a
broad, ribbon-like track m the dust.
“ N.Q.” : A chance for an en-
quiring chemist or bush entomologist.
A sure fortune awaits the man who can
master the problem of making wooden
telegraph-poles impervious to the white
ant for a term of years. Every ant-
resisting device has, so far, been a
monotonous failure. Arsenical poison-
ing lasts just as long as the sap lasts.
It costs Q. Grovt. from £5OOO to £BOOO a
year to repair the ravages of the ant.
Iron-wood is aboutthe only wood they
dodge, and that does not grow high
enough. Have seen blocks of iron-wood
intact after 14 years under a tank;
blocks of other wood had to be renewed
every two or three years. Poles eaten
by the ants are outwardly quite good till
a breeze comes, but if pinched by the
hand crumble away like a politician’s
reputation. At Junction Creek, N.Q.,
a new pole was eaten from core to husk
inside of two years.
* * *
“L.H.K. ” : On a road near Mans-
(Yic.) I used often to see basking two
brown snakes, which at my approach
always skedaddled into a big log. One
morning, however, one of the reptiles
wasn’t so smart as usual, and got the
stick. In order to bag the mate, I, at the
suggestion of an old bushman, placed a
looking-glass a few yards in front of the
snakery entrance, and retired to cover.
I had just concluded, after a long wait,
that it was a billet for Job to tackle,
when suddenly the “devil’s necklace”
appeared, and seeing his reflection in
the glass, thought, I suppose, it was his old woman,
rushed forward to welcome her, and met his fate.
Some 20 years ago there lived in a South-
ern township a Chinaman whose great ambition
it was to possess a white “ Maly Ann. ” He com-
municated with several, and offered a warm heart
and a long pigtail, but his overtures were rejected
with scorn. Then one day there came to him a
photo, of a nice white girl, and a letter saying that
the writer’s home was not happy, and that she
longed to bestow her hand on some honorable
Chow and find calm domestic bliss in his house.
An answer directed to the local post-office was re-
quested, and if it was favorable, the writer said
sne and her brothers and the clergyman would
come to Ho Cat’s place next evening. She added
that she had long watched Ho Cat’s honest career
from a distance with silent admiration. The letter
haying been interpreted to Ho C. by a friendly Cau-
casian, the wedding took place next evening, and
though the bride was a bit awkward in her skirts, she
was a nice-looking bride, and her whiskers hadn’t
yet become too obtrusive. The clergyman was no
drunker than might have been reasonably ex-
pected, and barring two sudden shrieks of laugh-
ter (which, it was explained to Ho Cat, arose
from hereditary Asiatic cholera), he read the
burial service with commendable gravity. Then
the newly-wedded pair and friends sat down to
supper, but in the middle thereof “Maly Ann”
Cat asked to be excused for a moment—and never
came back. She is still absent, and that is 20
years ago. Rumor has it that a long-legged youth
with a skirt and bonnet under his arm was seen
leaving Cat’s bedroom per window, and running
for his life, but no reliable evidence is forthcom-
ing. The brothers left immediately after, drag-
ging the “clergyman,” whose language was
something awful. All that night Cat sought for
his missing wife, and cries of “ Maly Ann ” were
heard for miles around. Next day he offered a
heavy reward for the recovery of Maly, and when
that produced no guod results he wrapped himself
in gloom, and presently went off his Chinese dot.
He has remained off the same ever since. His
house and vegetable-garden have gone into other
hands, but now and then, on pleasant summer
evenings, a harmless, demented heathen, who
lives nowhere in particular, comes and moons over
the fence of the old home. It is Ho Cat looking
for Maly Ann.
* « * *
Aboriginal chivalry : “ Brandy ” and
“ Judy ” were “on the drunk.” Judy planked a
sixpence on the counter and demanded more rum,
but Bung, thinking she had taken enough, refused
and shoved her out of the bar. Brandy then
annexed the sixpence, tried his luck, and the rum
was forthcoming. It was transferred from the
glass to Brandy’s mouth, and when Judy lovingly
put her arms round his neck and kissed him the
liquor was duly passed on to Judy’s mouth !
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Re animal chivalry. It is
true that the dog will not bite a slut, but the same
can’t be said of the horse. Stallions frequently
take a dislike to certain mares, often at first sight,
and will kick and bite them if they attempt to
join the mob. I have known stallions also that
would permit aged geldings to feed among the
mares, but would not allow a strange mare to join.
These instances refer to paddocked animals.
“ Alex M.”: Re animal chivalry. There are
notable exceptions to the rule that Mr. Dog will
not bite Mrs. Dog. There are certain strains of
bull-terrier that, once roused, make no distinction
of sex in this way, and about the most savage fight
I ever saw (“turn-up,” not “set”) was between a
2-year old dog of this stamp and his mother. The
old lady came out on top, too; but I heard after-
wards that, later on, her son turned the tables and
killed her.
W. LISTER LISTER .
Photo., Crown Studios.] (See Red Page.)
“ Scliee ” : Re “Animal chivalry” (B.
13/3/’00). I had a greyhound dog that, happening
to meet a lady-dingo in the bush, forthwith con-
tracted a morganatic alliance with her. Sundry
of Barney’s orthodox partners, however, chanced
to come upon the scene and, true to the instinct of
the sex, chased the hussy-dingo for her life,
Barney himself joining in the hunt and helping to
put his late paramour to death.
* * » *
A hunk of bush phraseology : —“ Yes, ole
Brown was a reg’lar ole coot, a right down pu-
kacker. Yer could ring a tatt into him anytime.
He rolled ’is marble in last year—too much nose-
paint, yer know.” Which all meant merely that
Brown was shiftless and credulous and had died
through excessive drinking.
* * * *
“Fishplate”: The value of oatmeal-
water as a reviver for hard-grafters in Australia is
asserted by the fact that nearly all Yic. railway
contractors now send buckets of it round amongst
the men two or three times a day, at their own
expense, reckoning that they get a pound’s worth
of work for every shilling spent in meal. I think
the original “giant refreshed” guzzled oatmeal-
water.
• * * •
“R.W.S.”: Can any Bulletin reader
say if it is possible to graft one native tree on
another; as, for instance, kurrajong on mulgah,
or gidgea on belah. Such crosses, if possible,
would make nice ornamental trees.


Two Irishmen—Healy and Denny—con-
tested Kingston’s seat in S.A. Assembly, and the
election (which resulted in favor of Denny) took
place on St. Patrick’s Day. On one ballot-paper
was written—“ Won’t vote for either ; too many
(blanky) Irish in Parliament already.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
ZBESS
GOERZ
Field Glasses WERE the best.
We have just opened a new glass
that is the best.
The improvements introduced make them the
Most Powerful;
of Clearest Definition;
of Creaiest Field;
of More Strength;
Mechanically Better.
For Transvaal use we supply gratuitously our
solution, which makes smokeless powder
flame clear to the eye.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNE
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A. 8.8. : Subject unsavoury... .Jack Hart: May serve
as suggestion. All would depend on the humor of the
thing, and your drawing lacks humor... .Smap Poo : Will
consider.. ..Prompter : Ditto.... Herbert C. : Ancient
wheeze.... Unavailable : S. Handa, G.G., E.O. (Dim.),
E.A.A.D., H.R.W., 8.H.L., Ruth 8., Dun Cow, 11. West,
Ohis., 8.H.L., H. Mac., Fischer W., Ray Hull.
One evening lately at a house in
Gisborne (M.L.) three ladies casually met whose
united ages totalled 2G6 years —92, 88 and 86.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is..everywhere.*
K uppers Elberfeld Lagei
“ Eve ” : On our farm we have an ancient
turkey gobbler which last year took on himself
the hatching of the egg? of the pride of his harem.
This year the eggs of the P. of his H. went astray,
and the old chap, to keep himself up to the mark,
is now sitting on four green apples, collected and
put in a nest by himself.
A BLACK MYSTERY.
“ I say, Ranji, how d'ye know when you’re dirty? ”
“ F.R.R.” gives his experience, as a public-
school teacher, of boarding in the N.S.W. bush: —
Dear Bulletin. —Re bush teachers (“Xerxes” and
“ Domino, B. 10/3/00). Here’s my experience : Failing to
gain a scholarship for admission to training-college, I was
sent from a comfortable suburban home to a provincial
school down Monaro way, 300 miles from Sydney. The
school “building” was one end of a cookie’s shed, the
other end serving as a dairy and my bedroom. Bill of
fare (at 18s. a week) : “ Biltong,” half-baked soda-bread
and tea. Couldn’t sleep for the rats. Devised a trap and
amused myself drowning the rodents in dishes of skimmed
milk. Heard that neighbor Mulligan dined on fresh
mutton occasionally. Spoke to him about going to board
with him, but he had no room for me to sleep in—not
even a dairy. Advanced him a fiver to build one; but
when my cockie heard that Mulligan had bought half-a-
dozen sheets of iron, he nosed round until he
was able to sheet home to me the charge of
financing Mulligan. Then charged me with saying
I was starved at his place, and, when I denied this, called
me a liar! In the battle that followed I suffered
defeat, and “effected a masterly retreat” upon
Mulligan's kopje, harassed .by a heavy fire of
profanity from the cockie and his son. Mulligan spent
two days splitting slabs for my room ; on the third he
killed a cow, bought with the remainder of my fiver, and
on the fourth he coolly told me he wiis going shearing,
and could not accommodate me till he returned. (Did
not see him again for five years.) I was consequently
obliged to eat dirt, and resume occupation of the rat-
infested dairy. Was soon afterwards removed 15 miles
further up the mountains to a place in which, during
three years’ residence, I was obliged to shift my quarters
five times. Same old salt junk, damper, tea, and no
vegetables. My health completely broke down, and I was
sent to the fruitful West. A splendid district. Ten
families, with 96 children, 21 of these where I went to
board ! —and only five rooms. Never admired the charac-
ter of Herod so much as during the 12 months I remained
there. At the end of that time twins appeared, and I
fled.—F.R.R.
* * * *
The guileless Chow !
Jim and Joe had not
long started their ring-
barking contract when,
one Sunday, they called
at the Chinese ring-
barkers’ camp on the ad-
joining block. “ How
muchee Missa Smith pay
you lingbark ? ” queried
the boss Chow. ‘ ‘ Shilling
an acre,” replied the
whites, “My Cli’ ! you
too muchee fool ! Missa
Jones him pay us one
shillin’ninepence ! ” Joe
and Jim promptly inter-
viewed their boss re
raising the price ; were
unsuccessful, and threw
up the contract. Week
later, 'the Chows came
along and triumphantly
secured the job at a shilling an acre—the price
they had received for their just completed job.
* * • •
Mt. Kembla (N.S.W.) takes the cake for
the biggest pumpkin of the season. The grower
offered it to the biggest man in the neighborhood
if he could carry, or roll, it out of the yard. The
man tried his hardest, but failed. An average
man, on tip-toes, can just about see over the vege-
table, which was grown on a Chinaman’s grave.
[The biggest agricuitural perjury of the season ?]
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS,
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Job: You can’t possibly prove that it is expe-
dient in the public interest for a lawyer-politician to
practise in a court, the presiding- magistrate or Judge of
which has to look to him, the politician, for preferment
or the other thing F.S. (Melb.) : Sorry We cannot act
as bailees of disinfectant-bottles Prodigal: Will give
you another calf if you stop writing “ poetry.”.... John
A.A. (Dun.) : We don’t publish your adulatory sonnet to
that politician. You evidently dunno the gentleman
Trotter : We want only much-condensed matter, unless
you possess a style so masterful and brilliant that
at first acquaintance it absolutely makes the human
heart stand still. Judging from your latest, you want a
whole parish to cavort in. Tins Bulletin isn’t a parish
Leso : The moss-rose kiss lacks heart. Give us a kiss of
peppered poppies C.J. : Depends on your personal
taste : probably, for politics and literature, The Spectator.
M.H. : “6 dying stroke of frenzied fume ! ” describes
it exactly I.D!a. : Oblige us by meandering down to
Sussex-street and permitting your rat to meet another
rat. Then fraternise all three of you... .Saltbush : “ She
wore a dainty dress of white, all lace and insertion, and a
large black picture hat with feathers drooping over the
brim.” How lovely for a fashion journal! But here we
wear the insertion all round our hat, and the brim droops
over the feathers “ Annise” “ would not like her name
and address published.” “Annise” is as safe as Sydney
slum-houses J.M.S. : Well written, but a cat makes a
poor kind of heroine.. . .D.B. : (1) A foreigner could be-
come naturalised and get a vote for the Transvaal Lower
House after two years. But the Britishers there didn’t
want to be naturalised and become liable to military ser-
vice against Britain—the only country that the Transvaal
could ever have a serious war with. The Johannesburg
“ reformers ” wanted a vote without being naturalised—
to govern the Transvaal without taking the oath of allegi-
ance to it. They wished to eat their cake and have it too
—they occupy the position held in Australia by the two-
faced impostors who pose as Canadians on 24th May and
as U.S. citizens on 4th July. (2) The Outlanders are
mostly in Cape Colony and Natal now. (3) The W.A.
miner’s chief grievance is that in ’97 the mining town of
Ooolgardie returned one member for 2080 electors, and the
pastoral district of Ashburton one member for 54
J. Winter: The Bulletin said Forrest’s Government
refused the goldfields “even a fifth their fair share of
Parliamentary representation.” And it is quite true.
Also a lot of other places, Perth included, don’t get their
fair share, or anything like it. When 54 electors at Ash-
burton (1897 figures) have one member, what is the fair
share of, say, 2080 at Ooolgardie ?... .Gothenburg : (1)
Dunno ; (2) Dunno ; (3) Dunno... .Anti-Pat :It all boils
down to the old query : The Minister allowed the miser-
ably ill-paid country teachers under him to be harried for
Patriotic Fund donations that they could ill spare
—and so far as the country is aware he gave
out of his big salary no donation himself or so
miserably small a one that it escaped notice
Law : Why didn’t you enclose newspaper-cutting con-
taining report of case ? We get hundreds of letters in
which perfect strangers give us their bare unclothed
assurance about tilings, many of which are loaded. But
we are now very old in the tooth... .F.T.C. : Don’t care
to say the politician named washes once every two weeks.
If he could prove that he Washed every ten days he might
have us for libel. Plenty of politicians wash oftener than
vou might think... . J.M.L. : Thanks.... Bubonic Plague
Scare : (1) The Sydney plague wasn’t caused by fish
poisoned through the Corporation’s habit of sending its
garbage out to sea, for the luminous idea of dropping the
garbage overboard only struck the Corporation long after
the plague started. Before that, the refuse was stacked
up in one of the public parks and left there. (2) The dead
fish oq]y began to appear after the plague had well
started. It is commonly supposed that the disinfectants
which scared inhabitants were using in the streets and
sewers poisoned them Eller : The fact that the
plague patients have been principally men is due
to their having been worleers in the infected locality....
Het Thule : Reads like an outbreak in the lighter
moments of a March hare Maorilander: You most
carefully dodge the real question. Seddon didn’t ask to
have his concession inserted in the Bill, while it could
IN SHEOL.
FIRSTUS: “ What makes the new arrival so in-
teresting?”
SECONDUS : “He was the inventor of a refrigerat-
ing machine, and is now explaining how it
worked."
have been easily done. He waited till the Bill was
finished, accepted by the Parliaments, adopted by
the people after nine Referendums, and sent
to England and then he suddenly demanded ex-
tensive alterations. Having waited so long, he
might wait another year, when the Federal Parliament
would have power' to give him what he wants.
It isn’t what he asks that is the trouble so much
as the gratuitously inconsiderate way he asks it
E.M‘D. : “Remember the dignity of the (teaching) pro-
fession ” —on under £lOO a year ! Poor pedagogue !
Mikron : Your matter will have no chance with editors
until you write plainly and widely, or have MS. typed
Bend: “In C.” too much space for interest.... Ink-
slinger (B.) : Unprintable... .Old P. : “ Our Turn ” reads
like “faked” fun. It is not amusing.... Xer : Many
thanks for suggestion, but it would savour of cadging
P.L. : What! You mean to tell us that saints actually
sold a rotten ship to the mission !.... Mac. : Well, suppos-
ing you had as much at stake in Kimberley as Rhodes
had, wouldn’t you have helped to defend your colossal
pile?.. ..Leslie 0. : Many thanks, but he doesn’t hanker
after it Francis S. : Bulletin doesn’t want rehashes of
English paper .. .U.L. : Yes, the Tank Stream coi.fc u ;
to flo v. It is now a subterranean watercourse—fed by a
WASN'T TAKING ANY.
STOREKEEPER (to Jackie, who does odd jobs for tobacco): “ Can't give you any 'bacca to-day,
Jackie, we're clean out. Have to give you flour or an equivalent.”
JACKIE : “ Oh, damn de quibcrlint—gib it flour!"
perennial spring T.G.F. : The carpet snake is
strictly non-venomous—having no poison-apparatus
C.R.A. : We certainly do not “require” people to “call
for rejected MS. and ascertain, by a little conversation,
the reason for rejection.”... .Milky : “City” is flat....
Ben S. : Rob. M‘G dull.. . .Savage W. : Lacks originality
and force B.R.T. : Tolerably bad. And we wouldn’t
print if it was tolerably g00d... .Beta : Re-write “ Ad-
vice ”in fewer verses, with shorter lines... .R.O. : Last
batch unusable. And give up those flagrant imitations—
L.M.D. : “Answered” No P. Jacey : Kindly get a
motive younger than the siege of Troy.... A. R. : Polin
was 900 yards from the horizon when last seen, and still
going strong Patriot: Don’t J.8.0.H. : Feeble
efforts squashed Tee Jay : Neither up to mark
E.M.D. : Spoilt by dragged-in rhymes... .Rita : Interest-
ing personal experience, but hardly suitable to Bulletin.
Rough-rider: Mildly fnnny, but out of our line.
.... Louie L. : They have some distinction ; may use....
Foundling: Not worth printing Mitty : Don’t remem-
ber the “ poem.” No need to be “ rough ” on your
unpretending little sketch—which may appear... .Tyro :
Both very amateurish E.F.B. : Not enough in it
W.B. : “Postmistress” rather feeble and slovenly
Ron: But Alex. M. had been writing in Tiie Bulletin
about the Malay Archipelago (in which he lived eight
years) a considerable time before Conrad was heard of as a
writer, and the sketch just printed had been in hand in
this office for years. If you have the courage to support
your gross charges with your name and address —send ’em
along. Don’t stab a man in the dark... .Scoffer: Your
MS. very difficult Gotta Rock : Afraid it won’t do
C. Vincent: Our troubles 1... .P.T.F. (2): We don’t like
“Imm.” Chas Davis: None usable... .Ne’er-do-well:
Probably Het. T.: You have to learn the poet’s busi-
ness first... .F.H.W.: Considering... .D.E.D.: Too trivial.
S.B.: Sorry it doesn’t come in the net F.W.0.:
Unusable A.E.P.: Not enough experience C.M.0.:
Nine assorted buboes and temperature 118°—your poem’s
doomed.. ..J.M.: “She kissed you as you slept!” In-
scrutable woman! Cosmo: “Memory” dropped;
sonnet held... .Leslie : Almost thou didst persuade us
H.V.W.: Some pathos and picturesqueness of style, but,
on the whole, not quite up... .Paul M.: Not enough in it.
....Ben Sun: “Mugs,” weak beginning; “Australia,”
neat, but rather feeble... Nancy C.: Humor in one, and
tolerable skill in both, but neither quite up to mark
Colonial : Tell us—when did The Bulletin misrepresent
Card. Moran ?.... D.H. : Thinking about it.... J.D.A. :
Too infantile... .Vindex : Doesn’t touch u5....M.L. :
Considering... .Ezrom : Can’t use.... Florio : Most of it
too trite. Please call.. .. Lover of Justice : Many thanks.
A Jingo-haunted Digger : Fine yell, though it arrives
rather late... .P.F. : After being read by the whole staff,
“ Parson’s Bust ” voted too unsavoury.... E.S. : Hardly
worth space T.G.F. : All been said before in a much
calmer tone.... Dash : To be strictly legal the alteration
should be initialled by the parties signing the document.
... .C.: Two good verses :
Then the yarn rather falls to pieces.
The most pathetic incident of the war
thus far is the despatch of a greenstone souvenir to
Lord Roberts from the Ngatiporou tribe of Maoris.
Who was the instigator of this green-
stone thanks-offering for Bobs’s valuable services
to “Our most high and beloved Queen Victoria?”
In the United Kingdom no less than 349
peerages and baronetcies have been created since
1880. Thus, as only 140 have become extinct, the
number of hereditary titles has been increased by
209. There have also been 749 knights added to
the total. Companions of orders of knighthood
have been swelled by 1500. Allowing for one man
having several titles, it yet appears that this year,
1900, there are at least a thousand more titled and
decorated persons than there were in 1880.
Meg Waterford, of Wexford-street,
A matron of acknowledged sense,
Rea.d in the Sydney morning sheets
Each day the Plague Intelligence.
Her shelves she scrubbed, her clothes she aired ;
Her floor with acids aye was wet,
And last to catch the wicked rat
Her ancient rodent trap she set.
Ladysmith “Justice.”
ENGLISHMAN’S GRAVE STORY.
Recent events in South Africa, the glamour of
War, and the distance tempts us to forget that our
countrymen who, happily, are not always lighting,
have much the same troubles as we at home.
Englishmen are Englishmen all the world over:
tellers of the truth and haters of injustice beyond
some other nations that might be named, and
these national characteristics lend weight to a
story that came from Natal just before the war.
Mr. W. A. C. Bester is a Justice of the Peace
for Ladysmith, and he told of some grave ex-
periences :
“For a long time,” said he, when interviewed,
“ I suffered from very poor health. I always felt
tired, was afflicted with swollen and very painful
legs, which made it difficult for me to walk, and
also with severe bilious headaches. Often I felt
so bad that I had to leave my work and go to the
house to lie down ; and I think that others not so
active as myself would have given in altogether
and taken to bed. Very often when I walked I
became so giddy that I felt like falling ; in fact I
did fall twice. On one occasion, I remember, in
particular, I had gone out early in the morning to
kill an ox, and I felt so bad afterwards that I fell
down, and my
Kaffirs Had To Assist
me to the house. Indigestion also caused me a
great deal of suffering.
“Needless to say, I consulted the doctor and
took the medicine he prescribed, but with no good
effect. Afterwards, having read in the news-
papers of the cures effected by Dr. Williams’ pink
pills, I tried them, and although the first box did
me only a little good, after using three boxes I
improved. For some time I went on with Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, and they completely and per-
manently cured me of the indigestion and torpid
liver which occasioned the troubles. For the last
two years I have not felt a touch of my old com-
plaints. My son-in-law was afflicted with neu-
ralgia, and, acting on my advice, he used Dr. Wil-
liams’ pink pills for pale people, which were
recommended as a nerve tonic. He used to suffer
terrible pain from neuralgia in the head ;
He Was Tortured
so that he could neither eat nor sleep, and felt
thoroughly miserable. The pills did him an im-
mense amount of good, and when I saw him last
lie could eat, work, and sleep admirably. He was
a man again, and a strong one. What is my
opinion of Dr. Williams’ pink pills? Well, I have
no hesitation in saying that I am convinced, pro-
v iding they are properly used, they are certain to
prove most beneficial in cases like mine.”


IN POSSESSION.
“Gentlemen, you are thousands of pounds behind in your payments to sanitary science, so allow me to introduce you to its bailiff, who will remain in possession till arrears
and interest are paid off.”


THE WHIRLIGIG OF TIME.
PADDY (loq.): “ Times are changing, Daniel , me bhoy!”


THIN
%
HAIR
to have thin hair.
Lots of peo-
ple have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per-
haps their
children have
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair healthy
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it grow
Hair
visor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
FOR
9m Sintik*
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CART RIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried ——Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS.
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
Ihe Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
liftckh< tm’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
IWI BROS. & RIG6> [M*
>
:
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for aft Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
D . . invigorating in Hot Cl'i mates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fs
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney.
LA.DIES !
, „ n , Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each,
bend pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in atrw'v
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . .
Barbers ’ Supply Mouse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
6k
\
/
N
£=3
A. SAUNDEES.
strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s •
bilver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Kevless Lever
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
®° hc * G °! d Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£i ‘ 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Bock.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, Is 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Charm, Penny
Stamp, 108 ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6d!
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d
15c., 255. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 16c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, ss.
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 15c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12* Cd.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, j£2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 265.
A- SAUNDERS (Registered!
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 36c. Gold
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rintrs.
16c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £ 3, £3 10s.
d
Any Name.
6c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.’
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10b,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£lfi, £2O.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 15s.
‘rO-o
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s.
.LATLaX' LADIES’ RAftF.
Registered “ Gold Sword ” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Kuby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 5a
A. SAUNDERS (Registered!
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d •
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s Cd. ’
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget
Nots, cnly 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leal, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, , opals, 14 Pearls, 35a.
Bracelets to match, £2 16s.
A. SAUNDERS Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
df
TRY
US.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Wat.i'.h Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, JL-3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, t’4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
sd
Gold Envelope
Twopenn.v Stamp.
Charm.
Any Name, 12a 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
sin
Htr
FOP
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s Gd
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
Stroup and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, jt!2 10s, £3, £4.
fs
2-Rar Onlrt Brooch, Red Stones anH Pearls, 20s.
df
I’D *S P 9 »>
pouf) p(ujj
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGH-CLASS LEADING «& SILVERSMITH
OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELIN ESS_-^
015 George-atreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE railway STATION), SYDNEY.
An Afternoon Tea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Marriage,” said the Woman reflectively, “is a
failure. You have only been married a few
months, but you will soon be disappointed with
it. I am.”
“I am not,” said the Girl; “I always imagine
things will be so much worse than they really are
that I am generally agreeably surprised.” She
was a blase girl—very blase.
_ “Some things,” returned the Woman as she
sipped her tea —“somethings cannot possibly be
worse than imagined to be. Now, marriage
How d’you do, Mr. Sinniek ? ” —(to the man who
had just entered.) The casual observer might
have noticed a mottled appearance on the Girl’s
face—under the powder. That was a blush.
“ We were discussing marriage,” continued the
Woman, “ what is your opinion of it ? ”
“ Unprintable.”
“But seriously?”
“It is too solemn a matter to be treated seri-
ously. I have been a bachelor for such a long
time—ever since I was born, in fact,” he added,
confidentially.
“ Don’t be frivolous. Tell me now. Have you
ever known a Love marriage—a real marriage for
Love ? ”
“Yes, lots,” replied the man—“for love of
money.”
“ How very cynical. Two lumps ? ”
“What is Love?” he asked. “There was a
girl once whom I loved madly for nearly five
weeks.” He sipped his tea thoughtfully. “I was
never so miserable in all my life. Then, one cold,
windy day, I met her. Her nose was red, and her
hair was out of curl —and I fell out of love imme-
diately, and with enthusiasm. It was a most
comfortable sensation. One cannot appreciate
true happiness,” he added, “till one has fallen
out of love.”
“ I don’t think so,” said the Girl, suddenly.
“Now I am perfectly happy with Jim, and we
both love each other,” but she was looking at the
Woman, not at the Man, who smiled discreetly.
“Of course,” said the Woman, hastily. “By
the way, I have a piece of news. Do you know
that Mr. Swift has brought a wife home ? ”
“Indeed !” returned tne Man, “ Whose wife?”
he added, languidly.
“How coarse you are! But I always thought
he was running after that Baxley girL”
“So he was,” replied the “till he sud-
denly discovered she was in love with him. That
finished it, of course. Wonderful how soon a man
cools down when he finds his affections are recip-
rocated. Rose without a thorn, you know.”
The Girl looked at him sharply. “Is that
always the case ’ ” There was a defiant ring in
her voice.
“No, no, of course not.” He gazed wistfully at
her—he was rather good at wistful expressions.
“The rose that belongs to another is the most
longed for.”
_ “ Pooh ! ” but she looked forgiveness. “ Mar-
riage with such men is simply the last resort to
get at the otherwise unobtainable.”
“My dear,” remonstrated the Woman. She
moved across the room to get a photograph.
The Man leant back lazily. “So desperate a
measure is seldom necessary,” he murmured, with
the insolence of long success.
“Not with one so fascinating as you,” she re-
turned bitterly, “but ” The Woman was hold-
ing out the photo to him “ Maud Willoughby,”
she said. Isn tit good ? Such a dearlgirl.”
He made a rapid mental calculation. “ A verv
dear girl. ’ J
“ Now, that’s a girl you should marry ! ” She
eyed him narrowly. J
He looked up at her and smiled curiously ‘‘ Ho
you mean a double entendre?” he asked'softly
y our remark is ambiguous. ” '
“Poor girl! she was in here the other day
Seemed very low-spirited and unhappy. Don’t
know why. Said she wished she’d never been
oorn. Such a hackneyed expression though Do
you ever feel that way ? ” She turned to the Girl
. . -Keally, my dear, I have quite forgotten what
tis like not to be bom. I’ve been born ever since
1 can remember, she answered flippantly. She
rose striding. “ I mus t ge t back to Jim.”
Going ? And you too ? ”
l! rom the window she watched them pass down
the street and laughed quietly. “Poor Jim ” she
murmured. ’
At the corner the Girl stopped. “ Better leave
me here.
*>°k>r hand. “This evening?” but she
shook her head. We go to a dinner. Must go.
Besides —her lip quivered—“Oh, what’s the use !
You are only amusing yourself. In a month you
will have forgotten me.”
“Don’t, don’t ! You know I never can. Won’t
you believe me?” He gazed pleadingly into her
face and she believed him, for he was a Master of
Arts—of many Arts. “ To-morrow,” he whispered,
10-morrow. Say yes.”
” faltered^ the Girl who was “so happy
with Jim, and walked quickly away.
He too turned. “A month, did she say ? Well
it might run to two.” ’
C. ROSS- JOHNSON
In a recent Sydney dainages-case a iuror
on the retirement urged his fellows to write the
amount or no amount they assessed on bits of paper
and to allow the foreman to add up and divide by
twelve for the common verdict. The course would
save time and discussion, but it is just as well it
was not tried. Years ago that plan of saving time
spread among jurors in England, but was stamped
out by the Judges. The jury should reach its
verdict by roads of reason, not by a process of
chance which excludes the effects of one man’s
reason on another.


Another Bad Liver.
AHOTHER NOYOCASTRIAN
FINDS A
Welcome Friend in Need.
The Case of
Mr. W. T. SCOURCE.
(A REMARKABLE RECITATION.)
“I used to be one of the happiest, jolliest
ellows alive, always ready for a joke or a
laugh,” said Mr. illiam Thomas Scource,
of Huston Terrace, < lose to Croydon Bailway
Station, Adelaide when he was interviewed
by our reporter; “ but when I fell into bad
health all my lightheartedness vanished. I
could see or think of nothing to smile at—
gloom and despondency became iny portion,
and my life was a misery without a single
■•ay of brightness.”
“ Will you tell me about your trouble,
Mi. ftoource?” enquired the man with the
note-book, his interest fairly excited.
“It was this way,” said Mr. Scource.
“At that time I was working at employment
that made my hours and meals very ir-
regular. I had always been a strong man
for my size, and, with the carelessness of good
health, took no count of it ; but I have no
doubt this was the primary cause of my later
suffering, for gradually I fell into a bad
slate of health. When I got up in the
morning I would feel more tired than when
I went to bed, and my limbs would hang to
me, limp and languid. My mouth always
had a nasty taste, and my tongue was white-
coated with fur. My appetite left me ; often
and often I have taken my lunch to work and
brought it home untasted ; and when I did
eat it was quite common for me to retch the
whole of it. up again directly afterwards,
jffy complexion became sallow and yellow
e an Indian. I suffered constantly from a
yain in the side undei the heart. I think
wa« the wind oil' my stomach that used to
The spot got so tender that 1
could not bear even the weight of a waist-
coat over it. I suffered with a racking pain
in the top of the head, a bilious headache,
and a pain between the shoulders and down
the net k. But my worst trouble of all was
the pain across the loins ; it would take me
so sometimes, when I had laid down to rest
and tried to move, that you could have heard
me sing out a mile away. In getting up in
the morning this pain would render me
quite stiff till my back had been well rubbed,
"ly eyes in the morning were quite bloodshot,
and when I looked about objects appeared
to whirl round and round, and I could see
little dancing stars. My night’s rest was
broken, and gave me no refreshment. I was
slow to doze off, and when I did I was soon
awake again, startled by some horrible
dieam. In my sleep my mind could conjure
up nothing but horrors— something dreadful
was happening to me—l was falling off a cliff,
or tumbling down a well without a bottom,
and just as I was about to be crushed, the
nervous fear of the moment woke me up. I
became very thin in body, and the trouble
at my heart caused me much anxiety. It
would go all of a flutter, and when I went to
take a long breath I was caught up short
with a sharp, pricking pain. One of my
worst symptoms was mental despondency ;
the bile in my system seemed to cloud my
brain, and make all things dismal, hopeless,
and distressing. When I was away from
home I was forever thinking some misfortune
would happen there ; and these groundless
fears made such an impression on me that
directly I returned I would enquire anxiously
of the wife a,s to their truth. But to find
my fears without foundation on one day was
ar#from preventing me dwelling on the
possibilities of like calamities the next. And
when you consider that I am, when in health,
naturally of a light-hearted and jovial dis-
position, you will understand how serious
my case had become. It is true I never
gave up work ; but many and many a day it
would have been better for me if I had.
v hen m good health I am not afraid to do
a day s work beside any man in the country;
but a long course of the symptoms I have
described brought me very low. And 1
noticed I was always worse on Sundays and
during hot weather, and continually I was
belching up nasty wind. This wind, as I
think I told you, would gather round my
heart, giving me great discomfort till it had
shifted or come away. To help this I often
took a cup of hot tea. The food I did eat
did me no good and gave me no strength,
and when I vomited it up, I noticed that it
was in just the same state as when swal-
lowed. It appeared as though my stomach
was for the time paralysed, and unable to
perform its functions. And all this time,
remember, I was stiff and crippled with the
horrible pain in the small of the back. A
pain they call the kidney pain (a popular
error—it is not “ kidney pain ” ; it’s a reflex
liver pain.— Ed.), that would catch me at
times after a sudden movement, with a sharp
agony like a knife going into me. You car
see that altogether my condition was such
as to cause me the gloomiest forebodings,
apart from the despondency caused by the
complaint itself.”
“ Yet, I understand you recovered, Mr.
Scource ?” enquired the pressman.
“ Yes; and I will tell you how it came
about. I was looking over the paper one
day, when I saw a published testimonial
from a person who had been cured of symp-
toms like my own. It was that of a New-
castle patient. Now I happen to come from
Newcastle, New South Wales, myself, and
know thegentleman. Thisgave me confidence
that the testimonial was genuine. The
medicine mentioned as curing my friend was
Clements Tonic ; so I immediately bought a
bottle, and I am pleased to say that my ex
perience was only a repetition of the thou
sands of others who have tried that grea‘
remedy. Clements Tonic started to cur.
me from the jump, so to speak. First I gol
a good appetite, then a good night’s rest:
the heart trouble, the bilious headaches, the
wind and indigestion disappeared. Th
pain between my shoulders and side went
away; and—greatestcomfort of all—the stiff,
horrible pain across the loins gradually eased
and disappeared. There is no doubt that
Clements Tonic fitted my case, and found
out and relieved all my bad symptoms with
a rapidity hardly credible to one who has
not experienced it and proved it.”
“You state, Mr. Scource, that by reading
a testimonial you were led to try this remedy.
May I hope that you will do as you have
been done by, and pass the glad tidings on
to others.”
“ If you wish me to give you a testimonial
that will be published, I do not object.
Print it as you like ; though I am far from
be’ng anxious to see my name in type.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Thomas Scource, of Euston Terrace,
Croydon, Adelaide, in the Province of South Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
four folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any manner my statements—which I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the sixth year of the reign of
his la'e Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled
“ An Act to repeal an Act of this present Session of
Parliament, intituled ‘An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the State, and to sub-
stitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more
entire suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits, and to make other provisions
for the abolition of unnecessary Oaths.’ ”
Declared and subscribed at Croydon, in the Province
of South Australia, this 26th day of October, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety nine, before me,
HF.NRY n RRiniß t o
04
YOU CAN SLEEP
AND THEY CANNOT CHEAT YOU !
The national Cash Register
is
AN EVER WIDE AWAKE PARTNER.
It eats nothing, costs no wages, yet works perfectly.
sdf
The 92 Check Printer.
No Human Eye
Could so thoroughly -watch
and check your money,
No Human Honesty
Could be such a guarantee
to customers.
It’s a PARTNER.
Its a BANK.
It’s a SAFEGUARD.
It’s a FORTRESS.
IT ADDS MONEY, CHECKS MONEY,
SAVES MONEY, MAKES MONEY.
Head Australasian Office—
-393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
OT3C
* uo puo^x
3SnOH "±S NOM N VO ZZZ
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
fuahtb: jarvis
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in plaoing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & 00., Queen „reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— o. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
MOIR’S
HERRINGS
In Tomato Sauce «
In I lb. Flat Oval Tins.
Manufacturers 9
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
K€MP’S
Patent Sbeep-BraQdiQg LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
AgentB- Ei rich & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
Black, Red, azid. Blue. 3s 6d per gall, in. M!elt>. and. Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane,
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, to., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
I AND
THE AGED:
Bad as it is, Cronjes St. Helena ia a
heaven to Queensland’s infamous prison island ot
that name. The wooden structures in the latter
place are old, filthy, and, in every sense, abomi-
nable. The physical degradation is even deeper
than the moral of the bulk of the prisoners.
There is much more money in secular than
Sly because* thdr belovSF h£aS> in Saturday’s
down the page in big, bold characters-


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIPJS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throat/ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATUONAGB^
..0n...
fir. Fra ok Scoior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
The Enormous Success of Khakis !
THE NEW IMPERIAL WAR LOAN
Oversubscribed twenty times is nothing to the success of
KHAKI BLEND TEA
AND THB
CONTINGENT CANTEENS.
These are oversold in every town in N.S.W. Orders are
waiting on every hand. We are working overtime to keep
pace with the UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND, and ask
the indulgence of customers for slight delays.
Granuma and Billy Tea
Still to the front, like true Australians.
JAMES INGUST& CO. LIMITED,
MERCHANTS, MILLERS, AND MANUFACTURERS,
Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctiotieers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
c
I
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
Field and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, Rain Gauges, Wind
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE.
Geo. C. Penboss, 119 Pitt-street
(between Herald \
and G.P.O. /f
Sydney,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Albury is so sure of catching the Federal
capital that land there already scores an upward
price.
Before the war in the Transvaal it was £1
to 30s. a day for the white mechanic, and no vote.
After the war it will be 6s. to Bs. a day and a vote.
In fact, that’s mostly what the war’s about.
Surely it is the irony of fate that impels
one Maloney to oppose “ the jaynil ” Dan O’Con-
nor for Phillip Division, Sydney. That historic .
official minute, “Aup’int Maloney,” is still un-
forgotten.
The deposit-money of a candidate for a
southern Tasmanian constituency was garnisheed
by an alleged creditor. Local long robes are
much exercised as to the legality of the proceeding
—for which there seems to be no local precedent.
Not one Anti-Federal meeting in Perth or
on the W. A. Goldfields has been a success. Many
have been called, but every time resolutions in
support of Federation have been carried. And
Perth and the Goldfields are three-fourths of
W.A. in a population sense. It is the bull-and-
cow vote of the great wilderness which makes the
provincialist majority in Parliament.
The anxiety of N.S.W. Postmaster Crick
to secure the interests of the Eastern Extension
cable monopoly is remarkable. The Other day
there was a deadlock in negotiations, caused by
the co.’s refusal to accept the terms laid down by
N.S.W. and Vic. Govts. And now Postmaster
Crick is announced as modifying the terms to
suit the monopoly, with Vic. protesting.
Dear Bulletin.— Rev. W. H. Kennnis
writes to S.M. Herald urging the Government to
appoint a day of humiliation and prayer for the
removal of the drought. Why not also appoint a
day on which to pray for the disappearance of the
Public Debt? If it would disappear N.S.W.
would have nearly £2,500,000 a year, which now
goes in interest, to spend on irrigation.—Yours
truly. Resignation.
Minister Perry states that N.S.W. Gov-
ernment is thinking out a scheme of compulsory
arbitration in industrial disputes, and
may do something next session. Pro-
bably the less original thinking it
does in the matter, and the more
servile in its imitation of the suc-
cessful Maoriland law, the better.
N.S.W.’s present voluntary-arbitra-
tion law is the result of original
thinking. Under it certain officials
may arbitrate in any industrial dis-
pute if both parties are agreeable,
and the court’s award is final unless
one party refuses to take any notice
of it. So the party that reckons it
has the worst case always refuses to
arbitrate or refuses to accept the
award, and the court never had any
real work to do except watch the
flies on the, ceiling'.
Sydney Morning Herald has
just stated in its leading columns
that Australia is willing to help
Britain “in just quarrels” but it
“would be a great mistake to sup-
pose that because Australia has i
proved herself ready and able to 0
help the Empire’s cause she would
therefore be inclined to view with
complacency the inauguration of a
system (of Imperial Federation)
which would render her an uninfluen-
tial portion of a large confederacy.”
So the Herald implies (1) that some
of Britain’s quarrels are not just; (2)
that Australia doesn’t want closer
union with the Empire ; and (3) that it
isn’t going to pledge itself to stand by
the mother-country as a regular thing
or to be permanently Jingo. When
the cold and cautious Herald goes on
like this it must have sampled the
war-frenzy with its thermometer and
found a big drop in the public tem-
perature.
Indignation meetings are being held in
Tasmania over the re-election to the Assembly of
ex-Minister Miles, who left the House under such
fishy circs., but the trouble is that after the select
committee on Miles and the Macquarie Habor
tenders brought up its report he was allowed to
“resign” his seat. Now Speaker Brown says he
doesn’t think there’s any machinery to prevent
Miles from taking his seat and keeping it unless
something new turns up and some fresh action is
taken. But it is commonly reported that the
Lewis Govt, has a bludgeon up its sleeve to slay
Miles with at one stroke.
It is notable that, though the E. E.
Cable Co. is fully prepared to offer large reduc-
tions in its rates if it is allowed to lay an Aus-
tralia-South Africa cable, and thereby squash the
Pacific State-owned cable scheme (for the Pacifio
cable might pay as one of two competing
cables, but there would hardly be business
enough to give it a show
as one of three), it flatly
refuses to promise not
to raise its rates again.
The idea apparently is
this : It took years to
arrive at some kind of
agreement re a Pacific cable.
If the Eastern Extension Co.
lays its hew cable and greatly
reduces its rates the
Pacific cable agreement
will almost certainly go
to pieces, and then the
co. will gaily put the
rates up again. It
would probably take
years to form another
Pacific cable agree-
ment ; besides, if one
was coming in sight
the E.E. Co. could
always drop its rates
once more. If the
E.E. Co. won’t pro-
mise a definite and
permanent reduction
it is safest to regard
it as a definite and
permanent danger and
to act accordingly.
The widely - re-
printed statement of
“Siniler” Hales that
he had found the war-
correspondents in
South Africa to be the
worst liars in his ex-
tensive acquaintance—
people who could tell
more and worse lies by
hand in an hour than a Cool-
gardie mining expert could
do with a steam type-writer
in a week-—is worth bearing in
mind among that class which
pins such childlike faith to the
reports of these atrocity-mongers. If “Siniler”
tells the truth then the correspondents in general
are grievous liars. If he doesn’t tell the truth then
one correspondent anyhow is a grievous liar.
An “Independent” Labor party, consist-
ing mainly of Grlassey and Keogh, will probably be
formed for coming Q. session. Independent! The
Tloodlewraith dearly loves its independents.
HIS OPINION.
1ST PHILISTINE (looking at
“ Impressionist ” picture) :
“ Wonder what school of
painting that belongs to? ”
2ND P HILISTINE: “ I should
say the Ragged School, if
you ask vie.”
Interesting and instruc-
tive to note how carefully
the “ great ” dailies avoid
all mention of capable articles
in the serious magazines deal-
ing with the war as a shame
to England or treating the
question with anything like im-
partiality. (For instance, not one
of them quoted a single line from
J. A. Hobson’s blistering and brilliant article
in January Contemporary. ) In a dispassionate
article in the Feb. Contemporary the writer, like
a remorseless literary.tracker, follows the guilt of
this war to Milner’s mad-house politics and the
rash and splenetic bungling of Chamberlain.
Reitz comes in for a minor charge of pawnshop
diplomacy, but it was the trained and vaunted
statesman, Brummagem Joe, who ran amuck, and
who has demonstrated the terrible risk a nation
runs in trusting diplomacy in the hands of a man
with the moral force of an under-cook and the hys-
terical tendencies of a Malay.
NOT GREEDY.
SECOND (to broken-up pug) : “Go on, Billy, stick
to it! You ain’t ’arf licked yet.”
PUG (who has had enough stoush) : “All ri’!
You have the other half —I don’t want it all.”
f Iblic enthusiasm is a queer thing. A
few years ago in Queensland M‘llwraith pro-
pounded his National policy and talked big
things about cutting the painter, and Bananaland
roared itself hoarse with applause. Now a man
who talks about cutting the painter gets stoned in
the streets.
Q. Govt, with one hand despatches hun-
dreds of men to Africa —many of them, doubtless,
never to return; and with the other imports 430
immigrants from England—including 175 single
men—by a vessel leaving at the end of March.
And the people pay to bring the men and to send
the men away !
M‘Call gave Braddon a close run for his
seat at Tas. general election. Only al6 majority
enabled the leader of the Opposition to get back
to the House. The Govt, has a pretty strong
following, and Braddon, having views on the
Federal Senate, will not try very hard for office in
the local jumble.
A great Maori carnival in aid of the War-
relief fund is being held at Wellington. And but
the other day the Maories were fighting Britain
for their country. Well, Jonah survived being in
the stomach of the whale ; what nation knows
that it may not be comfortable to lodge in the
stomach of the Lion ?
The absence of their leader, ex-Premier
Kingston, will make all the difference to S.A.
democrats at the coming Council elections. More-
over, the determined stand threatened by the
Laborites as regards their direct nominees is
already causing dissension. The Tories have learnt
the danger of vote-splitting, but the democrats
promise to undermine each other as of old, and
Labor greed is again at the bottom of it.
Over 2000 men applied to be taken on as
filth scavengers and plague trappers in the
bubonic-plague area of Sydney. And, when they
took these unromantic and deadly risks, they
undertook to submit to quarantine conditions.
What wonder, then, that young (and middle-aged)
Australia wanted to go to the war, or anywhere
else, where work and wages offered an induce-
ment !
A man at Gordon (Vic.) was recently
fined £lO for speaking disrespectfully of
Queen Victoria when drunk. And yet he might
speak disrespectfully of God, when either drunk
or sober, and be fined 10s. at most more
likely he wouldn’t be fined at all. And
he might say dreadful things about Canute or
William IV., who were as much English sove-
reigns as Victoria is, and nothing would happen
to him. The writer once heard a truculent person
use most disgraceful language about Canute, and
he even went so far as to curse Henry 1., yet the
policeman who was promptly appealed to wouldn’t
take any notice whatever.
The mysterious disappearance of the Wes-
tralian Separation petition recalls a similar S.A.
experience way back in ’5l. The document con-
veying S. A.’s Constitution was taken by a Colonial
Office clerk to the sailing ship “Ascendant,”
bound for Port Adelaide. Instead of handing it
to the captain he gave it to the steward, who put
the parcel on one side. When Adelaide was
reached, the authorities, with much ceremony,
waited on the captain, who protested that he had
seen nothing of the precious document. It was
subsequently found in abagcontairmg linen saved
for the wash !
Russia told the Boers applying for inter-
vention— “No; with the greatest regret. But
you should have come to us before going to Lord
Salisbury, Then our answer would still have been
—‘No; with the greatest regret.’” “This,” said
Lond. Times as per cable, “is perhaps the un-
kindest cut, acidulating platonic sympathy with
an intimation that the Republics had looked the
wrong way, but it would have made no difference
if they had looked the right way.” And do you
know why the comment was worth cabling ? Be-
cause of the one beautiful, precious word acidu-
lating—lifting the sentence to the heights of epi-
gram.
London Spectator’s suggestion is that on
the proposed monument to be erected in London
to celebrate the colonies’ share in the South Afri-
can land-grab there should be inscribed —“ We
could not have loved the Empire and the Mother-
land so well loved we not freedom more ” —a
coarse and clumsy parody of Col. Lovelace’s lines:
I could not love thee, dear, so much
Loved I not honor more.
Also, it is proposed that the inscription shall be
in three languages—English, French (for the
French-Canadians), and Dutch (for the loyal
Dutch). But why not also in Hebrew (under the
three balls of Lombardy)—-for the benefit of
Messrs. Eckstein, Wernher, Beit, Rothschild, and
co. ?
“Mary Moses” to The Bulletin from
Dunedin: —
Dear Mr. Editor.—You know Maoriland’s Agent-General,
Mr. Reeves ? Well, the editor of Dunedin Star, Mr. Mark
Cohen, says he is a pro-Boer ;he does give it to him. Mr.
Reeves sends cables about the war, and when Mr. Oronje
and all his men were caught in a trap by Mr. Roberts,
Mr Reeves sent us word that “ Cronje fought well yester-
day, but is expected to surrender soon, as the British are
five to one.” Then the editor got so angry ; he said that
“ from the tone of this and other messages from the same
source it seems doubtful whether the Agent-General’s
sympathies are in the right quarter.” And then a funny
thing: when Mr. Cronje and all his men gave in, Mr. Reeves
was the first to send us the news ; he was 12 hours before
anybody else. I asked father what the editor would say
to that, and he laughed and said, “ Cohen is a great
patriot; he might be knighted.” I won’t knight him;
will you ?
It is over four years now since Bigjohn
Forrest announced his great Coolgardie water
scheme. It was to cost £2,500,000 and a clear cool
stream was to be flowing gaily into Coolgardie in
three years. Reckoning that the money could be
raised at 3 per cent., and that the works could send
along 5,000,000 gallons a day, and the fields would
take it all at 3s. (id. per 100 Q gallons (and thus pay
£875 a day for water) Bigjohn saw glorious pros-
pects ahead. Now after four years the works are
not nearly completed. W.A. has been borrowing
money at 4 and even 5 per cent. And Coolgardie
and Kalgoorlie have got so used to struggling
along with their precarious but cheap water
supply that many of the inhabitants don’t want to
see John’s snake-like length of pipe crawling
towards them over the plains for another century.
Dr. Ashburton Thompson of N.S.W.
Health Board on the whyness of Sydney’# l dilapi-
dations i
I have no doubt at all that most local governing
authorities are ready to do whatever they see to be
necessary and whatever the Board of Health recommends
as necessary for the public safety. If they do not always
do so the reason is neither more or less than this : They
have no money. Municipalities are only able to raise a
miserable rate of 2s. in the &. The money so raised goes
to keep in repair miles of streets and roads. Conse-
quently, if we go into a district and say, for instance:
‘ You have no garbage destructor. Why is this?’ They
reply : ‘ We know it is necessary, but we have no money
with which to buy one.’ The sooner the public under-
stands this the better.
And to a limited extent The Bulletin defends
the N.S.W. Municipalities Act and says “ Rats!”
What’s the use of lamenting that the metropolitan
municipalities are allowed only to raise “a miser-
able 2s. in the £,” and so can’t keep the place in
order, when among 41 sets of miserable aldermen
there isn’t one game to raise more than a miser-
able Is. 6d. in the £ ?
An Australian M.P., wh<> lias steadily
decried the war, has actually addressed what
the daily press describes as an “orderly” public
meeting—and obtained a vote of confidence, and
been presented with a purse of sovereigns ! At
Grenfell, N.S.W., Mr. W. A. Holman, speaking
at great length, defended his action over the
South African affair. He said that though
only one of the ten resisting the dispatch of
troops, there were at least 25 others in the
House, who had not the courage of their opinions.
[This is no doubt true : The Bulletin can name
23 of them.—Ed. B.] Regarding the Tasmanian
incident, a portion also of that was suppressed,
the papers not publishing that this Hobart meet-
ing was simply disturbed by a gang of larrikins
headed by drunken sailors. At the close of his
speech a vote of confidence was carried on the
motion of Mr. Marks, seconded by Mr. Flinn.
Afterwards Dr. Rygate presented Mr. Holman
with an address and a purse of sovereigns, which
he acknowledged. The Mayor presided. But
then Grenfell is a gold-mining constituency


“ You’re a never
“ You’re a has-been.”
was.”
A long-distance telephone between Sydney
and Melbourne is mooted in Sydney. In the
U.S. you can talk with ease between Chicago and
New York, 1000 miles.
Lord Rosebery is probably the Queen’s
favorite among all the peers. Ilis mother, who
still lives, was a bridesmaid to Her Gracious 60
long years ago.
Editor “ Majah ” W. T. Reay, Melb.
Herald’s pet particular war-correspondent, on the
Englishmen under Colonel Price
These poor English militia. . . . Why these men were
sent to this country I can’t imagine. They are little
better fitted to fight the Boers than a crowd of school-
boys.
What about the “distinguished honor” to Col.
Tom Price when Gen. Roberts gave him a back
seat hobbled with this string of detrimentals ?
But, apart from that, isn’t Reay guilty of brutal
disloyalty, or something ?
Thus a Perth (W.A.) daily re the banquet
tendered to the troops at Fremantle prior to their
departure for Africa: —
The ladies who waited at the officers’ table wore evening
dress, but those at the other tables wore simply a distin-
guishing badge—a rosette or a piece of ribbon.
Surely not a case of “simply that and nothing
more !”
London Daily Mail (a howling Jingo
paper) re the landing of 600 so-called Transvaal
“refugees” :
On the testimony of the ship’s officers, scarcely one hun-
dred of them deserved help. There were Russian Jews,
Polish Jews, Peruvian Jews—all kinds of Jews. They
fought and jostled, and though they bad breakfasted well
on board, rushed as though half-starved at the food pro-
vided. They fought for places on the train, and gambled
in the carriages, staking sovereig nn on a card !. . : These
were the penniless refugees ; and when the Relief Com-
mittee passed by they hid their gold and fawned and
whined and begged in broken English for money for a
tram-fare.
And these were some of the hapless Uitlanders we
read of—‘the men who were heart-broken “because
they couldn’t get de franchise.”
The rapid progress made by Acetylene
Gas during the past year in the colonies speaks
volumes for the future of the industry. The
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., Sydney,
are prepared to give estimates for any kind of in-
door or outdoor lighting. The recent night-
cycling carnival was carried on by Acetylene
installed by this Co.*
Hector Macdonald (now Major General),
when promoted from the ranks to the position of
sergeant, was congratulated by his colonel, and
told to remember that a sergeant ‘in his (the
colonel’s) regiment was equal in value to a member
of the British Parliament. Evidently this com-
mander reckoned that tlie man who is willing to
die for his country is quite as good as the one who
merely talks for it. But, by the same ratio, what
must a colonel be worth compared with a leading
civilian ? A king, at least: and a field-marshal
must be the Deity incarnate.
Shoreditch (London) has a garbage de-
structor which burns up about 84 tons of refuse
daily. The residue consists of about 26 tons of
clinkers, which, ground up and mixed with
cement, make excellent paving slabs. The de-
structor only uses 1344 tons of coal per annum,
*and out of the heat generated by the coal and the
refuse it supplies electric power and lighting to
the surrounding district, steam to the public baths
and wash-houses, and also steam to heat some
adjacent public buildings. When the scheme is
brought to perfection it seems probable that gar-
bage will be a source of revenue instead of an ex-
pense.
M'Shiels, Yic.’s two-headed Premier,
with the caution characteristic of the Scotch half
of him, lately declined to proclaim St. Patrick’s
Day a public holiday. Apropos, a constituent of
said half, commenting on the matter, says it re-
minds him of the local policeman. When this in-
telligent officer falls over an over-laden Prodistan
cooling his throbbing brow on the cold earth, he
diplomatically takes him home to the warmer re-
ception there awaiting him ; but when he bumps
up against a co-religionist in similar plight, he
runs him in to show his official impartiality.
(Query for Benedicts : Which is the kinder treat-
ment ?)
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
sd
UNEQUALED FOR
ALIGNMENT
Sta/vdard aril /('Eyboard.
BUSINESS GUNS AT THE FRONT.
Joubert, the Boer commander, carries a Yost Typewriter about with him in his ’bus. He would
never have got his army into its present mess if he had remembered that —“ Beneath the rule of
men entirely great, the Yost is mightier than the sword.”
“ Put up the sword, States can be ruled without it.”
OUR TYPEWRITERS
The ||eui Century, yost
$
Densmore
Are all well represented at the front. They are found to be business guns of sure and
splendid efficiency.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane : Webster & Co.; Adelaide: Reeves & Co. ; Launceston : Hedley Button ; Hobart: Walch & Sons ;
New Zealand : J. H. Colwill, Auckland ; and at Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
(itdal Life Association
OF AUSTRALASIA.
THIRTY - FIRST ANNUAL REPORT.
Adopted at General Meeting, Monday, 2nd APRIL, 1900.
-=>-oE-=^o^=Ho-c»"
NEW PREMIUMS ...
RENEWAL PREMIUMS
TOTAL INCOME ...
ACCUMULATED FUNDS
£34,127
£140,517
£233,525
£1,359,362
Increase over 1898,
£8,270
£8,257
£17,323
£101,759
INCREASE OF POLICIES IN FORCE to £5,172,043.
REDUCTION OF DEATH CLAIMS by £10,598.
AND A VERY SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN THE EXPENSE RATE.
J. C. REMINGTON, General Manager.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE:
George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
MAP
Australia
FORT DARWIN
KATHERINE
WYNDHAM *
m
BURKETO
'®ANTHO
normanton
derby
I POWEUS CREEK &
;■ \
kumberley %
MY 5 lA6OON
CHARTERS TOWERS
OWIiSVILIE
TEKBDT/@ISY
ROE.BURME
QKHSHKISILAKI® \
ROCKHAMPTON
ONSLOW
BRISBANE
|@i’P
c
SERALOTON
\ f Gift's RANGE*
CUCLfI
«ia wii
?s
PC?.
AUGUSTA
eyre
W I\
p ERTH
SYDNEY
AID
CCS
TfpniA ,
feJSMEIBOURNE''-,"
showing route taken by A. RICHARDSON, the WHITE
BROTHERS, and D. M‘KAY, in their 11,500 miles cycle
ride around the continent.
A
Significant
Feature
in connection with all overland cycle rides, is the fact
that in every instance
m
m
SHOULD
YOU
WANT a
you will
have been selected by the riders in preference to all others
—the FINE MATERIAL and WORKMANSHIP embodied
in these tyres making them far superior to all others
for rough riding.
tyre capable of withstanding plenty of hard work on the road,
find that “DUNLOPS” will give you every satisfaction.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
At Poverty Point.
Rickards would do well to re-enforce his prohibition of
speeches from the stage by perspiring vocalists.
days every blessed songster of self-importance takes tne
liberty of “ saying a few words ” to the audience once in
a way, or every night. He is “ grateful for his kind re-
ception,” or he “ hopes to prove himself worthy, &c., or
he “ promises to do his hutmost during the engagement
—just as though the people in front wanted his personal,
ungrammatical assurance on these points.
At the marriage of Lord Chesterfield last month, Ada
Crossley sung an Ave Maria, composed by Leon Caron,
Williamson’s conductor.
“ D.” : Australians who still cherish a remembrance of
old Jemmy Ashton will be glad to hear that Ashton’s cir-
cus still exists —run by James Ashton, jnr., and compris-
ing quite a troupe of third-generation Ashtons amongst
its performers. Saw it up North lately, an excellent
show, right up to the old man’s ideal of good horse-acts
in that respect far ahead of most of the big tent-shows.
The quaintest item on Melb. Royal stage is the small,
three-year-old edition of John F. Sheridan, a marvellous
reproduction of J.F.S. in miniature, even to the elegant
outward and inward curve of the legs which Johnnie
makes so conspicuous in Widow O’Brien.
Nellie Stewart’s age suffers severely in reputation
from the fact that she has been before the Aus-
tralian public since she was five years old, or thereabouts.
People who remember to have heard of Docy, Maggie, and
Nellie Stewart in the long ago, and who don’t know that
Miss Nellie is the youngest offspring of her mother’s
second marriage, are apt to think the “ old favorite ” 25
per cent, older than she is ; and they make out that she
was travelling around with her step-sisters sometime
before her parents had ever met. Nellie, however, got
some consolation for this grievance when she made her
first appearances in England a few years back. The
critics unanimously accepted the charming stranger as a
young actress “ with considerable stage experience.”
Dainty Irene Franklin, at Melb. Bijou, is a petite Ameri-
can person who warbles coon songs and the ditties of the
more elderly nigger in a quietly effective way, relying
much more upon intelligent facial expression than the
ordinary or common-place serio-comic, over whom she
fairly soars. But it is Dainty Irene’s hand-play that
knocks ’em ; her neat, little white hands seem made of
the most prehensile kind of rubber, and they flutter
about the stage like the wings of a moth. It is quite a
shock to think what might have happened to the Antipo-
dean world had the young lady from Chicago elected to
attack it as an expert in three-card monte or a practical
pocket-picker.
“J.”: Nance O’Neil, more than any other actress at
present on Australian boards, has the true art of making
art conceal art. Hers are portrayals of human nature as
we see it off the stage—not on. Her work appeals to you
much more the day after you have seen it. It isn’t the
usual stage fizzle-w'izzle brilliancy which dies away with
your supper or your dreams, but a picture which more
strongly takes form and color during your sleep. A pic-
ture that next morning you want to hug, and resolve to
keep it for ever in the amber of memory.
George R. Sims is the author of “ When the Lamps are
Lighted,” Johnnie Sheridan’s newest dramatic hotch-
potch at Melb. Royal—
Some time ago G.S. invented
A hair-restorer aptly called,
And yet we find (the fact’s lamented)
That in the drama just presented
The author seems extremely bald.
J. 0. Williamson is, it is said, casting an inquiring eye
over Melb. Alexandra with a view to taking up the big,
ill-situated house and making it his Southern head-
quarters. If J.O.W. decides to seize on the Aleck he will
knock out the present front, abolish the cook-shops and'
the plebeian odours of onions plain and onions fried that
haunt the circle and the galleries, and rob the house of
its present meat-market aspect. The Aleck has had its
good times in the past, and Williamson, with proper
material and popular prices, may lift it again ; but the
prospect of ever drawing five-shilling patrons down Ex-
hibition-street seems remote.
Winston Churchill, in reply to an enquiry from agent
Edwin Geac.h, says that he will consider the matter of an
Australian lecturing tour, although he does not love sea-
voyages. Young Churchill’s value to the importer would
depend mainly on his lecturing qualifications—voice, ap-
pearance, platform manner, and dramatic force. As a
hero he lost prestige when, taking fright at the news of
Kitchener and Roberts being ordered to South Africa, he
cabled the War Office that Buller was “quite equal to the
chief command of the job.” Evidently the silly little
cablegram was intended to block Kitchener, tlie man
whom Churchill had justly enough abused for his un-
speakable savagery (it was Kitchener who had the Mahdi’s
tomb burst upon and the bones scattered) in the Soudan
expedition. Winston Churchill’s message of advice was
a nine days joke, and some of his former colleagues (he
held a lieutenant’s commission in a cavalry regiment a
while ago) sent him a wire, “ Don’t make an ass of your-
self.”
Maggie Stirling expects to return to Melbourne from
London before the end of this year. She has had a good
measure of success there, and says she has improved both
in health and as a singer.
Chas. Kean spoke through his nose. As Shylock, he
said, “You take by life when you take the beans bv which
I live.”
“Haresfoot”: Nat Douglas filled the bill entirely, to
my idea, as heroic leading man for the Stock, and his
faults would not have prevented him from being a con-
siderable fellow in England 100 years ago. He was at his
zenith in Sydney, supporting Mary Gladstone. What a
fine Gennaro, in Lucrezia Borgia ! A little after this I saw
him play Belphegor with power, at the trumpery Melb.
Polytechnic. Miln was afraid to let him act Othello, and
engaged insignificant (but not contemptible) little Leake
for it.
“Haresfoot”: The best play under the title of “The
Jewess” is the dramatic version of Halevy’s opera, “La
Juive,” which is sensational enough for anything, the
finale being a judicial plunge of the fair, young Hebrewess
into a cauldron of boiling oil 1 Scene laid in Switzerland.
A Cardinal condemns the Jewess, out of hatred for her
father, Eleazar, but just as she jumps into the hissing
soup Eleazar shouts to the Cardinal, “ She is thy
daughter! ”
Sarah Bernhardt has been warned, by an after-affect of
influenza, that she is not physically immortal. She
recently fainted on the stage whilst playing Hamlet, and
was unconscious for some time after the curtain had been
hastily lowered.
The worm will turn. Actor-manager (to super, whom
hr has been badgering all the rehearsal) : “ I wish to God
y iu’d turn your toes out!” Super. : “I wish to God
y >u’d turn yours up ! ”
Two of Sanger’s Circus elephants recently went cranky,
after the manner of their kind. The more dangerous
1 least killed its keeper, who had amused himself whilst
lrunk by prodding it with a blunt spear (what a subject
lor a temperance orator!), and as this was the second
keeper it had disposed of under similar circumstances,
Sanger shot it through the head. The other elephant,
named Charlie, merely pushed its way out of the palace
and roamed around the neighborhood smashing carriage
gates, garden walls, etc., until it came to a peaceful wood,
where it lay down to think. Sanger lured Charlie back
to captivity by means of half-a-dozen decoy elephants,
but the beast, having been once out on the razzle, is
likely to repeat the dissipation at any time.
Robert Loraine, actor, sued a London manageress for
breach of contract. He was engaged to play the hero at
£3O a week, but the manageress put somebody else into
his place, on the ground that he mumbled his lines and
was addicted to personal violence against other members
of the co. The assaulted parties must have been pro-
Boers, for the case was adjourned sine die, owing to
Loraine having joined a yeomanry corps, which was to
sail for Africa next day. From which it appears that the
stage hero who prates of the Dear Old Flag is occasionally
in earnest. But it is only very occasionally.
“ 0.P.”: “ Ben Sun ” (B. 10/3/’00) has struck the correct
brand of bush-play. But why the touch of ire? The
bushman’s idea of entertainment is relaxation —something
strong, funny and healthy, well worth a laugh and no
thought. He doesn’t turn-up to study problems or to be
made miserable, as is alleged of the city person, and he
abhors the flat, diluted joke of the cultivated weed. As
an all-round chain-lightning man, or “ strong point,” the
gumleaf man has no compeer save the Western Yankee.
“ T.D.” : I have met at least half-a-dozen “ original dis-
coverers ” of Ada Crossley, yet Ada doesn’t seem to have
been “ discovered ” worth a cent before Madame Fanny
Simonsen took the rather gawky girl under her wing
and developed her golden voice and her then very dormant
artistic instincts. The Simonsen used to say despairingly
that she was a girl with the loveliest voice in the world,
but couldn’t understand that she had a soul.
Said that Hortense Schneider, the onetime dashing
“ creatress ** of La Grande Duchesse and other Offen-
bachian heroines, is now hesitating between “ a purely
religious order and one given to active charity.” At pre-
sent she is a boarder among the nuns at a Toulouse con-
vent, and when asked to attend the first performance of a
revival of La Belle Helene poor sanctified Schneider shook
her head and counted her beads. All the same, one would
advise the veteran to go in for active charity rather than
pure religion. There might be a lot of excitement in a
philanthropic career for Schneider if she retains only a
little of her old energy.
The young wife of poor old Sims Reeves was lately play-
ing the fairy queen in a provincial pantomime.
The usual nomadic theatrical co. (they become even
more usual than usual) came out on top in a Vic. western
district township one night lately. The co. had reckoned
on a three-night stand, but the first'night barely realised
hash for the crowd, and the ingenious manager had to
brace his intellect to grapple with the public indifference.
He hustled out dodgers describing in blazing type his
wonderful new cinematograph of the war straight from
Ladysmith, and the co. spread over the place, and held
forth about the marvellous incidents to be depicted, till
the residents were filled with wonder. Result, a packed
house. After the usual performance a calico sheet was
spread as a curtain, and the full strength of the co.,
dressed in as much military material as could be collected,
worked off incursions, sieges, bayonet-charges, battle,
kopje, and sudden death after the manner of the old familiar
shadow pantomime. Nobody in the house had seen a cine-
matograph, so it was a huge succees. The show ended
with an alleged picture of a man suddenly seized by the
plague in Sydney. The disease struck him as he was
trotting across the field of view, and he suddenly dropped
everything, and jumped four feet high, and then had
awful contortions. A swagman in the audience gained
great credit and beer that night by stating at the Rabbit-
Catcher’s Arms Hotel that he had seen people seized by
the plague in Bombay and they always jumped like that.
San Francisco Chronicle: —“ln Paradise” is un-
doubtedly one of the French comedies which Sardou had
in mind when he recently said : “ I cannot enter into
rivalry with the younger dramatists who dance people
about a bed and then let them disrobe. I still hold my-
self too good for that. I merely write historical dramas
for the educated public of civilized nations.” A bed in a
Parisian boudoir is a conspicuous feature of “ In Paradise.”
The dainty bit of furniture is obtrusively in evidence
throughout the second act, and it serves to conceal three
male admirers of its fair owner, while a fourth one —to
whom she is engaged to be married—tours the apartment
in jealous frenzy, and a fifth one—to whom she is married
—occupies an ante-room. The dialogue? Well, a pro-
vincial matron warned her daughter to beware of “ a
nineteenth century man with an early Roman tempera-
ment,” and also advised the maiden to “ speak slowly so
as to make her ideas last longer.” An antique Parisian
benedict boasted that he had spent the greater part of his
life hiding in closets and wardrobes, and his equally
ancient friend from the country confessed that it had been
the dream of his matrimonial care’er to flirt with a chorus
girl or an artist’s model.
The fact that Lady Roberts has left for
South Africa to join her aged husband tells its
own tale. Evidently Bobs reckons that h's
sojourn in the country will be long, and maybe 1 is
wife is expected to prove a social factor in the con*
ciliation of the Orange Free State.
The libel-verdict given to solicitor Coonan
for a letter published in Wyalong (N.S.W.) Star
shapes peculiarly: “£25, to be reduced to shill-
ings on defendant publishing an apology.” Costs
were granted.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
flf Ml is piste |.*!|.!§9.,pi
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
«74; CASTLEEEA6H ST., *7 Q
‘ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The (sty Ptiitual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^5-
111? AT) OFI'TOPj :
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (faemv BMdge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CXjYNE ; Brisbane, J. G. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Coffipy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doo &
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NeW ßr°a U nch7 ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
file Bank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager—- Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £70J,009
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Sett:ements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
lion. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Ro hurts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Es |.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Milker.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,056.
Policies issued, 79,765-assuring £24,785,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A. 1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
!ATest& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, April 7, 1 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 14, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, April 24, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, April 24, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAIiERG
Peregrine, Sat., April 7, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, April 10, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, April 14, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat,., April 7, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, April 14, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. I'assensjeis and Carjro
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daly.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Mont hs.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs, MTlwraith, M'Kacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets. ’
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, €*€c£i£orS,
AND
ConjpaGjy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP i'90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150.000 0 0
Amount; at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1809 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Gripe,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 04 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed.by New
Z aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Prefen nee Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountnf Capital p ayable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
ON and AFTER TUESDAY, 17th APRIL
instant the Business of the Sydney Branch
of the above Bank will be conducted in the
Equitable Building,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-dp Capital (11 P2/’99V £3.163,1)38 10 0
Direc tors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; I-lou. VV. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hm, N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. M. M‘Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager; Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsfjate Street IVithin
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuoliar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Coiien, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. It. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq.., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humpiiery, M.L.C. ; J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. 11. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United li2SCira§K€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Firs Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low.
THOMAS M. TIN LEY, Manager.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
MEDIC, 11,984 tons, on Friday, 6th April, at Noon.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
A ERIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally' is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money', &0., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
vngT and
| H ujjauu VIA
J by the
AMERICA
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike, the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
’MARIPOSA
MOANA
| Leave
Tons. Sydney
j at 1 p.in.
Leave
Auckland,
3158 April 11 April 16 May
3158 May' 9 May 14 June
4000 June 6 June 11 June
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Tickets are available 11 until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time curds, railway mnps, end guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Sleam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slrcet,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS,
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply' to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
PCRCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSUEANOE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
'
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS •
Opals, Pearls & Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. B€NJAMIN at)d SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
rr NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION
A RECORD. —We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED; FULL-
a
\
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong- and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money (is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THEADELATDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LI MIT ISO.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
April f>.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.
Tuesday, April 10. •
BRISBANE
mackay
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
April 6.
For BRISBANE SS.S. A lelaide, Sat., April 7.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and 0.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best, <t£ Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S- N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passent/er A ecomrnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unr trailed.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, 165 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets, -
Huddart, patter § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
* Not calling at Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
IDlluraith, |j|‘gacharnB go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
MMwraith, M’Eacharn Sc Co. P cpiveta-y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PIIILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Uonlract w ith the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON -BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R, BRASIER DE'THUY, Principal Agent.


A globe-trotter says of Melbourne, in a
Parisian paper, that it is “a fine modern city, hav-
ing ancient insanitary arrangements. A system
of underground sewerage is making very slow pro-
gress, but in the majority of houses they use the
primitive system, et ils le gardent pour une
semaine.”
MIGHTY
( REGISTERED )
fieshly piepared fronjtiie Famous Afucarj KOLA NUTS
C COLA ACUMINATA )
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIC
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The. Greediest Tickmeup & Appetiser known,
ft makes you. eat and makes you .strong
'—i —» It cures Indigestion. '= J —»
WHEH OllT OF SOP & a dn,k /A®K"
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
ALL FjOTELS & REFRESHMENT ROOMS wthSODA WATER 6r
AU CHEMISTS ANO -Vs Pe<* Bottle
337 George vs* Hearty opp G Post 01
forC jSfpftLß on Bifft.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, ncrhans sur-
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BHOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
D.S .MAI R
watch repairing specialist.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, g/g
GUARANTEED MONTHS.
EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mail-, 634 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
OP THE
Co-Operative JfJooS $ produce Company pd.,
For the Year Ended 28th February, 1900,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Third Annual General Meeting held at 11 a.m.
on Thursday, 29th March, 1900, at the Company’s Ojjices, 12 <Se lk O’Connell St.
Gentlemen, —
We have pleasure in submitting- to you our Third Annual Report and Balance Sheet, which we cannot but
consider eminently satisfactory. During the year ended 28th of February, 1900, there have been consigned to this
Company
46,056 BALES OF WOOL,
which have been disposed of in the following manner :
' Shipped to London on account of clients 7,998
Sold 35,145
thus leaving on hand for disposal 2913 bales.
The Company’s business thus shows the following satisfactory progress
Total Received.
Season 1897-98 .. 14,198 Bales
„ 1898-99 .. 33,066 „
„ 1899-00 .. 46,056 „
Total Sold in Sydney.
12,548 Bales.
30,774 „ '
. 35,145 „
£8,788 1 0
3,894 4 1
and it should also be remembered that the increases, indicated above, have been made in spite of a general decrease
of exports for New South Wales, the last season especially having shown a total decrease of about 110,000 Bales to date.
We have also pleasure in advising that the number of our selling clients has more than doubled during this
season, and has now reached the very satisfactory total of 1184.
FINANCIALLY the transactions of the year show a NETT PROFIT of
It will be remembered that at February the 28th, 1899, the Company, after carrying £1,500 to a
Reserve Fund, left for disposal the sum of
from which, after paying the Dividend and Bonus agreed upon by the Shareholders at their meeting on
March the 28th, 1899. as shown on the Balance Sheet,, there remained the sum of
which, added to the Credit for this year, leaves the total to the Credit of Profit and Loss Account of
From this sum the Board of Directors has carried the sum of £3500 to the Reserve Fund, which is
thereby increased to a total of £5OOO, and thus there is left a surplus to the credit of Profit and Loss
Account of
which the Directors propose should be dealt with as follows :
Dividend to Shareholders 6 per cent., about £316
Bonus to Selling Clients J per cent., ~ 4,550
1,244
10,032
6,632 9 9
4,8
thus leaving about £1666 9 9 to be carried forward to the Credit of Profit and Loss Account.
The very heavy items of expense in Rent and Insurance are, we think, in themselves a sufficient justification for
the action of the Directors in proceeding with the large new Store, now in course of erection, as, when completed, the
former expense will be done away with, and the latter will be reduced by about 50 per cent, in the rate.
Messrs. O. S. McPhillam.v, Jas. Leslie, and D. McMaster, Directors, retire in accordance with the Articles of Asso-
ciation, but, having given the necessary notice, are eligible for re-election.
We charge no One-eighth of a Penny to the Buyers, and the Bonus of f per cent., with the undivided
profits, reduces our selling charge to less than I.} per cent..
We have to return you individually and collectively our cordial thanks for your continued support, and we venture
to hope that our efforts in the past merit a continuance of your patronage in the future.
We are, Gentlemen, faithfully yours,
THE CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE CO., LTD.
F. W. BACON, Chairman.
Reserve
Fund Account.
Nil.
Dr.
Cr.
By Profit and Loss Account, Feb. 28, 1899.. £l5OO 0 0
£l5OO 0 0
Permanent Buildings Account.
Dr.
To Union Bank of A., Ltd.
(Mortgage) .. .. .. £4,700 10 0
„ Balance, as per General
Balance Sheet.. .. .. 7,395 0 6
UR.
By purchase Land at Pyrmont £3,970 10 0
~ payments to Contractor, on
account, for Building now
in course of erection .. 8,125 0 6
£12,095 10 6
General Balance Sheet
LIAB LI lES.
Authorised Capital .. .. 0 0
Less Unallotted Capital .. 48,583 0 0
Fully Paid-up Capital, 11,417
Shares £11,417 0 0
Reserve Fund .. » .. .. .. 1,500 0 0
Sundry Creditors 847 14 5
Profit and Loss 10,032 9 9
£23,797 4 2
ASSETS.
Permanent Building Account.. .. .. £7,395 0 6
Office Furniture and Plant .. .. .. 287 1 3
Cash at Union Bank .. ..£4,382 19 4
Cash in hand .. .. .. 34 8 11
£4,417 8 3
Sundry Debtors 11,697 14 2
£23,797 4 2
We hereby certify that we have examined the books, vouchers, etc., of the Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd., and that the above Balance Sheet represents the true position of the Company as at Feb. 28, 1900.
(Signed) ALBERT BORCHARD, A.S.I.A. \
J. ROBERTS, /
Profit and Loss Account.
To Interest Account ..
„ Directors’ Fees
~ Insurance (Fire)
„ Bents ..
~ Depreciation of Plant
~ General Expenses of work-
ing, including Salaries, Sta-
tionery, etc., etc
£l2 6 10
199 7 0
911 0 1
2,285 14 9
30 0 0
7,041 2 11
„ Balance Or. Profit and Loss Account ..
£10,479 11 7
10,032 9 9
£20,512 1 4
By Balance brought forward . .£3,894 4 1
Less Dividends,
March,’99, ..£llllB 10
~ Bonus, do. .. 2537 16 6
£2,649 15 4
£1,244 8 9
By Gross Earnings, Commission, Rebate, etc. 19,267 12 7
£20,512 1 4
(Signed) F. W. BACON, Chairman.
WALTER BROOME, Secretary.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF fiS.W.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
WETHOfDtJTWIIHIBITIOI
11th to 21st APRIL, 1900.
£4OOO PRIZES £4OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES,
FARM AND DAIRY PRODUCE.
£l5O Prize Competition DisWcts £l5O Prize
£25 Corn-Husking Contests £25
£5O Wood-Chopping Contest £5O
Entries close WEDNESDAY, 14th MARCH.
Prize Schedules and particulars from
F■ SECRETARY - ,
TATTERSALL’S CHAMBERS.
Stand Back and Then Look.
“ Madam,” said a wise old physician to a woman
who had brought a feeble, anaemic, and poorly de-
veloped daughter to him for examination. ‘ ‘ Madam,
the treatment of this girl should have been begun
two hundred years ago.”
“Sir,” she exclaimed, “I don’t understand
what you mean.”
“ Probably not, madam,” replied this student of
men and medicine, “ and you wouldn’t even should
I try to explain it.”
How do you best see a picture on the wall ? Why,
by standing back and looking through your
hollowed fist or through a tube. Well then, let us
first read Mrs. Coombes’ letter, and afterwards get
a little of what painters call perspective on it and
see if we can understand the lesson it teaches.
“In the spring of last year, 1895,” she says, “I
had an attack of pleurisy, which left me low and
weak. Subsequently I could not get up my
do what I would. My appetite was poor,
and after eating I had severe pains about my chest,
at my side, and between my shoulders. I had
muscular pains in my arms and shoulders —in fact,
all over me. I got little or no sleep, and felt
quite worn out in the morning.
“ As time went on I got weaker and weaker
and was scarcely able to get about. I came to be
so low that I thought I never should be better
again. I saw a doctor and took medicines, but
nothing did me any good.
“In December (1895) my sister, who lives at
Oxford, told me of the benefit she had derived
from Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I got a bottle from
Mr. Cooper, chemist, Oldbury Road, and after
taking it found great relief. I could eat well, and
food agreed with me.
“I now gained strength, and after taking four
bottles was well as ever and free from all pain,
muscular or otherwise. I know others who nave
been benefited by the same medicine. You can
publish this statement as you like. (Signed)
Charlotte Coombes, 177 Oldbury Road, West
Smethwick, Birmingham, October Bth, 1896.”
That is her letter—a plain, truthful, and well-
written letter. But what do we see behind the
simple facts as she sets them down ? Is there any-
thing suggested by that attack of pleurisy she
speaks of? Was that the beginning? No. Pleurisy
is the name given to an inflammation of the spaces
or cavities in which the lungs rest. When the in-
flammation attacks the lungs themselves we call it
pneu ionia ; if the bronchial tubes, bronchitis ;and
so on. But they are the same thing, from the same
cause —namely, impure blood. When the blood is
thus polluted, the smallest provocation—a slight
cold—may set up aiyr of the above ailments.
Rheumatism (which Mrs. Coombes had) belongs
to the same group or family of maladies.
But how comes that impurity or corruption of
the blood in which these things arise ? I’ll tell you,
in the hope that you will remember it. Indigestion,
dyspepsia, fermentation of food in the stomach,
torpid liver, which leaves the bile acids in the
blood instead of removing them, poisonous dirt
and filth from the stomach getting into the cir-
culation—that’s what the trouble comes from. So
we see that in cases of pleurisy, &c., there is al-
ways what the doctors call a “ history ” of dys-
pepsia. Although this lady had keen dyspeptic
symptoms after the pleurisy, a previous imperfec-
tion of her digestion—whether she realised it or
not —laid the foundation for the pleurisy, the rheu-
matism and all that followed.
Now that is what we see as we stand back and
look. And this is the practical use you are to
make of the knowledge: Take care of the condi-
tion of your stomach, and the first day you feel
anything wrong -with it, resort to Mother Seigel’s
Syrup without waiting to find out whether you are
going to be worse or not. When your house takes
fire you don’t wait to see how bad it is likely to be ;
you stop it immediately. Do so with indigestion.
The old doctor was right in what he said to the
woman about her daughter. The girl couldn’t
help the neglect of- her ancestors ; but we can do
something towards talcing care of ourselves.
Old Favorites.
THE TOYS.
My little son, who look’d from thoughtful eyes,
And moved and spoke in quiet grown-up wise,
Having my law the seventh time disobey’d,
I struck him and dismiss’d
With hard words and unkiss’d,
His Mother, who was patient, being dead.
Then, fearing lest his grief should hinder sleep,
I visited his bed,
But found him slumbering deep,
With darken’d eyelids, and their lashes yet
From his late sobbing wet.
And I, with moan,
Kissing away his tears, left others of my own ;
For, on a table drawn beside his head,
He had put, within his reach,
A box of counters and a red-vein’d stone,
A piece of glass abraded by the beach,
And six or seven shells,
A bottle with bluebells
And two French copper coins, ranged there with careful
art,
To comfort his sad heart,
So when that night I pray’d
To God, I wept, and said :
Ah, when at last we die with trancM breath,
Not vexing Thee in death,
And Thou rememberest of what toys
We made our joys,
How weakly understood,
Thy great commanded good,
Then, fatherly not less
Than I whom Thou hast moulded from the clay,
Thou’lt leave Thy wrath, and say,
“ I will be sorry for their childishness.”
The Sydney Merchants’ Exchange is being
raised by two storeys. The site was originally
occupied by a cottage and garden, the residence of
Archdeacon Cowper, father of the Ven Dean
Cowper, of Sydney who will celebrate his
90th birthday in June. Gov. Fitzroy laid the
foundation-stone of the Exchange building, 23rd
August, 1853, and the building was officially
opened by Gov. Denison 30th Dec., 1857. Both
Governors are commemorated in the salesroom by
excellent oil-portraits. Right opposite the Ex-
change building is the oldest house in that neigh-
borhood, corner of Macquarie Place and Bridge-
street, originally built, it is said, early in the
twenties. ■ It was the town residence of Simeon
Lord (merchant), a wealthy first-family founder.
In 1840 it was a fashionable lodging-house, and,
later on, was occupied by Govt, as a branch Lands
Office.
COVENTRY PATMORE.
NOCTURNE.
ITALY.
Up to her chamber window
A slight wire trellis goes,
And up this Romeo’s ladder
Olambers a bold white rose.
I lounge in the ilex shadows,
I see the lady lean,
Unclasping her silken girdle,
The curtain’s folds between.
She smiles on her white-rose lover,
She reaches out her hand
And helps him in at the window—
I see it where I stand !
To her scarlet lip she holds him,
And kisses him many a time—
Ah, me 1 it was he that won her,
Because he dared to climb !
THOMAS BAILEY ALDRICH.
THE UNREALISED IDEAL.
My only love is always near,
In country or in town.
I see her twinkling feet, I hear
The whisper of her gown.
She foots it ever fair and young,
Her locks are tied in haste,
And one is o’er her shoulder flung,
And hangs below her waist.
She runs before me in the meads ;
And down this world-worn track
She leads me on ; but while she leads
She never gazes back.
And yet her voice is in my dreams,
To witch me more and more ;
That wooing voice 1 Ah me, it seems
Less near me than of yore.
Lightly I sped when hope was high,
And youth beguiled the chase, —
I follow, follow still; but I
Shall never see her face.
FREDERICK LOCKER.
THE OLD LOVE.
I made another garden, yea,
For my new love :
I left the dead rose where it lay
And set the new above.
Why did the summer not begin ?
Why did my heart not haste ?
My old love came and walked therein,
And laid the garden waste.
She entered with her weary smile,
Just as of old ;
She looked around a little while,
And shivered at the cold.
Her passing touch was death to all,
Her passing look a blight;
She made the white rose-petals fall,
And turned the red rose white.
Her pale robe, clinging to che grass,
Seemed like a snake
That bit the grass and ground, alas!
And a sad trail did make.
She went up slowly to the gate ;
And there, just as of yore,
She turned back to the last to wait,
And say farewell once more.
ARTHUR O’SHAUGHNESSY.


THE ONE BICYCLE
Which has for many years continued
to -largely increase in popularity, in
spite of competition in price, is
The IKassey-Harris Bicycle.
There must be a good reason for this.
The Viotorian and Queensland Govts,
discovered it befo_e adopting it for
their postal services. They have
always been worth their price. This
year more so than ever.
N.S.W. Branch-
-385 GEORGE STRHT, opp. strand Arcade.
3Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQflOeQza CoCigl).
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 247 George-street, Sydney.*
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
A few of
“The Australia’s” Attractions.
Fireproof from tower to basement.
Telegraph office inside hotel.
Cool and elegant drawing-rooms.
Handsome and spacious dining-room.
Splendid table and table service.
Hot and cold water in every room.
Lofty, airy, cool bedrooms (free from dust
and city annoyances.
Attendance unsurpassable.
At The Australia the summer
is served on ice.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PO you €V€R THINK
f
of the dangers of travelling in
crowded busses and trams, with
their attendant Bubonic and other
Microbes? Avoid this by riding a
cycle, and, what is best,
A “RED BIRD” CYCLE.
PRICES .£lO, .£l5, £2O and .£3O.
“We will take your old mount
exchange at a liberal valuation. 1
The Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
_64 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
The hubbub in Sydney bowling-circles inten-
sifies. City Club has openly revolted, and, whether in-
tentionally or otherwise, is going the right way to
bring down the whole structure of the N.S.W. B.A.
with a crash and bury itself under the ruins. Latest
is that Reeder and Hanigan (cracks of Balmain and Red-
fern clubs respectively) have withdrawn from the inter-
provincial team to meet Victoria’s reps, at Easter. Hon.
oec. Thomas of the governing body has resigned as a re-
sult of receiving a requisition froni 23 bowlers—l 7 of them
City men—to call a special general meeting of the Associ-
ation “ for the purpose of condemning the selection com-
mittee.” The general committee was to have come toge-
ther on Tuesday night to consider the situation. At time
of writing, everything points to the probability of a state
of confusion worse confounded being in existence when
the Cabbage-garden trundlers arrive next week. It
wouldn t be at all bad for the credit of the mother-pro-
vince association if the spread of the plague caused the
prospective visitors to abandon their trip for the present,
as no matter what might have been fixed up on Tuesday
night things will hardly be as they should be on such an
occasion.
* * * *
Bantam champion Bert Weekes and Dos Pat-
terson supplied a hot go at Golden Gate A.O. (S\ r dney)
Saturday night. Writer doesn’t know whether it was the
same old Dos or not, but there w r as an uncommon resem-
blance between him and a Dos Patterson who figured at
* oley s White Horse in the last decade. The methods
were there, the attitude and the ring, but time had left
its mark. Dos was no nipper then, and he certainly isn’t
one now ; hence the 14 rounds of tough fighting he put
up, and the manner in which, he stood the heavy dose of
stoush ladled out, sort of surprised old-timers. Weekes
was palpably top dog up to the end of the sixth round,
wherein Patterson suffered grievously, but afterwards his
energy faded. Dos wasn’t clever enough to make the most
of this state of affairs, albeit he had the condition ; con-
sequently the other sat down for a minute’s space, round
after round, wit h points in his favour. Dos was out to do
or die in the 13th, and made Weekes think a tornado had
struck him, but it w'as a last effort. Patterson proved
cold pie for the bantam premier in the next term, and was
sent sleeping by a clinking right on the point. Weekes’
work wasn’t as good as it might- have been ; he fell off a
lot after the sixth 3 mins., and might have gone under
had Patterson been clever enough to make the best of the
situation. Evidence that there’s a big pug boom just
now was given by the manner in which that huge crowd
(probably a thousand) looking on, wedged itself into every
inch of sitting and standing space and sweltered for over
two hours.
* * * •
“Old Timer”: The Hegarty - Williams 20
rounds affair, at Metrop. A. 0., Monday night, was the
most unsatisfactory go seen in Sydney for a very long
time ; and yet five-sixths of the 600 people who paid 55.,
3s. and 2s. to be there didn’t seem to think so till near
the finish, when some of them indulged in a lot of banter.
Hegarty’s left, instead of being sent out straight, almost
invariably went round the ribs or neck, and the two
clinched and waited till referee M’Donald came and
separated them. Hegarty was very serious the whole
time, but Williams was apparently much amused with the
humor of the thing, for a broad smile always played
about his face during what were intended to be most
exciting situations. Opportunities with one or other
off his balance were religiously ignored. Those
of the spectators who “had faith” often yelled, “Now
you’ve got him, Billy ! ” “ He’s done, Tim, finish him I ”
and wondered how it was the “fighters” stood off alto-
gether on such occasions and allowed the chances to
slip. A smack of willingness was given to the thing when
their heads accidentally collided once, and the bump
started an old cut on Tim’s left optic which Preston
opened afresh in a spar at the recent Cribb-Higgins
battle. It was a mistake, and probably Billy apologised
in one of the hundred or more clinches. Old-man Wil-
liams was badly pumped-out towards the end—he could
hardly lift his arms. “ I declare this match a draw,” said
the referee ; it would have fitted the state of affairs nicely
if he had declared it a farce.
* * * *
In the Bananalander Broughton thBy’ve fixed
up a soft snap for the Maoriland cyclonic-bruiser Oribb.
The pair come together at old Sydney Gaiety (for this
occasion only the “ Australian A.C.”) next Monday night.
'Broughton hadn’t a hope with Preston in Melbourne the
other day ; he did nothing but clinch and cling to avoid
trouble, so how anyone can figure his chance against
Oribb as even fairly good is hard to see. It savors of a bid
for the “ gate ” on the strength of Cribb’s drawing-power,
and is the sort of thing that knocks all zest for the game
out of the public. The fighting craze will stand a heap,
but it won’t be fooled that way very often. Infinitely
more acceptable is the prospective meeting between
“Snowy” Sturgeon, the Q. middleweight, and Oribb.
Sturgeon looks a tough ’un from Toughville, and comes
with champion Mick Dunn’s endorsement as “ one of the
best ”at his poundage. Besides, Charlie Dunn (he of the
perennial smile) is finding the necessary side-wager—addi-
tional and weighty testimony that “Snowy” is con-
sidered above the ordinary. Oribb may be backed to give
a good account of himself against the third-rate material
current now, but a George Dawson, a Jack Hall, or a
Paddy Gorman would take all the steam out of him.
**' * *
An effect of the present pug-boom in Sydney
was witnessed at Newtown the other night. Several
youngsters of both sexes whose “ langwidge ” wasn’t any-
thing like as well-clad as their persons, arrived at a quiet
spot near Macdonaldtown rail way-station and straight-
way proceeded to form a ring. Two decently-dressed
members of the “gentler” sex (under 15, apparently)
walked into the.arena as jauntily as champions. There
were no preliminaries beyond the rolling-up of sleeves.
They turned out to be a pair of female Oribbs (Oribb as he
was when he came to Sydney first). Wild rushes, clinches,
misses and sprawls into the howling mob on either side of
the impromptu square, characterised the scrap. “Go for
’er, Dot! ” “ Land ’er, Mary ! ” “Oh ! that’s a daisy 1 ”
“ Give ’er another in the wind, old girl! ” &c., were frag-
ments of advice hurled at screech-pitch from all sides by
the partisans of the respective belligerents. Lovely
woman’s hair-pulling and face-scratching tactics were dis-
carded for the nonce. Parabolic right and left swings
swept through space like threshing flails, but rarely
fetched up against anything more tangible than the
atmosphere. Round after round (L.P.R. rules—every fall
meant a couple of minutes spell) of this wild and woolly
work went on without any harm being done beyond the
bursting of neck-gear and the releasing of artistically-
arranged hair-knots. By-and-bye “ Mary” weakened palp-
ably, and, while resting before the next round, “Dot”
remarked to her second, “This is my first fight and
I ain’t doin’ too bloomin’ bad, am I? ” Then she
rushed up with blood in her eye for the next scramble
but over confidence wrought her ruin, for just then one
of “ Mary’s ” promiscuous swings was sweeping round and
“ Dot,” crashing full tilt against it, went down on her
knees exclaiming “You cowardly to hit me like
that! ” and burst into tears. The winner’s second cuddled
her frantically, and at the same time yelled to the crowd,
“ Hey, chaps, what do you think of my donah now, ain’t
she a beauty?” “Dot ” had no friends, but, pulling her-
self together, she defied “ Mary ” to have another “ cut”
the next night, “When I ain’t got my best dress on.”
This outburst brought a few of the push to “ Dot’s” side,
and preliminaries were fixed for a return “ go.” During
the negotiations an endeavor was made to get “ Mary ” to
“ take on Eva,” but “Mary” wasn’t having any—“ Not
me,” said she, “Eva’s too bloomin’ good.” Before the
crowd left the convincing-ground a general hunt was
made for sundry pads, pins, ribbons, &c., reported missing
by both sides.
Me^ a^? h *> the , colored pug., has returned to
Melb with his pants turned up and with a lordly con-
tempt for the common colonial. Starlight is now Hino--
lish to his finger tips, and says the people here don’t
know they are alive In dear old Lending)doncherknow
one meets a different class of people altogethah and the
wonder of it is to know how the poah devils in the
blawsted kawlimes contrive to exist. “ Gwine to de
theatre de Oder night,” says Starlight, “what sort of a
show am dej givm us? Shoo! No class at all. Why at
the opera in Londing, de actors would have been pelted
at al/” ied flSh and potatoes ’ 1 fcell yer- Shoo 1 No P class
Late Yankee exchanges contain references to
Sydney Rocks phenomenon Griffo’s lapse from the paths
of rectitude One paper says, “Griffo is himself again ”
a fl, P K r ° f CeedS u to an / 10UI ? ce that he was locked up the
before charged with “ drunk and dis.” It also P tells
° fVnn' n ” Ta I’ U c e he displayed towards his benefactor,
Gentleman Geo. Dawson, and the many attempts
9f° made , ha . u ' his fellow-countryman out of the
d dore r ” I no 1 w. getfcingiUt0 ’- surely
» * • ,
~ ? ld Timer : How long will pug-patrons stand
the rag-spreading hint for a “shower” at bruising
matches ? Every time a couple of the toe-rag section Sf
make-believes get together and do some topping and
Prl "p P sc, the latter—
b u tV j ee ? p addy Someone “of the Rock's” and
Mick Somebodyeise of the sewer-works,” they stretch
out their dirty towelss m the middle of the ring as
an invitation to the crowd to throw in coin. Two or
three of their pals start the shower with coppers and
there are always a few mugs” who will ostentatiously
partashdhng or two because they think it looks well.
Which is how the management gets out of paying for these
extras. This now occurs in every hall every time Two
sickening spars were put on before the Cribb-Higgins go
n k ’ an i C , th ® ‘Tj l was s P r ead in the orthodox
fashion by each pair. Sydney’s so-called clubs are play-
ing the game very low. * J
* * * •
f, Th ?7' R in' last u week cancelled the disqualifica-
tion of Sam Allen, whose sentence in the Parthenopseus
case was a nominal life.” The broad dusky countenance
of Samuel will presumably be seen again in the betting
paddocks, opening its mouth to cry the odds as of yore.
Nomination-day for V.R.C. Champion Stakes
has been wisely brought forward to the date fixed for
receiving Newmarket Handicap and Australian Cup
entries.
* * * *
If Merriwee has got over his teeth troubles and
is looking bright, thedittle ’un should be worth a modest
wager on his Sydney Cup chance. The colt that could
win a dry Derby and a wet, sticky Cup must have been a
ne ' anr 3,8 for his rather mean appearance—well
it s the same appearance that he presented last November
They run in all sizes.
* • • *
Obit. Sydney horse-trainer W. Kelso, at Mos-
man (Sydney), last Monday afternoon. Deceased hadn’t
been himself since returning from that trip ’Ome a few
years ago ; still, his death was sudden and unexpected.
Prior to leaving for England the management of Orville
Lodge racing establishment was handed over to “ Youno-
Bill,” who has since run the show with all the remarkable
astuteness his father evinced. In his younger days the
old man put up some phenomenal sack-racing perform-
ances (which haven’t been approached since) on the old
Albert Ground and elsewhere in Sydney. He started with
horses in a very small way, and got his first big lift per
medium of Lord Orville, who won Tatt’s. Cup (Sydney) 18
years ago. Nobody knew better than “ Old Bill ” how
when and where to place a horse, and there were few, if
any, better judges of condition and pace ; hence his long
list of successes and frequent big scoops, equalled by no
other trainer on the continent. Kelso never “ got home ”
in a Melb. Cup, but he turned out winners of Tatt’s,
Summer and Birthday Cups, also Metropolitan, Maribyr-
nong Plate, Royal and Carrington Stakes, Anniversary
and Ilawkesbury Handicaps, and innumerable suburban
events. He was buried on Tuesday.
* * i *
Still another Australian for India. Argyle, the
champion hurdler.
* * • *
At Dapto, N.S.W., things are still primitive as
regards racing matters. The course is not railed off, and,
from all accounts, Sydney jockeys Steve Callinan, M‘Gee,
and “Toby” Moran had a peculiarly interesting time.
They annexed the programme among them, bar first
race, loss of which was due to their inferior knowledge of
the track. Moran, who was leading, found himself yards
too far outside the course, whilst M‘Gee went inside a
boundary-post, and was dislodged amongst grass and
weeds almost the height of his horse. On regaining per-
pendicular M‘Gee found himself also surrounded by a herd
of pigs. Amongst the six events was one for spring-cart
horses, won by Moran’s mount, a condition of the event
being that the horse that came in first had to afterwards
draw half-a-ton of “ live committee ”up a steep hill. To
add to the interest of the half-ton portion of the event,
Bill Beach, of sculling renown, was on board.
• * * *
A clever exponent of Tod Sloanism is the
Sydney pony jockey, W. Evans, whose recent success
is most notable. Last week he piloted four winners at
Forest Lodge, three at' Rosebery Park, and two at
Brighton.
* * * *
Three-year-olds have now won Doncaster Han-
dicap two years in succession, Syerla won it in
1898, and Vigorous in 1899. The “hat-trick” perform-
ance is likely to be brought off by Sequence, who looks a
bigger moral than his predecessors. Even if the Far
Niente colt fails there are other three-year-olds to com-
plete the trick in Oornquist, Sweetheart, Goldsmith,
Chatelaine, and Nambucca. Ten years ago Sir William
won with the heaviest load (8.6) a 3-year-old has yet
humped to the front. Sequence will carry lib. less.
* * * *
The ex-Australian nag Survivor started first
favorite for the Lincolnshire Handicap, but finished sixth
in the race.
* * * •
A ss. Tattersall’s ticket, addressed to Val.
Bundy, one of the three survivors of the coaster Glenelg,
was received at the office of the Melb. agents on the day
that he was found starving and emaciated, staggering
along the Ninety-mile beach. A superstitious speculator
wrote to Bundy, offering him £1 for his chance, but the
sailor considered his luck good enough to stand on, and
declined the offer.
* • » *
Editor Bulletin. —He Tattersall’s sweeps. A
large number of the men on this line (the Emu Bay rail-
way) are constant subscribers to these sweeps, and a
considerable amount of apprehension has been caused
among them lately by the fact that in at least eight cases
known to me (one of them, in fact, being my own) the
tickets have been found to have been made out first in
someone else’s name, and that name erased, the
recipient’s being substituted. Now, there may be no-
thing wrong in the matter, but when so many instances
happen among comparatively a small number of sub-
scribers it is apt to awaken some kind of a suspicion that
something is not quite correct about it. What is the
explanation ?—Alias.
» * * *
In Maoriland, where trotting prospers, people
are often treated to big fields, good sport, and quaint
surprises. Nineteen upsaddled for a trot at a minor horse
function, the other day, and the owner of the ultimate
winner invested a fiver. She paid £5O 18s. per £l, and,
there being no one else on, he scooped the whole pool.
An unusual occurrence : Two dead-heats in two
trots on same day in southern M.L. lately.
* ♦ * *
The decadence of the ’oss. A rat-tailed sorrel
was lately sold at Tauranga (M.L.) pound for lid.
Auctioneer’s eloquence failed to squeeze out another
penny. A mare and foal went for half-a-crown at same
sale.
• • • •
The occasional appearance in Queensland of a
high-class racehorse of uncertain pedigree makes old-
timers wonder whether the stolen sire, Duke of Athol,
was really token North, as some said. The horse was
stolen from his stable at Bylong, near Ryistone, and, de-
spite the offer of a £5OO reward) nevA- recovered. Three
weeks later, the charred remains of a horse, minus the legs,
were discovered at the foot of Liverpool Ranges, and these
are supposed to have been the last of the Duke. He was re-
markable for his color—golden chestnut and much white
on the legs. At the time of his disappearance, Duke of
Athol was three years old, and had been bought as a
yearling in England by Mr. G. F. Want for 1900 guineas,
and soon after sold to Mr. Tindale, of Bylong, for 2000
guineas. He was by Blair Athol from Oirce by Dundee
from Lord of the Isles, and when exhibited in Sydney
won first prize in the blood-stallion class.
* * * •
Onkaparinga (S.A.) race-meeting, held once a
year (on Easter Monday) is one of the most popular meets
in Australia. The Steeple, run over a difficult course,
generally falls to Vic. owners, and this year the Mani-
tolds have strong nominations, including Cintra, Mysore,
The prosperous little club’s Steeple is worth
£lOOO to the winner.
* • • *
n collarless country cousin netted over
£lOO on a race a while back, and though he got into a
pleasant state of mind through mixing drinks he knew
what he was about. Quietly entering a spare room, he
wea the crumpled notes up in a big red handkerchief.
«one of the vast army of spielers suspected the truth
during the homeward journey. They thought the mug
was carrying mushrooms.
* * * *
The establishment of a Government stud-farm
tor the production of serviceable cavalry and other horses
is mooted in M.L.
* » * •
Two prominent M.L. racing-men set out to
christen anew buggy lately, and soon got “ fresh.” Tea’d
at a wayside beer-dep6t, and drank buggy’s health with
great enthusiasm. Pub. ostler ditto ditto ; and, when
told to harness-up later on, he costumed the wrong nag.
The prad was a beauty. With a new-born joy in his heart
he went off at a gallop, and simply.couldn’t be stopped,
it was Mr. Pubhchouse’s steeplechaser. The pair hung
on tor five miles, when road turned sharply into township.
Horse jumped the fence at the corner, and out of the
wreckage arose loud blanks and other shocking observa-
burly cop. took these remarks sadly to heart,
and the pair had to spend the night in the local lock-up,
which is one of the chief attractions of the place.
* * * *
A lean, cadaverous moke, nourished on yard-
posts and indifferent water, auctioned by a country
poundkeeper lately, was secured by a local horse-nondes-
£3v, a L a li ralr . l< ? and he entrained the prad amidst
much chaff. At the ordinary race meet he won three
however, and at adjoining township shook three
more, beating other neddies pointless. The “ done-
brown crowd squealed, and discovered the horse to be a
ringer —a noted performer. But the trainer had “shot
the moon. Seems that he had quietly secured nag from
owner, turned it out one morning when he saw impounder
coming along, and on sale day bid up for it. The pound
game was, of course, only a ruse to convince the public of
his bond-fides. Oan there still be another new way left of
playing the great horse game !
* * * *
Vic. turf authorities are bringing up Mo with a
round turn for loudly anathematising the punter to whom
I? ° m p V b ® handing money whenever a heavily-backed
TkPv r ilf a Pi! S hom f ■ The V.R.C. is very properly teaching
Ikey that he must let off steam in some other less offen-
sive fashion or go elsewhere with his book and pencil,
.here are a few m Sydney whose manners could be much
improved were the A.J.O. to take them in hand.
* * * *
, League of Wheelmen finished its meeting
at Adelaide on Saturday. 6000 people looked on ; profit,
*“ 5O - /o Li. M. Jackson got away with the A delaide wheel-
race (2 miles) by three-quarters of a length in 4min. 15sec.
A clear run would have seen W. 0. Jackson in front—his
protest about being bored on to the grass wasn’t enter-
talned. Jackson got even subsequently by gathering in
the 5-miles Australasian Championship, Walne (second)
n0 11 h oE e „ a ? ain , Jackson in the straight at the finish,
lime, 11.38 2-5. Walne, however, cut the half-mile in
53sec. (Australian record).
* . * * *
N.S.W. squatter-cyclist Don M‘Kay completed
his round-Australia grind at Brisbane, Tuesday afternoon
last week, a,nd on Saturday left for Newcastle (N.S.W.)
winch will make the longest continuous ride yet accom-
plished in this part of the sphere. He occupied 48 days
from Perth (W.A.) to Brisbane. White’s 53 days 7 hours
was the previous best. Mac. also squelched Denning’s
record (44 days) from Fremantle (W.A.) to Sydney, by
getting over the distance in 40 days 19 hours.
* * - *
The All-Maoriland team failed to shine against
Melb. 0.0. stars at Christchurch, visitors winning by an
innings and 132 runs. The M.L. men seemed beaten before
they started, and 89 saw them tramping pavilion wards.
£ h /-V battefJ . more s P ir itedl.v in second innings, making
246, O. A. Richardson’s 114 (not out) being the one bright
spot in the local score-book. He is not a stylish player
it iv baS ew strokes, but he gets there just the same!
Melbourne’s final match, at Invercargill, was a trundlin''
picnic. They won by an innings and 118 runs. In South-
landers second try six of the crowd made “ ducks,” and
three others singles. The Melb. team won every match,
except at Dunedin, where the locals managed to make a
draw.
* • * •
Great kickists though they be, Maorilanders are
unspeakable failures at cricket. Trumble repeated oft-
tendered advice at Christchurch, the other day, when he
said they’d never be worth a rap until coaches were em-
ployed and Associations paid generously for up-keep of
grounds. Coaches, said the Melb. oracle, could be
secured in Australia for a couple of pounds a week.
* * • *
The humor of country cricket: “Hon. Secre-
tary 0.0. Dear Sir, —I am sorry to have to inform
you that it is impossible for us to meet your club on
Saturday. Our cricket-ground is situated on a goldfield
reserve, and a rush took place on it last week. Our
ground was pegged out and is being sunk upon, so that
it is totally unfit to play upon. Apologising, etc.”
• • * *
Annual report of N.S.W. Rugby F.C. Union
springs a surprise in the statement that a loss of over
£ll3 was incurred in connection with the Englishmen’s
visit last season. Seeing that the Britishers were ama-
teurs, and therefore couldn’t be recompensed in cash, and
remembering the big crowds that rolled up to the Union’s
matches, details of how that loss came about would be
interesting.
* * » *
Otago (M.L.) Rugby Union has raised £587 odd
for the mother of Armit—MaorilancTs crack three-quarter
back, who met with an accident that ended fatally in the
Taranaki-Otago match. Armit was prominent for years
and did much towards placing Otago football in its pre-
sent forefront position.
• • * *
Cabled that Cambridge owned the University
boat-race (rowed on the Thames last Saturday) from start
to finish and won by a quarter-mile. Seems hardly
feasible that there should be so big a disparity between
two first-class crews, but the betting beforehand (6 to 1
on Cambridge) indicated some such happening. Oxford
opened with 36 to the minute and Cambridge with 38
but former soon settled down to 32 and latter 30. Win’-
ners’ time was 18.47, while losers put up 19.45. Previous
best (accomplished by Oxford) was equalled. Cambridge
has now 24 wins to Oxford’s 31. Only one dead-heat is
recorded, and that occurred 23 years ago, when the dark-
blue bow caught a crab. Up to last year Oxford secured
the honors nine times in succession.
* * * *
The Albert Parks—winners of recent Victorian
8-oar supremacy—only got home twice in 11 years—viz.,
89 and this season. Yarras have won four times, Banks
twice, Mercan tiles twice, and Ballarat and Wendouree
inr, C > e eac^' . Albert Park also owns the premiership of
99- 00, having scored 312 points. Ballarat comes next
with 98.
**% * •
’Orae mail brings news that Hunter River
(N.S.W.) sculler Geo. Towns has failed to connect with
either the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) flier Wray or Champion-
of-the-World Gaudaur. Towns says there is talk of
Gaudaur and young Ten E3'ck visiting Paris Exhibition
for the purpose of rowing in the all-comers’ single and
double scull events ; if they go, the Hunter River man
and Maorilander Sullivan will also cross the channel, but
should that not come off Towns purposes journeying to
Canada with the object of bearding lion Gaudaur in his
den and forcing him out if possible.
* * * *
Sculling seems to run in the Towns family. At
Newcastle (N.S.W.) on Saturday, a professional handicap
in outriggers was won off scratch by a younger brother
of the Australian who holds the championship of England.
The Effie and Nick Johnson combination again
proved their invincibility in Sydney Harbour, when the
crack 22-footer off scratch finished ahead of the Plover
ljmin. and the Kcrilci 1 Jmin. The Effie seems to be
Donnelly’s masterpiece. When Mr. Sam Hordern found
his imported boat to be a failure he gave Donnelly an
order for a boat, the price to be supplemented if she
proved successful in her first effort. The Plover, the new
boat, duly won her maiden race and Donnelly got his
honorarium, but her success ended there and her owner
parted with her in disgust.
* * * *
Boy Pert scared all opposition in N.S.W. Cen-
tral District Public Schools 100yds. swimming champion-
ship at Domain Baths (Sydney) last Friday, and swam
over for the gold medal. Previous Wednesday “ Snowy”
Baker annexed Eastern Suburbs Schools supremacy.
There’s little between these lads, who are both big,
strong fellows. Their meeting in the All-Schools premier-
ship should be a great struggle over every inch.
* • * *
Recent M.L. Swimming Championships at Auck-
land produced nothing out of the way. Tyler (Auckland)
was head-and-shoulders above all others. He appro-
priated the hundred, the furlong and the quarter rather
easily. The only Southerner competing (Stroud, of Wel-
lington) swam second in the last-named struggle, while
Sainty occupied that position in the other two. There
was little to rave about in any of the events. Last year’s
holder of the plunge premiership (Russell) won again
with 55ft. 3in., beating the next man (Wilson) by 2ft. 7fin.
Russell would be a top-notcher if he could oniy get over
that tendency to turn long before the impetus of the
take-off is expended—he’d probably do 60ft.
* » • •
The big ideas of M.L. swimmers are amusing.
Hoey, of Whangarei, was to have left for Paris last week
to swim at the big Exhibition, and Lindberg talked of
following suit. If they were champions, one could under-
stand this, but they are not on the top rung even in their
own country, and the best Maorilander is about a fourth-
rater compared with any front-rank Cornstalk. Then
there is talk of sending a team of M.L. swimmers to
America. A team of Sydney schoolboys would do in-
finitely better.
* * * •
Some months ago Mulcahy, the big footballer,
found trouble and the hospital at the hands of a crowd of
Port Melb. colored lumpers. Just before Col. Tom Price’s
crowd sailed, the Mulcahy asked a day off “ to pay a debt
he owed.” “ Quite right,” said Col. T.P., “ mightn’t have
another chance.” That evening the colored folk of P.M.
saw stars, blood and hair. One dark cloud stopped a
bottle with its ear, another was seen dressed in its boots
only. After dark none were seen at all—Mul. had paid
them in full. The day the boat sailed two policemen and
a warrant came aboard. “What!” roared Col. Tom,
“ arrest a soldier of the Queen —Red flame, brimstone,
Blanky, Blanky, get out! !! ” And they got out.
« * * •
The Melb. police, on the night of their war-fund
show, were allowed three free drinks—of course, that was
nothing to Robert, who is tested up to 20 on joining.
Just as single-stick was having a rest and the band played
a new thing, about a fellow who had no mind, a copper
was seen to wriggle on to the platform, turn round three
times, as if for luck, and fall. Great excitement as two
other vigilant officers, quite sober, rushed to pick up the
fallen one. Bang went two heads, crash two helmets.
The tension was terrible as the copper rolled off the plat-
form. After a great struggle he was lifted up and thrown
into Prof. Miller’s tall hat—and the performance went on.


After the Ball**
Jk
■ \r
SMOKE
DERDT
TOBACCO.
It is more than a pipe
of peace —It relieves,
soothes, pleases, and
gratifies . • • - .
Ask for “DERBY” Tobacco.
m
/
M
The f||9dern ||rt Jewellery p.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
BOTH HR HA M WA TCHES
COLD & SILVER ENGLISH LEVERS
We draw special attention to this line of Watches, which have been
Expressly Manufactured for US by the
Celebrated Firm of ROTHERHAM & SONS, London
We have also a great variety of other makes in American and English
Lever Watches m stock.
PT A. BOOKT FOR BOYS.
Our Gun Metal Boy’s “ Collegian ” Lever, with Cun Metal Chain, 255.
m*
‘PERFECT’
BI CYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should bo made to
FRANK CRIMLEy
Sole PistribCitiQg Ageot
for AOStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street , Sydney .
YOU CAN ’ T PUT THE OCEAN INTO A TEA-CUP
neither can we record all the novel points of the
“IMPERIAL BICYCLE”
in this advt. |ESF“ Full lines for 1900 now open.
Agents wanted where not represented already in Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand. Before buying a new wheel,
drop us a post-card for catalogue and factory prices.
Machines soiled, all of well-known makes, fitted new
Dunlop tyres, selling for a song ; have a list of them, too.
Repairs, Sundries, Dunlop Tyres.
THE “DUCK” BRAKE FITS ANY BICYCLE.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole General Agents in Australasia for “ IMPERIAL *
Bicycles.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
The “Unprogressive” Boer.
“ Hermes” on the above subject:—
At some time or another during- the last four months
nearly every jingoistic paper has risen up and solemnly
said that the Brito-Boer war was merely a struggle
between “Progress” and “Reaction.” The statement
was meant to imply that the Britisher is progressive—
which he is ; and that the Boer is reactionary—which
he isn’t. He is quite as progressive as the Briton, though
he started a little later. Seventy years ago there was no
South African Republic, and the Boers had not left Cape
Colony, and the Transvaalers have done in less than 70
years what it took the English in England many centuries
to do. When they entered the Transvaal the voortrekkers
were socially and almost in every way little more ad-
vanced than the Vikings when they descended on the
coasts of Britain— only the Viking fought with arrow and
battle-axe, and the Boer fought with a long smooth-bore
musket. They found the land a howling wilderness and
a hell of skeletons. The hordes of Dingaan and Mosele-
katse had swept through the land, and burnt with fire
what they could not slay with steel. And when the tough
old voortrekkers came into it Moselekatse’s hordes fell on
them also, but, after desperate fighting, the dusky impis
withdrew and waited for reinforcements. In the end
they went down before the long line of waggons which
bristled with steel and jets of fire and smoke, and the
“Lion of the North” drew his shattered forces back
beyond the Limpopo and troubled the Boers no more.
Then the Boers theoretically divided the land into 30,000
farms of 9000 acres each, and every adult Boer received
one, in return for which he had to do military service as
the barons did in the days of William the Conqueror.
Military service was compulsory, but taxes were not. It
was etiquette to pay the taxes if possible, but failure
to do so carried with it no penalties as long
as the burgher service was rendered faithfully. Just as
old England was split up into seven kingdoms in the days
of the Heptarchy, so the present Transvaal was at one
time divided into four republics. In the old feudal times
in England no man was imprisoned for failure to pay any
taxes that might be levied ;so it was in the Transvaal. A
man was no more compelled to pay his taxes than a gent,
in the gallery was compelled to heave “ a colonial robert”
at Harry Rickards when that comedian sang “ Pie ! pie !
pie ! ” The commercial national spirit which compels a
man to pay his taxes and leaves it to his own option to
render military service was a weird anomaly to the
Transvaal Boer.
* * * *
In April, 1877, Sir T. Shepstone found the Trans-
vaal a consolidated republic and bluffed it into
acceptance of British annexation. The Boers had pro-
gressed out of anarchy to consolidation by that time. It
didn’t take them a quarter so long to unite as it took
Australia. But when the British came along they
enforced payment of taxes, and the first Boer who said he
was sorry that he hadn’t got his taxes to spare was
flabbergasted at the sight of police seizing his trek oxen
and waggon, and auctioning the lot for the amount
due. The Boers were horrified. It was the same as
though the “ pytriotic ” gent, in the gallery had ignored
the small tambourine and a large blue policeman had
heaved him into gaol, and sold up his few sticks and
thrown his wife and children out to starve, all
for not dropping Is. into the box or Harry Rickards’
mouth, while that comedian warbled the Absent-minded
Beg-gar. The Boers rescued the waggon and the
Middle Ages rose up and smote the 19th Century
heavily upon the bullion. After some shooting and
killing the I9th century got tired, or frightened, or some-
thing, and withdrew, and left the Middle Ages to hump
the white man’s burden on their own. But the Boer was
moving all the time. Three-ball men opened business in
Johannesburg and Pretoria. The Rand Boer found that
he could make more money in one day by selling his farm
for a gold-mine than he could make by growing fat-tailed
sheep in two life-times. He became Europeanised and
luxurious, and his womenkind hungered after the horse-
hair sofa and wax flowers of civilisation, and the obliging
loan-man came along and said—‘ 1 All these things shalt
thou have if thou wilt but sign this little bit o’ paper.”
The introduction of the Boer to the loan-man was so
effective that in a little while about two-thirds of the
occupied property of the Transvaal was mortgaged to
British and Hebrew swindlers, and the country was well
on the way to wholesale bankruptcy before the Boer
leaders had realised the nature of a mortgage deed.
Then they were unfamiliar with the I9th century land-
scape, and the Convention hung round their necks like a
mill-stone, and generally they didn’t know what to do. It
was the Africander hayseed taken down by the British
Confidence-man and the Dutch hayseed could see no way
out of it but stoush. But Kruger rose to the occasion.
The rinderpest came along and the Volksraad, at the old
warrior’s instigation, voted a huge sum for the relief
“of the poor burghers who have been ruined by the
rinderpest and other plagues.” The other plagues were
the usurers. For consummate skill and quiet diplomacy
there are few strokes to equal that “ and other plagues.”
* * * *
The funds were applied to the redemption of the farms
where the risk of eviction and foreclosure were most
imminent. He gave sons who had, in their ignorance,
signed away their prospective share of the paternal farm,
positions in the civil service, and admonished them to
utilise their incomes to pay off the mortgages and redeem
their birthrights. The Boers may not be progressive, but
this tired land could do with a few men about half as
progressive as the stern, untutored peasant of Pretoria,
who was more than a match for the polished finan-
ciers of Europe at their own game. Looking-
back over their turbulent history, the Boers’ progress
was like a lightning-streak. Within the life of the Queen
they had conquered a new territory in successive indepen-
dent commandoes. They had split up into factions and
fought among themselves. Under. Pretchmus they had
compelled the British to relinquish the Orange Free State,
and at last had consolidated their four republics into one
compact State about twice the'size of England and Wales.
They had constructed about 1000 miles of railway (Wes-
tralia with about eight times the area and about 14 years
start, and three times heavier customs duties,
had only 200 miles more of railways). The rail-
ways were constructed by private enterprise, it is
true, like the early Australian lines, but the State took
them over, and made them State railways, and owed the
money for them as capably as any Australian province.
And in the original construction arrangements the Trans-
vaalers showed themselves brainy and honest as com-
pared with the Australians. They never did anything so
awful as the Tasmanian Great Western scheme, where an
insane Govt, agreed to give about £700,000 worth of land
to a company to induce it to build for its own profit a line
worth £600,000, and then seriously debated whether it
wouldn’t also guarantee the interest on the entire cost of
the railway in addition. The Boers never had any such
fearsome stench as the W.A. Midland Railway (where a
co. received 3,000,000 acres of land, worth at least
£1,000,000, as a bonus to induce it to build
and retain a railway worth only half-a-milliori) ;
or like the Tasmanian Main Line ; or the Maoriland Mid-
land railway swindle ; or the Broken Hill railway, where
a private co. exacts 40 and 50 per cent, dividends by the
vast oppressiveness of its charges. The Boer railway
dealings were clean and intelligent compared with the
unspeakably insane or corrupt bargains the Australian
Dopper Governments made with private syndicates.
These Dutchmen, too, had practically no paupers and no
unemployed. They established one-man-one-vote nearly
60 years before such a thing was heard of in N.S.W.
They laid out Pretoria and Potchefstroom on at least
more sensible and civilised lines than the Australians
did Sydney. They had a fine public library at
the capital. They organised, in recent years, an
excellent system of national education. They took
to sending their sons to European colleges. Then
came the demand to grant British subjects the franchise
without requiring them to discard their British citizen-
ship, and when the Boers refused, 99 per cent, of the
British newspapers talked war and made Wild threats.
The Boer saw thousands of troops being drafted to South
Africa, heard wild offers of assistance to crush him from
the five corners of the earth, and like a brave man played
one bold stroke. He issued an ultimatum, requiring that
all troops should be diverted from the South African
colonies, and a faithful guarantee that the dispute should
be settled by arbitration. Otherwise he would overrun
the colonies adjacent, and break things before the
Imperial forces could arrive to save them. But Nature
fought against him, the rains did not come in time to
make the grass grow before General White arrived at
Ladysmith with the Indian Contingent, and now Kruger
is well on the way to be smashed. But the war is merely
a gigantic act of foreclosure, and the brilliant French, the
victorious Roberts, the fighting Buller, and that splen-
did army around which flames such an aureole of enthu-
siasm, are merely a crowd of bailiffs taking possession of
the poor little selector’s farm. The small selector was
too progressive—that was the real trouble.
: — *
W. T. Stead says that Kruger's much-
talked-of device for “staggering humanity ” is to
send the Boer women to the front. The women,
it is added, are nearly as good as the men with the
rifle, so that the situation would be an entirely
unprecedented one.
“ Student ” writes .
Curious coincidence ! In Bulletin, 24/3/00, is a refer-
ence to Prof. Hutton’s opinion that, sooner or later, life
would be producible by artificial processes, and Melbourne
Age, of same date, prints a statement by a San Francisco
paper that life has been chemically produced. Prof. Loeb,
of California University, experimenting recently with
some unfertilised eggs of the sea-urchin, subjected them
to the action of a solution of sodium and magnesium, and
within two hours they hatched. In other words, the
Prof, had found an equivalent for the fertilising “milt”
of the male fish that neutralizes the calcium and potassium
which alone prevent the automatic development of all un-
fertilised eggs in salt-water. In Loeb’s own words : “This
is a wonderful subject, and, in many ways, an awful one.”
But the development of the unfertilised egg being accom-
plished, there still remains the egg itself to be produced
artificially ; and students of the comparatively new science
of embryology believe that this, also, may be done. In
the new scheme of (artificial) life-creation, it is possible to
dispense with the male, but the female is still an essential.
Possibly in time, however, the common every-day scientist,
dissatisfied with his surroundings, may merely have to
shake a few chemicals together in test-tubes to have new
society of all kinds around him—fish, flesh, fowl, and even
a brand-new wife fashioned after his heart’s desire. Prof.
Loeb may well feel appalled at the vision of unregenerate
man starting as a creator on his “ own.”
This indicates a possible return to reproduction by
mere fission or splitting-up, Wells, in his “ War
of the Worlds,” represents the Martians as having
retro-developed into reproduction by gemmation,
or budding.
Archibald Forbes, the eminent war-corres-
pondent, is dead, aged G 2. He had long been in
ill-health ; when he visited Australia as a lecturer
he suffered acutely from kidney-trouble.
Kenneth Mackay has, after all, seized his
opportunity, and will resign the Vice-President-
ship of N.S.W. Executive Council, to go to Africa
in command of the Bushmen’s Contingent.
King O’Malley, in Melbourne, holiday
making after his Tasmanian election fight, re-
gards his return as a Senator for the West Coast
of the island as an absolute certainty. His recent
election fight was a “reconnaissance in force,”
according to his account, and lie feels sure of his
chance. The only thing that really annoyed him
during the recent fight was that the opposition
paper reported one of his speeches under the
heading “amusements.”
“ Slim ” Piet Joubert did himself a had
turn historically by holding on to life during the
last couple of months. Had his death preceded
Roberts’ and Buffer’s successes at Kimberley and
Ladysmith he would have figured as the one
General of the century able to keep the bull-dog
breed at bay during two wars. The Boers’ imme-
diate downfall would have enhanced his glory and
brought execration on the head of his successor.
W. P. Reeves, M.L. Agent-General, who
has a good brain and is in a position to weigh the
evidence, expressed his conviction that at no time
did the Boers have more than 45,000 fighting men,
counting the aged and striplings. To conquer
whom Britain brought over 200,000. The parallel
with Greece and the hosts of Persia is drawing
uncommonly close. The present war will probably
go down to history as the most ignoble in which
Britain was ever engaged.
Suggested in print that the new billet of
Art Professor or Instructor (or whatever they like
to caff him) at Sydney National Gallery should be
offered to John Longstaff. But it is said that
Longstaff, who will visit Sydney again in June,
has almost made up his mind to get away to
Europe this year. Just now he is completing, at
his Melbourne studio, a masterly full-length por-
trait (rather larger than life-size) of the late Dr.
Anthony Brownless, in his University Chan-
cellor’s robe and other official fixings. A most
artistic picture, this, and a remarkable likeness of
the old Chancellor, considering that Longstaff
had to paint it from photographic and verbal
descriptions of the original. The photos, were
only vignettes.
It would indeed be a monstrous thing to
cart plague-patients from Sydney to Little Bay
hospital—lo miles over a rough road. The
plague has been well - advertised, and people
know plenty about it ; when a man is stricken he
is quite aware that the odds are in favor of his
dying. That, to begin with, isn’t inspirit-
ing ; but when, on top of it all, an
ambulance comes along and the patient
is shut up in it, hearse-fashion, and while
in high fever is bumped over 10 miles of
road towards a strange place in the bush from
which the cartee is pretty sure he will never
return anyhow, his chance of recovery simply
amounts to Buckley’s. Dr. Creed is right: more
accommodation must be provided at the quaran-
tine ground, the ambulance being driven right on
to the steamer.
The Sydney dailies, loyal to their tradi-
tional policy of suppressing facts likely to be
inimical to class interests, refrain from publishing
the names of business places in the city where
cases of plague occur. From the standpoint of
anti-panic policy, it is unjustifiable, as the sup-
pression rather increases than diminishes the
panicky feeling ; while ethically it is indefensible.
Surely it is wrong to let timid people run into
danger—no matter how slight—without a warn-
ing. And when the locale of a case of contagion
is merely alluded to in the papers as “aware-
house in Kent-street,” an injustice is done to
every other warehouse in the street, as it more or
less puts them all under suspicion. The policy of
suppression has done great injury to Sydney busi-
ness in the country districts, and commercial
travellers say that it is impossible to get an order
for any Sydney warehouse, except for the barest
of immediate requirements.
A recently-discharged ex-prisoner has been
bearing intelligent testimony, in Sydney D.T., to
the evil effects of the iniquitous and useless soli-
tary-confinement system in N.S.W. gaols. Men-
tal and physical starvation can have no possible
reformative influence ; while, as for the punitive
aspect of the n.atter, not the blindest believer in
this senseless barbarity would venture to say that
the law, in imprisoning an offender, contem-
plates as an integral part of his punishment
“ the debasing of his manhood, the prostra-
tion of his mind, and the destruction of
all fitness for the duties of honest citizenship.”
For the thousandth time The Bulletin repeats
that a community which tolerates the deliberate
and purposeless minimisation of an offender’s
chances of reform has no right to caff itself
civilised. Even the thumbscrews and the rack
had .the excuse of a definite end to be attained ;
butmot even that poor plea can be raised for the
more refined brutality of the solitary cell and the
starved,stomach and starved brain.
Recent Sydney daily paper advt.: —
Y\TANTED, by young gentleman of good appearance,
’ ' board and lodging, with young widow, no en-
cumbrances. Locality no object.
The “straight griffin,” indeed !
A Masterton (M.L.) man who got married
recently was, with the best man, arrested at the
church door, after the ceremony, on a charge of
stealing turkeys for the wedding-breakfast. The
flinty-hearted beak refused to release the bride-
groom on bail to enjoy turkey and honeymoon,
and gave the crestfallen pair seven days “ hard.”
At Broken Hill, N.S.W., a townsman
bought at auction, for Is., a dilapidated brass-
bound writing-desk. The joiner to whom it was
sent for repairs discovered in it three secret
drawers, in one of which was a guinea of George
111., dated 1793, and a packet of English Consols,
dated 1822, for £6OO.
Allan M‘Lean is not the only Australasian
Premier represented at the front in S. Africa by a
son. “Young Dick ” Seddon, who is only 19, goes as
a lieutenant with the fourth contingent. He had
tried hard to get away with the first three ships,
and finally overcame Premier “Dick” with the
argument —“ You are sending away other people’s
sons ; why prevent your own going ? ” Richard,
senior, saw it, but so loth was he to part with the
lad that he could hardly bring himself to leave the
steamer outside Otago Heads.
The exploration-party which left Cool-
gardie in June last had a terrible time of it in
crossing the Westralian desert. Their Afghan
camel-driver became demented through hardships,
and, making an attempt to shoot the leader of the
party, had to be himself shot in self-defence.
Trying afterwards to struggle back to Coolgardie,
5 of their camels were speared by the blacks, and
a couple of weeks later one of themselves met with
the same fate. Later on 9 camels perished, and
the camp of the party was several times plundered
by blacks. Nothing but the most wretched
country was discovered, and altogether the record
is nearly as dismal as any in the annals of
Australian exploration.
The bubonic plague, or “ The Plague,” or
Black Death, is said to be of Egyptian origin and
appeared at Athens 430 B.C. ; Europe in general
suffered from it for some centuries (the mor-
tality is said to have totalled 25,000,000, London
having lost over 100,000). In Mayence alone
12,000 Jews were assassinated as being the cause
of the plague (a supposed judgment on the
Crucifixion.) In the 1665 outbreak the mor-
tality of London was 68,600; in 1603-4 the
death-figures were 30,578 and in 1625 they were
35,497. In 1656 Naples lost 400,000 of population.
In Egypt 800,000 succumbed in 1792. During
1799, 3000 victims died daily in Barbary; at Fez
247,000 perished ; the deaths at Malta in 1813
were on a similar scale. The only cheerful fact
about the foregoing figures is that our great-
grandfathers, and even our grandfathers
were very bad counters, and the system of
collecting the figures was most incoherent. Also
the average local official of the time had an abo-
riginal’s idea of computation, and when he reached
nineteen he invariably forgot where he was and
doubled on his tracks, and added himself to the
bill and multiplied it by his deceased wife’s sister.
That was how a city with only 40,000 population
had 100,000 deaths annually for three years and
had 45,000 population when the trouble was over,
and then the plague broke out again and 150,000
died in three months.


(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS).
Next to Sear-l’s, Florist.
§o" Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Latest Novelties.
5 lovely .Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £5,
£7los. -
2 Diamonds and 3
ltubies or
Sapphires from 55s
to £lO.
Solid Gold, set with
5 Turquoise, l!s6d, or
Pearl & Turquoise, 12/6
5 Opals, 15/- and 21/-
sdf
New Gold Bar Brooch, set with Real
Amethyst, 12s 6d (Special Value).
SL,
I
Solid Gold MOTTO BROOCH, 11s 6d.
Also, same style in Souvenir, Regard, Good
Luck and Mizpali.
New Uom rind Brooch, Bs.
suo other Patterns.
&
OUR NEW PATRIOTIC BROOCH
sd
Solid Gold,
14s pair.
With any
Monogram.
50 other
Patterns.
THE ABSENT-
MINDED BEGC/R.
sdf
Solid Gold and Real
Opal, 17/6; with Ruby
or Sapphire, 20/-
Solid Gold Patriotic Brooch,
with Infantry or Gordon
Highlander Charm, 17s 6d.
Solid Gold Patriotic Charm,
with Infantry or Gordon-
Highlander, ss.
With Pin and Chain, 8s 6d.
Richly Chased.
9ct., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15ct., 355, 40s, 45s
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
M
9ct., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15et., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
90 King Street, Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS).
Next to Fresh Food & Ice Co. Tea Rooms.
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Latest Novelties. - *!
SoUd Gold and Real Anud.iyst, ,8s 6d.
Three Patterns.
;
So.id Gold, with any Name or Motto,
and Raised Wishbone, Bell, or Heart
and Chain, 10s 6cU
5 Lovely Opals.
10c., 42/-, small size, 35/-
15c., 50/- „ 45/-
18c., 55/- „ 50/-
Solid Gold and 3 Opals,
25s ; Solid Gold and
1 Opal, 15s.
Solid Gold Two-licart and Lover’s Knot Brooch,
set with 1 Diamond and Eui y, 15s.
Solid Gold, set with
5 Lovely Opals,
Special Value, Its.
sd
fs
POST FREE
fs
Solid Gold Signet Ring.
Set with Bloodstone or
Sardonix. 9ct., 255;
15ct., 37s 6d ; 18ct., 455.
! °
Any Name or
Motto, 9c., 12s 6d,
15s, 20s; 15c., 20s,
21s 27s 6(1 ; 18c.,
21s. 255. 80s. '
GOLD 2-BAD BROOCH, Set with Red and
Blue Stones, 10s 6d.
Gold Two-bar Pearl BTtOOCH.
9ct., 10s 6d ; 15ct., 17s 6d.
THE NEW CENTURY COLD. BROOCH.
Latest London Novelty, 10s 6d.
df
6c., 11s (id and 12s tid;
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9ct. , 22s pair.
150 t., 37s 6d pair.
Silver, is 6d pair.
sd
SILVER-PLATED BELTS. Latest London Fashion
20 Different Patterns, 7s, 6s 6d, 6s, 5s 6d each.
Will Fit Any Waist.
df
Solid
Gold,
Extra
Heavy,
255.
Solid
Silver,
Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
Without Boomerang-, Gold, 13s 6d ; Silver, 3s 6d.
fsd
9c., 21s ; 15c,., 40s
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
fs
Boars Tusks Silver-
mounted, 4;0; Gold, 10/6.
Solid Gold, with Raised Bird and
Forget-me-not, or with any Name, 10s 6d.
3E€TO-mA
Solid Gold BROOCH, Plain, ss.
With any Name or Motto, 5s 6d.
sd
Gold Mizpah, Cross, and Dove BROOCH
Latest Novelty, 12/6. 6 different patterns
Diamond. 18c. Gold,
s, 80s.
4( s,
fsdfs
118 c. Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat atid giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYXWNTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
JPEtOnTTCBR-S
OB'
FINE SILVER.
Jn
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAREA”
~BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
i l ams of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Sine, ring Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ;or Martin Place SYDNEY.
1 DOW KIDGE’S '
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR lIABIT positively CURED
by.dmintaMns EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


Ni r : RaSSrsjGSSco’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies.
More Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECfAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health "—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
r-
m
Wt
Ur. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgooriie, September 12, 1898.
To HhKR RASSMUSSBN.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for gome of your A LFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and 1 have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your A LFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and l am now using your ALFALIN K HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original oolor. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Alfalir Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
atn. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Here Rassmussbn, Sydney.—Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
full-', THOS. KING.' Witness— Frank Gribkrt.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
r
pth * Lfitfiffti * '!* |r| I run whi nw
m
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A LFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melanoholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A lfaline BLOOD PILLS
will oure the Mont Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 23a. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALIKE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite,. Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is Cd.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
brihging about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen's A If aline Her-
balßemedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
seh, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised\
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
. O'v-V.
fii
Herr Kasemussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• ■ - WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform hi*
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
1 will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
MPORTaNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Has sinus s en,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmilSSeil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
se
Mr. THOMAS MUPIfcAN,
no well-known Tailor, ol 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on ot-th, how his
shattered nervous system wan completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. 1 tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hkrr Rass
mussrn's Porisly Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS
which 1 herebv solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years'ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE FILLS also cured my wife, arid I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peaoe.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. fid. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills ‘-a wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, i onsumption, Hron hit is,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., fis., 125., and 235. fid.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the llair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphb t sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless lemedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength ami Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
•I
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
f
N Z , WE-LJLINGTON 31 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. ii ay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLOABDIE - Bailey-et. (next Freemason Hotel)
se


ghjgh
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins Street E.,
£©■ Sup3rior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk ot Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
For Sale.
SEVENTEEN (17) YEARS’ “BULLETINS” for
SALE. AJI complete, and in good order. The whole of
the 6d. numbers, May 19,1883, to date. Price, £26. J. J.
COOK, 8 Basement, Tattersall’a Chambers, Hunter
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. G. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Youth LAST 3 NIGHTS 1 Youth
The Famous Military Drama, revised and brought
up to date by Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. %£T PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
Return to Sydney, for NINE WEEKS only, of the
• BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
THIS EVENING, at 8,
“THE IiXIFIE.”
An Original Comedy, by Louis N. Parker.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS 1
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in an Entirely New, Original, Sensational, Patriotic,
Romantic Drama, entitled
DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
In 4 Acts and 9 Tableaux, by Charles Darrell.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LAST FOUR NIGHTS at the Criterion Theatre of the
above Great Company, opening at
The New Tivoli Theatre on Thursday, 12th April,
With the greatest Company of Stars ever brought
together, headed by
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rlokards.
Enormous Success in Melbourne of
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
Reappearance of THE MACARTE SISTERS.
CHAS. SEEL, Leading: English Comedian,
Miss MAUD NEEDHAM. 8 NEWSKY FAMILY 8
PROF, DAVY’S MARIONETTES. TOM BROWNE.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, POPE and SAYLES, Wallace
King, and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
... GREAT EASTER ATTRACTION
COMMENCING
Saturday, 14tlx ikprU.
RETURN VISIT
Mr. Orpheus M. McAdoo’s
. . GENUINE . .
X GEORGIA MINSTRELS ><
AND ORIGINAL
Talabama cake-walkers I
Introducing his Renowned Kings and Queens of the
Colored “ IIoo.”
The Finest and Most Replete Minstrel Organisation that
has ever toured Australasia.
&3T Watch Future Announcements.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan opens at Paling’s Monday next.
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
THIRD WEEK!
AND INCREASED FURORE!
“When the Lamps are Lighted.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MOLLY SULLIVAN.
GRACIE WHITEFORD as TILLY RAFFERTY.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Business Manager .. Mr. Gbo. Tallis.
Treasurer Mr. R. Stewart.
Curtain Rises 7.U5 Sharp.
GREAT : ANNUAL : SPECTACULAR : PANTOMIME,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Written by Bernard Espinasse. Music by Leon Caron
and F. W. Wenter.
Realistic Battle Scenes and Tableaux. Grand Ballet, etc.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
. Publications.
SKIN DISEASES • - and . .
* Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
dfvd
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
B
TITITH an ordinary tape measure determine the width
’' round the joints AA. round the instep 88, round heel
CO, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities —a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price
\*
•••*
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
14/6
Orders, accompanied by remittance, excct*ted within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). 1
Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS & CO., 686 George St.,
Sydney . , BRICKFIELD HILL.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
Pot an forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
»WOR DS OF WlgPgMg Th ig JYee Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: •
T7ie Irving Homoeopathic C
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
p G. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest ai d
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters .
in the colony, Everything is made to measure on the pre"
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’s suits of Indigo serge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes ("with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge,
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his m w
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, siik-facui
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing-. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
Dr. Pierce’s “XXX” Electric Belt
■; I . ' . ' ' ' •
£5
K
V
AS
m
Price, £3 3s,
This Belt is the Latest Improved,
most powerful, and in all respects the B_ST now
manufactured in any part of the world. Its equal
does not exist. The Galvanometer shows its
electric current to be double that of any other.
Easily regulated. Durably insulated. Latest
improved attachments. Special conductors and
electrodes. Reversible current. Double wire sus-
pensory for men. Satin lined body-belt. It will
cure any disease on earth that it is possible to
cure with Electricity. Thousands have been cured.
P.S.—The above is our BEST, but we have
other grades of the same goods at lower prices.
Call on our Sydney I (tents and exam ine the
Belts, or send them a stamp for “Booklet No. 2.”
Pierce Electric Co., San Francisco, U.S.A.
Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt st., Sydney, n.s.w.
ALL WHO DESIRE-TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
*
»«-
o
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Age suggests that the Federal. arms
and ammunition factory shall, for economic
reasons, be at Melbourne. Common prudence
demands that it shall be far inland. Also, for
about 100 powerful reasons, the factory should be
owned and run by the Federal Govt., so saving
the syndicate’s profits and ensuring that the
nation’s gun will be properly loaded when re-
quired.
Dr. Todd, Sydney’s medico-barrister
coroner, struck a real old hayseed jury in the in-
quest on Verdant Holley, who died under opera-
tion at Sydney Hospital. Four doctors testified
that ether, not chloroform, had been administered
to the woman. No one gave any evidence throw-
ing doubt on this or suggesting that any drug but
ether was used, yet the jury found that the woman
died from chloroform, taken for the purpose of an
operation. “Get out!” cried the coroner in
effect. “We mean,” said the foreman, “ that no
one was to blame.” Finally the coroner drafted a
verdict, and the intelligent 12, with a far-away
look in their mild, moist eyes, signed and passed
out to the noisy world.
The strange individual signing himself
“ A Member of the Parliament of West'Australia”
still storms the papers with letters declaring that
all Westralia wants to enable it to join the Com-
monwealth with a light heart is permission to
keep its separate tariff for five years, and that the
action of the East in not granting this trifle is
sinful. Yet the people of W.A. and the Parlia-
ment and the Ministry have none of them said
that they would be satisfied with this concession,
and wild oxen can’t even draw John Forrest into
a frank assurance that, if the concession is granted,
he will be satisfied and will do his honest best to
Eush the Bill through. Who is the dreadful mem-
er who gives the anonymous promise on John’s
account which John won’t give himself ? And
fully one-fourth of the adult W.A. population has
signed the Separation petition, declaringthatthey
want to federate under the present Bill, only
Bigjohn is in the road.
Alice Praed, Melbourne’s very remarkable
medium, has got six months’ “hard.” Alice
wasn’t a prosperous fashionable fraud with a large
clientele; she had just one customer of any ac-
count, and she made the mistake of freezing on to
that patron altogether too hard. Mrs. Praed’s
strong point consisted in telling Mrs. Parry that
the Mother of God had spoken to her (Mrs. Praed)
in a vision, and told her to tell Mrs. Parry that
she (Mrs. Parry) was to give large cash assistance
to her (Mrs. Praed), and to do it often and cheer-
fully :
The spirits of Mrs. Parry’s deceased husband and chil-
dren also joined in requests that the. medium be pre-
sented with black silk dresses, furniture,&c., and the Mother
of God requested Mrs. Parry, she said, after one of her
sittings, to take the medium for a trip to the Holy Land
and America. In the course of her evidence Mrs. Parry
said that at one of the sittings her daughter said she was
to give the medium a grey silk dress like they wore in
Heaven, so she got the dress. At the next sitting her
other daughter appeared, and told her that the medium
was very good, and her (Mrs. Parry’s) dead daughters
were teaching little children at school in Heaven. At
still another sitting Mrs. Parry heard, through the
medium, from St. Anthony, who said Mrs. Praed was
a very good medium, but the Mother of God could
not talk to her until the medium was dressed in pure
white. So witness got these things also for accused.
Mrs. Praed subsequently put on white garments and had
a trance, and the Mother of God came and said she was
pleased, and said she had not spoken to anyone for 500
years. The Mother of God also said Mrs. Parry was chari-
table and good, and praise from such a quarter inflated
her considerably. The Mother of God directed that Mrs.
Praed should have a special room, which was to be fur-
nished throughout by Mrs. Parry, and later, at a new
house the Mother of God said Mrs. Parry was to give
accused, Mrs. Praed, a sovereign every time she called,
and that she was to call every Monday morning. Mrs.
Parry paid the £1 for six months.
Then things broke all of a sudden, for Mrs. Parry
grew alarmed at the reckless way the spirits were
throwing her money about, and asked a police-
man.
Extracts (cut from a Forbes newspaper—
Forbes district was the land of Ben Hall and co.,
highwaymen) from a letter written by a Contin-
genter to his mother :
We are camped by ourselves again, about 50 miles from
Modder River, but in the Orange Free State. We don’t
do any fighting, only looting everything we come across.
We went out the day before yesterday, and took 45 horses
and some cattle, and burnt a fine brick house. I have
lots of little things, keeping them till I get home. We
often see a few Boers, but they race away. We hear there
will be a big fight up at Modder River to-morrow, but we
never hear any truth out here. I don’t think we will ever
see any fighting ; they are too careful of us, and we are
too useful for scouting and robbing farms. You ought to
see us when we get to a house. Every man is allowed to
keep any little thing he wants, so we come home loaded
generally. ... All my mates are here ; we have never
been split up yet. They are always leaving men behind,
but Forbes men seem the smartest, as they are always
taken. Bird is cooking ; we take it in turns of a week,
but it won’t be my turn for a long time yet. It
runs alphabetically. We are all terrible thieves ;
fowls, fruit, anything we come across, in fact. We are
not allowed to mix much with other troops, and we are
not allowed to swear, except on special occasions : such
as a horse treading on one’s toes, etc. I have a nice lot
of badges belonging to other regiments We milk
our own cows now, and kill our own meat. We get meat
as often as we like, and tea three times a day. The Eng-
lish soldiers laugh at the way we ride, but we don’t fall
off like they do. The Queensland men are the finest-
looking men I have seen yet, but they are not well-drilled.
The captain has two monkeys, and I often while away the
time pulling their tails. We have any amount of horses
to ride, a fresh one every day.
What an ingenuous little prattler! Plenty
meat, tea three times a day, and any amount of
horses to ride ! South Africa must indeed be the
Australian’s heaven.
An interesting murder case has just
finished at Dunedin, in which Thomas Galloway
was charged with the slaying of his wife. Early
on New Year’s morning the neighbors were
aroused by accused, who stated that a man had
got into the house and murdered his wife. G. had
gone to bed alone about 12 and fallen asleep, and
been awakened by a violent attack. He had
sprung out of bed and, grappling with his assail-
ant, wrenched the weapon—an iron bar—from
him and beat him off, shoving him outside into
the passage. On looking round the room he saw
his wife prone on the floor, severely injured about
head and face. No motive could be suggested,
and at first the case seemed one of ordinary wife-
murder with a deliberately-concocted story. But
the man’s character was against this theory, and
the neighbors swore he seemed to expect to find
someone in the house on his return. The theory
for the defence was a fine example of scientific
reasoning. The wife was a chlorodyne-drinlcer,
and the supposition was that, maddened by an
overdose, or by want of the drug, she had attacked
her husband, and he, startled out of his sleep in a
dimly-lighted room to fight for his life, had strug-
gled with and killed his wife under the over-
mastering idea that he and she were being
attacked by a stranger; when he thought he
shoved the man out into the passage, the supposed
man must have fallen inside the room. That they
were not both in bed was proved by the woman
being only partially undressed and by the state of
the bed-clothes, while his story about being
attacked was borne out by the wounds found on
him. Verdict: “Not guilty.”
According to the cable Boer Commander-
in-Chief Joubert died suddenly last week. Just a
few hours before his death General White, of
Ladysmith, summed up his old enemy in a speech
at Capetown. Joubert, he said, was “ a soldier, a
gentleman, and a brave and honorable opponent.”
“ Gentlemen,” said Judge a’Beckett to the
jurymen who acquitted Kathleen Fraser, “I con-
gratulate you ; you have exceeded even the hopes
of her advocates.” The delicately-doubtful compli-
ment was, no doubt, lost upon the twelve. “Old
Moley,” father of the present County Court Judge
Hickman Molesworth, was more direct, if less
subtle, in his remark to a jury which had brought in
a similar verdict. The man had gone to his home
in Fitzroy (Melb.) one night some years ago, and,
apparently in a fit of anger, had shot his wife
dead. “Gentlemen,” said Molesworth, “you
acquit the prisoner on the ground that the shoot-
ing was accidental. Presumably you consider that
he came home accidentally, that he took his wife
into the bedroom accidentally, that he loaded his
gun accidentally, that he pointed it at her acci-
dentally, and that he pulled the trigger accident-
ally. (Along pause.) Gentlemen, you have my
sympathy.”
The resignation of Leake, Q.C., from the
Leadership of the Opposition should give a fillip
to Westralian politics. Leake as a politician was
always lazy. He will make a good, quiet, tired
fourth Judge. There will be a rush to step into
his shoes. Illingworth has a chance, but he is a
temperance-preacher and little liked. Yosper is
ambitious, but impossible. So are a good many
other candidates for Leake’s old hoofgear.
It is gravely reported that some “ festive
cuss ” stole the great W. A. separation petition, or
that Gov. Jerry Smith dropped it somewhere, or
left it in a cab. Anyhow it is persistently
rumored that Gov. Smith has gone to England
without it. It would be quite in keeping with the
political methods of the W.A. gang in power if
the great petition did vanish unaccountably, and
Gov. Smith is just the undignified, careless, loosely-
promiscuous individual who would be outside
quarrelling with a policeman while the disappear-
ance was going on.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist*
Cures this terrible itching complaint Sot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each Jar. Jars, WJ; post, 4/10..
Used in the Melbourne Hoinceopathilc
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS, f
Fred. J.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are j
not asked <
I to Spend |
atty money to test whether my
temedy does or does not cure
Fits,. Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T,28, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
Warner’s
fs
ef
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT'S DISEASE
rHtE
PAMPHLET
•TiOM
H.H WARNER & C? LIP
MELBOURNE;, AUST.
Does This
NV3IAJ
YOU ?
Bankers, Brokers, Insurance Men, Cierks, Collectors,
Letter Carriers, Railroad Men, Tram Men, and all who are
much on their feet, tire themselves needlessly when they
refuse to use this gentle, efficient support. The man with
the SUSPENBORY on will feel about half as tired and
about twice as good at night as the one who does not
wear one. A SUSPENS9R / effectually prevents that
utterly fagged-out feeling which is so familiar to those
who stand and walk a great deal. A savage does not
wear a hat, civilised man finds it better to do so : in-
creased comfort comes with increased knowledge. The
first thing a SUSPENSORY does is to bring a comfortable
feeling of support and lightness to the wearer, feels as if
he could run and jump easily, and if he does run and
jump he will find it fatigues him less than usual.
We have been saying “A” SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD
P POINT
0 COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
pER&BmCK
Chic 3&
M
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2— 0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 6/-
Na 3 „ Silk „ ~ .... ?/-
No. 4 ~ „ „ Silk „ •• 9 /~
No. 5 ~ Fancy ~ „ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF AT.T. CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or By post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
D«“ Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.B.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
health anp strength
■ 1 may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and 20/- ; Course 401-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIM AULT’S
inDIAfl CIGARETTES
Difficult}' in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coufrhs,' Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
00013
*
X
52
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestoreh
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arfestihg the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting thte Growth, and giving Rustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is tailing off,, TRY IT. If it is
Thini TRY it. Price—3S., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENR. , . ,
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 6s.' Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE. . ~ ,
For Restoi-ing Grey Hair to its Original Color. ..It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra. c
£2
w
q/2
*9
\Vashi\oios u. soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSUtT k HCiUAND,, FOR AtL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by • -
El HOLLAND; Hair Specialist;l93 Collins-st.. Melbourne.
se
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
'K ! • ;•- !• n :<?.
The-Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Siek-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
I : * V' MHI' j I m ,
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can bo prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN .<» SONS USSSS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
■HKfSK’&I
QLEBRtfQ
...EfftctweCi
.LlCHTlmAlfflJ&riSllUE
Weak Eyes dimness ETf
KKlif»l!i*
SSI CEORCC ST
lad El.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSES’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c
Largely used, by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes .
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
9 bo
4
I III
Ms
WBen
writing
please
mention
Tiib
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING (
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
i ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
i strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- (
'CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
jDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER '
• LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can |
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly- ’
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, i
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General “
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. i
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,'
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and i
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortabje, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. i
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
100
110 o
2 2 0
3 3 0
2 0
plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments. ..
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2_ -
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All should be addressed to— |
A. D. STEPHEN SON, . „ ,
' 151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
IT WILL I 1 AY YOU TO GO THERE. Folio*
the Footsteps of the Wise; ahd Buy the Best; Cheapest*
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln* Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to Select froth.
_ bur Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds; Vi-
cunas; or Series, fast colors;
is perfect fitting';, beautifully
,A splepdid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good pattern,?, 12/6. Dress
Suits tp Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf pr Cycling Suits, 35,-
p,iding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
ooats. Band and other Uni-
forms, Riding Habits, etc.
iWesupply R eady- made M en’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed orSergeTrou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
0
*gwuiiiiimfisfc
coals, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, ‘i -, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4,6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
“VU Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part Of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’l icc, 10s. (>«l.
Sole Agents :
m
The Result.
Craig & Aitken. 680-632 George- st„ Sydney
Publications.
Books. Booltg. Books.
"POPULAR for £1 ss. The Home
* Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for tl. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. <sd. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, iOvols.,
t 7 10s. for 12 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
imr, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from trie by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kmdly mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sjdnev.
SEN 1) FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF rare, curious,
AND laughable books.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
I
ILLXJSXRA-TESD
TTI7ITH numerous anatomical
' ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
fs
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Booh Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ef
FRENCH -
NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1,3, 2and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until yeu two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Keproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNPitED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness'with one you love. Akolo-Amerioah Publisht'-.
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. V' ■
paper when writing
Medical,
far - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not been
recognised l>v thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. JEf?'' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.


STEWART DAWSON * CO.
where
HO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. 319. —Silver Button Hooks and
Shoe Lift, I*B/6
■■lll
fj
No. E 946. —Morocco Case, con-
taining Solid Silver Shell Pattern
Butter Dish and Knife, 25/-
No. 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea
Spoons, in Morocco Case,
£1 10 0
No. E4osB—Case containing Two
Silver Electroplated Peppers,
Assorted Designs, 14/6
No. 105. —Four Solid Silver Salt
Cellars, with Spoons, in Morocco
Case, J 32 10
No. 292 a Solid Silver
Napkin Rings in case, 15/G
mm
No. 336.—Twelve Silver-Plated Tea Spoons
and Sugar Tongs, in Case,
517 6
No. 304. --Two Solid Silver Hair Brushes,
and Silver-Mounted Comb, in Case,
&4: O 0
m
lli i
No. 146.—Pair Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dishes,
and pair Tongs in Case,
<£2 12 ©
No. E 3768. - Case containing 6 Be it (Quality Silver
Electroplated Tea Spcons and Tongs,
21'/-
No. 207 a Silver Embroidery Set in case,
15/6
oll^ic 9
V . tONJDON ;
iSf
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife,
Jam Spoon, and Sugar Sifter, in
Morocco Case, £l5 0
i9^
-
No. 321.—Silver G-love Slretcher, 6|in.
Shoe Lift, and T . tton Hooks, in
Morocco Case, -£1 10 O
V-a
No. 403. —Case containing 6 each Dessert or
Fish Knives and Forks, Electro Silver,
£3, £3 10 0
STEWART DAWSON G«
:
No. 301 a Solid Silver Afternoon Teapot,
Sugar and Cream, in Case,
£6 17 6
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening,Spoon,
in Case, 15/S
Silver-Plated, 6/6
ISSSiSi
No. 300a.— Presentation Case, con-
taining fine Silver - Plated Butter
Knife, Jam Spoon, Sugar Spoon,
Pickle Fork and Sugar Tongs, 22/6
m
Mm
& :
Lmhipj, l ;• -minrHW' l - I| v ;m
No. 322.—Tw0 Finest Cut-Glass Silver-
Mounted Knife Rests, in Case, 18/6
mil
-
■
mw/m
No. 305.—Solid Silver Salts and
Spoons—2 in Case, .£1 15;
4 in Case, £3 7 6
h
<JSi
1
No. 107. —So’id Silver S igar, Cream, and Tongs,
in Morocco, Veivet-lined Case,
£5 10
.V M
99
Ip
p s
Mo. 299a.— Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Pot, Sugar,
Cream, and Tongs, in Case, <£l2 10
)
mm
No. 269b.— Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments; Two Pairs
of Scissors, Tweezers, Cuticle Knife, Box, Nail Pile,
and Polisher in Case, JE3 10
No. 323. Child’s Presentation Set; Drinking Clip, Egg Cup,
Serviette Ring, Knife and Fork, and 2 Spoons.
Best Silver-plate, in Morocco Case, <£3 10
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
roods, any of which will be
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412
George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W
LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


EDWARDS
i
df
*
THE GREAT
MIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
m
Restores the Hail'
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
‘MARLENE 9
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
Hi
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle•
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON. W.C.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUGHT TO contain A BOTTLE OF
FRUIT SALT
A Simple Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYA2MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for,a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
over estimated.” —A Professional Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT' ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.
,—See capsule mar lied ENO’S ‘FRUIT i SALT.’ Without it uou have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the 1 FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patel, t.
For (Hers Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man*who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
Tally Bight!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the court-yard of the Elopura prison there is
an unusual stir for five o’clock, at which hour even
the poor convict was generally allowed to rest.
But to-day he, too, must be up betimes, for there
is to be a hanging in an hour’s time—the largest
hanging ever known in Borneo. No less than
eight are to die, and Mandore Nyam, as he
adjusts the ropes for them, and tests the working
of the drop, curses his luck, for had not five others
died from their flogging, and so cheated him out
of his just due ?
Nyam mumbled to himself the amount of the
fees he had lost—twenty-five dollars. “ Then
there are the five ropes, which would have in-
creased ten-fold in value through having encircled
the necks of the vermin. “ But Allah is merciful,
and will find good use for the ropes before they
rot with age.”
And then he eyed his gallows lovingly. From
the cross-beams, lengthened for the occasion,
depended eight ropes, each ending in a noose.
Then he turned his attention to the platform
beneath, which was supported on two pairs of
legs, to the back pair of which it was hung by
hinges, the front pair nierely acting as a prop.
Time and again are the sand-bags adjusted, and
with a lusty “ Tarik samoi,” the convicts tail-on
to the rope, the front props are jerked from under
the platform, and the eight sand-bags dangle in
mid-air.
* * * *
The door of the condemned cell stood ajar,
while its seven occupants were being prepared for
death.
Many months ago they and their companions
had turned on their white employer, who worked
them almost to death and refused to pay them for
their labor. The white blackguard had died a
violent death, and in process of time the “ crime ”
had been brought home; and now such as had
survived the floggings inflicted to extort evidence
were to die, except one, Ah Ling. They could
not in decency hang Ah Ling, since he had been
many miles away when the murder took place.
So they flogged him more severely than the rest,
sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment, and sent
him to the gaol-hospital to recover from his
wounds.
At the hospital Ah Ling, only semi-conscious,
was placed on the platform next to one of the con-
demned eight, Ah Long, who was too ill for the
condemned cell, and had been sent to the hospital
to await execution.
* * * *
The door of the hospital opened, and Mandore
Nyam appeared, bearing in his hands a suit of
white calico. He had superintended the dressing
of the other seven subjects, and had come in
search of the eighth. Glancing carelessly at the
tickets on the wall over each prisoner’s head, he
halted in front of Ah Ling.
“ Truly it is well thfit he dies to-day, for were
the execution ordered for to-morrow I should have
had one less to provide for.”
Ah Ling muttered in his sleep, and as the grim
face of the hangman bent over him, he tossed un-
easily, and with a start, opened his bloodshot
“ Awake, you hog ! ” said the Miandore.
“ Oh ! let me sleep, Mandore; I am too ill to
work,” moaned the Chinaman.
“ Who said you were to work ?
But Ah Ling did not answer, his eyes were
closed again.
Seizing him roughly by the tauchong the
Mandore dragged him to his feet. . ‘ Here, put
these on, and hurry up,” he said, shaking the clean
calico suit. „ „
“ Let me die, Mandore ! I can’t even walk.
“You’ll die soon enough, and you’ve not far to
walk, either; so hurry up and get your clothes
Ah Ling looked the hangman in the face.
“They do not often give us poor ‘orang sala’
(convicts) a change of clothes. Why should I alone
have one ? ”
“Because, my friend, they remain indoors,
while you must show in public soon.”
“Mandore, you mean that our action is at last
justified; that we are not to be punished for
revenging ourselves upon him ; that we are par-
doned and shall soon be free ? ” And the glassy
look in Ah Ling’s eyes gave way to a momentary
flash of excitement.
The hangman seemed to revel in his cruelty.
“You are only partly right. In an hour’s time
you will be free—but not in the way you think !
But enough of this talk, I have wasted much time
already. You eight men are all to be hanged this
morning.”
Ah Ling threw himself down on his knees.
“Oh! Mandore, they will never hang a dying
man. Oh ! let me die in peace,” and as he spoke,
the jailer and the doctor and those who had come
to see the hanging, tired at the long delay,
crowded round the hospital door.
“Oh Tuan, Tuan, spare my life ! For one day
only I ask it. I cannot live much longer. I want
no food, not even a drop of Water, and I shall not
trouble you long. If I take up too much room in
here, put me in the open ; only let me die in peace.
Oh, Tuan, you cannot hang a dying man ! ”
“Poor devil,” said the doctor ; but the crowd
only laughed, and the jailer roughly told the man
to “ Dcuml”
* * * ’ *
At last the noose was on every neck—the last
hood adjusted—and Nyain awaited the signal.
“Tahan Dhulu! ” called the doctor, as he
focussed his camera, and the hangman made one
more effort to stand Ah Ling on his feet.
“ Hit him, if the miserable beast won’t stand,”
and in obedience to the command . the hangman
struck at the hidden face of the dying man.
“Just in time,” laughed the doctor, as Ah Ling
once more collapsed. “A moment later and the
damned photo, would have been done for.”
“ That Chinaman is truly lazy,” mumbled Nyam
as he scrambled down from the scaffold.
“ Oh, let the beggar rip; he’ll hang as well that
way as standing.”
The Sikh guards, with fixed bayonets, straight-
ened themselves and looked up at the scaffold.
The crowd held its breath in expectation. Only
the white-clothed subjects themselves seemed to
take no interest in the proceedings. Then, at a
sign from the hangman, the assembled convicts
seized the rope and, as the jailer dropped his
hand, with a loud “ Tarik samoi! ” ran back with
it.
As the stage was jerked from under them, no
sound was heard save that of the swish of their
death-garments as they fluttered in the air and the
froan of the war-scarred Jemadar of the guard as
e fell fainting forward.
Then a half-suppressed murmur went up from
the crowd, as Ah Ling drew his knees up to his
chin and lunged out convulsively with liis feet.
Again he did this, and again, till his struggles set
in motion the whole row of dead and hitherto
quiescent bodies.
“ Nyam ! you bodo, what kind of work is this ? ”
But Nyam. had already sprung forward, and with
his legs twined round his victim’s waist, was with
his hands fast choking the last breath from him ;
and when at last Ah Ling’s limbs ceased struggling
and his tired soul went out, the crowd melted
away, and the jailer took the doctor and the jury
away for a drink. Nyam sat down to bargain for
the ropes and caps which adorned the bodies.
* * * •
An hour later the bodies were cut down, and the
inquest was held. ‘ ‘ Gentlemen, it is not usual,
but it is convenient —so we will take the evidence
first and identify the bodies later.”
The doctor swore that he had examined the
men, and that they were dead ; further, that he
had witnessed the execution, and it had been car-
ried out according to law.
The gaoler produced the warrant of execution,
and swore that he had carried out the sentence
according to the warrant.
The hangman gave his evidence, and mentioned
that he had not been paid for his services, to
which the gaoler replied that the money would be
placed at the foot of the gallows as usual, when
the inquest was over, and then they went out to
view the bodies. ■
The gaoler, warrant in hand, turned the body of
No. 1 over with his foot. “ I swear that this is
the body of Kim Sing Loh, and that he is the Kim
Sing Loh mentioned in the warrant,” and so he
swore to the identity of the next six, and the
Chief-Warder corroborated him.
But as the cap was taken from the face of the
last man the gaoler started back and glanced at
the warder—who turned an ashen grey. Their
eyes met, and a look of understanding passed be-
tween them.
But the delay in swearing was noticeable, so the
gaoler steadied himself and swore that this was
the body of Ah Long, and that he was the Ah
Long mentioned in the warrant, and the warder,
with his eyes to the ground, once more corrobor-
ated him.
* * * *
That night, when the gaoler was once more
drinking in his quarters, the warder visited him,
and a scheme was settled upon.
“I must save myself at all costs. Damn that
poker-party last night ! How the devil is a fellow
to distinguish one ‘ schtinker ’ from another
when he’s been keeping it up all night ? ”
In the last stages of “ beri-beri,” the real Ah
Long moved about the prison yard, turning over
in his mind a hazy idea that one day he was to be
hanged ; little thinking that because of a white
man’s blunder a worse fate was in store for him.
The warder carried out the gaoler’s orders to the
letter, and the largest share of labor and the
smallest share of food was Ah Long’s daily por-
tion—but he had the life-tenacity of his race, and
it was months before the gaoler was able to report
the death of “No. 2098—Ah Ling, sentenced to
10 years’ R.S. for complicity in the murder of
J— H .” And when the report was
officially acknowledged, the gaoler assembled his
friends for a big drink, though he did not think it
necessary to tell them what occasion he celebrated.
YANG ANYUT.
While recovering from laughing-gas, the
other day, an athletic boy-client of a prominent
M.L. dentist imagined that he beheld in the face
bending over him the features of a foe, and
punched it for all he was worth. The astonished
tooth-artist eventually pitched him out on to the
footpath with suph suddenness that the boy had
no time to pay the fee, which he promptly com-
mandeered.
Two roughs lately got drunk in a Melb.
suburb, assaulted the lieges, and severely damaged
a constable. A month without the option
would have been about a fair thing, but
the beak next morning remarked, with much
emotion, that the relief of Ladysmith made him
feel so good that he really couldn’t find it in his
heart to punish what was doubtless merely due to
patriotic enthusiasm. (Loud cheers.)
“ Thirsty ” : When in ’Frisco, I was intro-
duced to a formidable-looking drink, with the
yolk of a raw egg floating on the top of it, called
“ Kniekerbein.” Following exactly the directions
of an experienced friend, I proceeded as follows :
1. Passed the glass under my nostrils and inhaled
the glorious flavor. Paused. 2. Held the glass
perpendicularly close under my mouth, opened it
wide, and sucked the froth by drawing a deep
breath. Paused again. 3. Pointed the lips and
took one-third of the liquid contents remaining in
the glass without touching the yolk. Paused once
more. 4. Straightened my body, threw my head
backwards, swallowed the contents remaining in
the glass all at once, at the same time breaking
the yolk in my mouth. When I got to the end of
that business I felt profoundly grateful, and as if
I had swallowed a squashed kitten.
Flanigan, the big storekeeper, can’t stand
crawlers. Popping into the backyard one blazing
hot day, he came suddenly upon one of his drapers
puffing at a cigarette. The smoker at once put
fiis foot on the cig., and started rolling a coil of
fencing-wire into an adjacent shed. Flanigan,
pretending not to notice who he was, said, “Stack
’em at the back of the shed. Lernme see—ten
tons ; four rows four-high ’ll about take the lot; ”
and off he went whistling. There was no help
for it, and the draper, rejoicing that his cigarette
hadn’t been noticed, went at it manfully. But
his hands were soft, and ere he had the ground
tier laid they were blistered, and by the time the
second layer was on they were bleeding; his white
pants and shirt were torn and rust-covered, and
rusty perspiration streamed into his eyes and
nearly blinded him. He slaved on till he came
to the top row. That beat him—he simply couldn’t
do it, and sat down hard in the sweat-
splashed dust, a thing to be pitied. Then Flanigan
ambled up: “That will do, Mr. . Finish
your smoke.”


|| fflaiTs Kidneys at Sewenty I
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
FOE ALL AGES.
Mb. W. D. HARVEY.
Why shouldn’t a man be hale and healthy at
seventy ? In the evening of life, after the battle
has been fought, why shouldn’t he enjoy the rest
he has earned?
Ask the man of seventy why he stoops, and what
is the weak spot in his constitution. Nine times
out of ten he will reply, “Oh, it’s my back. It
isn’t strong, and it pains me to move or stoop, or
straighten up.”
Ah, but is it really the back ? The back does
ache, but the real ache is deeper than that. It’s
the kidneys, for they lie just under the small of
the back, and the hurry and bustle and worry of a
long life in the fight for wealth and position have
finally told on the kidneys, and they have become
weakened.
Disturbances of the water have appeared—there
is a sediment in the kidney secretions. Disease
has attacked him in the weakest part, and will
never stop of its own accord. Yet it can be
checked and cured even at seventy by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, for they heal the kidneys,
they act on the kidneys only, and will clear the
secretions, strengthen the back, and check the
most dangerous of all diseases, kidney disease,
■even in a man of seventy.
W. D. Harvey, of Stawell, whose picture is
given above, is seventy years old. He has lived in
Stawell for forty-eight years. He says:—“My
back gave out and I had plenty of proof that my
kidneys had become diseased. In the first place,
the pain in my back was confined to the small of
the back, just over the kidneys. I could stoop
over only with difficulty, and any exertion brought
an increase of pain. Of course I am an old man,
and this pain was hard to bear. At length the
kidneys began to act wrong. I was restless at
night, and I noticed that the secretions from the
kidneys left a sediment, and were of a high color.
There could be no mistaking these symptoms, and
I got some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at
once. I took them with splendid results. I
derived great benefit from them, and, at my age,
this is gratifying. My back is better, and the
kidney secretions again natural, and I can highly
recommend them to anyone suffering from back-
ache or any other signs of kidney disease. -The
above is true, and you may publish the facts.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney
(main office); or from any of our branches, as
follows :—292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King
William-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “ D-O-A-N-S.”
ITCHING PILES.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES PER-
MANENTLY BY CURING THE CAUSE.
A REMARKABLE REMEDY, WHICH IS
BRINGING COMFORT TO THOUSANDS
OF SUFFERERS.
Probably half the people who see this article
suffer from piles. It is one of the commonest
(diseases, and one of the most obstinate. People
ihawe it for years, and just because it is not lmme-
(diately fatal they neglect it. Carelessness causes
mo eaad of suffering. Carelessness about so simple
:a thing as piles has often caused death. Hemor-
rhages occur from no apparent cause, and loss of
blood causes death. Hemorrhages occur under
surgical treatment, often causing death.
Piles are simple in the beginning, and easily
-cured. They can be cured even in the worst
■stages, without pain or loss of blood, quickly,
surely, and completely. There is only one remedy
that will do it-DOAN’S OINTMENT.
It allays the inflammation immediately, heals
the irritated surface, and with continued treat-
ment reduces the swelling and puts the membrane
into good, sound, healthy condition. The cure is
thorough and permanent. Here is a ease :
T. W. Hickson, of No. 170 Cumberland-street,
this city, says: “For a few weeks I was very
much inconvenienced by an attack of itching piles.
' from which I could get no relief. Doan s Urnt-
ment was first at that time, and I ob-
tained a pot at Newman’s pharmacy, in ivmg-
street. lam glad to say that the piles completely
disappeared after a short treatment with the oint-
ment, and I’ve not had occasion to use it since. „ l
will not forget to recommend Doan s Ointment.
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases ot
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Chilblains, Sores,
Insect Bites, &c. It is perfectly safe, and very
effective. , j
Very frequently two or three boxes have mane
a complete cure of chronic cases that have not
yielded to other remedies for years. _
Doan’s Ointment has been tested m so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, ana
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of IHE
Bulletin who have not already tried it m y
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this ointment vnh
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely. and we want you to know it. It is Pf
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from rues
or Eczemafor one single moment. Doan s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. P e F (
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same
posted on receipt of price by the propri re ’
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention lhe
Bulletin.
Naringaningalook.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Naringaningalook was gay,
It swelled with pride and beer,
Contingents came from Strathie way,
As far as Yarraweyah ;
From Cobram to the Murray fords
The silv’ry saplings shook
As hundreds galloped madly towards
N aringaningalook.
The tidings reached the city, too ;
The spielers met in haste,
They reckoned ’twas a pity to
Let so much go to waste ;
And so, at record speed, they tore
To Spencer-street to book
The hardest case they boasted for
Naringaningalook.
The hardest case the spielers boast
Is welsher Darby Brown,
The chap who’s had ’em all on toast
In every country town.
He knew the game so clean and pat
They picked him out to rook
The yokels round the races at
Naringaningalook.
This Darby Brown was fat and red—
A genial sort of bloke —
You had to laugh at what he said
The funny way he spoke.
But with us there was one who knew,
And, ’spite his honest look,
We tumbled as he sauntered through
Naringaningalook.
To beat us for our hard-earned pelf
We saw that stranger meant,
And we decided that no self-
Respecting resident
Could tolerate such ghastly sin ;
So fixed it up to cook
His blanky hanky-panky in
N aringaningalook.
We led him to the bar that night;
We filled ’em up again ;
And raffled (when we had him tight)
A handsome watch and chain.
He bought a chance for half-a-crown
And gaily undertook,
If he should win, to shout the town
N aringaningalook.
We breathless passed the hat aroun’,
We prayed he might be done,
And cheered and yelled as Darby Brown
Drew out the Number One.
’Twas then we knew we had him out,
The while his hand we shook ;
For Darby Brown had got to shout
Naringaningalook.
It cost him over two-pound-ten,
And still a bit he owed.
We handed him the prizes, then
We scattered down the road ;
For that same watch and chain he won
Had just been neatly shook
From off the bloke who came to run
Naringaningalook.
By Ginger Orr the deed was done ;
As Darby pitched his lay,
He slapped him on the chest in fun
And whipped his watch away.
He’d steal as well, would Ginger Orr,
As any city hook ;
He’d nick your whiskers, proudly swore
Naringaningalook.
We rigged the draw so cleanly that
We had him safely done ;
For all the tickets in the hat
Were labelled “ Number One.” . . .
Next morning’s races saw him not,
His little hook he took
And knew no more that sylvan spot,
N aringaningalook.
Now, when the city spieler quotes
His uncle in Fiji,
And flashes round Provincial notes
And shouts you lavishly,
If you would wreck his little game
And send his feelings crook,
Just whisper in his ear the name,
“ Naringaningalook ! ”
JOHN HAMILTON YAWM.
Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m Smith. As soon as I have relieved my mind,
by writing these notes, I intend to toss up a coin.
If it falls “heads” I shall blow out my brains
when all is quiet to-night. If “ tails ” I shall at
once proceed to Sydney and join the Bushmen’s
Corps for South Africa.
I live in a gully through which a river is alleged'
to flow (there’s a bed of sand with waterholes at-
distant intervals where the flow is supposed to be).
When I get up in the morning I look across a-
narrow valley and see a precipitous mountain,
face ; in fact, there’s little else to be seen at this
place at any time unless it be the long lean slab-
sided farmers (farmers indeed !) whose offspring
(can’t call them children) I’m paid £6 per month,
to teach.
Like the parents, the offspring are as dull as th ©
bullocks, horses, and maize which form the sole-
subject of conversation and interest here. The:
reading public of the district (that’s Michael
Molloy, Esq., J.P.—especially J.P.) get news-
papers regularly (the Blue G-um Banner, pub-
lished once a week), and the news of the day (price
of maize and pigs) is generally diffused and dis-
cussed. .
My predecessor died here (sensible man). The
disease that carried him off is locally described as
“ pennymona.”
I’m generally considered to be mad (I am, or
■soon shall be) because I catch insects, pin them on
paper, and write names below them; also, I bathe
occasionally and polish my boots, which is quite:
at variance with local habits and customs.
The ladies going past the school, seated on the
corn-sacks in the drays, on their way to the town-
ship invariably shriek if they see me, “How are
ye, Mr. Smith, and how’s yer chickens arettin’
on’ ? ” That’s a stock q uestion.
My chickens, forsooth 1 Look through the
window at them —there’s Billy Ryan sitting on
the fence applauding a fight between Pat Clancy
and Jack Hoolahan. There’s Dan Hoolahan
stoning my only hen. (I’ll deal with him pre-
sently). There’s Bob Conners throwing water
over the Laceys, and Nell Clancy and Mary Quirk
quarrelling on the fence.
Interruption —a knock at the door.
“ Come in. What do you want ? ”
“ Please sur, Jim Quirk’s stoled me dinner.”
“ I’ll attend to the matter presently.”
Inspector Jackson examined the school yester-
day.
* ‘ Where’s the Transvaal ? ” he asked.
An idiot stare from the class.
“ What left Sydney lately for the Transvaal?”
“ The train, sur,” answered Pat Clancy.
“ Why is fight a transitive verb? ”
“ Because it did it to something ” —Clancy
again—he’s the bright boy of the school.
And so on.
Just before leaving Inspector Jackson said,
“Now, Mr. Smith, you’ve a school of very intelli-
gent children (shades of Ananias !), and they
should be farther advanced. Instil into their
minds some idea of Patriotism, and let them learn
a few patriotic songs. I’m not at all satisfied, and
if you cannot produce better results with such
material, you cannot expect to rise in your pro-
fession or to gain promotion by removal.”
Here goes for the coin. “Tails,” by Jingo !
You’ll see Smith’s name in the next Bush Con-
tingent.
WAT. TELL.
An Unlucky Investment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Individually and collectively, the Skinners were
mean—to put it mildly. There were five of them:
the mother, three sons and a daughter. The men
were too mean to marry and the girl had never
been asked to, so they lived, all together, in a
three-roomed humpy on one of the best farms in
Wirrawarra. About the humpy they kept a dog,
half-starved; a cat, half-starved ; and some de-
jected-looking fowls —half-starved. The Skinners
themselves looked half-starved ; especially the old
woman. She was seventy-six, and as her dutiful
sons believed she was “eating her head off,” her
demise was hopefully looked forward to. She
seemed good for another couple of years or so.
Well, one day an agent of The Benevolent
Assurance Co., Limited, called upon them, and,
after arguing vainly with the sons for over an
hour, at last, in desperation, offered to insure the
old dame for £lo—weekly payments of one shil-
ling. It looked a safe investment —a sure thing—
too good a chance to be missed —so they all took
out policies.
A couple of years passed away, and, as the in-
sured still seemed like hanging on for a consider-
able time, the family began to look at her doubt-
fully, as though they suspected her of wishing to
play them some dirty trick. Their solicitude for
her was wonderful; they anxiously enquired about
her health every morning when she rose, and
when, as time wore on, she obstinately refused to
become more feeble, they grew scared. Week
after week, every week demanding its shilling
from each, passed by with remorseless rapidity.
To her were given the hardest crust, the toughest
meat, but she seemed almost to thrive on them,
and a gloomy foreboding, a dismal sense of im-
pending injury, began to creep into the minds of
the investors.
After more than half-starving her for a con-
siderable time they grew desperate and suddenly
began to feed her well, hoping that she would
overdo it, hoping that something—anything—
would happen. She grew fat, and they reverted
to the former treatment. Then they dosed her
with patent medicines: they had heard that
patent medicines, if perseveringly used, would
kill anybody. She grew fat again. They spent
what, to them, was a fabulous sum in patent
medicines, but when they discontinued their use
she looked good for a century.
Three years and a-half slipped away. They
began to perspire freely, day and night, for actual
monetary loss stared them in the face. In 18
weeks the premiums paid would equal the amount
of the policies, while the thought of the interest
that was being lost and the sum spent in patent
medicines nearly sent them all to their graves.
Eighteen weeks ! They surreptitiously raised
her window at night and left the door open ; the
daughter acquired a chronic cold, but the fresh air
seemed to do the old woman good. They left fire-
wood and other things about the floor, handy for
her to trip upon ; but she skipped nimbly over'
them. They spread grease in convenient spots,
and one of the sons slipped on it, and stunned him-
self against the table-comer ; but the object of
their care did not. They dug a deep hole at the
back-door step “to bury the cat,” but nothing
happened. They tried taking her out in the sun
without her cap on, but the heat always made her'
brisk and lively. They shut her out one night, by
accident, and did not; hear her knocking; she
slept in the cow-bail and ate a couple of eggs
which she found there—worth three-halfpence at
the time. They tried to fell a'tree on her, but it fell
the wrong way and killed a pig. They did every-
thing they could think of, short of murdering her
•outright. And they grew haggard and careworn,,
and began to wear a hunted-look.
And it came to within a week of the time when,
the premiums would equal the policies.
Two nights before the week’s payment was due'
•everything of any value was carefully removed,
after the old woman had retired, and the humpy
was set afire. They had no intention of burning
her, but thought the fright might help along her
•decease ; and a new place could be built for almost,
nothing. When the fire was well under way she
appeared, coming from the direction of the cow-
bail. She had felt hungry after going to bed, and
had climbed out of her window to prospect for eggs.
Mrs. Skinner lived to be 91.
A. G. WOOD.
“ Pagan ” on a queer phase of the Mission,
business :
I was greatly astonished last night, in visiting a large
place known as the Christian Temple, next Melb. Trades-
Hall. A packed and enthusiastic congregation over the-
festival Of the Chinese Mission. Many Chinamen present.
This is one of the causes conducted on the “ one woman,,
■one Chinaman ” principle. The Chairman called for all
the teachers to come on the platform. They were so
many that they could hardly squeeze there —about 40'
■“ Misseys,” even small girls down to about 14 years old.
Yarious intellectual displays were given by the young
Chows, truly remarkable, especially a debate by 15 on the
wickedness of excluding Chinamen from Australia. There
was only time for four to speak, but they shaped wonder-
fully. Despite the grand show of tutoresses, the Chairman -a
called for “ more workers.” Animal magnetism is a-
great, but dangerous, power.


"Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
V,
Vs
&
&
n
\
i
**l have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. Before I had taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
Woman. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural. ”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more? How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you. One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
That "Cures.
It Makes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
Ayer’s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
sdfsefs
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the’imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Qarver’s Tricks and Di versions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
WRITER, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historv).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Cqurt of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of sjaace prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X'O 3DE3PY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
'"**4 V
&W'
(t
J
if
fp
d
e
V
m
9
(?)
vM
%
m
%
IMPOFtTJkKTT , X* !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
/
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
ef
sd
mi m mmm
m
PsjtruuE
Sen-Sen (a \
FARRINGtOHAVENUK
LONDON.
INVALUABLE 10
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
Wm
vet
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


f
FRINGES,
tflitoral Curly, from S/B panV.
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOtn. long, f/a. oil real hair,
CUTTINGS A COMBINOi
i«Ort:cd up, 3/B per oz.
We are tho cm-apastin a
Walla for all tinir Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wisz'll;
JlO WIIXIAM StUEBT,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Door.
sd
Send «tamps for full Prioo Lle%>
fw!g*pt attention ffivea to Country Crdtrfc
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . -
CONTRACTORS.
58 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
BY ROYAL WARRAKT OF APPOIWTMKNT TO “ THE QUEEN.”
Ask for
Whisky asd
‘Scbweppe’
SCHWEPPES
SOPA WATER, &c-
Ask for
Brafydy ai)d
‘Scbweppe’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
the MIKTER’S great want
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; .and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day. can be crushed. , The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5, No. 3, with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O,
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON f SOLE AGENT\
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes,
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
£
wk±
C±x
.-- -5-
The Me. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke
ltd.,
PRICES
ASD
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS
l
Sydney
■■
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
All kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
fse
Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping purpose.
Estimates given for Complete Pump-
ing Plants, including Boilers,
Piping, &c.
Blake Duplex Pump. Sole Agents for Australasia :
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General MaoSiinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOIXT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOKi HIHizTOH.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
‘T:
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
m
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
