

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
m FRY’S HALTED COCOA
QXJA.RA.KTTBED PURE COCOA A]\T33 EXTRACT OP MALT.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2 7 0
t V \*LV --T<j '.lnv. - '
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINEJ^*
IN AUSTRALIA.
agT Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° m mt **«, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR 89888
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS
AND
PUMPS.
EOCBiXTXRIO THRASHING ACAICECIKTBS, SAW BBIffOHCES, &c., &C
THORNES
WHISKY.
SAN DEM AN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
L
T
A
Mas
HOBART.
m
Hadley s Orient jjotel.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLI?S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
OO
f
*
onth-THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
One
Sold
in
860,112 Bottles
LEATHER
WELTING]
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Prices and Samples Free to iy address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD,
J York Street,
SYDNEY.
117
SYDJXiux. was-
‘ r Tale7(S'J^%stem.”
PRICE
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
one of our Reading doctors has stated that should it
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
j THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THIS WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamr
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE mm & SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st, Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS}
249 George
The Bulletin
Vol 21.-No. 1040
[Saturday, January 20, liiOO.
Registerad at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Fov~ tfie LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
\
Coughs,
Bronchitis \
and
Influenza,
Cure .
pta
. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
. The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOR OLD
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous druy ... W
Sold by.* all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or fronAthe Proprietor—G. HUDSON, Chemist,
Queensland, for Postage Stands of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT-S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s
Ipswich,
Place.
THE RED PAGE.
Letter to a Bushfellow.
SO, my dear John, your holidays have
passed in heat; your horse ran second
in the Christmas Handicap ; and you
write on the eve of “ taking a mob of
cattle down Goulburn way ” to enquire what
new there is in the little local world of
literature (literature !) which troubles you
so little, yet delights you so dispropor-
tionately much. Ah, John! you bush-
fellows have all the best of life (though I
would not always say so were I with you).
Yours is honest sweat in a saddle, not
enervating perspiration over a desk ; you
hunt your dinner before you catch it, and
fatigue your bodies into health while we are
worrying our brains into disease. Then,
when the day ends and the temperature
falls (we will suppose it falls) you have
camp-fire moments which are worth many
gas-lit hours. It is not often that your
hearts flag as ours flag in the humid
climate of the coast, where summer
lungs rise and fall feebly, hopeless
of ozone. Yet you miss the mental
stimulus of a metropolis, the mental attrition
and polishing—poor stimulus ! sad polish !
somehow desiderated by these bundles of
contradictory appetites— us. Neither bush
nor city is better; but both. The pendu-
lum-swing of longing is eloquently hinted,
you will remember, in your scrap-book, by a
local poetess who has not yet fully come into
her queendom.
One local poetess deserves another; and
Ethel Castilla, first of Australian verse-
writers to print formidable 1900 on her title-
page, is credited with ‘ ‘ true poetic instinct ”
by the prefatory “Rolfßoldrewood.” “Her
habit of careful observation,, joined to the
true poetic instinct,” says he, “should ensure
a future of successful recognition.” Fur-
thermore, “her volume proves the posses-
sion of qualities which may lead her far in
the path of literary success ’’—which is tau-
tologous, but no more tautologous than an
excellent old gentleman of 73 should be by
all old-gentlemanly rule and precedent. In
addition, Miss Castilla artistically illustrates
Australian life and scenery ; she has “ a
reverent, tender knowledge of childhood’s
grace ” —which means something, doubtless ;
and “ an accurate presentment of Australian
climatic contrasts discloses a life-long experi-
ence.” Perhaps you, John, watching the
weather “ down Goulburn way,” will find the
connection between poetry and a life-long
experience of climatic contrasts which I lose ;
and
• • * •
Alas ! how long the evil of that man
Sladen lives after him ! For this is another
poor beetle in the treacle of “A Century
of Australian Song ’’—one of the many
“ literary ladies ” to whom Sladen’s callow
welcome brought strange thrills of satisfac-
tion, wild hopes of “a future of successful
recognition.” Where are they, the gifted
authoresses of “ Wentwood’s Farm,” and
“Gippsland Spring Song,” and “ Wilt Thou
Wait For Me?” and similar timid little
thrummings of the little girl’s anxious lyre ?
Gone, John I gone where the authoress of
“ The Australian Girl and Other Verses ”
must go —to the limbo haunted by producers
of dead rhymes which never really lived.
Too harsh a judgment? Look, John, look
at “The Australian Girl”—
And look, John, look at the “Other
Verses” —open anywhere and what do
you find? Dead verses, John —vague
emotional rhymes such as every “ clever
girl ” writes in her album; vague descrip-
tive rhymes where the magic of Nature is
lost in commonplace words ; but rhymes
without strength, or novelty, or fire, or
significance — dead. Pleasant enough rhymes
for the people who have “ tried to read
Keats ” ; domestic rhymes with a domestic
mission and an unexceptionable moral, as
“morals” go; but showing, of ‘ poetic
instinct ’’—well, a trace ; of poetic capacity,
in the high sense, no trace at all.
And is it necessary to write this, and risk
giving pain to an authoress plainly so
estimable admirable' in every way
but the way of verse-writing. John, it is.
For there is “Rolf Boldrewood s preface
and the fallacy "of transferred credit to
reckon with. The gross public insist on
ransferring credit. When a person becomes
eminent for his knowledge of chalk, the
gross public insist on deferring to his
opinion about cheese. Because Queen Vic-
toria is Queen Victoria her Highland Jour-
nal has been praised as literature.
Because “ Rolf Boldrewood ” has written
some stories of Australia in many ways
excellent, there are people who will bow to
his judgment regarding poetry—though there
is no evidence that his judgment of poetry is
worth anything, and there is his amiable
preface to “The Australian Girl” as evidence
that it is worth nothing. We must keep
up the standards, John. Permit me to
quote, on this point, from a leading autho-
nty—myself.
Ours is not a wealthy community, a populous
country: for our geniuses, if we have them or
when we get them, there are too few patrons and
purchasers. Every shilling which a worthless
poet ” filches from an Australian pocket helps
to keep the pocket of a worthy poet empty.
Every atom of credit which a worthless
Australian “ poet ” secures means so much
less in the stock from which worthy
poets are entitled to draw. It is one’s duty as a
responsible critic, is is one’s pleasure as an intelli-
gent Australian, to “ ecraser l’infame ” as soon
as “l’inf&me” is notorious enough to make it
worth while. Often there isn’t any pleasure, and
the duty is hard to do. Many decent people
dribble sentimental verses without the least idea
that they are committing a poetical crime. It
is easy to see that in their unpoetical moments
they are good fathers, fond mothers, estim-
able citizens. Nobody wishes to batter the
head of a good father or a fond mother, or to hit
an estimable citizen in what he conceives to be his
tenderest emotions. But, if the standards are
to be upheld, somebody must. Perish the indi-
vidual ! Flourish Literature !
So whistle, John, whistle ! for “The Aus-
tralian Girl and Other Verses ” are going
down the wind.
•'• • •
It is to be noted that the Victorian poetic
product remains always smaller than that
of New South Wales. The eastern atmo-
sphere, more nerve-wearing than the south-
ern, seems also more nerve-stimulating : in
Melbourne you have better bodily health
than in Sydney, and therefore comes less
rarely that ferment in the brain which tunes
the poetic lyre to high poetic pitch.
Doubtless something is to be allowed for
the greater encouragement which verse-
writers receive in Sydney ; but there is still
a Victorian deficiency to be accounted for.
Since Gordon died, there has been hardly
anyone in Victoria to write really stimu-
lating verse—and Gordon netfer rose to
the poetic plane of Kendall. Daley
wrote good verse in Melbourne; but he
has written better in Sydney. Dyson has an
occasional good moment, but for the most
part he is content to plod. Edmund Fisher
and “Oriel” Sandes write dexterous occa-
sional verse, sometimes prettily touched
with sentiment ; but they do not try their
wings in the rarer ether. For the rest,
there are Jennings Carmichael, Ethel
Castilla, and the other women-writers
who for the most part say tame, pale things
in a pale, tame way, and perhaps once in a
lifetime have heat enough to create a verse
or two which lives and moves and has real
poetic being. And there is John Bernard
O’Hara.
• • • *
The Victorian cult of John Bernard
O’Hara furnishes an interesting spectacle.
Mr. O’Hara is understood to be a Victorian
schoolmaster in the neighbourhood of his
fortieth year; and he hfis published three
volumes of verses—nearly all poetically dead.
They have little stif or stimulus ; but they
have amazing imitations of Gordon and Swin-
burne and Kendall, aiid are decorated
with reminiscences of half-a-dozen other
writers. Yet much of the framework of
poetry is in them. Mr. O’ljara has words
enough; he has the -paraphernalia
of the poet, and a few of his deliberate
devices, but none of his fire. HG seems to
be an example of pristine poetic, instinct
attenuated to vanishing-point in the third
generation from its source. Occasion-
ally he collects pleasant pictures of' natu-
ral scenes in language melodious enough;
but he is never forcible, never arrest-
ing—his rhymes, smooth and otherwise,
trickle placidly along and leave an nq-
pression of a mind hopelessly bound in the N
chains of commonplace. Yet some Vic-
torians extravagantly praise him, unable
to see the difference between his gilding and
gold. You, my dear John, with your
instinct for what is best, know immeasurably
better.
* * * *
Compare one Erin-descended poet with
another—O’Hara with Quinn. You say I
am partial to Quinn ; but does his work not
deserve a judicious partiality ? Put any
page of “The Hidden Tide” beside any
page of “ Songs of the South ’’— and is not
the difference plain ? I am glad to see that
Quinn is becoming known to English critics.
In London Star of November 9, R. Le
Gallienne is column - complimentary to
Quinn’s booklet, now out of print. Quinn’s
poetry, says the other poet, “ vibrates with
that rare thing emotion ; it is deeply felt;
and it is rich in natural magic and in start-
ling felicities of phrase. The words make
pictures all the while they are singing to us
with their sad elusive music. . . . Often
lately I have found myself humming a sad
verse . . . with that curious satisfaction
which sad poetry brings—
Did no one say the way is long,
And crave a little rest ?
O no, they said, “ The night is nigh,
Our camp is in the West I ”
Simple enough lines, but lines with At
once the pang in them—the consolation of
melancholy music.”
* * * *
Now . . . Fate strikes me, and the blow
isn’t to be dodged. The article, “Why the
Boers Must Win,” was reprinted (30/12/’99)
chiefly for its literary effect—it was fresh,
original, and tant soit pen paradoxical.
Come the controversialists—the plain, ordi-
nary controversialists—with solid arguments,
maybe ; but with no devil, no paradox, no
tongue with a prickle-pickle-tang of unex-
pectedness. And if you don’t print ’em—
“ Where’s your fair play ? ” So one goes —
and ne more. His signature is “ David G.,”
and his points are eight—
Point 1. —Jomini’s alleged axiom : “ A nation cannot
be successfully invaded and subdued when the inhabi-
tants are united in spirit.” It’s no axiom, but an argu-
able statement of opinion. And history proves it false.
Take the Thirteen Provinces that first formed the United
States. Jefferson says that quite half the population
were against the rising. Franklin makes it one-third.
Whichever was right (and neither of them was likely to
overstate the proportion), “ the inhabitants were not
united in spirit.” And the Americans did not win their
independence by their own strength. They had France
and Spain for allies, and the former gave substantial help
in men, money, and ships to the provincials, while the
latter, using Havannah as a base, made things lively in
the West Indies. Both together created an important
diversion by besieging Gibraltar.
Point 2.—Greeks. The Greeks were never a nation.
When Xerxes invaded Greece, the Peloponnesians, after
Leonidas and his 300 had fallen at Thermopylae, left the
Northern men to their fate, and retired behind the walls
of Corinth. Then, when the Athenians under Themis-
tocles had smashed the Persian fleet at Salamis, they
came out and fought the battle of Plataea against the
Persian rearguard.
Point 3.—The Spanish Armada did not land any men.
It had none to land ; but if it had carried our the original
plan, there might have been another tale to tell. If was
to have embarked the Prince of Parma’s veteran army in
Flanders. Parma was the best general of his time, and
his army the best in Europe.
Point 4.—A genuine example. After the insurrection
that drove Murat out of Madrid in 1808 the inhabitants
of Spain were “united in spirit”; but they could not
make head against the French. Every army they put
into the field was overthrown, and the gu'eri ilia war
carried on by the somatmes —village levies under
partisan ohiefs like Mina and El Empecinado (though the
Spaniards inflicted heavy losses) could not prevent great
bodies of French from marching through the country in
all directions. If it had not been for the British army’s
solid nucleus of resistence, Spain would infallibly have
been conquered. Soult, in Andalusia, and Suoliet, in
Catalonia, formed good working governments.
Point 5. —The population of the two Boer republics is
said to be 1511,000, more or less ; giving, according to Un-
accepted proportion of one-fitth, 30,000 males between 10
and 00 years as possible fighting men. The 13 American
colonies had, in 1770, a population of 3,000,000, with
600,000 possible fighting men, of whom, according to
Jefferson, 300,000(or according to Franklin, 200,000)were
in favour of Great Britain ; arid yet Lie Poruul, a French-
man who commanded a brigade in Washington's army,
said, in 1777, that 30,000 British troops could reconquer
the country. De Portail was behind the scenes, and
knew what he was talking about.
Point 6,—Dogma v. dogma. The printed argument
is based on the fallacy that personal prowess
and machinery must triumph in war. Personal prowess
counts for nothing ; and, as for machinery, everything de-
pends on the skill with which it is used. In 8. Africa
neither side has gained a victory or suffered a defeat.
The British have made a worse mess than they made in
the Crimea. In each case the trouble has been the want
of transport, combined in S. Africa with a bad plan of
oampaign and worse generalship. The Boers cannot
win, because the war of posts they are carrying On must
lead to defeat. They cannot hold and defend every
point in their long line of some 200 miles, and if it is
once penetrated all is lost, unless they can fight a suc-
cessful offensive battle, which they have not yet shown
that they can do. Without European intervention the
Boers cannot win any more than the Americans could
have won without European intervention.
That’s all, barring one hypothetical point and
one irrelevant point. And this is Amen, in
the H.E.D.’s first sense “as a concluding
formula = Finis. ’ ’
* • * *
I add for your delectation a Dreyfus-
illustration by that distinguished French
illustrator Vallotton, aud remain, my dear
John, yours as ever,
THE BOOKFELLOW.
"Papa, tell us a story. ”
The City’s . knows rarer life
And greater dreams and deeds than here,
And I was ever one for dreams,
Longed ever in great deeds to share.
And underneath those cupolas
It may be that the poets dwell . . .
But O, the silence of those Helds l
And O, the meadows’ endless swell t
So every eve the strugolc wakes.
The years go on: not yet I know,
Tf when I pass I choose my place,
To which of these my soul would go.
She has a beauty of her own —
A beauty of a paler tone
Than English belles ;
Yet Southern sun and Southern air
Have kissed her cheeks, until they wear
The dainty tints that oft appear
On rosy shells.
Verses by Arthur Symons .
From “ A Lover’s Progress ."
She does not love me : did she ever love me >
Did she not leave that other for my sake ?
Whose was the faults, that she should weary of me?
If any blame is mine, I would not take
A coward’s refuge in accusing breath.
Perhaps she never loved: then all was play,
And dicing unawares at life and death
I lost a heart she did but throw away.
It cannot be she never loved me ! Then
The very heavens are but an ancient lie {
There is no truth, no virtue, among men,
There is no God and no eternity,
Ah, no ! Love built our Eden-bower, and in it
Our naked souls were unashamed one minute.
It was an August day of throbbing heat.
We sought the woods ; their leafy shadows lay
Motionless on the grass : the air was sweet,
Heavy and languorous ; the golden day
Poured all its perfume on us, satiating
Our senses sick with heat. You leaned to me,
Speechless ; bees flitted on a humming wing,
The drowsy voice of summer; save the bee
No living thing had voice. ’Twas Love’s still hour :
Love spoke in both our hearts, Love filled our
eyes.
That endless moment was Life’s final flower;
God has no more to give in Paradise.
I clasped you, dearest (has He more than this ?)
And our souls met in an immortal kiss.
Can any woman love but once, but one ?
Why, what is love, if love be variable ?
A dial pointing counter to the sun,
A barter, luck, commodity to sell,
Leavings, a dish rechauffe : who in these
Perceives divinity? yet Love’s divine :
First Love then, Love too young for memories.
O mockery of logic, what of mine ?
Did she not love that other ? have not I
Entered the kingdom that another ruled?
Was it not love then? Love, yea surely. Why?
Indeed I know not. Am I therefore fooled ?
Nay, words are words and prove words: that is
all.
Nature and man are nowise logical.
Terrible creature ! you have no disguise.
Well, is not Truth of all disguises best?
Believe me, Lady, you are subtly wise :
Not craft, but cynic candour, serves you best.
Last night one sung the praise of constancy ;
“ Nay,” cried she, “ ’tis a homely love that waits,
Subserving some ideal he or she,
Closed in the prison of its palace-gates.
Give me a love that liven ; to live means change:
Live change is better than a stagnant peace.
Give Love his pilgrim’s scrip, and let him range,
Not rent his Eden on a lifelong lease.”
Terrible creature ! you unmask, we,see,
Discern, distrust you, hate you—never flee.
Is it her beauty ? She is beautiful:
A moonlight beauty full of mysteries,
Of magic changes and enchantments full,
Capricious as the ever-shifting seas.
Her eyes and lips are Leonardo’s, miling
In subtly meditative irony ;
Her power is an elusive charm, beguiling
By delicately-tuned variety.
She can be all things unto all men, still
Herself, the self that holds the scale of hearts ;
She plays upon her instrument at will
An endless fugue of interchanging parts.
Let ages yet to come declare she was
The epitome of Woman, Beauty’s glass.
And yet I know her heartless, volatile,
Inevitably inconstant; yet I know
The cruelty that lurks within her smile,
The vanity that basks upon her brow.
All this I know, but is not this, even this,
Part of the very charm that holds me bound ?
Come, let me summon cool analysis,
And probe and weigh until the truth be found.
Who does not long to capture, long to tame,
The beautiful sleek tiger, full of death ?
The unctuous cat (her cousin, all the same)
Exerts in vain her fond melodious breath.
And, woman whom I love —oh heavens ! if you
Were faithful, should not I be faithless too?
It is all over ; nothing any more
Can give me joy or Sorrow : she is dead.
My life is past, the years have nought in store,
Nothing is left me to be done or said.
Memory alone is mine, and all in vain,
And more than half a sorrow. O forgive,
Dearest and lost for ever, all the pain
I gave you when it was your lot to live !
I have forgotten all but love and you.
I did not love you, as I might, and now
You will not ever love me. lam true,
I shall be always bondsman to my vow.
My life is with you, and my love shall be
Embalmed with you in Death’s eternity.


Second-hand
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
}
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 deorge-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
ofkin Wkeaded.
sTleii) st)kco€ery
”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
UGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
' WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
•* Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING,M.D., M.L.C., says :
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. 11. Malyon.—Dear
gj r _i have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
savs it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. 11. EMBLING, M.D.”
r LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
ligmolliene cream soap
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which mav be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &e. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. arxil 7b. ©c3L Eacla.
2'^"'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLOROPYNE.
<4O
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BDOHOHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c.j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne, I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthr constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRATAIS
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
' general debility.
I Highly recommended
. for weak and
‘ debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/<>ias all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth ”
snin BY CHEMISTS AIT. THF WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stokes—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Tbe RCA l MAC KAY
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & A.ttwood., Sole Proprietors,
JJ
4&*
rtstt FOR
1?
if
COMBINES
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
8
0^
0^
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
m
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PART.
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
EMBROCATION. Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, General healers, at]d Chemists.
tfc
t-
THE
FRIEND
rahervey.
171 CLARENCE ST
f( COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
DEAF
sEAB
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
Cost-card to-day for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box IGG, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA A r CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS und other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNE SSI
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
w
<s<s
HO
iTTHIR
—London Medical Record.
•n,£ THIRD IN THE
ffißSauatN'-iwii’ Foot
VST THs
a»J YowtE £“ and «#»“
[-» of arcxi value U a “5 —_ god
& (TimvaSto «-«!-«**
a» Ae»d. ■ ,»j
>llen & Hanburya LW«
SsSSSss
MEW STYLE.
JL Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Th® “Allewbutys ” i*\ilK F®®«i No. 1 first
a<J similarly adapted to the second
Tib© Alfeflllbiuiirys 59 JH©° 2 three months of life.
Complete Foods,
needing: the
addition of hot
water only.
jilted Food N°.3
hitherto known as "Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS. INVALIDS, and the AGED,
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Miils, Hertfordshire.
TOBONTO.
CANADA,
A
35 RROftDWftY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN. ,
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
<IP LENTEN T S AND MACHINERY
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Falir
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON —
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNEB
PIANOFOHTES
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed tree to
any address.
So|*
Rgeijts-
W. H- 6LEN & CO.,
359 Qeorgre Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Melbourne.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address s Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobarti
Anniversary H. January 26.
60,000 Subscriber* B»
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shams in the above.
Name_
Address.
Launceston 0. February 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Hobart C. February 13.
50,000 Subscribers 4 &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo.
-shares in above.
Nasui.
Address.
£
Newmarket H. March 3 -
100,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name.
Address
Newmarket H. (Special) Drawn Morning of Race
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
in tlie above.
Please allot me
shares
Name .
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


M
%
m
“If I could only get
a little rest.”, How
many tired women
say this! They
are exhausted,
depressed, dis-
couraged. Even after
sleeping they find them-
selves just as tired as before.
Not a part of the body escapes
from the hard aches and pains. Tou
should have all impurities removed
from your blood and your nerves
greatly strengthened.
WCT3
sanarartna
brings rest and refreshing sleep. Tour
nervousness disappears and your great
unrest passes away.
Of course you know this is so, for
you have heard all about Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. ''Ask your doctor if it isn’t the
best Sarsaparilla in the world. Even
your druggist will tell you “It’s the
oldest and the best.”
If you are constipated, take Ayer’s Pills.
They greatly aid the Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Aifpiftl f\m
yVerVous
fIEADACHE
Mrsm E.
/LYNN
LINTON
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Malvern,
I January i6tli, 1596.
I “ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
I cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO*
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, aud is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean. Cooling, aud Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it fo be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
I lair. 1 26 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
I Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
j THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD,, ■
i 6, Bevis Marks, London, England.
Tb? B. ai)d N-Treatr^eot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying- to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anasmia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
mass
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOI>ANI> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AOStraliao WGtGal Provident Society
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES-
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Sefc.
&3T Send for Price List. TEH
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-streot
Works : UELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams <tc.. Repaired bjr
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
|yjELLIN'S FOOD ' s of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGIIS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
CYANIDE.
QUICKSIL VER.
NOYES BROS.,
81 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY:
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
liondou, E.C.
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FRA.3STK JA.R.VIS
Avho lias had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is In touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.s. WaIes—TTARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland -Messrs. CO bill E & CO., BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
111
>
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.—ASK FOR DINNEFORD'S MAGNESIA,
KT.S.'W. Carriage JSz Saddlery Manf Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for leas
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Ws-r -Sk
Doiirered at any Wharf ar
N.B.TT. Railway*, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
When one thinks of the easy inexpensive
way in which a Deeming murders half-a-dozen
people or so, the cost of modern warfare seems
ridiculously great. And the awful noise they
make about a little bit of killing, on the battle-
field and off itl Reading the daily papers one
jwould suppose that the war in South Africa was
causing as many untimely deaths as an influenza
epidemic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Belated New Tear’s Card.
We’re in the biting Thirties, stark and sere;
But, spite of fates perverse and prospects drear,
The seasonable shibboleth fits here, —
I wish you, Jack, a Prosperous New Year.
You are a Model Husband ; so am I
(Ah, the outrageous dogs that once we were !);
We’ve left our lotus-land of Youth, nor sigh
(We say) for joys that made our pleasure there.
Perhaps. Perhaps not. The Fates are fearful
fowl—
Erratic, deadly spiteful, none too kind
To penitents like us, who wear the cowl
With a slight rakish twist, and look behind
Somewhat too often, should stray scraps of song
From the Lost Land come down upon the
breeze,
Whisp’ring that Love, like Art, might well be
“long” . . .
So here we’ll end this halting sentence, please 1
The morning iridescence dulls to brown,
No touch of gold makes gay our modern lives,
When other fellows start to paint the town,
We toddle home demurely to our wives.
Ah dear, dead days of goodly jibe and jest—
Dear days of freak and frolic, romp and rout!
Dear days when dear dead girls were at their best,
And green Chartreuse mixed very well with
stout 1
But that’s—how long?—a thousand years since,
J ack,
When you and I still knew the taste of drams,
And made at dawning, on our homeward tack,
Exceptionally brilliant epigrams.
Time wrecks our pride. No more we laugh elate
In deep derision of the prigs. Ah, no !
We’re serious men, respectable, sedate,
And (may I venture this, Jack ?) deadly slow.
Do you remember Georgia? Fairy? May?
Nell? Bella? swart Irene? dimpled Teas?
The sweet child Flo? the little demon Ray ?
Lithe Kate ? plump Madge ? the gentle creature
Bess ?
Youth’s easy girls I—(that1 —(that Ernestine, I vow,
I almost wed . ... Ave, Imperatrixl
I wonder, are you waiting for me now
In some snug hostel t’other side the Styx).
Forgive me if I wander, Jack; I think
I’m sickening of this tawdry farce called Life }
I’ll take soon to theology—or drink . . .
Pray say all nice things for me to your wife.
Tas.
FRANK MORTON.
The New Sappho.
[Florenoe, having learned the death of her lover In the
duel on the shore, where the rising tide has carried away
his body, finds out the place and sits there, waiting for
death.]
The clouds come posting from the sea.
In two long columns swift they come ;
Some show the pure blue sky, and some
Are snow-deep, dense impenetrably,
Like this last shade that shelters me.
Here in the brown blown rocks I lie.
A shadow bends above the place.
I raise mine eyes to seek his Face.
Nothing ! The clouds go sweeping by.
I dream I die, and live, and die.
From out his billow-beaten grave,
Some quiet pool where lonely weeds
Cradle him softly, and succeeds
The ebb of wave and flow of wave,
And tide and tide that lap and lave—
He cannot rise and come to me !
But when the fair green foamy streams
Rise round me, mastering my dreams,
I shall sink to him, and there we
Shall slumber hand-locked, I and lie !
And so these waters that I feel
Fall coldly on my quiet feet,
Their ease is very dear and sweet,
And dusks and lights, and stir and steal,
His Face, his Form no more conceal.
Mount higher, Waters 1 Lap my limbs !
Lap round my body and my breast!
Touch at my throat and give me rest 1
O Sea, 0 Wind, with what bright hymns
You lull my weary brain that swims !
O, we grow closer now ! More close
Than all these stricken sundered years.
Nothing shall part us ! hates nor tears !
Ah, take my heart, this dried white rose
That blood-red sudden blooms and blows !
Hold me fast, dear one 1 Kiss and rest!
For now I know your heart is mine
As mine is yours—serene, divine,
I feel your bubbling kisses pressed
On eyes and lips that kiss and rest.
FRANCIS ADAMS.


Lightest Wines
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society pi.
• Established 1871.
rPHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Dirbctors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman :
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
iL-JU-i" k-rl
mmm
W. J. Adams, Manager.
WILL row®
ITTEWS
HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The Grand Centre for
Business, Comfort, or Pleasure.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
0p
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH& COB 3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gasliyht Company by payment
of £ 1 Cash and lOs. Monthly , until paid. off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will he connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET;
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts inay also' be paid.
smoke
CO
i I I
*
4
m
m
</OIL
'M'm
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
o
SADEMAR’
0
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.B. W., Messrs. Daly eft/ & Co. Ltd.; Victoria ,
NOBEL’S Sportiqg BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gnn. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
wi.'B
ms
tf
ep
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BAXiXjISTITE won over <£2500 ac Gun Glub, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over 121000 more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
FABVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
One Mil
r-.,i
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 901 Tons above any other manufacturer.
Dixson’s Great Leading* Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Yol. 21.—N0. 1010.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1000.
PRICH GD.
PAWNING HIS COUNTRY.
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY: “I’ve been playing at war, and find it rather expensive. I want to raise some money. How much will you advance on this?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post o[lice Order, Postal hote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oireetor.
Literary Communications to be addressea «*. F.
Archibald. .
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1900.
Australian "Apathy”—and Queensland.
If you go near enough, a rock will shut out
as much sky as a mountain ; and possibly
Australians seem specially “apathetic” be-
cause their “apathy” is so close under our
eyes. Impatient reformers in many lands
make similar complaint. The British work-
man is caricatured as the brutish workman
selling the mighty space of his citizenship
for “sport” and beer. American writers
grieve continually that many good Americans
will take no part in working the political
machine. Long before the Australian was
summed up as a man who leans against a
post, the Russian writer Turgeneff used
the same expression to characterise his own
countrymen. In the deficiency ot a stimu-
lating sense of civic responsibility, in the
disinclination to take political pains, in the
sufferance of parliamentary incapacity or
corruption for want of energy to find better
men who will create a better system, Aus-
tralians are probably no worse than a score
of other nations. It can still be held that a
large issue will rouse them to honest, if
temporary, enthusiasm. Suppose the recent
Federal vote had gone the other way—for
provincialism and disunion—one might have
despaired of Australia then. The Federal
vote justifies some faith in the future. Pity
it does not indicate more progress in the
present—more active effort, more principled
leading, more intelligent following.
* * • *
Take the case of Queensland —ruled for
nearly 10 years by an oligarchy as powerful
as that of the Transvaal, and apparently far
more corrupt. The Queensland Boodle
Ministry changes often ; and the more it
changes in externals the less it changes in
essence. Its only definite policy is a policy
of plunder for itself and its adherents. It is
kept in office largely by a system of organised
bribery. In earlier days, the plan was to
borrow immense sums of money, in London,
on the credit of the province, and deposit
them without security in the Ministerial
bank, which re-distributed them in advances
on overdrafts to the Ministry’s adherents
and followers. When that plan died hard
in the banking crash of 1893, the Ministry
adopted a minor, but still important, scheme
of sops, which arrives almost precisely at
the same goal. On the plea of assisting the
sugar industry, the tropical agricultural con-
stituencies were purchased by advances to
build sugar-mills, while some of the coastal
towns were sweetened for Government by
the money spent in expensive machinery for
these mills. For the benefit of southern agri-
culturists the scheme of re-purchasiug large
estates from private owners was adopted,
the land being divided and re-sold, on
terms, to small farmers. Both these schemes
were fitted to give legitimate help to the
agricultural community ; if they had been
strictly and honestly administered, legiti-
mate help would have been given. But
they are administered for the benefit of the
Ministry and its supporters, to catch money
and votes. Mills have been erected where
they cannot pay, to improve land-boomers’
chance of a sale, or to keep a Government
member in his seat, or to win a fresh Govt,
seat. Inferior estates have been purchased
at exorbitant prices, and the money has gone
directly into the pockets of Govt, sup-
porters. The motto of Boodlewraith has
been Walpole’s motto, “ Every man has his
price ” —ranging from a Ministerial billet to
an order for maize. And, by experience, it
has been found that many constituencies
have their price too. Almost the only oppo-
sition has come from the wage-earners who
constitute the Labor-party these being
chiefly composed of the miners and the
pastoral workers, with a few artisans in the
towns.
* * * *
For the most part, the town-dwellers and
agriculturists have been at one with the
speculators and employers in supporting
Boodlewraith. They have a lively remem-
brance of favors supplied out of loan-money
in the past, a lively hope of favors to come
out of loan-moneys in the future, and that
characteristic bourgeois conservatism which
announces its preference for “ stable Gov-
ernment ” — i.e., usually, stagnant Govern-
ment. Queensland has the biggest debt on
earth on proportion to population, and it has
acquired much of that debt in indirectly buy-
ing votes to keep the Boodledrake Party in
office. And, if the bourgeois or the farming
class thinks of revolting, it is confronted
with only a single alternative—the Labor
Party ; and that is a Party which has made
many tactical mistakes, and, instead of
endeavoring to win popular confidence, has
often, through ignorance or maladroitness,
done its best to destroy all confidence. The
rottenness of the Q. Government is the
Labor Party’s worst testimonial. No other
Party, so strenuously led and so well sup-
ported, could have kept out of office so
long. No better proof of the Labor Party’s
want of judgment could be given than the
fact that, after nine years of the Boodle
Ministry, a majority of the constituencies
still apparently prefers to keep the Boodle
Ministry in office.
* * * «
The Continuous Ministry which com-
menced with the Griffith-MTlwraith
coalition of 1890, and which still lives in the
Philp-Drake coalition of 1899, is really a
curiosity of politics. For the good Govern-
ment of Queensland it has had no concern
whatever. Doubtfully one vital measure of
progress can be attributed to it. The real
work of administration has been chiefly per-
formed by under-secretaries, the Ministers
rarely interfering except to secure the Minis-
try’s private ends. The Ministry’s main prin-
ciple has been to retain “office” and the
rewards of office; and its main policy has been
to swallow its leading opponents—at a con-
sideration. Griffith and M ‘llwraith, as
leaders! of two well-defined . parties, had
opposed each other for years before they
swallowed each other. Nelson led an oppo-
sition to them, and they swallowed Nelson.
Griffith became Chief Justice; M ‘llwraith
went to Europe as a picturesque invalid ;
and Nelson was Premier. Nelson went to
the Upper House ; Tozer and Byrnes
struggled for the Premiership ; Tozer be-
came Agent-General, and Byrnes was Pre-
mier. Byrnes died, and Dickson was Pre-
mier. Dickson was defeated by a vote of
the Labor-party, and Dawson was Premier
for six days. Then Philp ousted him, and
the Continuous Ministry came back. Dick-
son remained in the Cabinet ; and they
swallowed alleged Opposition-leader Drake.
With the exception of the six-days-
shalt-thou-labour Ministry, Boodlewraith
has held office for nine years, trans-
mitting its power by the “laying on of
hands,” meeting an election when it was
inevitable, and Parliament as rarely as it
could help. Parliament went into recess at
the end of the year upon Premier Philp’s
announcement that it would meet again in
July or August. During seven or eight
months of the year Boodlewraith rules as it
pleases—without any irritating interference
or any risk of votes of want-of-confidence !
If Boodlewraith wasn’t compelled it wouldn’t
convene Parliament at all. And Queensland
has endured, and endures, all that. Nine
years of Boodlewraith—fathered by Bribery,
mothered by Apathy : does Queensland not
justify a comparison with England before
Reform ?
* * * *
The brief reign of the Labor Ministry is
one of the signs that a better day is dawn-
ing ; but in The Bulletin’s judgment dawn
may be yet far off unless the Labor Party
publicly abnegates “ Socialism in our Time ”
and becomes a People’s Party. Many of the
Labor Party’s representatives in Parliament
have won respect; but the Party as a whole
has not won confidence from the mass of the
electors outside its immediate adherents.
The public will gladly accept a great deal—a
very great deal—of socialism in practice, not
knowing it as socialism. But it has been
told by large men with great overdrafts that
the name represents blood and dynamite,
and the name scares it. The leaders of the
Labor Party declare that they have widened
their platform as far as they dare if they are
not to alienate their extremist supporters—
the men who have done and suffered all in
the Party’s service. The Bulletin has a
better opinion of the Labor voters than
that. It believes that if the facts were
honestly laid before them—if they were
convinced that the whole labor doctrine
will not, for a very long time at all
events, command the support of a
majority of Q. electors, they would yield to
the inevitable, and prefer half-a-loaf to the
no-bread of the last ten years of struggle.
No doubt if Dawson made himself palatable
to Boodlewraith, Boodlewraith would swal-
low Dawson too. But a coalition between
Boodlewraith and the Labor-party would
be the worst of all the Queensland coalitions.
Labor would be held to forgive an unfor-
giveable past; and corruption which the
Labor-party would be impotent to prevent
would flourish under the cloak of the Labor-
party’s honesty. The only way to success is
for the Labor-party to alter its name and its
methods. There is every chance in Queens-
land for a Democratic Ministry. For a
Labor Ministry, so-called, and with all the
old Lane memories behind it—there is none.
Even in South Australia and Maoriland the
Democratic Ministries have not been clearly
labelled and set apart as Labor Ministries ;
and Queensland is politically not so far ad-
vanced as either Maoriland or South Aus-
tralia. So to race that dark horse Boodle-
drake, by Bribery from Apathy, this paper
recommends Queensland to breed a new
horse—Demos-Brains, by Socialism from
Common-Sense—and go in and win.
The Cancer Problem: AHint to
the Rich.
The old question, “Is cancer curable? ” having
again been widely raised, The Bulletin
believes that the subjoined article, from the pen
of an esteemed medical contributor, will be read
with interest and profit by all intelligent laymen :
“ On the basis of the figures for 1896, one out of every
14 men and one out of every nine women reaching the
age of 35 years dies of cancer.” Thus Dr. Newsholme,
State medical expert to London University, in a recent
article on “The Statistics of Cancer.”
Among the bell-glasses and cultivation-media of a hun-
dred laboratories a battle is being fought out for a stake
of human lives beside which the wars of man with man
shrink into nothingness. All over the world the death-
rate from cancer has been advancing rapidly, and it is now
classed as “the only disease which shows a steady and pro-
gressive increment by months and by years. In 50 years of
English statistics its harvest has increased 500 per cent.
Twenty years of Australian observation show the N.S.W.
cancer deaths to have increased from 2'59 per cent, of all
deaths in 1877 to 5'23 percent, in 1897! Victoria goes
higher—3'B7 to 6-60 per cent, in the same period, while
the other provinces give corresponding results. Even
figures show the question to be no crack-brained scien-
tist’s dream to be dismissed with airy disbelief, but a pro-
blem demanding the solemn attention of those in whose
hands has been placed the public welfare. Our present
knowledge has come from the efforts of single workers,
but this system—or lack of system—cannot be expected
to result in rapid success. The enemy must be attacked,
not by single skirmishers and forlorn hopes however
brave and persevering, but by a well-equipped army of
experts in touch all along the line.
To understand the nature of the difficulty it is necessary
to grasp the peculiarities of cancer. It is a growth which
appears either independently in the body-tissues or
founds itself by a seeming process of infection in an
already-existing abnormal growth or structure—such as a
mole or a scar. It grows steadily at the expense of its
host, does not tend towards cure, and, after a time,
infects distant parts with growths similar to itself. A
steady poisoning of the victim goes on meanwhile, partly
through the absorption of the decaying cancer-cells, and
partly through the action of a poison produced from the
growing cells. The unhappy bearer of this ghastly
burden, unless relieved bj the knife at an early stage,
wastes to a pain-stricken ghost, tortured by continual
new foci, which eat into the vital organs, and praying for
the means of release from his living death. Surgical
technique has improved enormously, surgical knowledge
grows daily, but the death-rate from cancer creeps
steadily upwards. The expressed opinion of the greatest
of surgical authorities gives but one efficient remedy—the
knife, freely used at an early stage, the more freely and
the earlier the better. The so-called cures, methylene
blue, alcohol injections, arsenic, caustics, and the rest,
are worse than futile, despite the purchased testimonials
of the noble army of quacks qualified and quacks un-
qualified.
* * * *
For the benefit of those who may desire scientific
nomenclature it is well to state that both sarcoma and
carcinoma are here considered. The pathologist, wrap-
ping up his ideas and tying hard knots in the string, has
seen fit to divide malignant disease into these two classes,
but as both are malignant (i.e., produce death if not re-
moved, and spread by the production of similar growths
in other parts) the difference is not essential from a
humanitarian point of view. The tumor is evidently but
the reaction of the tissues to an infecting irritant of
some kind, and this irritant is probably much the same
in both cases. Probably—there’s the rub. It is to
identify, isolate and cultivate the organism that scientists
are working, and until it is so identified all medicinal
treatment will be empirical and without hope.
The causative influences of cancer have formed a
widely-discussed question from time to time, and curious
facts are to be brought out. The “ tomato theory,” be-
loved of the sensational press, may be dismissed without
a stain on the character of the fruit. Injury, too, such
as a blow, so often ascribed as a cause, is almost blame-
less. It may light up an already-existing growth but
cannot actually cause it.
Essentially a disease of civilisation and its attendant
crowding-together of individuals, cancer shows a special
liking for, certain latitudes and localities. Temperate
climates form its chief home (except in the case of India,
where other causes operate in its favor), and the courses
of great rivers where a clay subsoil is periodically soaked
by floods, yield the highest rates of cancer mortality.
All new geological formations favor it. It shows a curious
connection with, or antagonism to, tubercle, and one
remarkable characteristic is here stated. In a family
possessing a hereditary tendency towards tubercle, and
of which many members die of the disease in one form or
another, there is usually one member who seems immune
to it. This one will almost certainly die of cancer if he
reach middle age, and will transmit an especiallj- marked
cancer tendency to his descendants. In Australia at
present tubercle mortality is rapidly going down as that
of cancer mounts up. Heredity is marked. Paget and
Velpeau state that it accounts for 1 in 3 of all cases. It
consists, not of any actual germ-transmitted infection,
but of a general frailty of tissue which predisposes to the
disease.
Medical men are often asked “ whether cancer is
catching ?” Public opinion on this point has undergone
a curious change, for up to the beginning of the present
century cancerous subjects were shunned as lepers are at
present, outside Queensland. Medical men are seriously
considering the question, and Mr. Plimmer’s recent
experiments throw a little light on it. Inoculation has
been made from man to animals in numerous recorded
cases, all the domestic animals except the pig being
liable to the disease. In animals, the structure of the
tumours is exactly similar to those occurring in man.
Pets have contracted it from afflicted owners, and there
seems no reason why the converse should not occur. It
has occurred, in fact, as Hyatt, Gross and others testify.
Dr. Box had under his care a man whose tongue had
been punctured by a raw fishbone, and who died of can-
cer which spread rapidly from the wound. The same
observer states positively that cancer of the stomach is
frequent among those who habitually eat certain small
fish whose bones are fine enough to be swallowed. Going
further afield, the discovery of the transmission of
malaria by mosquitoes makes it probable that these and
other insects of like habits may play a similar part in the
transmission of cancer.
* • • •
Numerous instances are known of direct transmission
from one human to another. Surgeons have Seen in-
fected during operations for the removal of cancers—a
case recently occurred in Paris. In operating for cancer
the knife is laid aside after the diseased structure has
been cut away, and a clean one employed on the sur-
rounding healthy parts, experience having shown the
possibility of new foci of infection arising if this is not
done.
These instances could be spun out indefinitely, but
they show enough to enable us to judge of the danger of
cancer infection.
A legion of reasons has been advanced to explain the
increase of the disease —an increase, by the way, which
affects men even more than women, as many men are apt
to forget. Vegetarians argue against the use of meat,
while their carnivorous antagonists point to the cancer-
scourged Hindu who never eats flesh. Some casuists of
the “ old school ” dub it the penalty of sanitary progress,
implying that a greater number of individuals are now
enabled to reach the cancer age—sarcoma, or children’s
cancer, upsets their argumentary apple-cart, for it has
increased even more rapidly than its brother, carcinoma.
The worry and pressure of a higher civilisation was for
long a favorite explanation, but somebody thought
of compiling occupation statistics and they flattened out
his adversary. These occupation statistics show some
curious facts. In Great Britain, of 1000 male deaths
from all diseases in each class betvveen 25 and 65
years of age, occupied males give 47 from cancer, and
unoccupied males 96. This does not look like pressure of
work. Brewers give 70, medical men 43, clergymen 35,
while chimney-sweeps make an almost, distinct class of
their own with the enormous comparative mortality of
156. And the increase from all classes in England for the
last 25 years has been 155 per cent, for men, and 74 per
cent, for women. Australia is growing a reputation for
cancer that stinks through the scientific world.
» * • *
Now comes a little light. Dr. Plimmer, of St. Mary’s
Hospital, London, has demonstrated the existence in all
actively-growing cancers, of an organism which is found
nowhere else in the tissues of mammalia whether normal
or diseased. It can be cultivated outside the body and
is found to possess and to retain under certain condition
the power of causing cell growth similar to that existing
in the tumour whence it was taken. He has proved, more-
over, that the frequency of these organisms in specimens
examined (some 1300) was in direct proportion to viru-
lence and rapidity of growth, and that their especial
habitat was in the “growing edge” where the cancer ex-
hibits its greatest activity. They are not bacteria, which
are rod-shaped bodies, but resemble very closely certain
low forms of life found in the internal organs of some in-
sects. They are round, from "003 to -00025 in. in diameter,
and usually live in the cancer-cells themselves, occa-
sionally between them. They grow and multiply either
by sending out tiny buds of proto-plasm, or by splitting
themselves into two.
Having got his parasite, Plimmer set to work to culti-
vate it outside the growth it lives in. Using a broth
made from cancerous tissues he found the parasite grew
readily in it, and by exhausting the air and substituting
hydrogen the cultures could be kept in full activity for
months. Air appeared to lessen their virulence —it is
what is scientifically known as an anaerobic organism.
The next step was to try it on animals. Rabbits and
guinea-pigs were used, pure cultures being injected into
the tissues and inoculated on the scarified surface of the
eye-ball. In the latter cases great success resulted.
The epithelial surface cells spread vigorously and grew
into the lower layers after a few days, the growth giving all
the signs of cancer and showing the parasites in full
activity. Where the cultures were placed in t lie abdom-
inal peritoneal cavity death occurred with widespread
cancerous growths in from 13 to 20 days. This resulted
with a series of 13 guinea pigs.
Small as these results may appear to the man in the
street they represent the latest definite advance. Where
the parasite comes from is as yet purely conjectural,
although, like the malarial parasite, it probably passes its
normal life-history in some insect or animal host and is
possibly an accident in man. Of the identity of this other
host, be it insect, reptile or plant, we know nothing.
» « • »
Of its importance, let a leading American authority
speak : “ If, for the next 10 years, the relative death-rates
are maintained, we shall find that, in 10 years from now,
viz., in 1909, there will be more deal hs in New York State
from cancer than from consumption, small pox and
typhoid fever combined.” Truly, as he terms it, a
“startling prophecy” this, and one of which only the
pathologist can avesj the fulfilment. New York State is
by no means at the head of the “ cancer haunts.”
Meanwhile the investigators, on whom fall the heat
and burden of the day, work along their separate line-<.
They are not in touch, much power and knowledge being
lost thereby ; they do not hope for gain, and they are
often hampered by lack of means. The monetary value
of a citizen to the State is a calculable affair, and a few
figures will show that the cost of maintenance of a very
army of experts would be small in comparison with the
yearly loss inflicted on the community by cancer.
Possibly an accident may solve the problem, but it
earnestly demands State attention at present. Such re-
ports as are dished up by the cable-liar in the slack time
betvveen society doings and cricket-scores have no real
significance. Tubercle, leprosy, and all the scaly horrors
of an Eastern treaty-port are clean beside this monster,
and Australia is leading the way in its progress. In
another decade we will astonish the scientific world
unless a check is discovered. Wherefore ye millionaires,
ye unoccupied males of the occupation statistics who are
especially liable to the disease, endow research labora-
tories in place of picture-galleries, and some happy stroke
of genius may perchance save you from the most horrible
of deaths and make.your name famous among men.
Charity is noble, and art is enduring, but the death-rate
from cancer is being doubled with each decade. Go to a
hospital for incurables and see for yourselves.— Puyyaka.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne’s Board of Shirks.
Melbourne at present closely resembles -the
small boy who sat on an open barrel of gun-
powder striking lucifers. One match burned
down rather suddenly and he dropped it—and
then there was a large vacancy and a great
absence of boy. In the early days of the boom
the biggest city of Australia laid itself out to
obtain a decent water-supply, and tapped the
Maroondah Creek for that purpose, connecting
it with the Yan Yean and bringing the whole
volume to the city and suburbs. Even then
the flow was none too extravagant; in the
higher suburbs on a hot summer day it was
often impossible to get a bath till late at night.
Then the awful Board of Shirks took control
and began to sewer the city, and now the
effect of these operations is beginning to be
felt. In even the low-lying flats of Colling-
wood and Richmond, on a hot day, it takes
about half-an-hour to get enough water to fill
the common household kettle. In the suburbs
where sewering operations were commenced
early, many of the houses are now connected,
and, in addition to the usual household and
street requirements, the flushing of the drains
makes a heavy inroad on the existing supply.
Yet the immovable Board of Fitzgibbon has
so far not made the slightest attempt to pro-
vide an increased flow, or, supposing the water
to be sufficient, to arrange for the laying down
of larger pipes. Recently, Fire-Brigade Supt.
Stein tested the pressure in various suburbs
on a hot day, and found that he was expected
to cope with any flare-up that might arise by
means of a water-pressure varying from 3 to
lOlbs. per sq. in. A fire starting in Richmond,
Collingwood or Brunswick in any of the
numerous weatherboard terraces, on a blazing
day, fanned by the scorching north wind
To Mister Butler, Deceased.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mate to go prospectin’—yes, a thousand it may
be.
(Oh the merry trade that Mister Butler drave).
But it isn’t the Blue Mountains —’tis Natal across
the sea
(And Butler, are you turning in your grave ?)
There are people to be slaughtered—p’raps there’s
loot to be obtained
(Oh the little that you got from one or two !)
And, most of all, there’s glory in abundance to be
gained
(And, Butler, how much glory came to you ?)
You were just a little previous, and your genius
hadn’t scope
(Oh, the narrow earth where Mr. Butler lies)
You might have got a medal, but you got a length
of rope
(Oh, the starry wastes where Butler’s spirit flies).
You might have been a hero and killed folks by
the score
(Oh, the retail trade that Mr. Butler plied)
And buried them in public, and then gone and
killed some more,
And been buried in Westminster when you died.
Yet Butler, though within the earth your body is
concealed,
And you cannot ply the trade you loved to-day,
You have the satisfaction that your spirit is afield
And doing business in a wholesale way.
O.T.M.


would probably lay waste two or three or per-
haps more square miles of the city. And the
useless and cumbersome Board of Perks,
when urged by the Fire-Brigade authorities
and the City Council to make some
reasonable attempt to justify its existence,
takes refuge in legal quibbles and. technical ab-
surdities. It says it is bound by the letter of
the law to bring water to the city, but not
bound to lay pipes ; presumably being of
opinion that water runs on wires or should be
carried in billies. Parliament, not dreaming
of what an ass the Board would be, didn’t
specifically order it to lay pipes but only to
supply water. The paralytic Board, which
spends hours over the appointment of a 30s.
clerk, and passes sewerage contracts for a
whole suburb in five minutes, and whose em-
ployees know so little of their work that they
calmly and persistently proceed to sewer
dwellings already connected, and carry their
pipes two feet above ground in order that the
water may run uphill, and then have to bank
them up and raise the dwelling to make things
symmetrical—this Board is utterly incapable
and useless. The proposed Commission of
Enquiry, which has hung fire so long and would
have hung longer but for the passing of the
Turner Government, one of whose members
was practically legal adviser to the Board,
would elicit this much, and would probably
suggest alterations and amendments. But it
would take so much alteration to appreciably
improve the present Board that it would be
cheaper in the long run to get a new
one altogether. The present agglomeration of
suburban municipal nonentities is far too cum-
bersome, and is not representative, and is elected
in a manner dishonest and unfair to the rate-
payers. Democrats and progressives can do
much towards the desired end by organising
and gaining control of the suburban councils —
Richmond and Collingwood have already made
a start, and as a consequence are the only local
Councils that provide public baths. But of late
Melbourne has been so busy worrying over the
cable lies and skirmishing round for a second
contingent that it will most likely chance the
matter this summer and let nature take its
course. That course quite possibly may be
from the Merri Creek to the Yarra—a fine wide
track with plenty of ashes strewn about, and
here and there a little heap of bones and a rag
or two.
Some More Railway Syndicate.
The Tasmanian Great Western private land-
grab railway co. is a concern with much cheek
and a large wooden head. It alleges, in the
■first place, that it is dead sure its line, when
•built, will yield a clear profit of 5 per cent, per
•annum on the capital. If so, that is a very
solid reason why the Government should do its
•best to get rid of the disastrous shindykit,
which, despite the privileges conferred on it,
•never makes a beginning at building the line,
•and keeps large districts in the west without
much-needed railway communication. It is
•the 'best possible reason why the State should
build the line itself. But, despite its assur-
ances that the line will pay so handsomely,
the shindykit won’t plank down its own
cash and build the railway, and reap those very
liberal profits—it hasn’t sufficient confidence in
its own word for that, apparently, so it keeps
struggling around trying to sell its con-
cession. This introduces a serious element
of doubt. And the public has so little
confidence in the syndicate’s assurances
of a large and certain profit that it won’t
buy, and the company doesn’t float. There-
fore the syndicate demands that the Tas-
manian Government, in addition to all the
other privileges it has conferred, shall take up
.£•200,000 worth of debentures, and shall also
guarantee the interest on another £600,000
worth —which is nearly the whole cost of the
line. If the Government built and owned the
line itself it would have to make good the loss,
when there was one, but it would also get thepro-
fit when therewasone. Thesyndicate’smildpro-
posal is that the Government, by guaranteeing
its debentures, shall stand the loss if there is
one, but shall not get the profit, supposing there
should be a profit. The syndicate is to get the
•profit. It is to be a case for the syndicate of
“ heads I win, tails you lose.” The syndicate
alleges, of course, that the guarantee is only a
matter of form —that the 5 per cent, profit is so
.dead sure that the Government can’t have
any loss to make good. But that only makes
the thing worse. If the syndicate isn't
sure of making 5 per cent., then the Tas-
manian Government should reject the proposed
bargain because it would probably find itself
saddled with an immense loss for many years,
and when things improved, and there was a
profit, the company would take the profit. If
it is sure that the line will pay 5 per cent.,
then it is still more essential that the Tas-
manian Government should refuse. Its refusal
may break-up the speculation, and, as a con-
sequence, the State will get a chance to build
the line itself and gather the glorious profits
into the Treasury. Only a fool of a State
would go out of its way, and do unnecessary
things, and things that are not in the bond, in
order to increase its chance of losing so
grand an opportunity. The very latest
news is that Harcourt Palmer, the syndi-
cate’s local representative, intends standing
for Parliament, his alleged object being
to harass the Government into granting
him and his partners this great monetary
assistance, and to vote that he and his partners
get this monetary assistance. If there is any
decency or honor left in Tasmanian polities the
House of Assembly will vote, as soon as Har-
Court Palmer gets in (if he does get in), that
he be expelled and permanently disqualified
Unless he promises on his oath never to even
mention the Great Western syndicate in the
House. The spectacle of a man getting into
Parliament for the avowed purpose of securing
aid out of the nation’s Treasury for himself and
his friends is too steep, and its moral angle to
the horizon is something enormous.
The Case of Old and Young 1 Jones.
An indignant contributor with an illegible sig-
nature writes :
Again, I would put it to you even in a more simple way.
We are all children of a father—Britain. Now, if you
came home one day and found pater in the thick of a
fight, would you stop to think whether he was engaged
justly or unjustly ? If you were a son worthy of the name
you would go in for all you were worth. That is Patriot-
ism iri a nutshell.
The Bulletin has heard this argument so often
that it rises to make an inquiry. Will these
gentlemen who say it is the right thing, when
a man comes home and finds father fighting
some one, to wade in and help father to batter
that some one without enquiry—will they have
the courage of their opinions, and demand to
have the thing they say is right recognised as
right by Act of Parliament ? Will they demand
that a Bill be introduced to the etlect that
when Mr. Maloney and Mr. Dooley are fight-
ing (no matter how the fight began), the young
Maloneys may sail in and batter Mr. Dooley
without being liable to the usual punishment
for assault and grievous bodily harm. For,
supposing it is true, as alleged above, that
young Smith would be unworthy of the name
if, returning home and finding old Smith fight-
ing Jones, he didn’t also fight Jones, without
the least inquiry about the merits of the case,
then it is a grievous sin and shame that young
Smith should be hauled away by a policeman
and fined or imprisoned (or even hanged,
if he double - banked Jones too violently)
for his commendable act. If all these
people who use the argument about the
sacred duty of young Brown to help his
father batter Robinson really believe what
they say, they will certainly raise up their
voices in a loud demand that young Brown
should go free of all blame and penalty, no
matter how much Robinson (with possibly six
Browns on top of him) may be wrecked,
unless they are too cowardly to act up to their
own principles. Something might also be said
about the duty of Corbett’s son, if he has one,
to get into the ring with him and help his
father to bash Fitzsimmons —but that would
open up too large a subject. The Jingo
party, in its anxiety to justify Australia’s
interference in the war, has set up an
argument and illustration which asserts,
to all intents, that any citizen ought
to be battered, or even murdered, with im-
punity provided the citizen first gets into a
shindy, no matter how, with old Jones, or old
Jones gets into one with him, and provided
the fatal blow is struck by young Jones nobly
coming to his father’s assistance. And, if the
persons who say this don’t exert themselves to
save young Jones being penalised for his
splendid conduct, then they haven’t the courage
of their opinions—or else they haven’t the
opinions.
The Convenient Charge of Vagrancy.
The law in Victoria grows more astonishing
every week. A few days ago a little girl named
Jones was murdered at Broadford, and the
police fixed on a man, also named Jones, as the
probable offender. After much promiscuous
pursuit they found some kind of a Jones and
arrested him. Then the really remarkable
incident comes in. Here is the Melbourne Age
report: —
James and Charles Arnold, two brothers, were before
the City Bench yesterday charged with vagrancy.
Detective-Sergeant Ward applied for a remand to Broad-
ford on the 9th inst. He explained as the ground for the
application that the real reason for the men’s arrest was
that they were said to have been in a hotel close to the
spot where the little girl Kit A Jones was murdered, and
it was believed had seen the man Jones, who is accused of
the crime, and had spoken to him, soon after the time
when the tragedy was supposed to have occurred. It was
desired to call the two Arnolds as, witnesses, and it was
simply to secure their attendance at future proceedings
in the case that the remand was asked for by the police.
Charles Arnold protested against the granting of the
remand. He and his brother, he said, were working
about Broadford, and could be easily found by the police
at any time. He thought the action of the police in
arresting them was very hard upon him and his brother.
Detective-Sergeant Ward expressed regret that the
accused had been inconvenienced, but said he was com-
pelled to persist in his application.
The bench granted the remand.
This certainly looks like a beastly frank
acknowledgement on the part of the enlightened
policeman that he had arrested the Arnolds
on a false charge, and that he was proceeding
against them on a false charge, and getting them
wrongfully locked up. Not only does it appear
that they weren’t vagrants, but that the police-
man knew they were not. If the Arnolds
were persons of great affluence, they would
probably get that po 1 iceman fired out from the
force, and let in for serious trouble in the
matter of wrongful arrest; and what would
happen to the bench which remanded them on
a charge practically admitted even by the
person laying it to be bogus, is a painful sub-
ject to think of. Somebody concerned would
almost certainly get a long term in gaol—if the
Arnolds had lots of money. But, on second
thoughts, if the Arnolds had plenty of money
nobody would get into gaol at all. There
would have been no arrest. Victorian law
never, by any chance, makes certain that an
affluent witness will be there when wanted, by
locking him up on a trumped-up charge of
vagrancy or bigamy or embezzlement, or any
other charge. Yet the law has as much right
to make sure, by putting him in gaol, that a rich
banker will appear in the witness-box when
wanted, as to do the same with a laborer. And
it has no more right to make a witness’s
appearance certain by locking him up on a
sham accusation of vagrancy, than by doing
the same on a sham charge of arson, bigamy,
treason, forgery, or being an escapee from New
Caledonia. It will be interesting to see if the
Victorian Government compensates the Ar-
nolds for their imprisonment, loss of wages,
discomfort, for the ignominy of being herded
with criminals, and the joy of being hauled
about by the police and other public officials
and taken round the country in custody,
all on a charge which is admittedly a
false pretence. But their chance of get-
ting any compensation is akin to the
chance of Andree’s balloon coming back.
A comparatively poor man has no rights in
Victoria. He had some once—say in Berry’s
time; but that was very long ago, and things
have changed, and Berry, once the Tribune of
the People, has very few rights himself now.
+
Loyal “ Disloyalists.”
If Adelaide telegrams are to be relied on, S. A.
Govt, has made itself ridiculous by threatening
to dismiss Govt, employees who utter what the
Govt, chooses to consider “ disloyal ” opinions
—in other words, employees who object to
Australia taking part in the South African war.
If you disagree with the Govt, you lose your
billet. Pretty conduct for a Govt, which is
sending a contingent to the Transvaal in order
(ostensibly) to secure free speech, and a free
press, and a free citizenship in the Transvaal l
To every bigot there is something in-
expressibly shocking in the other fellow’s
bigotry. Even England rings with denuncia-
tions of this Great Grab War ; the anti-war
Party may be a minority, but it is a strong and
eloquent minority. A vast number of British
clergy preach against the war. Not afew British
newspapers write against it. Many British
members of Parliament orate against it. Yet
the British Government, not being nearly so
loyal to itself as Australia is to the British
Government, doesn’t propose to set up an
Inquisition over the matter. To be against the
war isn’t a crime in England, though it is in
hysterical Australia. The fact is, that what
passes for Australian public opinion is still for
the most part fifty years behind the best
English public opinion. The narrow little
notorieties who run our Parliaments are
often on an intellectual level with English
village politicians. The threat of the S.A,
Govt, is the same threat which the English
squire offers to the English yokel: “Vote with
me, or leave the parish ! ” There is no incum-
bency upon Australians to be “loyal” to
England or the English monarch in the
fetichistic sense given to “loyalty” by the
transplanted local Englishman—when Eng-
land itself becomes one-half as loyal to'England
as Australian rulers expect Australia to
be, the hysterical demand for Australian
loyalty will at least seem a trifle less ridiculous.
Thought is still presumably free—even in Aus-
tralia. Speech is still presumably free—even
in South Australia. And if there are left any
Australians who value free thought and free
speech, the S.A. Govt.’s aggression will be
strongly resented. In matters of public con-
cern a civil servant’s thought and speech should
be as free as anybody else’s. The law which
gives him a vote recognises that. The fact
that the Govt, pays him for his private services
does not take away his rights of citizenship.
On national questions he has as much right of
criticism as the servant of a private employer.
And when this country is dragged into war at
the tail of Britain —a war regarding which even
British opinion is divided; and traitorous
politicians use the opportunity to commit
Australia as deeply as they possibly can to assist
Britain in all future conflicts, however unjust or
disgraceful then it is quite time for civil
servants and other citizens of Australia to
protest. The mere fact that the Transvaal war
has already begun to destroy freedom of speech
in Australia is sufficient justification for
protest.
The other party replies :
Editor Bulletin. —“ Malle ” on coupons. Such re-
marks as “ worst of commercial vultures,” “ this curse,”
“ coupon fiend,” “ coupon harpy,” “ blood sucking
coupon promoter,” “the retailer is bled,” “coupon pro-
moter is only a commercial vampire,” clearly shows
how prejudiced “ Malle ” is—and what is more, according
to legal opinion which we have obtained, places him
within reach of the libel-laws. “Malle ” may say that no
particular company was referred to, but as the Co-opera-
tive Coupon Company Ltd., which I represent, does
about 90 per cent, of the total issue of coupons he can
hardly dissociate us from the system which he so-
malignantly abuses. Now' for his statements
Ist he says : “The traders pay 12s. fid. per 1000.” As a
matter of fact they pay 255. per 1000.
Statement 2. The public only get one-fifth of what the
retailer pays. The fact is, that they get the whole of it.
This seems strange, but the truth will be grasped if it is
considered that the public get 255. of retail value for
every 255. the trader pays my company, the profit made
by the company being the difference between the whole-
sale price at which goods are purchased and the retail
price at which they are redeemed. This difference
enables the company to advertise its members, pay work-
ing expenses, and, it is hoped, make some profit.
The public getting the retail value represented by the
coupons get all they are eutitled to, and the goods thus
obtained represent a full five per cent, discount on their
cash purchases. My company claim, without fear of
truthful contradiction, that they give goods, the retail
value of which is fully 255., for every 1000 coupons. Our
showrooms, in which all goods are marked in plain
figures, are open for inspection of all.
Statements. “ How can they give away 5 per cent.,
not of their profits, mark you, but of their gross turn-
over?” Numerous witnesses before the Select Committee
gave evidence that the cost of the coupons represented
about 3J4 per cent, on their cash turnover. These
witnesses—grocers, drapers, butchers, etc.—all agreed
that Co-operative coupons had increased their trade, had
in many cases doubled their cash-takings, had avoided
bad debts, saved cost of booking, and enabled them to
reduce expenditure in other methods of advertising.
This evidence is printed by the Victorian Govt. Printer,
and any sceptic is recommended to obtain a copy
and peruse it carefully. It will convince any fair-minded
person that it pays the retailer to give coupons and that
it pays the public to collect, them.
Statement 4, re “ selling inferior goods and squeezing
his employes.” All the witnesses using coupons deposed
that they had not increased prices nor sold inferior
goods. Many of them stated that they had been enabled
to increase the wages of their employes.
Statement No. 5 : “ The sooner the law squashes it as
it has done in America.” This is characteristically un-
true. In 41 out of the 44 States coupons are legal. In
many states the system is in flourishing operation. In
only three States has legislation been adopted regulating,
but not abolishing, the system. In England and in Ger-
many the system is both legal and in operation.
The 6th statement is to the effect that it suits the
books of the “ big shops,” but the evidence given before
the Select Committee goes to prove that it enables the
small shopkeeper to successfully compete with his
monopolistic and “ many-shop ” competitor a fact
sufficiently proved by the virulent opposition of several
of these large firms.
The fact is, the system is a very successful method of
advertising, and those adopting it undoubtedly attract a
lot of their competitors’ trade, thus arousing the jealousy
of the latter : but this is only in accordance with the law
of competition.
The system is good for the public, as they get a discount
on all their cash purchases-a benefit which they never
previously obtained. It enables the trader to make a
just distinction between those who buy on credit and
those who pay cash, as he is enabled to give the latter a
discount on cash purchases from sixpence upwards.
These small discounts could not be given in the coin of
the realm, and even if it were possible to do so, they
would be frittered away, but the Coupons being re-
deemed only in specified quantities they have to be saved
until the requisite number is collected. The public are,
therefore, practically compelled to save, and the moral
gain to the community through thus having habils of
thrift inculcated is incalculable. —For the Co-Operative
Coupon Co., D. B. Thomas.
The latest surrender of British troops (up to
time of writing) was alleged to have been
brought about by a “clever trick” — i.e., a
bogus British bugle-call —on the part of the
Boers. Probably the yarn is merely an attempt
to excuse bad tactics, or gross carelessness.
But supposing that a mistake did occur as
stated, jit doesn’t follow that the enemy’s
bugling was a “ clever trick.” As a matter of
fact the Boers have their own brigade calls,
which only a practised military ear can dis-
tinguish from British bugle calls. The absent-
minded beggars, flustered at the time, may
have been only too ready to accept any blast
from a brass instrument as an order to git.
Which would explain why 75 per cent, of the
little British force proceeded to git with
enthusiasm, leaving their comrades in a more
or less tight place. As to why these left ones
considered themselves bound to surrender, the
cable gives no information whatever. It is
only “ patriotic ” to suppose that they col-
lapsed in strict accordance with certain rules of
European warfare, but it is almost permissible
to remark that the genuine Transvaal Boer
appears to claw his way out of most tight
places in which he doesn’t actually perish, and
before this war is over Tommy Atkins will
have to learn to do as the Boer does.
It is now proposed to raise the Australian
Transvaal Contingent to 5000 men. If this is
done, the rain of titles next Queen’s Birthday
ought to be something very handsome. And
in view of the fact that this is a censorious
world, where it is always advisable to look as
well as to le clean, The Bulletin again sug-
gests that the seven Premiers should agree
to a self-denying ordinance, whereby they
bind themselves to refuse these titles when
they come along. The Premiers haven’t
shown their own disinterested patriotism by
planking down any personal cash worth
speaking of. They have already reaped some
selfish profit out of the business, for they have
to some extent consolidated their power, and
improved their chance of prolonged political
life and prolonged salary, by pandering to the
most foolish popular craze that ever struck
Australia. It is only a passing craze, but they
bave made all possible profit out of it while it
lasts. And if they get a further personal
reward in the shape of a collection of alleged
“dignities” it will look a great deal too
much like buying their titles with other
people’s blood and other people’s money.
If the Premiers offer up other people
on the altar of Imperial sentiment, and take
the reward (they probably consider it a reward)
■themselves, they won’t be widely different
from the old Hessian princes who used to hire
out their subjects to fight for foreign states at
so much per head, and take the cash them-
selves. Even the most misguided variety of
patriotism—even misguided patriotism done by
deputy—may look a little respectable if it is
disinterested. Misguided patriotism by deputy
that grabs at every possible reward doesn’t
■even wear the pretence of respectability.
+
The prosecution for alleged perjury of wit-
nesses (almost always witnesses against the
‘Crown and for the accused) has reached a
ridiculous stage in Melbourne. The latest case
was that of a witness who said he was born in
Boston, and was at once proceeded against for
false-swearing, the Crown being of opinion that
he wasn’t born in Boston. Lawyer for defend-
ant rose early in the proceedings and pointed
out that no man could say with certainty where
he was born, being too young at the time ; and
consequently the information was rotten in law.
When a man swore to his birthplace he was
merely swearing that he had been told he was
born somewhere. The court thought about the
matter most strenuously for nearly ten minutes,
and then the case collapsed. Doubtless the
court remembered it had often sworn to its own
birthplace without any personal knowledge of
the matter. Few men recollect their birth
with sufficient vividness to be accepted as
absolutely reliable authorities on the subject,
and hearsay evidence goes for nothing in court.
Apparently, the officially-edited cablegram
always lies, even when there is nothing visible
to be gained by it. It was first reported that
Gatacre’s column was guided into the mess at
Stormberg by a policeman, and Gatacre was
On Golgotha.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Was it worth while, ye martyrs of the people,
Ye stern, ascetic soldiers of the Cause?
Has your loud call from minaret and steeple
Altered one tittle of the primal laws ?
And have the masses that you chose to die for
Wound you a laurel wreath of gratitude,
Or —did they nail upon the cross your cypher
And scorn the faith they never understood ?
O weeping farce ! O failures of the past!
O hapless war with ignorance and guile!
Speak, broken-hearted, pale enthusiast:
Was it worth while “>
Ye thorn-crowned Kings of visionary heaven,
Ye saviours of the lowly, has death’s trance
Shown you the Chaos that your hope w<juld
leaven,
Taught you the blind malignity of Chance ?
And all the while some stifled voice was sobbing,
Some tender bosom waiting love’s caress;
Your frenzied immolation, it was robbing
Some lonely woman of her blessedness.
0 titans that have struggled to be free,
O puny dwarfs that challenged pain and vice;
Have you discovered the futility
Of sacrifice?
Is it worth while to pray and preach and prattle
Into deaf ears, to eyes that never saw ?
Is it worth while to fight a childish battle
Against the great inevitable law ?
To lose the sweetness of our idle drifting
Adown the back-wash on some hidden stream,
To miss the sunlight that the leaves are sifting,
The purple shadow where the wood-nymphs
dream ?
Is it worth while ? (Hark to the war-dogs’
snarling !)
O humble love that I had near forgot;
Come, whisper me ; is it worth while, my darling ?
She answereth not.
VON KOTZE.


THE KTEW POLICY OP
Tlj« fi (it Ci a I Life iQSCiraoce Co. of New York
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin I’lace, Sydney.
Bakers Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
'
. . . THE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
hand cameras.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
260 Co ins-st., Melboubne.
375 George-street, Sydney.
81 QukQn-st., Bbisbanb. 65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
STEAM BOILERS
Lancashire, Cornish,
Multitubular
and other types.
3?W- **
* Jto *
.*'/* ' l -t
f*t «'«<
rfW ‘ !
To standard sizes, or to
special specifications,
suiting all requirements.
Please state :
HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
and
CLASS OP FUEL
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Clyde Works,
Granville,
made to report that the man was not to blame.
Then it was announced that the guides—not
one policeman, but several guides—had been
“mysteriously shot.” Now it is slated that
Gatacre shot the guide—seemingly only ono
guide—or ordered him to be shot (the cable-
fakers of the daily papers are not sure which is
right) with a revolver, as soon as he found him-
self in a trap, and before the lighting really
commenced. \\ ithin the last two months
there has hardly been one case where the
original cable account of anything in
South Africa wasn’t flatly contradicted
later on. Where does the cable expect to go
to when it dies ? The very newest and quite
different version of the trouble at Nicholson’s
Nek, published as the alleged letter of a man
who was there, is to the effect that the British
force, apparently with nobody ahead to see
that the road was clear, tramped in a solid
mass and in pitch darkness to within 20 yards
of the enemy, and then the enemy rushed them
at close quarters. This isn’t at all like the
story of how the mules were stampeded by big
stones rolled downhill; but it will pass till the
next yarn comes along.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Little Red Riding Hood."
Royal “Tess of the D'llrberville*.”
Lyceum “The Power aud the Glory.”
Criterion Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tiikatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columbus.”
Bijou Rickards' Variety Co.
“Tess of the D’Urbervilles ” brought a
strong breath of hay to Sydney Royal last Satur-
day, also much early English dialect and wild,
demoniac laughter. The stage Tess is a white-
washed variety of Hardy’s heroine, and in the
process of bowdlerising she is reduced to the level
of the ordinary conventional lost heroine of the
sacred order of plaster saints. Of the improba-
bilities of the play, some are Hardy's own, and
some are introduced by Lorimer Stoddard. The
incident of the letter on the window-sill is an
idiotic device: —Tess acknowledges to her lover
that she has a dreadful confession to make, and
that he will find it on the windoiv-sill, and when
he looks there and finds only a rose (Toss’s sage
mamma having abstracted the letter), lie im-
mediately concludes that the confession is the rose,
by which Tess means to typify that she is only' a
humble flower. Just as logically might he have
deduced the truth ; the flower had evidently dropped
from above, therefore Tess was one of the fallen
leaves. Angel Clare of the stage is on the whole not
much more inexplicable than in the book. Four
milkmaids are in love with this commonplace
young man. Three of them, having been good
all their lives, are ordinary, rather vulgar young
milkmaids, who tumble about in the hay, and
shriek with laughter over naughty stories. The
fourth, having had a Past, doesn’t care for loud
gambols among the crops, and talks in a sorrowful,
poetic style about clouds and sunsets, so that Angel
Clare, who talks this way too, falls as much in
love with her as his swelled head will permit.
But when he suddenly discovers to what this
fetching style is due, instead of being grateful to
the Past, he is very much annoyed, and goes away
to Brazil on his own, and doesn’t write, and doesn’t
send any money, till 'Tess gets tired of planting
cabbages and of being reproached by the bare legs
of Liza Lu, and of seeing her sage mamma holding
dowrn the furniture to keep it from being seized by
bailiffs, and, having noted that virtue leads to
bare feet and bailiffs, goes off with her former
sweetheart to continue her Past on a more profit-
able basis than before. When the gent with
the celestial cognomen turns up once more,
she is wearing the silken morning-wrapper of
sin, and has achieved twice as much Past as she
had before. Whereupon this curious young man
forgives her the whole lot; and when she presently
retires into the other room and kills her former
sweetheart, thereby achieving some more Past,
Angel gets so fond of her that he follows her to a
place called Stonehenge (why they go to Stone-
henge nobody knows) and when the detectives find
her out, falls down in a faint on the edge of a
large, bare-looking rock where they have been
trying to hide in full view of the rising sun.
* * * *
Miss Edith Crane, who makes her re-
appearance after three .years, takes the part of
Tess as she took that of Trilby in days of yore,
but whether it is the want of the bare feet or
no, the pathos of the character doesn’t strike
the audience too forcibly after the first act.
In the last it depends largely on the long
shadows, and the large red sky, and the blood-
tinted slabs of Stonehenge forming the semblance
of a gallows behind her. Loud sobbing into one’s
hands is not the best way to inspire tears in an
audience, nor is there much sense in Tess's
statuesque Mercia pose in the drunk scene, seeing
that Alec, is not even throwing the breakfast
about, a privilege which any husband con-
siders his due after a night out. Tyrone Power
is a new arrival in Australia, and so far justifies
his surname. In the first act he doesn’t
rise above the conventional bad man with the
tendency to roll his words; but, later on,
when he hovers between rum and true religion
and says cold, sneering things over the coffee-pot,
he is all right. The fact that Tess stands Alec.
so long as he merely betrays her and gets drunk
and wants to kiss Marian, and then finally knifes
him because he laughs in an irritating fashion
when she says things to him through the keyhole,
is quite conceivable. Tyrone has got just that
kind of laugh. The whole play is a study in
laughs, from the ventral laugh of the milk-
maids, when they tell wicked stories, to the
wild caechinations of Marian as she clasps
the gin-bottle to her disreputable chest. The
woman who takes to think through disap-
pointed affection is a new departure in
dramatic art. It is usually the man who
does that ; the woman generally takes to the other
fellow. Linda Raymond is to be congratulated
on the laugh, and the slouch, and the general air
of disrepute she brings into the character. Also,
she doesn’t forget to trail a slab of black hair
down one side of her brow, which is the stage sig-
nificance for Drink. Alec D’Urberville wears his
hair like that in the breakfast-scene, just as Syd-
ney Carton did before him. Thomas Kingston,
as the youth with the heavenly front name, acts
the part so as to make the whole audience ask
itself what the four milkmaids saw in him. The
play is an interesting play, which gives pastoral
simplicity a rest for once, and shows the noble-
hearted yokel as a grubby animal in a dingy
smock, who tells club stories to milk-maids ; and
reveals the latter as girls who seem to know more
than milk-maids ought to know. Also, the poor
people, when starving, don’t sing songs or see
angels in the clouds, but slop about in old clothes
looking for work and nagging at each other, just us
poor people do in real life.
** * #
“ The Bells ” began to ring on Saturday
last at the Criterion, precedetl by an irrelevant
detail “ Retained for the Defence,” which is here-
with forgiven because it is Christian so to do.
The uniqueness of “The Bells” lies in the fact
that most of the incidents take place before the
curtain rises, and the rest don’t occur at all, but
only appear in dreams and visions, which the old
man has after he has partaken too freely of some-
body’s white wine. At least the rest of the family
maintain that it is the white wine that upsets
hither so, and as he feels a delicacy in explaining
that his indisposition is really due to murder, he
goes to the grave with his character for sobriety
much damaged. As Polish Jews are not generally
much considered in foreign lands, it seems almost a
pity tluit Matthias did not plead guilty to the lesser
count. The play opens some fifteen years after
the murder, when phantom sleigh bells start ring-
ing in father’s ears and visions of murdered Jews
appear where the furniture ought to be, and the
orchestra plays solemn music and the murderer
laughs demoniac laughs (at other times the
orchestra plays “The Dutchman’s Little Dog,”
and the murderer laughs ordinary old-man laughs).
The family apparently brings on the trouble at this
late hour by al ways talking to him of Polish Jews,
and telling about murderers who were brought to
the gallows twenty years after the crime, and
saying how glad they are that justice was done at
last. But as they have probably been saying these
tilings all along, and likely said them a good deal
more 15 years ago than at present date, it seems
strange that the old man’s conscience slept so
long.
* « * •
Walter Bentley gives a powerful imper-
sonation of the father, chased by limelight and an
avenging conscience as he scuttles round the dark-
ened court, where the voice of the spectral Judge
booms out like the voice of a Presbyterian
minister on a wet Sabbath. The fact that the
spectral court scene drags just a little is not
Bentley’s fault or the playwright’s fault. It is
due to the fact that nujst of the audience have
heard a Presbyterian minister at least once in
their lives, and feel sad when anything recalls the
circumstance. Harry Diver, who looks as if he
had visions of thirty murdered .Jews, continues to
make love as if he didn’t like the business at all.
He is now cast as the young man who hurries home
from his wedding through an overwhelming desire
to talk about murdered Jews to his father-in-law.
Miss Beatrice Dunckley takes the partof Matthias’
wife, and creates an impression in the early part of
the play that she too is worried by Jews or Gen-
tiles or Arabians or something. Both Diver and
Miss Dunckley are worried to a moderate degree
most of the time, while Matthias, whenever the
bells stop ringing and the orchestra starts on the
Dutchman’s dog, is a gay, genial old chap who is
so proud of his cleverness in escaping Justice that
he nearly tells Justice how clever lie has been.
And when we come to think that if Matthias
hadn’t murdered the Jew he would have been
poor and ruined, and would have died of starva-
tion and financial disrepute long before he died of
dreams and visions, and that after all he did get
the money, and his daughter her dowry, the moral
of “The Bells” isn’t such a very large moral
after all.
** * *
The “ Red Riding Hood” pantomime is
still glimmering in all its glory at Her Majesty’s,
and the charming figure of Carrie Moore, in her
neat brown suit, leads her host on to alleged
victory against the wicked Kruger’s golden castle.
Also, the attendance keeps up well despite the
fact that the show is now in its fourth week, and
despite the heat, and even despite the gloomy
tinkle about the mendicant with the lost intelli-
gence.
** # *
The Christmas-card angel child still slips
out of its cloud envelope nightly at the Lyceum.
Also the persecuted heroine, after being starved
and tied up and nearly thrown from a very high
Melbourne Age in an article on the horrors of
Boer misrule, based on a work by J. P. Fitz-
patrick, who was soured by being imprisoned
in Pretoria and heavily fined for his share in
bringing about the Jameson Raid, and who is
now getting level—stales these among many
other things:—
The Transvaal employs in its puhlio service none but
Boers and Germans. In 1880, when the immigration of
Out landers began, the fixed salaries of Government
officials amounted to £51,831. In 1899 their total was no
less than t'1,216,394, or 24 times as much, and is equal to
five times the whole revenue in 1886. This sum, if
equally distributed, would give £4(l per head per annum
to the total Transvaal floer population. The foreigners
naturally pay nearly all the revenue of the Netherlands
Railway Company, whose line is fed by those from Cape-
town, Natal and Delagoa Uav, which is entirely in Ger-
man, Hollander and Boer hands. Its debentures were
issued at 190 155., when loans on the same interest and
security were quoted at over par ; and for whole sections
of the earthworks a Hollander firm was paid £23,500 per
mile, when the market price was under £BOOO per mile.
If the statement that £1,216,394 per annum,
equally distributed among some 70,000 Boers,
would give them £4O per annum each (instead
of about £lB} is a fair sample of the accuracy
of the rest of the story, it is a very wonderful
story. And Fitzpatrick desires to say that
the private Netherlands Railway Co., when
building its own railway, did (apparently out of
malice against the Outlanders) pay away
£23,500 per mile of its own good red money for
work which it could easily have got done for
£SOOO per mile, and threw away thousands and
thousands of its own coin hy selling its own
debentures at far less than it could have got
for them. The machinations of a com-
pany which threw away its cash like this may
be very dark and awful—but they also seem
very foolish. Does any Boer or Dutchman or
German fooi like the sort of man who would
shovel his own cash into the sea in this fashion?
♦
Wonderful sample of logic from the New
Zealand Mail —the same logic, though in
slightly different words, to be found in
nearly every aggressively loyal paper in Aus-
tralasia :
Another class of unpatriotic squawkers go about
abusing Riiodks and Chamberlain as the authors of the
war, and ignorantly tracing the genesis of the Boer’s mili-
tary preparations to the Jameson raid. As a matter of
fact it is notorious that four or five years previous to the
Jameson raid, the Transvaal Government was plotting for
the establishment of a Dutch Republic which would ruls
from the Cape to the Zambesi, and ordering big gunt
from KftUPP’s and the Creusot works. The Boers didn’t
need tieavy siege artillery to beat back the Zulus with;
the guns were bought for the express purpose of being
used against the race with whom they were nominally at
peace.
Of course, the Boers may have schemed for the
establishment of a South African republic before
the outrageous demand that the government of
the Transvaal should be handed over bodily to
the alien population made war inevitable. Or
again, they may not. The humor lies in the
reasons assigned as proof that they did sosoheme.
They laid in a stock of war material in time of
peace—just as Britain, the U.S., Spain, France,
Germany, Australia, and every other coun-
try does. Only the last possibility in the
way of a fool of a country leaves the
procuring of its guns to time of war. The
Boers fortified Pretoria and other towns in
time of peace just as our own people fortified
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington in time of
peace, and just as Britain has built the biggest
ironclad navy in the world in periods of abso-
lute tranquillity. These Boer guns were
bought, therefore, for the express purpose of
being used against a country with which the
Transvaal was then in a state of peace—just as
every ironclad Britain-or any other country
builds, and every gun Britain or Australia or
any other country buys, when there is no war
actually on hand, is intended to be used against
a country with which they just then profess
friendship. It must be so intended if it is
intended for any purpose at all. If it is
seriously laid down that Australia has good
cause to go to war when it finds a country lay-
ing in guns and ammunition in time of peace,
then Australia has got the pleasing prospect of
being morally bound to lick all the world,
itself and Britain included. Especially it
needs to spank the United States, which within
the iast dozen years has committed the above-
mentioned crime in a very large way.
structure, continues not to fall off the pantomine
wire arrangement, though various postern repre-
sent her as dropping from the same and hurtling
through the air in blue tights. Considering that
about every other misfortune had hap|>ened to
her, she might just as well have fallen from that
wire to finish off with.
* # * #
Sydney Palace is still strongly held by the
Russian contingent of eight Newskys, who go on
their way with quaint minor music, gorgeous
dresses, and weird inimitable dances. Eva
Sinclair sings a song about a girl named
Mary Jane Maria. On Saturday night Irving
Sayles gave an allegedly comic song about
when a coon'sits in the Presidential chair, and the
sight of his mouth extended to its full enormous
dimensions so charmed the audience that they
brought him back three times. Fanny St. Clair
sings a rather nice song about what the men in the
stalls say to the girls when they come out through
the stage door, and several other people also sing
more or less pleasantly and dance more or less
lightly on a variable toe. On Saturday (Jan. 20)
the Rickards contingent will march out of the
Palace, and make a determined attack on the
public pocket in the Criterion.
The foregoing poem embodies the simple
fact that Melbourne Alexandra has put the shut-
ters up again after a comparatively gorgeous
season of three weeks. This will leave Melbourne
with exactly two theatres at work—the Royal and
the Bijou. It is a blissful state of things for the
two surviving managements, and they will con-
tinue.to do much the same as on the previous
Saturday. Elsewhere in Melbourne concerts
seem to be cheap and plentiful occasionally, but
the present scribe is avoiding concerts these times
on account of the “Absent-Minded Beggar” and
“Soldiers of the Queen.”
fi Cockney’s ” old enemy gets back on him re
coupons:—
“Coeke.v” on coupons is a cold, proud man, but he
does not establish the superiority of his brand of mind by
displaying his incapacity to appreciate the difference be-
tween the small shopkeeper and the coupon 'blight when
the question of “unprofitable middlemen” is on the
tapis. Nor does he do any good by risinif up dressed in
his brief and arrogant intellect to assume that whoever
doesn’t agree with him is necessarily a small shopkeeper-
Personally I never kept a shop, though probably “Cock,
ney ” did. If he didn’t it was a grievous mistake on his
part. He has got the small shop soul.
“David G.” : Private letters from S.
Africa state that some of the heroes are going
crazy—for one, General Yule, upon whom has
been laid the blame for the Nicholson’s Nek affair.
Perhaps his blundering in that case was the first
symptom of aberration consequent on the strain
of the retreat from Dundee. Are the other blun-
derers, Methuen and Gatacre, in the same condi-
tion ? The cavalry trumpeter who shot the three
Boers at Elandslaagte is also said to have gone off
his head.
This from Melbourne :—
On the night our young Contingent went away
The town was full of loyalty and beer,
And we inarched in broken order to the Play,
With a jingoistic tendency to cheer
At it did not matter what
Sort of Tommy-atkins-rot
We went fairly off our “dot" —
liip-liooray !
New silken bonds were binded
By that Beggar Absent-Minded,
Who has left some little trifles
(Lord, preserve our Mounted Rifles !)
Ami we ne’er thought Britain Greater
Thau she loomed at the the-a-ter
(She do loom at the the-a-ter)
On the night our young Contingent went away.
On the night our young Contingent went away
We stood around the Bijou, at the back :
British valor we were ready to display
Had the Boer been painted otherwise than black.
Had Costello dared to shout —
“ Boers are honest foes and stout ”
We’d have knocked Costello out —
Hip-hooray !
But he fed the “toffs” and rabble
With some motherlandish babble,
And he flashed a sabre shining,
Like a giant who’s been wineing,
Whilst we pictured Orful Slaughter
(Thomas gave them Boers no quarter—
No blessed blooming quarter)—
On the night our young Contingent went away.
On the night our young Contingent went away—
Ah, the memory is bitter to recall—
Little Christopher, the cabin girl so gay,
Warbled “ Something in old England after all.”
Dull and tuneless was the song
As a workhouse dinner gong,
Likewise sixteen furlongs long—
Lack-a-day !
Still our “ patriotic ” feeling
Served to keep us from revealing,
All the anguish which distressed us
Whilst the cabin girl addressed us,
And we glowed with exaltation,
At the ballad’s termination
(For it had a termination)
On the night our young Contingent went away.
On the night our young Contingent went away
The Haleck closed, with profit in the till,
And the amateurs in opera array
Ceased to show us “This” and “That’’ at
Corneville.
They had Saved Our Gracious Queen,
Truly loyal had they been
Passing round the tambourine —
Hip-hooray!
Getting copper, gold and siller
For the absent-minded killer,
And inviting close inspection
As they took up the collection.
All the principals and supers
Prayed a prayer for Price’s troopers
(Trust the girls for loving troopers)
On the night our young Contingent went away.
THE COURTIER'S RETORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why bend the knee to a monarch proud
As he lolls in his kingly seat?
“Not ours ihe fault,” cry the courtier crowd,
“ For kings and peers
Ilave long, long ears
That hang between their feet."
ARISTIPPUS.


Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining l requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield improved .National ltock Drills,
Air Compressors, &0., &c.*
» * • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at bis Kootscray
works, and be is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, lluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabhit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * •
The Local Government Journal (London)
writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society :
“ Travelling along the lines of safety, combining energy
with enterprise, and ability of management with both,
the Society is a certain credit to the world’s financial
centre.”*
* * * *
The Wilfley Concentrator, lately introduced to
Australia by the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., is
meeting with much success, users describing it as by far
the best machine of the day, and the co. is kept busily en-
gaged in turning out machines to keep pace with orders.
The range of adjustment to suit various classes of ores is
such that the machines are being successfully used on tin,
copper, silver and gold ores, and the machines are now
working in all the colonies. The Central Silver Mine,
Broken Hill, after consideration of all existing plants and
careful experiments, have finally adopted them, and arc
now putting them in.*
* • • *
Gilfillau and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
* • * »
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has an
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T.B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Vanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage <sf valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract hv Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere,
506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. nOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYKR OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation trill Twit any Qem Field.
$ ZOLLINER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating. Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOI.I.NER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Pruitt-gt, Sydney.
q Smoke the Latest g?
mm VAN DYCK
CIGARS (SOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
&
G/GA/fS
%
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
t»y
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
NY- Markwald
XI Pitt Street,
Sydney;
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“ Brilliant and St. George C.M. Qo., Charters
Towers, Oct. 4, ’99. About 12 months ago we had our
forges fitted with your Billett’s Patent Tuyeres, and they
have been working continuously ever since and have
given every satisfaction and effected a great saving in
fuel and labor, the fires being always clean. Another
great advantage they possess is that they work without
water, consequently there is no danger of them burning
through neglect. I have great confidence in recommend-
ing them in every instance where forges are used.
(Signed) Jas. Oarroll, Mine-manager.” Write to W. Dew-
hirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of
agents.*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Alpha and Omega : The co. refuses to supply
balance-sheet, hut states that it and the report are
supplied to all shareholders.
* • * *
The nows that Queensland proposes to spend
£2,725,680 of loan money in the present financial year is a
tremendous item. The amount is equal to over £5 per
head of the population. If Victoria blewed its loan
moneys at the same rate it would get through about
£6,000,009 in a year, and N.8.W., on the same basis,
would acquire a new debt of £7,000,000 in one year. As
for Britain, if it went on the burst after this fashion it
would go over £2011,000,000 into debt in 12 months.
Queensland is having a boom Just now, and is not a
little inflated thereat, but it isn’t a boom of real
prosperity. It arises, as almost every Australian
boom does, through larger and wilder borrowing.
Queensland’s comparatively lean years were in 1893-4-5
when loan expenditure was at the raie of some £300,n00
or £400,000 a year. The good times began to come back
about ’97—not when industries improved, or the people
learned to be more self-reliant, or wiser government
pulled the depleted province round—but when the
Government multiplied the borrowings threefold and
began the old, gay, reckless drunk again. Some time,
when the credit of these provinces runs out, as if must
do some day or oilier, Australia will go through 10 or 20
or 30 years of the most abject poverty while learning the
art of self-reliance, and it will be one of the best places in
the world to get out of.
* * • *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co. concluded, on 30th June, 1899, the best year it lias
had for a considerable time. The recent record is as
follows :
30th September, 1895 (15 months) Boss .. £28,393
30th June, 1806 ( 9 ~ ) ~ .. 6.670
30th „ 1897 (12 „ ) „ .. 2.216
30th „ 1898 (12 „ ) „ .. 4,517
30th „ 1899 (12 „ ) IToflt .. 8,109
The following are the gross earnings for same periods ;
1895 .. £254.514 I 1898 .. £190,611
1896 .. 195,194 1899 .. 211,273
1897 .. 231,351 |
The situation is thus very greatly improved, though so
far as the shareholders are concerned the term “ profit "
is somewhat misleading. The N.Z Boan and Mercantile’s
liabilities consist firstly of Prior Bien 4 per cent. Deben-
ture Stock, £1,960,630 ; and Second 4 percent. Debenture
Stock, £500,126. The interest on these must be paid
whether the co. makes a profit or not, and it is after
paying these items of interest that the above-mentioned
profits or losses arise. After these comes the Third 4 per
cenl. Debenture Stock, £375,095. The interest on this is
only payable if earned, but if it is not paid in any year or
series of years, the holders of the stock have no claim for
arrears of interest. In the four years from 1895 to 1898,
no interest was paid on the Third Debenture Stock. In
1895 and ’IXS, a loss of 1 34,063 was made which was
written off capital. In 1897 and ’9B, a further loss of
£6733 was made. The profits of 1899 have paid this off,
and left £1376 as part interest on the Third Debenture
Stock, which now gets a look in for the first time.
» * • *
The results for the year just closed are £12,626
better than those for 1898, which is, at all events, a vast
improvement. When the net earnings improve another
£7OOO, the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile will be able to pay
full interest on all its debenture stocks, and any surplus
over that will be real profit—in a sense. The next
trouble lies in the fact that, at the re-arrangement in ’97,
a very complicated scheme was devised whereby the
£1,042,142 written off capital and £1,448,325 written off
debentures were not wholly extinguished. Instead,
£lO,OOO worth of preference shares were created and
vested in trustees, and the trustees issued £718,303
(nominal value) of certificates to the written-down deben-
ture-holders, and when there are any available profits
after all interest is paid the holders of these certificates
are entitled to 4 per cent, preference dividend and 60 per
cent, of any remaining profits. Also, some more certifi-
cates were issued to the written-down shareholders.
These, at present, dormant claims will absorb so much of
the profits that, on a rough estimate, the net
earnings require to increase by about £50,000 before all
preference interest and dividends can be paid, and the
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile can give its ordinary share-
holders a decent dividend, or start building up a new
reserve fund.
Considering present results and the apparently
improving prospects, there is no reason why the earnings
should not reach that point or even a much higher one.
But the prospects of ordinary shareholders look still very
remote. The reconstruction scheme, which was.drawn
up in London, where all the hideously complicated
financial schemes and devices come from, is too intricate ;
debenture interest is too high ; and it is a clumsy and
aggravating thing to have the corpse of dead-and-gone
debenture-moneys remaining on the premises in this
fashion. When better times come, and assets increase in
value, and the management can assume a more assertive
attitude, it is to be hoped that it will insist on a new and
much simpler arrangement. One essential, when it can
be done, is to greatly increase the ordinary capital. An
ordinary capital of £126,213 is very small as against over
12,800,000 of debenture moneys and other liabilities.
Still the main feature of the case at present is that the
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile has, for this year anyhow,
ceased to go to leeward, and is making some headway
again. If it can continue the improvement everything is
possible in the long run, however long that run may be.
» * * *
The Bank of North Queensland shows a fur-
ther very solid improvement, and gets once more into the
dividend-paying state—where it hasn’t been for seven long
and barren years. The half-year’s profits to 31st Decem-
ber, 1899, are 12700, which compare as follows with pre-
vious profits from December, 1594, onwards :
December, 1894 ..£1674 June, 1898 .. ..£587
June, 1895 .. .. 1736 December, 1898 ..1480
December, 1895 .. 1182 June, 1899 (in'lnd-
Jurie. 1896 .. .. 1703 ing £BBO previ-
December, 1896 .. 1717 ously written off
June, 1897 .. .. 20n3 in error as bad) 2555
December, 1897 .. 1659 December, 1899 ..2700
The profits equal the very handsome figure of £5 Bs. per
cent, per annum on the written-down capital o( £loo,odO,
or 5 3s. 103". per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds (capital, £l<in,ooo ; reserve fund, £4000). Appar-
ently, ton, the profits are all legitimate business earnings.
For the half-year ended 30/6 ’99 the ordinary profits were
£1675, and the other £BBO was really capital previously
written off to cover supposedly bail debts, but afterwards
recovered. This half-year, in the absence of any informa-
tion to the contrary, it would appear that the £2700 is all
legitimate earnings.
The B.N.Q. has .£622 brought from previous
half-year, which makes £3322 available. A dividend at
the rate of 2$ per cent, per annum absorbs £1250 ; divi-
dend-tax thereon, 162 10s. ; an addition of £2OOO is made
to reserve, raising it to £6OOO ; and £0 are carried for-
ward. In the pre-reconstruction days, the reserves stood
at a humble £3000; at that time the Bank of North
Queensland was struggling to pay 5 per cent, dividends,
and taking little heed for the future. If the new policy
of moderate dividends and solid additions to the reserve-
fund is adhered to for a long term of years, there is no
reason why the B.N.Q. should not ultimately reinstate
its £1511,000 lost capital out of profits, and also acquire a
large reserve, and become a vastly better institution
than it ever was before, even at its best—everything
depends on a continuance of the present careful manage-
ment. During the past half-year deposits have increased
£31,000 (from £211,881 to £242,566). Bill circulation has
increased ; and cash has gone up from 190,096 to £132,320.
The latter is equal to close on 40 per cent, on all liabilities
to the public—an enormously solid reserve, and also a
needlessly large sum to keep idle. The B.N.Q. ought to
adopt the good and safe principle of keeping its reserve-
fund in State securities—partly to avoid having so much
coin lying idle and partly because a reserve-fund ought to
be a visible concern and capable of being found at the
shortest notice if wanted.
* • * *
Broken Hill’s exports for ’O9 were valued ab
£2,003,258 ; those for ’9B at £1,728,290. While the latter
were the lowest for the decade the former are higher than
for any year since ’93. The chief items for the last two
years were ;
’9B. ’99.
Bullion „ „ £109.591 nil
Crude Ore .. „ 350,327 .. £306.558
Concentrates 950.587 .. 1,220,171
Slimes .. 21,071 .. 40.572
Zincs 10,151 .. 40,016
It takes a great deal more silver and lead in the nn-
smelted state, especially when contained in refractory
ore, to he worth locally a million than it does when the ore
has been reduced to bullion. Formerly it was almost all
reduced to bullion before export; now none of it is.
Hence, seeing that the local value was greater for’9o than
for years past, the figures mean that the output of silver
and lead was very much greater in ’99 than for years
previously most likely, greater than ever before.
One of the most satisfactory features of the export-state-
ment is the increase in the shipments of slimes and zincs.
When concentration was first adopted these slimes were
absolutely worthless ; between them last year they ac-
counted for nearly £100,0,90. And this notwithstanding
that, large quantities were sold for little more than a song,
while the oo's themselves have only just begun to erect
separate plant for their treatment.
• • * *
The quantity of ore broken in the Broken Hill
mines was approximately two-and-a-half times greater in
1899 than in 1891. Yet in consequence of changed
methods of working—especially the use of surface open-
cuts, thus taking off an enormous vertical pressure from
the underground supports, and more recently the filling
of all depicted parts with refuse—the timber bill has been
reduced at some mines 65 per cent. In 12 months, in
’9l-2, £230,090 worth of timber was stowed away in the
ground (a good pile of it has been smouldering there for
three years). Bast year the total import of timber for all
purposes at Broken Hill was 1 88,762. Still, two or three
of the mines are very wobbly, in spite of the filling-in
with refuse. The Junction and Junction North are worst
off; even Block 19, which has escaped better than any
except Block 14, had a movement underground lately.
* * * *
B.TI. mines emp’oy underground and on surface
6615 men—373s below, 2880 on top. At the coastal smelt-
ing works owned exclusively by the companies 2235 are em-
ployed. The latter works do about 60 per cent, of treat-
ment, B. H. Prop, employs in all 3699 men ; the Central
(Sulphide Corporation), 1250, comes next. In '95 the
total number employed by all oo.’s Was 4290. Bast year’s
“ butcher's hill ” included 15 lives—one of the best aver-
ages for years past. But for accidents which have not
resulted fatally the ambulance waggon has had work to
do every third day on the average. Of the 16 fatal acci-
dents B.U. J’rop. is debited with nine.
» * * •
Last year, Newcastle sent out 2,478,397 tons of
coal (£882,857) against 2.485,394 tons (£846,128) in '9B;
which shows that it was a better year for coal. But
drought and tick spoiled the port’s general returns ; the
fall in gross value of exports was from £1,782,634 to
£1,598,825. Only 2722 cattle were shipped as against
13,521, in ’9B ; 495 tons of frozen cow instead of 1221 tons,
and 140,8161 b. of miscellaneous preserved meats instead
of 239,9351 b. Broken Hill, which keeps a jealous eye on
Newcastle trade returns, gloats over t he fact that its ex-
ports for the year were valued at over two millions, while
its imports (Newcastle’s were £622,563) ran to £1,072.274.
But, then, Newcastle can grow something to feed itself
with, whereas Broken Hill sweats in vain to rear even the
harmless, necessary cabbage. One man did grow seven
woody radishes there once; his water-bill for the crop was
£ll9s. lid.
* * * *
The big increase in the value of diamonds
(Kimberley is too busy to do much mining just now) has
had an effect on the price of other gems ; and this is one
reason why the White Cliffs Opal Co. has thrown open its
blocks to tributors again—2oo were taken on in a hatch a
fortnight ago. Also, the men who were recently dis-
missed, instead of clearing out and making way for new-
chums, as was probable desired, went prospecting on
their own, with the result that some pretty fair dis-
coveries made the co.’s representatives a bit uneasy. For
it would not take a much bigger production to spoil the
market.
* • * •
The total Queensland gold yield for 1899 was
947,6260 z. against 920,0480 z. for 1898—an increase of
27,5780 z. For December, ’99, Charters Towers gave
27,4240 z. against 31,4620 z. for Dee. ’9B—for quartz and
alluvial. Tailings and concentrates for Dec. ’99 gave
28,6180 z. against 21,6340 z. for Dec. ’9B. Croydon is on the
down-grade, returning only 15860 z. from quartz and
4410 z. from tailings against 27650 z. from quartz and 5940 z.
from tailings for same month of previous year. Clermont
alluvial turned out 1121 oz. for Dec. ’99, a decrease of
831 oz. on output for same month of preceding vear.
Gynipie drops from 11,8060 z. (from quartz) and 4220 z.
from tailings in Deo. ’9B to 10,8440 z. (quartz) and 114 oz.
tailings for Dec. ’99. Mt. Morgan figures for Dec. ’99
run 16,3060 z. (quartz) and 6750 z. (tailings) as against
13,1500 z. (quartz) and 3070 z. (tailings) for Dec.’9B. The
total yield for the month of Dec. ’99 was 95,0920 z., an
-increase of 9940 z. on the output for Dec. ’9B.
* * * *
Corio bore, near Cunnamulla (Queensland), was
till lately the largest artesian supply in Australia, giving
C/0 ),000 gals, a day. Longland’s selection (Coongoola,
Q.) has lately eclipsed it with an output of 7,000,000 gals,
per diem. The Cunnamulla district holds the Australian
records for large artesian outputs.
* * * *
Oympie is the toboggan goldfield of Australia ;
and last year it was down in the hollow. The output was
89,831 oz., which is short of the •previous year’s by
14,7050 z. ; it paid £92,916 in divs., which is short of ’9B’s
tally by £48,9.80. But, on the other hand, a few more tons
stone were treated; while calls were almost stationary—
they just topped £123,0U0, leaving the field about 1 30,000
to the bad on the year's work. Still there is a good 'leal
to show for it in the shape of exploration ; and the field
seems to he getting out of the hollow. Though
the quantity of stone treated in Dec. did not rise much
above the average for the year, the yield was 10,7720 z.
against 72510 z. in February, when more stone was milled.
Also, more than' a fourth of the total divs. were paid in
December, though that doesn’t count for much. The
fact that many co.’s are on both the call and div. lists in
the same year shows what ups-and-downs the field has
No. 1 S. Gt. Eastern chased the Scottish Gympie for first
place in '9B ; in ’99 it had to make calls. So the Golden
Pile, which topped the div. list for ’9B with £20,400, (rets
into the call list at the end of '99. No. 2 S. Gt- Eastern
has paid £32,500 from 15,2580*. (7583 tons); South Glan-
mire, 90970 z. from 9051 lons, paid £12,250.
* * •
A Melbourne man sends these cheerful reports :
Mt. Garnet Freehold Smelter Construction making good
progress, and co. should he producing metal within four
months. Mine developments improving. Winze off
north drive in stuff worth ISp.c. copper and 270 z. silver ;
No. 2 north drive in ore worth 4.5 p.c. copper and 3fiozs.
silver; No. 3 rise in oxidised ore, value 11.5 p.c. copper
and 12ozs. silver. Waverley Tin, Ltd. (X.Q.) looks like
being a very big thing. Development of mines excellent,
and very up-to-date reduction plant almost completed.
Co. spent £22,000 last year, but it has a good deal to show
for it.
* • * *
A hardened old mining expert writes: “The
specially favorable reports of the Argos special commis-
sioner and others, re Chillagoe Railway and Mines, were
immediately and invariabb' followed by a down-grade
step in the price of the O. R. and M. scrip. Long before
the present dear money and war brought about the slump
in the general market, Chillagoe R. and M. went back
from about 50s. to 405., and now stand at 255. 6d. The
cause is not far to seek : (1) These 105 miles of railway are
not yet half built, and many independent observers
declare that three years may elapse before the line will
join Cairns wharf with the mines. (2) The underflow of
water in all the mines on the co.’s 3000 a. has now been
proved to be very great, and will require powerful
and expensive machinery to cope with it. (3) The ore
is generally low-grade in the mines so far tried by the co.
And it is already admitted that the labor expenses on the
mines must be unusually heavy. There are £400,000 of
first mortgage debentures and £(500,000 of ordinary shares
—a very large sum to pay dividends upon. The £400.000
first mortgagees get 0 per cent, (at present out of capital).
Of course the stock is strongly held in Melbourne by an
influential crowd, which, aided by London, can do a great
deal in the way of putting up the scrip, liut even the
most influential crowd can’t do everything.
* • • *
A telegram from Kalgoorlie : “The output of
the Associated mine (Kalgoorlie) throws a glaring light on
the failure of the sulphide plant. Though its estimated
capacity is 200 tons daily, only ISOO tons were treated in
the whole of December. Vet the local management swears
the plant is successful. Gorman, who is generally regarded
as an expert, declares that the property is extravagantly
managed, lie found free gold in tailings. A grand
amalgamation scheme of properties in the “ golden mile ”
—the golden square mile, that is—at Kalgoorlie is vaguely
talked tJhput in some quarters. Another thin; that is
talked affiut is a grand revelation of the methods where-
by some big W.A. stocks were supported on the London
market, and ‘sensational revelations are anticipated.’
But Westralia is pretty well hardened in the matter of
revelations.”
• • • •
An olfl mining man writes re the North
Kalgurli mineOn June, ’93, boring experiments com-
menced and were continued to July, ’99, during which
time 490 practical tests were made throughout the 30-acre
block. No block of the same or any size in the Kalgoorlie
field has had so many tests. The average result all round
was 3dwts. and a few grains. Certainly in one spot the
bore revealed loz. 6dwt.., hut this patch was of very
limited extent. The results were sent to London, where
the secret was well kept. The London crowd unloaded
many thousands of the scrip at about 60s. before Adelaide
knew of the utterly hopeless and unpayable quality of the
block. When the news came leisurely across by mail, the
bubble was pricked, scrip tumbled to 355., fluctuated
between that and 20s. during the following two mouths,
and now stands (London Reg.) at 18s.
* • • •
Westralia, await© at last to th© fact that its
handier to dig your coal out of your own hack-yard than
to haul it half round a continent, is putting down half-a-
dozen trial drill-holes, in the hope of striking more coal
measures besides those at Collie. One bore, at Dongarra,
from which much was hoped, has been stopped, after un-
successfully feeling its way to 2112 f- But the Collie
field is large enough to supply all W.A. for many years.
The trouble is that only one mine is really working, and
syndicates are fast asleep on top of the others.
• * • *
A few months ago Tint Bou.ettn said that,
having got across from Maoriland, the dredging boom
would travel up from Vic. through N.S.VV. into Queens-
land, thence to the N. Territory, possibly take a return
ticket to Java, and coming down the Westralian coast
would pull up at Coolgardie—presumably for a drink. It
has had its drink and has gone on to Lake Lefroy, where
Jos. Dunne has taken up three sluicing and dredging
leases on behalf of a Sydney syndicate. Samples of the
stuff have been sent over; and the syndicate will pro-
bably next advertise for a vigorous chaplain to pray for a
sufficient supply of water.
On issued capital no Westralian co. did better
last year than the Brown Hill. At the beginning of 1599
the capital stood at £110,000: then on taking over the
True Blue it was increased to £140,000. Five divs. of 7s.
Gd. were paid during the twelve months, total £228,750,
equal to IG3 per cent, even on the larger capital. But
how many hold their shares on that basis ?
» • * •
There is going to be a fine crop of Westralian
jarrah co. re-constructions in London. One of them, the
impressively-named Jarrah Forests, Ltd., has already
faced the music. Statements disclosed that the sales
had not reached £2500, and even those were not for cash.
* * • *
The Zeehan (Tas.) output for 1809 was worth
£260,000. The town practically supports itself out
of its own ore without the introduction of much
new share capital. Zeehan is much aided, how-
ever, by the foreign ore buyers, and it is likely
to be further indebted to them during the coming
years by reason of the Tasmanian Smelting Works, which
have now in operation a magnificent smelting-plant two
miles from Zeehan. Very few Zeehan mines have been
worked below 250 ft., and the lodes have been regular
from the surface. Low-grade ores, formerly unprofitable
to work, are eagerly snapped up by the Tasmanian Smelt-
ing Works. It is evident to the stranger that Zeehan
do’es with a lot less sleep than the rest of the island.
Also there are 14 pubs, in the township.
* m * •
Hess, the editor of the London Critto, dipped
his pen in gall when he wrote the article, “ The Briseis
Tin Mining Scandal,” on Dec. 2nd. He describes the
flotation by the Venture Corporation as a gross scandal
and directly accuses Philip Fysh, Tasmanian Agent-
general, and Stafford Bird, a present Tasmanian Minister,
of being directly interested in this smellful float. London
Critic points out that the Briseis mine was valued at
£20,000 by the Australian market, and wind was blown
into’ it until the present share capital is £600,000. If Fysh
does not issue a writ against Hess there is sure to be a
fuss raised in the Tasmanian Parliament. By the way,
the Venture Corporation, which floated the Briseis mine,
is an amalgamation of nine “Cat” companies created
during the first VVestralian boom in Loudon.
• • » *
Rather curious to find pa'-s cis quoted to prove
the existence of rich gold on Woodlark Island (New Guinea).
This appeared recently in a perfectly serious paper :
“ The clergy who have passed en route from New Guinea,
and whose evidence could not be controverted, have
declared that there is abundance of gold at Woodlark."
There now 1
* * * *
The latest Continental idea—mostly German,
it seems—is a zinc combine. Rut it hasn't got far yet. Of
a total annual output of 450,000 tons (it varies a good
deal), Germany supplies 140,000 tons, Belgium and the
United States a trifle over 100,000 tons each.
* • * *
The trooping 1 back of men from the Rfind has
brought wages down with a crash in Cornish mines ; as
little as from £2 to £2 10s. per month is being offered.
Some of these men got over £1 a shift in the Transvaal.
• * * •
The Rhodesian grabbers could not even wait till
the Great Plunder War was over to begin their market
tricks. On the commencement of fighting, Rhodesian
Exploration shares were sent from £4 to £7, and Char-
tered Co. shares were boosted till this much-involved
concern had a market-value of nearly 22 millions. The
yarn on which the swindle was worked was a hazy,
non-committal thing, to the effect that the Chartered Co.
was going somehow to make great loot out of the con-
quered Transvaal—method of acquiring loot not specified.
• • • •
Dear Bulletin, —A few facts concerning the
medical arrangements at a certain northern N.S. YV. mine,
of which, for your own information, I give you
the name. 1. It is a law of the mine that every
employ'd contribute to a certain medical association
Is. per week, which is religiously stopped from
the men’s cheques. 2. In the case of arrears of pay the
Is. per week is duly deducted from the wage. A great
hardship. 3. The medical officer of the aforesaid medical
association charges from Bs. to 10s. mileage, when sum-
moned to the mine. 4. A good proportion of the hands
favor a more recently-established association, actually
joining the same or feeing its doctor in case of sickness ;
and in many cases the wives and even children of the
hands pay into the fund out of their own hard-earned
wages. 5. The mine-manager makes a marked man of any-
one favoring the new association. To all the foregoing I,
as medical officer of the newer association, am prepared
to make oath.—Arciiimkdbs.
* * • *
A few years ago a prisoner in one of the big Vio.
gaols was leading partner in an extensive and highly
profitable industry. Being a speedy and skilful book-
keeper, he was attached to the clerical department of the
establishment, and it ultimately fell to him to enter up
the names and particulars of the various prisoners as they
were received. Per medium of a time-expired man, he
managed to communicate his luck to a brother on the
other side of the wall, and the kinsman there and then
entered into a scheme of wholesale remissions for a con-
sideration. On the conviction of a man with well-to-do
relatives, the outside traveller would wait upon the
friends and represent that he could secure a substantial
reduction of the sentence on its being made worth his
while. If ihe required fee were forthcoming, the fact
would tie intimated to the head of the firm by means of a
“ stiff,” and, instead of entering up the sentence as 12
months, lie would write “three months.” The scheme
eventually collapsed owing to one of the Supreme Court
Judges accidentally encountering in the street a man
whom he had sent up for two years only six months pre-
viously. Inquiries were made, and the whole business
was discovered, only to be hushed up to save exposure.
The “ firm ” subsequently boasted that he and his brother
cut up £3OO between them as a result of six months’ work.
* * * *
A swindle invented by a Melbourne man seems
to open up a wide field of enterprise. The gentleman in
question was in the habit of buying a quantity of empty
cases and filling them with road-metal and other weighty
merchandise. They would then be shipped to an adjacent
port as so many cases machinery or boots. The enter-
prising merchant went thither by rail, and hawked round
the bill of lading and invoice—the latter made out by
himself—among the local financiers till he obtained a sub-
stantial advance. The subsequent proceedings concerned
him not. The sweet simplicity of the scheme was its
greatest charm, but the schemer made the mistake of
taking three cases of straw and bricks to a store where he
had already had dealings, and enquiries resulted in his
getting twelve months. His last success was when he
made a rise off a Jewish financier on the bill of lading of
10 boxes of mud and boulders ; but he seems to have had
many other coups to his credit.
, • » •
The smallest letter yet handled by M.L. postal
department was a stamp pasted on a piece of paper its
own size. The address was written oh face of stamp, and
there was a query on back. Pepartment held that stamp
was defaced, and charged another 2d.


A COOL CUSTOMER
ATTIRE.
Washing and Lounge Sacs
and Trousers.
In White or Fawn Khaki ... 14/6
Fancy Flannels, 21/6, 28/6, 32/6, 38, 6
Fancy Flannels (Double-breasted
I Sac) :. 35/
Fancy Stripped Linens 30/-, 35/
Assam Silk 35/-, 40/-
For
Evening Wear.
Dinner Jackets (silk-faced)... 45/-
Black Worsted Trousers ... 21/
Vests.
Fancy and White Duck
5 6, 7/5, 10/6
Fancy and Colored Cashmere
8/6, 10 6, 12 6
Men’s Lounge Sacs.
Black Alpaca 12/6
Colored Alpaca 8/6
China Silk ... 14/6, 18/6, 26/-
White Duck }Linen".. I" 10/6
Russia Crash 10/6
Men’s Trousers.
Fancy Tweeds ... 8/6, 10/6, 12 6
White Serge ... 11/6,12 6,15/6
White Duck ... 5/6, 8/6
7/6
Russia Crash
FIRST QUALITY Ready-made Men’s Orient Suits ... 35/
EXTRA QUALITY Ready-made Men’s Orient Suits ... 407-
SPECIAL QUALITY Ready-made Men’s Orient Suits ... 45/-
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers,
George & Barrack
Streets, Sydney.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
ffiJEfcjjSTiiin
Photographic Merchants,
AGENTS for the
POPULAR
PREMO
CAMERAS
In Price, Grade, and Size, the variety is so extended as to
meet the limits of all.
“ FREITVCOS ” are becoming greatly Popular because they may be used for Indoor
Outdoor, Snapshot, Instantaneous, or for making any kind of Picture.
Prom 255. £2 los, £3, £4, £s los, £6 los, £7, £B, £9 Ids, £lO to £25.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents in Every Colony.
Queensland Branch—34 Queen Street,, Brisbane.
Melbourne Agent—Craven & Co., 179 Collins Street.
SOCIETY
IN TEE GLOAMING.
MR. FIGGINS : “ You angel! Let
me love and protect you all my
life.”
MISS J ONES: “Oh, this is so
sudden. Do not take advan-
tage of my weakness. Please give me time.”
(Then she whispered a little Yes.)
“ J.D.” : Saw a photo, of Tasmania’s
second batch of Boer hunters the other day. It
was taken in the drill-yard, and in the back-
ground of the picture is the monument raised to
the memory of the 21 officers and men of the 99th
Regiment who fell in the Maori War. The official
photographer always leaves that reminder out of
soldier groups taken in Barrack Square. Old and
unpatriotic inhabitants tell a nasty story about it.
The regiment alluded to is alleged to have run
away from the Maoris. A good many soldiers
did, in fact, for the strange tactics of the brown
musketeers and axemen broke up old fossil
Cameron badly. When the stone was erected a
number of Hobart girls (there were lively females
about the Derwent those times) asked permission
to plant some flowers at its base. Permission was
granted, and when the flowers bloomed in the
spring they were pronounced by the Government
botanist to be scarlet runners.
* « * •
The jNf.S. W. Early-Closing Bill has drifted
away from the Maoriland ditto in, at least, one
particular. In N.S.W., you can consume the
penny bun within the sacred precincts of the shop
after 6 o’clock, but you cannot take it away with
you. A fair Maorilandress got out of the diffi-
culty neatly the other day. Told that she could
not take her 6d. worth of pastry home, she said
she would demolish it in the refreshment-room ;
received it on a plate, then deftly slid the con-
tents into her bag, paid, and walked out. The
shop-lady will probably get into dreadful trouble
for not dissecting her, to make quite sure that she
contained the buns ; but that is her own affair.
• * * •
Tallangatta (Vic.) lock-up has just achieved
notoriety. A prisoner was charged with breaking
out of this institution, and pleaded that the break-
ing-out was pure accident; he merely leant up
against the door, and the door being rotten, he
broke through, and fell out of custody, so to
speak, hurting himself in the process. He was
fined a shilling, and will be more careful where
he leans in future. But the Tallangatta lock-up
does not take the cake ; that was awarded to a
lock-up in the Western District many years ago.
One day a remanded prisoner declared in Court :
“Look here; if the constable don’t keep his ’n’s
from breaking in and roosting in the lock-up, he
can get some other prisoner—that’s all! ’’ Even-
tually this lock-up was pushed down by a bullock,
and two prisoners who were damaged in the fall
were subsequently charged with escaping from
lawful custo ly, although they only moved the
nearest hollow tree, it being wet at the time.
* * * »
“Old Jack ” Robertson’s house, “ Clovel-
ly,” at Watson’s Bay, Sydney, is a ghostly ruin
nowadays. It is built high
up from the bay, and backs
almost to the edge of the
precipitous cliffs that over-
hang the Pacific, while the
grounds, once covered with
bamboos and qther trees,
extend nearly to the beach.
Wind and rain and coastal
weather have eaten holes in
the sandstone, and all manner
of promiscuous samples of
climate pipe and moan
through the corridors and
rooms once sacred to the wit
of Dailey and his disciples,
and to the “colonial ’’ philo-
sophy of the host and his
following. The rat, the
cockx-oaeh, and the tarantula
step lightly around where
once wine and a grievous
lack of wisdom reigned. The
back sandstone wall, that
shut out the sea, is papered
with soap and pill advertise-
ments. The spacious grounds,
too, are the spoil of the pic-
nicker, who leaves bones and
corks and cigarette butts and
the fragment of the ’am
sandwich behind him; and
only a post here, and a rail
there, and a little scrap wire
tell of a former fencing.
Sometimes an old inhabi-
tant mentions that this is
Clovelly where “ Old Jack ’’
Robertson lived and died,
but few remember now who
“Old Jack ” was. He and
the loud, lurid, riotous poli-
tical order to which he be-
longed are equally out of
date.
• •
Slab of sociology from
a public library book,
“What Maisie Knew ” : “ Family woman !
There are no family women, hanged if there is.
None of them want any children, hanged if they
do! ”
* * * *
Five different denominations conduct
schools in Sydney for supplying the Chinese with
religion and a knowledge of the English language.
John in the bulk, to do the bulk justice, admits
that it is cheap English he is mainly after, as
“cabbagee” and “ callot ” make a miserable
vocabulary. If he can get the English, a little
religion is not objectionable, provided it’s not
“toomuchee.” Of late some schools have been
supplying “too muchee,” and John has been
transferring his custom to opposition shops. The
denominations are now thinking out some prin-
ciple on which they can combine and so tie him to
a post, as it were.
HISTORICAL.
The while she bent her
dainty head,
Her mouth a mad-
dening mystery.
She told me that her
former kiss
Belonged to ancient His
tory:
But then, my spirits to revive,
She added with demureness sweet—
The time might yet perhaps arrive
When history would itself repeat!
E. Vincent.
Tasmania may not be a very large place,
but it now possesses the biggest postage-stamp in
Australasia. It is too large to lick, but four
people carry it to the waterhole (one at each
corner), and dip it in, and then stick it on. This
extensive tarpaulin is adorned by views of Tas-
manian scenery, and though they are not so well-
executed as the Maoriland scenic stamps, still
they are a decided advance on the. weary alleged
Queen’s head which a loyal public has licked for
so many years. Active and energetic people who
have walked twice round the new stamp in one
day speak rather well of it, in fact. Also a Tas-
maniangentlernan, while walkinground the stamp,
met on the other side of it a brother whom he had
not seen for many years and who was common y
supposed to be dead. This looks like a good omen.
“ Hermes ” : I saw this, the other day, in
George-str- et, Sydney : A pompous gentleman,
in a nice grey suit, white helmet, and three-
penny cigar, was evidently in a hurry, and
lie strode across the street behind a sta-
tionary tram. He was just going to get on
the other line in time to be killed by the
car that was bearing down from the oppo-
site direction. The man on the vegetable-
cart saw the danger, and, with strong
oaths and much friendly curse, abjured
the gent in grey to “look out for the
bloomin’ tram on the other side!” But
he didn’t heed, and strode on. Then
the vegetable man rose to the occasion ;
he grasped about 18 bundles of carrots
and turnips in his capacious paw, and
heaved them straight at the spick-and-
span one. The turnips rattled against his
white helmet, a robust carrot carried away
his cigar, and a varied assortment of greens
pounded him all over and spoilt his collar.
He turned round and flung a withering curse ab
the greensman, and as he did so the tram rushed
by and grazed the end of his moustache. Then he
realised. Next minute he was dragging the man
of greens into the corner pub., and pouring beer
and gratitude into him simultaneously.
In a small western town, an affluent Dane,
by way of celebrating the plum-duff season, flew
the Danish and British flags above his tin roof;
his own country’s ensign being on top. The
accountant of the local bank, where, by the way,
the Dane deposited his cash, in an excess of
loyalty and Christmas goose, climbed the flag-
staff—a clothes-prop—and, hauling the British
color down, left the Danish one proudly floating
in the breeze, surmounted by a certain dishonor-
able utensil. Result: Suspension for three
months of that accountant, pending enquiry into
the gross outrage upon one of the bank’s best
customers. Loyalty doesn’t always pay.
A queer romance of a musical-box. Mr.
Z. once owned, in a
Melb. suburb, a bijou
residence, a pretty
wife —and an excel-
lent musical-box. It
was a fad of his
to set the latter
going during din-
ner every evening.
One day it some-
how got out of
order, and ever
after it would
stop dead in
the very mid-
dle of “Annie
Laurie,” give
two or three
“ whirrs,” and
then go on again
after missing a
“ bar.” Its owner
was always pro-
mising himself to
have this remedied,
but put it off, until
the sudden vanish-
ment of Mrs. Z., who
went off with a friend of
the family, gave him
something else to think
about. The husband long
sought his wife and ven-
geance, but could get
no trace of her. Then,
one evening, threading
a quiet street in a Syd-
ney suburb, he heard
through an open
window a musi-
cal-box tink-
ling out
“Annie
L aurie,”
and stop-
ping short
inthetune
to “whirr”
violently,
just in its
old, old
way! And
, the result
■ was the
storming of
the “gilded
cage ” by an irate
husband, who sent the lost
one into hysterics and duly “ hammered ” the
tertium quid. The transportation of the musical-
box embodies the feminine trait of clinging to
“associations.” . Present writer knows of a
woman who ran away from her husband, and
took a pair of his old slippers with her to her new
home, to, as she said afterwards, “remind her of
John now and then ” !
> » * *
A six-foot Melbourne man capsizes the
other day in Corner Inlet, and was nearly drowned
while trying to swim in five feet of water, till a
small boy on the shore managed to tell him to
walkout. The episode wasn’t so ridiculous as it
looked. Several people have been drowned in
about one yard of water in Albert Park (Mel-
bourne) lagoon. They capsized, and assuming
that the water was bottomless tried to flounder on
the top instead of letting their feet down. Then
their heads went down instead.
A GENTLEMAN THAT FEELS THE
“EARLY CLOSING BILL.”
An agonised man in very old clothes
created a profound sensation in Studley Park,
Melbourne, on New Year’s Day. New Year’s
Day in Melbourne was like a holiday in the Pit,
and an intolerable thirst brooded o’er the face of
Nature. The agonised man in the coat that
looked as if a bomb had burst on its tail was dis-
THE FAIRY GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To-day to a child in tears
You spoke,” said the fairy, “ words so kind
That you shall look back o’er the long gray years
To the bright days far behind.”
And she touched iny heart with her golden wand,
. And she took'my hand in her snow-white hand,
And I lay once more in a cradle-bed,
And the roses swung in the evening wind,
And the moon in the fir-tree tops hung red,
And a swallow crossed on the window-blind,
And mother bent down and I heard her speak
Soft cradle-words as she kissed my cheek—
. . . And I said, “ Oh, Fairy ! the sight is pain,
I would rather the dull gray years again 1”
“ For a simple song that your heart has sped,
For a dainty thought that was deftly versed,
You shall dream again,” the fairy said,
“ And see your love as you saw her first.”
Then she touched my eyes with her rosy wand,
And she took my hand in her snow-white hand,
And I stood by the lilac-bush once more,
And heard the trill of the mating birds,
And watched the beauty her dear face wore,
And heal’d the joy in her whispered words,
And I held her close in my arms and knew
There were only two in the world—we two.
. . . Then I said, “ Oh, Fairy 1 the dream is tears,
Let me keep my grief of the dull gray years I ”
WILL H. OGILYIE.


m
n
mr\
13HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY;
AND AT
Brisbane.
(Importers of §igh-<§lass giamond grnaments.
DIAMONI STARS for use as Pendants, Brooches, or Hair
Ornaments.
DIAMOND CRESCENTS in various shapes and all sizes.
DIAMOND NECKLETS and TIARAS in large variety.
STRINGS OF PEARLS, in the finest quality, from £2O to
£l5OO.
goldsmiths, JEWELLERS, SILVERSMITHS 4 OPTICIANS.
Bracing!
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
wonay s r mm
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magicai
Be WARE OF COLONIAL IMITATIONS.
INSIST ON BUYING “CONDY'S FLUID.
The following name and address should be
at foot of label :
CONDY & MITCHELL. 65. GOSWELL ROAD. LONDON, ENGLAND
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
The Elixir of Life—
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Try it. See that you get
A BEAUTIFUL
ZETZ.*
COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
pi a |_F-S IC K Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC T ->-
*-**--■ SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
..0n...
Mr- Fraok Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Rejjal Chemist.
covered standing on the banks of the river, hold-
ing the end of a long string in his hands, and
raising yells of lamentation and despair. A crowd
gathered, but the man was too excited to explain,
and while he cursed at large the people peered
down into the river in quest of the body, or some
other tangible excuse for this great grief. After
a time, however, the sufferer expound. He was,
it appeared, a desolate man without a friend or a
penny, but half-an-hour earlier a Christian soul
at a picnic had presented him with a bottle of
beer. With unspeakable folly he had fastened a
cord to the bottle and sunk it in the river to cool,
whilst he sat apart and gloated over his thirst.
Then, when he drew up the string (Oh, misery
and Vale of Hinnom !) the bottle was gone. A
crawfish or something had severed the string. At
this stage an excited larrikin began to throw off
his clothes. “Lor’ bless me,” he gasped, I
thort the ole party was on’y snivellin’ erbout his
drownded missus l ” Then he plunged in.
The peace and dignity of*fche second Vic-
torian contingent was somewhat marred by the
attempt of a policeman to arrest one of its mem-
bers, on the ground that he was leaving an
illegitimate child unprovided for, and hadti t com-
plied with the terms of a maintenance order issued
against him. The cop. was informed that a
“ soldier of the Queen ’’ couldn t be arrested or
detained for such reasons, and it appears that the
law is so constructed that he can’t. Therefore the
young Absent-minded Beggar will presumably
have to starve, or go to gaol as a neglected infant,
while the mean old Beggar departs amid the
cheers of his admiring countrymen, as a patriot
tilled with ardour to serve his Queen.
PLEASANT IMAGININGS.
FIRST DEADBEAT: “ What 'd yer say if they
came out an' chucked a hunk of that weddin'
cake at us?”
SECOND DITTO: “ Blime, make a man sing in ’is
sleep! Eh?”
Patriotism is bringing out the cranks in
shoals. The fanatic with a horse to sell has been
out-done in Melbourne by a mechanic who is the
victim of an idea. The mechanic, whose name is
Smith, or something, conceived the idea at the
dead of night, and threw himself out of bed with
a shrill cry. It is the firm belief of oeal specula-
tors and investors that he has never been in bed
since, and will never go to bed again until he has
worried some unhappy capitalist into financing
his astonishing idea. No man who has got
money, or is ever likely to have money, is safe
from Smith, and people who have cash to lend or
invest, and advertise the fact, are his especial vic-
tims ; he haunts their houses, or perches on their
doorsteps, or chases them all day, worrying them
into putting down the capital to enable him to
send a ship-load of wooden legs to South Africa.
That is Smith’s glittering inspiration. He is a
specialist in wooden legs, it seems, and he sees
an insatiable demand for timber limbs looming on
the African horizon, and wants to corner the
market. A man like that is a wet blanket on the
prevailing enthusiasm.
Recent English subscribers to the new
North Queensland Bishopric Fund are sternly
stipulating that they only “part ” on the under-
standing that the fund shall be invested in British
securities. The many misfortunes which have
befallen the investment of ecclesiastical moneys
in Australian mortgages and lamentable Austra-
lian banks to some extent justify this wariness on
the part of donating Bull. But English interest
is lower than Australian, and ,£lO,OOO invested
there would bring in about <£2so or £3OO a year,
whereas the average gaiter-wearer wants at least
£5OO, and £2OOO if he can get it. The difficulty is
thus a sharp one, and if Bull is to be kept in good
giving humor the only way out would seem to be
to demand a <£20,000 endowment for the bishopric.
* * * *
“ Launceston Englishwoman ” writes to
the horrified old Examineu (which had sent her
Kipling’s sixpenny jingle “ on approval ”), return-
ing the “ Absent-minded Beggar ” verses with the
remark:
On behalf not only of myself, but of many of your
readers, I will state that no amount of popular clamor,
no skill in the art of putting things, no plausibility of
statement, no casuistry in argument, will shake our con-
viotion that this is a most unrighteous war—a war of
greed and grab.
The flabbergasted editor nearly had hysterics on
the ink-bottle when the bomb arrived, but, after
mature and prayerful consideration of the circum-
stances, decided to publish the letter with a foot-
note, to the effect that the risk was taken “ purely
out of courtesy.”
• * • •
The case of George Davis, recently fined
various sums at Brighton (Victoria) for assault
and observations, appears rather hard. Davis,
who was said to have had at least one grape in his
hair, was kissing his wife on Brighton Beach rail-
way platform on New Year’s Day. About half
Melbourne kisses the other half’s wife at Brighton
Beach on public holidays, but Davis was doing
something quite out of the usual habit of the
Beach—he was kissing his own wife. They had
been married six years, and so few men kiss their
wives after six years of marriage that Davis shines
out as a vastly better husband than the average.
A porter, who took it for granted that the lady
must be someone else’s wife, ordered him to leave
off—-probably with the offensively moral expres-
sion in his eye that any good porter is bound to
acquire at Brighton Beach —and Davis hit that
porter, or else shoved him. He was fined 30s. ;
which looks rough. Still, it is. less than 200 years
since a man of some wealth arid standing received
50 lashes in a British colony for kissing his
wife in the street ; and in a case when a man
kissed another man’s wife not only did he fall in
but the branding of the lady with a hot iron was
seriously contemp'ated.
• * * *
“ G.P.S.” to The Bulletin :
It is a tough job to combine charity
with “commercial principles.” Recently
an old man paid 6d. for a bed in the Sal-
vation Army’s Sydney “ doss-house.” He
was wet through on going to bed, and
during the night developed acute rheu-
matism. In the morning he could not
stir. Eight o’clock bell rang, but he was
still in bed. “Up you get! ” said one of
the soldiers. “ I can’t move,” the old
man replied. At once he was seized and
put on his feet, only to fall down. Assist-
ance came and he was dressed and carried
or dragged out and dumped in the street.
A passing policeman took the man in a
cab to hospital, where he was admitted.
And yet the Harmy motto, “ For His
Sake,” is inscribed over the portals of this
“ doss-house ” of Moses Booth’s.
< * •
An essay on Melbourne :
The population of Melbourne is Irish—
with a few others. The men are mostly
policemen, wearing white helmets on cold
days, black ones when it is hot. The
girls earn eight shillings a week in fac-
tories till they become ugly enough to
hide behind the pigeon-holes of post-
offices. There they take their revenge on
the men who have not asked them. The
girl dresses in black skirt, blouse and
many-colored hat; in spite of the hat she
is often pretty. The smells of Melbourne,
like other local institutions, have lost
their one-time buoyant strength ; even
the Yarra is losing its reputation. The
Sewerage Board runs neck and neck with
N.S.W. Works Department for the Imbe-
cility Stakes. True, the Chairman is a
poet; but such a bad one that he might
almost be a business man. To assist the
local oculist, laundress, and house-painter
the st reels are wide and straight, allowing
the wind to gather force and sand which-
ever way it blows, and it always does
blow. Men, too small 'for policemen, water the streets
flve limes a day, laving the dust for a full three
minutes. In Bourke-street a gentleman stopped me,
a bright halfpenny in hand, and asked me to make
the amount up to threepence. In Elizabeth-street a lady
desired me to oblige her with the loan of twopence.
Opposite Menzies I was asked the price of a bed ; having
only a cheque-book about me I was forced to decline. A
very friendly people.
The pastor calls his congregation sheep,
meaning no irony thereby, although he knows
“ the cloth ” could nob be
without the fleece.
• *
At the Loretto Con-
vent, Perth, recently, the
prize for “ Christian
Doctrine ” was won by
Ada Cohen. Father
Vbraham l
“ HER GOOD NAME."
MRS. RILEY: “ ’Ere, wot are you standin’ there for? ”
REV. GENT.: “ We are just conversing, madam, and waiting for a friend."
MRS. RILEY: “ Well, jest get. Me ’usband’s at work, and I don’t want to git forked about
’avin’ fellers ’ angin ’ round me ’ouse.”
“ Constance Clyde ” on underpaid women
and what comes of them :
Ellis Ethelmer remarks in Westminster Review that
“ the abolition of prostitution lies in the opening of a free
career to women,” etc., etc. We know all the rest of it,
so many Ellises have been advocating the career cure ever
since careers began to be opened to women a generation
or two ago. The free-career idea works not too wel 1
among the educated ; but when it comes to the badly-
educated, untrained, and unenergetic classes—well, the
Sydney working-man who puts his daughter into a factory
or any man-managed work-room might often just as
well place her in a bagnio at once. It would save time.
In fact it would be better all round, for in the latter
place she might possibly get something in return in the
way of entertainment and ease, whereas in the factory
harem the foreman, as a rule, merely permits her to keep
her position and generously gives her the same wages as
before. The fact that many, if not a majority, of factory
girls don’t worry much over their “fall” does not extenu-
ate circumstances as much as the Pharisee element may
think. Putting aside the conventional stain of illegiti-
macv, the offspring of brutishness and indifference are
not exactly the elements of which the State wants to nnd
itself composed in the not-distant day when Potts Point
la lies have got still more tired of bringing little Regi-
nald into the world than they are at present, and popula-
tion has to depend for its increase on the reproduction of
Bill junior. When the advocates of the free-career sys-
tem’ u-et wearv of investigating the foremen’s harems,
they can watch its operations in swell hotels, where,
for working from 7.30 in the morning till 8 at night, the
smartest waitresses receive 10s. a week. What the in-
ferior Phyllises receive had perhaps better not be stated.
Swagger hotels do not keep their waitresses on the pre-
mise's, and out of their munificent wages the girls have
to provide lodgings and dress, frequently spending half
the nio-ht in starching and ironing, and so forth, the
regulation cuffs, collars, etc. There is a general idea
that the waitress makes a lot by “tips,” but this is not
so For one thing, the he-attendant generally jumps her
claim in this direction ; also the benevolent old gentle-
man who slips half-a-sovereign into a tired waitress s
hand because he has a daughter of his own is a delightful
mvth The proprietors of the swagger hotels in question
pride themselves on the fact that they are providing a -
nice elegant career for young women who have good
homes with their parents and only require a few shillings
per week for pocket money, but that idea is so utterly
bad from every point of view that any person suffer mgr
from it is a greater social danger than a shipload of
Asiatic cholera. There is only one remedy : reduce the
competition by restriction of the hours of labor and the
payment of a minimum wage of f 1 per week. when
that minimum is legislatively insisted upon, the advo-
cates of the “career” cure may at least assume that
their “ cure ” has ceased to do much harm.
Ambiguous advt. from S.M. Herald .
■WANTED, PARTNER, with capital, for alleged
” Cancer Cure.
* » * *
What is she to do 1 Sydney advt.
WANTED, smar,t
GENERAL, no
housework, no shirts,
wages 10s.
The Australian Star, in its issue of 12th
January, published a letter from an “Old Syd-
neyite” in Natal. “Old Sydneyite” got a copy
of The Bulletin and found in it an allusion to
the wild report about the sending of a dynamite-
laden train out from Mafeking, and the incorrect-
ness thereof made him very mad. Of course, the
report was incorrect; it was based on a hopelessly
incorrect cable which appeared in all the Austra-
lian dailies. But evidently the Star and the
other Australian papers don’t circulate so far
away as Natal, so the indignant “ Old Sydneyite ”
didn’t see their legends about that alleged
stupendous blow-up. and how it rained Boer-meat
for miles round, and all the rest. A wiser journal
wouldn’t have given its circulation away like that
—but there was never any sufjerfluous wisdom
about the Castlereagh-street organ.
* * * *
A London clergyman has been fined £2 2s.
for refusing to improve the insanitary arrange-
ments of his slum property. What St. Peter in-
tends to fine him for having slum property at ail
cannot be known as yet. In these provinces the
rents of many of our slurnmiest erections are paid
eventually into the soft white hands of the
Lord’s anointed. One preacher owns some such
fever dens where a family occupies each room.
But he always sends his wife to read the Bible to
the occupants before they peg out, for he is a
good man.
’FLU’.
On reading some Verses by V.J.D., January 6th, 1900.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sadly I think
Of a dear friend slain
By the fatal stink
From a dirty drain.
There are some die old,
Others die young,
Of a wintry cold
On a luckless lung.
Find a grave and fill it,
As soon as you can,
And you leave a billet
For your fellow man.
Bill was a Briton, f
Pete was a Boer,
They went and got smitten
By bullets in war,
And died truly happy,
Enjoying the thought
That they slew t’other chappie
As enemies ought.
Sweet women sorrow,
But sorrow is vain ;
They plant us to-morrow,
And marry again.
Go on with your prating
Of battle plains red.
Aren’t most of us waiting
For shoes of the dead?
Sing with tender cadenza
“Grim war is a curse,”
Whilst I shout “ Influenza
Isathousand times worse!”
Tommy Atkins in clover
Scorns sentiment sham.
Bard, get ye run over
One day by a tram.
BERLUD.
SEAGULLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shveds the winds have torn
From the wave-tops creamy,
Lashing them with scorn,
Sipping with love dreamy,
Till unloosed they swing
Forth on sentient wing,
Each a living soul
With a heavenly goal !
Yet for all their gain
Ever sea-ward tending,
For their cradle fain
And that croon unending ;
Longing to forego
Aspiration’s throe,
And to rock distressed
Consciousness to rest !
M. A. ROBERTSON.


CORSETS ..
QCiilt oo Aoatoipical Pri9ciplcs,
(iakiOS do? allowance for tb€ flat, tigbt-
fittiog Styles Dow 19 yogGe,
Arc to b? obtaiped at
foy’S.
Tb?y allow anjplc breatbipg roonj, aod give
tbs corr??t b*P C<it at 90 sacrifice of conjfort
or Sbapefi9?ss.
ff£TURG
PM
co
srarm
All Drapers Everywhere.
Atcherlcy Sc Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., S} T dney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ _ Sydney, January 15, 1900.
Mr Draw Mvee.—
His Ex. is in town again after his Norfolk Island
tr.p, wearing a big white chip hat with a dent at
the top. I his, especially when worn in a carriage,
has a friendly look that appeals to a democratic
citv such as Sydney. And Mr. R. R. Wise is also
with us onc-e more, looking brown and “tit” as if
he were going to win that mile at Oxford all over
again.
Some hundreds of noses have lately been pressed
to theglasscases in which Gov. Beauchamp has been
exhibiting some of his family treasures at the Art
Gallery. The Persian swords, pistols, and other
cutlery are interesting enough, but what really
nxes the public eye are the snuff-boxes with paint-
ings of l)e Montes pan, Peg Woffington, Nell
Gwynn, very much in deshabille, and other char-
acters of dubious morality.
At Rosehill, on Saturday, there were all too
many lovely dresses. To dress for Rosehill is like
going decolletee toa launch picnic, or wearing your
diamond tiara at breakfast. Otherwi.se one might
have admired the glorious scintillating black Cup-
frock of a pretty slender bookie’s wife—mind you,
that second epithet belongs to the second substan-
tive. It was a mass of black paillettes, en
polonaise, ending in fluffy black flounces. Last
years Fairy Queeu sported a snappy tan lace
frock over tan silk, and hair that isn’t what it
didn t used to be before it began to be somewhat
different. Miss Inez lleususan brought out some
brilliant coloring in a nasturtium silk shirt, cream
alpaca skirt, and toque of yellow straw and
nasturtiums.
'i alking of the Fairy Queen about two breaths
ago, reminds me how that variety is changing
latterly. For instance, Cecil Knglehart is playing
3*airy in this years pantomime. No fair little
golden-haired fairy, with gleaming, rounded
limbs, and a dazzling skin. The newest kind is
tall, thin, clean cut. and quite black-haired, hand-
some and elegant, but not in the least ethereal, or
floating, or all the rest of the stage-fairy we have
been brought up to adore. Miss Knglehart’s
raiment isu t tulle skirts either, anil gold stars.
She wears a little white drapery, and a lot of
matter-of-fact green ferns —not even flimsy maiden-
hair, hut sturdy wide-leaved things that you
wouldn't stoop to pick up in the bush.
“ Tess of the I) Urlieip illes ” had a great recep-
tion at on Saturday, with Edith Crane
as less, Kingston as Angel Clare, and Tyrone
Power (Miss Crane’s husband), as Alee R'Urber-
ville. Setting aside preconceived notions of Tess,
as Hardy wrote of her and the imagination pic-
tured her, Edith Crane is a most lovely-looking
heroine, tenderly dressed, arid carrying into every
detail an element of tenderness that well accounts
for the huge bursts of enthusiasm on Saturday
night. J
Tess made her entree in a simple, shortish white
cotton frock, with her red-gold hair rippling down
her back, and a realistically awkward way of
holding her hands. 1 didn’t like the pinched-in
look of her waist in this frock, but that was the
one and only flaw I found in Tess all through the
play. In her wedding frock, with the red-gold
hair still rippling, and a white veil flying airily
backwards from the top of her head, and her face
made up with a sort of soft delicate pallor, Miss
Crane looks lovely enough to satisfy even a
woman. The wedding gown was white satin made
with elbow sleeves and drooping lace, and a lace
flounce all round the skirt. In the last act, when
Tess is in lodgings with Alec-, she wears a loose
white robe with laces and ribbons suggested but
almost hidden under a violet-colored tea-gown,
and hanging sleeves showing white silk linings.
By a simple trick, Edith Crane is suddenly
transformed into a startling image of Mrs. Potter
while wearing this violet tea gown. She murders
Alec, comes hack, throws a red cloak round her
shoulders, and begins stupidly to brush her hair.
She brushes it over on one side, low down on her
forehead, and 10, she might he the lovely Brown-
Potter—the drape of the red cloak helping out the
vivid likeness, for the Potter had a genius for
throwing a cloak round her shoulders.
Linda Raymond’s milkmaid sets quite a
different complexion on anything the fair Linda
has done previously. She is made up dark, wears
coal-black hair parted smoothly on one side, and
carries her heavy rustic person about with slap-
dash nonchalance. Up till now Miss Raymond
has always suffered from over-acting, but here she
gets a part that lets her out to the last tether, as
it were, and her wonderful, hilarious laugh and
slouchy movements are clever in the extreme.
She only gets one frock—in the wedding scene—a
red-and-wliite cambric with a scarlet sash round
her waist, and rows of scarlet ribbon on top of
two scarlet-edged flounces. Then there is Rose
Musgrove as a boy ill witli fever. Rose’s excited
entrances and exits run to jerkiness.
“Tess ” is a play where the humor is grim (not
as grim as you might expect, though), and the
only part where the d.c. really rolled about in its
cushioned seats to any considerable extent was
when the shapeless mass that called itself Toss’s
mamma, after having in vain expostulated with
her daughter not to tell about “ the babby ” —the
other man’s babby— to lover No. 2, clinches her
argument with—“Oi didn't tell moi husband all
that Oi did before Oi wedded him.” The idea
that this hideous conglomeration of ancient
womanhood could, by any possibility, have had
anything to tell him, evidently h'it the d.c. in a
humorous spot.
Kingston’s way of playing Angel is a matter of
opinion. There was a gloomy man in the d.c. on
Saturday who objected to it vaguely. “Angel!’’
he, in a loud voice, “is no gentleman. Tie
don t dress like a gentleman, don't laugh like
a . ” a friend kicked his shins just here, and
kicked him silent. Sitting next to him was a well-
known medico who answers to the.same seraphic
name, wearing a bloodthirsty look in Ins eye.
Is it the very latest theatre fashion? It hap-
pens at the Royal and Her Majesty's nightly, I
believe. The attendants go round between the
first and second acts with pretty wicker baskets,
in green leaves. They stop before every “she,”
and hold out the basket. A bottle of scent is the
gracious gift that jewelled, freckled and plain
white fingers draw from that mystic fair}’-basket.
Not bad scent, mind you—Mr. Williamson is too
g°«d a manager for that. He considers the
lilies, otherwise the men, who are- not takiu’ any
scent, thank you, and are therefore able to find
remarks if a combination of violets and hair-oil
starts up from the black net ladies of their party.
“The Absent-Minded Beggar’’has a share in
every entertainment going nowadays. The other
night a man sang it for the first, time in Sydney,
as far as a man is concerned, and diplomatically
sent round the hat afterwards. This was at tho
first of the Civic Concerts ; the warbler was
a son of Israel, Mr. Abe Hollander, and his one
appeal brought in something like fifty pounds.
Holly Vane draws about ten pounds a night at
Her Majesty's, and 1 hear that Harry Rickards
and daughter Noni are preparing a patriotic burst.
By the way, 1 have not been able to sample
those civic concerts yet, but hear, on good autho-
rity, that they are likely to have much success.
Popular music, low prices, long programmes,
plenty of encore. Consequence, big houses. Phil
Newbury prepared the public steadily for nine
months, until the end of his Pops left Sydney with
the impression that a Saturday night concert
filled a long-felt want. Mayor Harris is the chief
mover behind the Civics, and, as in Newbury's
concerts, budding talent is allowed a chance to
burst out amongst really blooming artists.
Some of the “war notes” make puzzling read-
ing. Certain ladies are busy preparing “warm
wraps for our troops at the front,” and what are
the “drawn thread squares for hospital use?”
Ho these well-meaning ladies think wounded
swaddles are served with all the frill of home
nursing, fir do they expect the nurses to go into
camp with a medicine-bottle in one hand and a
flat-iron in the other?
In frigid Dunedin, by the way, war fever seems
to rage hottest. Every woman is urging her
Tonald to the war (which looks as if she were
getting a little tired of Tonald). and is thereupon
greatly praised for her heroism in risking the life
of somebody else. In Sydney the fever is less
universal, though I did hear of a rising young
Sydneyite in a good position who insists on
leaving liis newly-wedded bride (the bride is not
heroic, by the way) in order to be shot by
the Boers. Probably he knows what he deserves.
Another woman lias chained her husband up
in the backyard, and, whenever he expresses his
desire to he blown up by the Dutch guns, gratifies
him (so far as concerns the blowing-up) without
guns.
Couldn’t someone write a patriotic hymn
which would drop the metaphor which repre-
sents Britain as a decrepit parent and these
provinces as frisky kiddies round her aged
knees ? “ Motherland ” has a fearful bleat about it.
Why not “ Dadaland ” once for all ? It was quite
refreshing to behold in a morning contemporary a
reprint of an old song, in which the-author—or
authoress, was it? —affectionately addressed the
Ancient One as “ Old Hound ” ; and that writer
meant well, too.
The Early Closing Bill, like Providence, works
in a mysterious way, and we never know where it
is going to go until it gets there. On the
eve of its adoption a certain draper got his
employes in a row, and informed them in a
bland tone of voice that now they had got the half-
holiday they must take the consequences, and the
consequences were that, as shorter hours meant
less trade, he must make up the deficiency by
taking ss. per week and here and there 10s.
from the wages all round. He added that
this was what workers must expect who in-
sisted upon—ahem—reforms, not that he cared
one wav or the other —not in the slightest, far
from it—he was glad, very glad indeed, that they
had got what they wanted, and lie hoped they
would appreciate the boon ; he didn’t mind either
way. Meanwhile another draper, who hitherto
lias closed only two nights a week, found that the
crowding of his general trade into a less space of
time led to the necessity for more assistants, hearing
which the bulk of Draper No. l’s reduced employes
deserted bodily to Draper No. 2. The consequence
was that an erstwhile bland draper, with his
hair on end and his smile all out of curl, had to
tear round the town endeavoring to entice
assistants to his empty shop with bribes of larger
wages than he paid even before that fatal day,
wlumi he stood his stall in a row and docked them
all round.
While on the subject of fairies. T suppose, Myee,
my dear, you don’t need to be told that the house-
hold kind is making things very hot and miserable
for householders just now. In fact, what are ser-
vants coming to? I know a mistress who gives
her maid every single holiday from after breakfast
till 10 at nigiit. One day she had to reprimand:
“Mary Jane,” says she, “you have received the
best treatment possible from me. Have I not
given yon every holiday and stayed at home my-
self to do the work ? ” “ No, yon haven't—you
never give me the day the Gov’nor come,” says
Mary .lane, with the injured air of one who has
been suffering from suppressed insult for about
nine months.
In one of Sydney’s crack restaurants they
utilise bunny to fill the place of chooky when
c-hooky runs short. The proportion is apparently
four-parts rodent to one of poultry, and it is great
fun to see some fat dowager picking the hind leg
of a rabbit sind remarking to her companion that
this winy has such a lot of nice tender meat on it.
I saw a Kaffir purse the other day. It is of
leather, looks like a dog-collar, and fastens round
the wrist, the money being enclosed in a well-
covered aperture. If the result of the Transvaal
war is to bring the Kaffir purse into fashion among
our much-robbed female friends, then the blood of
hundreds has not been spilt in vain.
Apropos of mothers-in-law—rather irrelevantly
it may seem to you, but let that pass— a strange
story is going the rounds concerning one. A
Northern man was engaged to a Sydney girl. All
went merrily. They fixed their wedding day.
She got her trousseau. A few weeks before the
wedding he sent down a list of the people he
wanted asked to the wedding, including some of
his relations, and the best man, who was also a
Bananalander.
The day before the nuptials, he came down to
Sydney, bringing his best man with him. If you
have ever been the best man anywhere, you will
know it isn't as good as it sounds, so please
remember that this one came all the way from
Northern Q. to see his friend through the ordeal.
They put up at the Australia, and the bridegroom
rushed off to his bride-elect’s house. By and bye,
she showed him a list of the guests. Running his
eye through he said, “ Halloa, where’s Harry
Jones? 1 iidn't you send his invitation ?” ‘“No,”
said the bride sweetly, • “Not send the best man
a card ! ” " Oh, but we’re not having him for best
man ’’said the bride, just as sweetly, “Mother
doesn't like him. so wo got, M illie Smith instead.”
By then the bridegroom had looked all down-the
list anil had made the discovery that none of his
people were on it; his relatives, his friends, even
his best man, all were missing. He demanded an
explanation. She said her mother said there
wouldn't be room. He swore, lie said, “If mv
friends are not good enough for you, 1 'in not good
enough,” ami rushed wildly away.
Later on the same evening's note came from the
mother-in-law. She said, “Hear Mr. Dash, as
you object to my poor, dear girl choosing the best
man for her own wedding, the ceremony will not
proceed, and the engagement is now broken off.”
And off it was. In deep wrath the bridegroom
and best man went back to tjuecnsland. and if
ever either attempt matrimony again, the bride
must produce her mother’s burial-certificate first.
Speaking of voices, do you ever notice the effect
temperature bason inflections and enunciations?
I observe that with a moist north-east wind every-
one says “ What a'diiay—it makes me tii-ahed ! ”
1 was at a house on a north-east wind day lately,
and people were calling. 1 heard twenty women
give their names to the maid, and not one of them
could say “ Mrs.” so that you couldn’t mistake
the word. One said “Miss,” one said “ Mirrs,”
one called herself “Mids Mills,” one “Midsey.”
There wasn't one who didn't trip up languidly
over the consonants. They were all too enervated
to open their mouths.
Then on a west-wind day, vowels shorten
amazingly, and you hear more talk around you.
The slothful Australian tongue is able to get
nearer the English rattle when t he wind blows dry
and dust-laden. And when the wind c omes from
tlie solitli, and it’s summer-time, a tendency to
shout makes itself manifest. Everyone says
“ good-day ” in more or less of a shout, and the
unspeakable whispers that characterise us in rail-
way carriages and steamers are chased away by
clear fearless speech that only endures, alas, till
the next change of weather.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Governor Brassey was distinctly a back-num-
ber at the gaudy, tawdry ceremonial attendant
upon the departure of the second Contingent at
Melbourne on Saturday. The Contingent waited
in the dust and heat at the outer gate of Govern-
ment House for ‘ ’in, and ’er,’ and had a very bad
time with the Hies. Brassey, as usual, was behind
time (presumably he was inside falling off), and
meanwhile Tout Price was the idol of the mob.
Colonel Price is now a large, heavy, flnshed-look-
ing man who sits Ins horse like a butcher or a
large duff. Soldierly bearing he lias not, but, like
his father, he has the soldier’s face ; and during
the ceremony before the gates lie preserved the
pose of the man of blood and iron very well. The
Contingent looked young and raw ; the sun had
got at it during these last few days, and it was
freckled, and blistered, and weary. ‘ The boys ’
couldn’t march a little bit. and looked extremely
mixed in breadth and length, a company of bits
and pieces. But the average was all right—very
much over and above the ordinary run of
Tommies. The question is—do soldiers go by
averages. If you get two seven-foot soldiers and
a four-footer in the same line, the average size is
six feet right enough, but that method of reckon-
ing doesn't took right somehow.
“Although the Brasseys were a very small ele-
ment m the procession they were allowed to go
first. The real pageant came behind. The heretic
at the auto da Je always came somewhere far back
in the procession, anil unimportant persons who
weren t going to be burned had the empty honors
in the van. There was little cheering—the small
boy in Melbourne is the only person who cheers
much; but the crowd made a good dual of noise,
and the shrill plaint of the squeezed female was
thankfully accepted by the departing Brassey as a
compliment of some sort, and the Excellency
bared his venerable head, and salaamed all the way
to the pier. After a mile or two of this, one recog-
nised the need of a man in dungaree with an oil-
can to lubricate the vice-regal bearings. Some-
thing that sounded like a little extra enthusiasm
Opposite the Castlomaine Brewery brought his Ex.
to his feet for a sweeping reverence. Alas ! he
was bowing to a dog-fight.
“It was Colonel Tom Trice’s great occasion.
All the genuine demonstration was showered upon
the bulky man on the foaming steed ; and the
attentions of the hysterical ladies were all for
him. There are always ladies who, on occasions
like this, must hug something or faint in the dust.
The colonel, being mounted, was spared the kisses
of the irresponsible miss, but now and then an
excited heroine broke through the police, and
pressed his boots to her heart. One girl, stylishly
dressed and nice to look upon, fought vigorously
with a policeifian who denied her access to her
hero —fought viciously, too, and ruined her pretty
clothes inthestrnggle. All this adulation told upon
Colonel Tom. He started out with excellent in-
tentions, and maintained a Napoleonic calm for a
few hundred yards, but it deserted him at a
critical juncture, and he never regained his
stoicism. When lie emerged from the city vid
Queen’s Bridge lie was fairly drunk with success,
sitting awry on his steed, brandishing his arms
and responding to the demonstrations of the fickle
multitude with the extravagant delight of a small
boy on a baby tear. So far as Melbourne was
concerned for the time-being, Colonel Tom Fire-
low Brice was the central figure in the great
patriotic enterprise, and it is not surprising that
he was temporarily knocked out by all this honor
and glory at the hands of a people who, a few
years back, greeted him with the humble substance
that you fry along with ham.
“Malcolm M'Eacharn, the recently-knighted
Mayor, is now the acknowledged king of high-
collared and low-bodiced Victorian society. Maul-
colm and his ‘ boliny, golden-haired leddy ’ gave
a garden-party at their residence, ‘Goathland,’
on Thursday afternoon. The shivoo was for the
joint purpose of bidding good-bye to the Brasseys
and meeting the members of the Australasian
Association for the Advancement of Science, at
present conferencing in Melb. As there were no
introductions the visitors had some difficulty at
first in knowing which were the scientists, but as
soon as the refreshment tents were opened, all
doubtupon the point vanished. The men with
ill-fitting collars and unkempt hair who had been
standing round the ground gazing into vacancy or
holding frivolous discussions upon the glacial
period of Australia, came back from space and up
out of the strat i of a past age, and immediately
hastened for the liquid part of the refreshments.
Scientific discussions are always dry. When the
Australasian Science Association had advanced
and retired, the ladies and non-scientists had an
opportunity of going in at the ‘ wreck of matter ’
whilst the professors were in the garden
firing geological dust into each other. One
eminent visitor who had been talking
fossils in the intervals between the whiskies
got so saturated with science and Scotch
that lie saw blue megatheriums and pink-spotted
plesiosauri all through Thursday night, and on
]• riday morning had to use a shoe-horn to get
his hat on to enable him to attend the session at
the University. This statement isn't true, but I
invented it to get a chance to show that I knew
the names of the above-mentioned animals.
“Sinalkmn McEaehain had dainty programmes
for his guests at the farewell given to the Old Man
of the Sea. On the back was printed a picture of
the Sunbeam with, at the bottom, a verse from
Burns, and at the top a verse from the doggerelist,
Clement Scott. MeKacliarn, who is not a reading
man. probably quoted it because he thought the
author Scotch. The lines were :
Farewell, l>ut net good -I we, remember well
Though fate may sever, time can still restore.
In so far as this expressed a hope for Brassey’s
return, it was a cruel atrocity.
“A Collins-street art milliner, shimmering in
grey voile and silver trappings, made the sp’ashie&t
splash in the way of summer raiment at the Mel-
bourne Mayoral .garden-party. The two chippy
daughters of the Hon. J. Pratt were another con-
spicuous couple who switched mod sh and snaky
skirts over the emerald lawn. From the dnllcrowd
of dowds and science-sifters, two or three other
women shone like hike lights on a dusky road.
One of the brightest was the comfortable spouse
of a Flinders-street cotton-merchant, and another
the wife of a suburban draper.
“Archbishop Carr as the guest.of distinction
was sandwiched in 'between Cady Brassey and
Lady M’Eacharn, at the Farewell Conversazione
at the Town Hall, on Friday, and shone with all
the lustre of his purple robes, till Colonel Tom Price
popped in and set the patriotic fires aglow again.
'I hen the large purple figure suffered extinction.
There were quite a number of the doth at the
Conversazione with a Christian look in the eye,
and a gold cross on the watch chain.
“ Town Clerk Clayton's attitude was pro-
foundly ’umble as he stood to attention after
serving the address to the Mayor, and listened to
the pearls of patriotism ; but when Lord Brassey
turned on steam, and droned forth the noble senti-
ments of an—aw—alt—a deeply grateful heart,
the ’umble attitude grew lowlier, the little bead
dropped on the little chest, and the official almost
apologised for breathing.
“Mrs. Justice Holroyd’s ample proportions,
decked in a slate-colored, large-fiowered brocade,
made that literary lady an object of serious regard
at the Conversazione. In the afternoon, during
the Address at Govt. House, Mrs. Holroyd, who
handed. Lady Brassey a boat of flowers —probably
a miniature ‘Sunbeam’ —on behalf of the
Alliance Francaise, was the only self-possessed
presentor. She spoke calmly, eloquently, and yet
with great feeling. Mrs. McEacharn shook like
an aspen leaf when making an address on behalf
of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, and towards the end her. voice had sunk
to a tremulous whisper.
“A Melbourne paper is responsible for the
statement that Lady Halle possesses a real
Stradivarius, presented to her by the Duke of
Edinburgh. It sounds an incredible tale, as the
aforesaid Duke was more noted for borrowing
valuable instruments, than for returning them or
giving them awav. When in Melbourne long ago,
a Guarnerius violin was lent to him, and it re-
mains in that lent condition to this day. Also,
the bitter contention about a ceitain wash-bill is
not quite forgotten even now.
(Continued on pnqe 2R).


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUHTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturer*
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is LEADENHALL-ST., LONDON.
•
Sole Agent for
Australasia:
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS.
4.—Mothers and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk.
Delicate men and women who have weak lungs,
to be hale, robust, and healthy, should use Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all
men who have to be exposed to the bleak uncer-
tainty of our trying climate should fortify them-
selves before they face their daily toil with Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and they can then brave the
fury of the elements with equanimity. The writer
speaks from personal experience and from obser-
vation of beneficial effects on others. Tea opens
the pores and temporarily excites, coffee stimulates
the action of the heart, whilst Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa gives strength, stamina, and builds up and
strengthens the lung tissues. It is indeed a won-
derful food beverage. Nothing has ever been dis-
covered that can approaoh it in giving lightness
of heart, joy of life, fleetness of foot, and that
general feeling of comfort which only comes from
a full capaoity to enjoy every pleasure, moral,
intellectual, and physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibble=’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
send to any reader (a post card will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa. *
Pure blood is essential to
good health.
Drink ZETZ-SPA WATER,
and you will have long life.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTUY.
LEVER BROS, ltd,, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“The pig-headed blasphemer.”— London
Police Budget on Paul Kruger.
Edmund Barton is 51 on Jan. 18. It
is 29 years since he was called to the Bar, and
20 since he first entered Parliament.
Generals Roberts, Kitchener, Wolseley and
Cornelius Clery are all Irish. Ireland’s two great
crops are potatoes and British generals.
“ H.” : Pastor Fitchett has got born
vol. I. of the four in which he will commemorate
“ How England Saved Europe.” Infant doing
well so far.
Robert Johnston, of Singleton (N.S. W.)
died the other day, allegedly aged 103. Said to
have been born in London, St. Patrick's Day, 1796;
arrived in Sydney 1811.
M.L.A. Ashton has already refused two
portfolios in N.S.W. Ministries. He declined
one from G. H. Reid, and it transpires that W. J.
Lyne offered him Lands before the burly Hassall
gripped the office.
S.A. Premier Holder, who is so thin that
he has frequently been collected by bone merchants
in mistake, has lately been frightening horses in
Adelaide streets by riding a bicycle. Holder says
he rides for pleasure, and has no intention of
“training down ” for racing purposes.
The famous phrase “ Peace with honour ”
doesn’t seem to have been Disraeli’s own, after
all. Pitt used it in 1793 ; and, before him, Burke,
in 1775 ; and, long before Burke again, Sir Robert
Cecil, in 1598. And probably Joshua used it
before that, when he suppressed the Hittites.
Father Clery, first parish priest of One-
hunga (M.L.) is brother of General Clery com-
manding under Buller in S. Africa. In the
original scheme Clery the priest was intended for
the army, and Clery the soldier for the church,
but things became mixed somehow in the wash.
The Rev. F. B. Boyce, temperance con-
troversialist and beer-enumerator, who has
been on a visit to London, is expected back in
Sydney. Owing to his absence the annual
anguished letter showing that N.S.W. consumed
500 billipn pints of beer in ’99 hasn’t appeared
yet. /'
In the political life of N.S.W., the late
Parkes was the lightest departmental worker,
and the present “Works” O’Sullivan is the most
laborious. Parkes worked like a windmill.
O’Sullivan works like two engines of an ocean
liner going in opposite directions and getting
nowhere.
The retiring Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat,
has had bad financial luck while filling the gaiters
in the city of many statues. His income has been
a failing quantity these many years. From an
estimated <£2ooo it sank to a reality of £lOOO,
dwindling to =£7oo, £5OO and of late to a little
over £3OO. He was one time fairly wealthy, but
the investments panned out badly and now he can
be described as almost apostolic. But a rector-
ship at £BOO a year yawns for him in England.
John Cockburn, the Radical who went to
London as S.A. Agent-General, and was recently
knighted, is now a fine tailor’s advt. When
Cockburn led S.A. Democrats he dressed shabbily,
and invariably wanted a hair-cut. He is now a
portly person with waxed moustache, fashionable
frook-coat with silk facings, and immaculate Bond-
fa treet pants. They all go the same road. When
ex-Agent-General Tom Playford, ex - market
gardener, returned to Adelaide, he shocked his
old friends by appearing in “ spats.”
THE DANGER SIGNAL.
LINE-REPAJRER: "Get off the line! The up-thrain ’ll be
down in a minute, and ye’ll be run over.”
TRAMP (with face like the rising sun): “No fear I The driver would be color-blind if he
couldn’t see me!”
Major Murray, of the Irish Rifles, bound
for the war, is a son of one-time N.S.W. Speaker
Murray, and an all-round sort of practitioner.
He is an Oxford graduate, a prize-shot, an expert
swordsman, a skilled boxer, a noted footballer, a
parliamentary draftsman, a barrister, a Crown
Prosecutor and a married man. Also he is
6ft. 4in. long.
S. A. Joseph, who died lately in Syd-
ney, is to be commemorated by a pulpit built
of copper, brass and bronze, in the Great
Synagogue, in Elizabeth-street. Mr. Joseph was
in latter years better known as a merchant than as
a legislator. As far back as 18G4 he represented
West Sydney in the Leg. Assembly, and was
M.L.C. for many years.
“Melb.”: Joy, the Man who Seems to
have Gone Away, used to be in partnership, as an
accountant, with one Peace. The firm was Peace
and Joy. Forty years ago Melb. had two
auctioneers named Alfred Bliss and Alfred Joy.
They were for a brief time partners. That firm
was Bliss and Joy. There is much sympathy
with Mrs. Joy, left with seven children. She is
daughter of the late Rev. G. Mackie, an eminent
Presbyterian.
Monsignor Maguire, of Cork (Ireland),
who died in London last month, was in 1874
appointed first R.C. Bishop of Beiidigo by Pope
Pius IX., but the fact did not become known in
Australia _ till he was dead, and Dr. Crane, the
present Bishop, had celebrated his silver jubilee.
When Father Maguire heard he was made a
bishop he fled at once to Rome, and begged the
Pope to spare him—and he was spared.
“ Miles” : My notion is that the British
leaders are far too much on the Old Side. Napo-
leon, 46 at Waterloo, was too old, and Wellington,
the same age, said it wouldn’t do for him to have
been older. Grant said a man was not much good
as a general at 50. Of course a Moltke is the ex-
ception that proves the rule, making darkness
visible. Kaiser Wilhelm gives nearly all his
generals the run at about 50. Caesar and Crom-
well used to be regarded as quite old for generals.
J. A. Cook, secretary of S.A. Shearers’
Union ever since there has been a Shearers’ Union,
has kept a record of big shearing-tallies reported
to him, or of which he could hear on reliable
authority (and naturally he could hear of most, if
not all). Hero is Cook’s list of ringers among
ringers:—Jack Howe, Northampton Downs (Q.),
319 in one day—l4so that week ; Jack Reid,
Nocoleche (N.S.W.), 225 hoggets in eight hours;
Ted MTnnes, 222 in 7f hours—this at Mt. Ryan,
S.A. 111-health compels Cook’s retirement from
an office in which he has done much good work
and made little fuss about it.
Premier John Forrest convincing Melb.
Akgus that he is a devoted and hard-working
Federalist:—
Only the other day I joined heartily with the other
colonies in sending troops in the same steamer to South
Africa. Of course, I would have sent them under any
circumstances, but it show's that I am not opposed to
federal action, as it has been sought to make out.
Now, if Bigjohn would have sent these troops
under any circumstances (even under the circum-
stance of being a bitter anti-Federalist), bow
does the sending of these troops prove that Big-
john is a Federalist ?
Henry Cox well, the English aeronaut,
dead since last week, was simply an active and
well-advertised disciple of Charles Green, who had
the distinction of being the first man to inflate a
balloon with coal gas (1821), forty years subse-
quent to the introduction of hydrogen-gas balloon-
ing in France. All that Coxwell knew about the
scientific sport he learned from Green. A dentist
by profession, he was pulling teeth at Edmonton,
a rural suburb of London, when the present scribe
came under his forceps. Coxwell didn’t pretend
to be more than a showman aeronaut at the outset,
and for some time he travelled heavenwards under
the alias of “Mr. Wells.” Like his friend Green,
he lived to be an octogenarian—the result of fre-
quent changes of air.
Notwithstanding all the fuss made by the
social inner ring in Melbourne when their pet
poodle, Colonel Bingham, was passed over and
Major-General Downes made commandant, mili-
tary men are now saying- that the appointment
has justified itself splendidly. Downes has been
attending personally to the contingent business ;
his more be-medalled predecessor, Smith, left
matters to Hoad, and reserved himself for inspec-
tions and cocked-hat displays.
“David G.” replies:—
“ Halle ” (8., 6/1/1900) discusses Wolseley’s reputation.
Wolseley has had no reputation to speak of since Hamley
told in Blackwood the true story of Tel-el-Kebir. Wol-
seley and his claque said Hamley, to whose handling- of
his division the victory, such as it was, was due, was
“ insubordinate,” and so he was, for he said his superior
officer s report was a pack of lies. They did not venture
to try Hamley for his insubordination, or even to contra-
dict his statements. Wolseley and the claque pocketed
the affront and did nothing, for the sufficient reason that
even the general of the Ist Division supported Haroley.
When one officer and gentleman allows another to give
him the lie direct without resenting it, his reputation is
gone for good.
Bishop Salvado, Abbot of New Norcia
(W.A.), who goes to Rome after half a ceuti y
of the mitre, carries
hosts of droll stories
about his early experi-
ences with the natives,
and, it is said, he in-
tends most of them
to see print. All early
Australian ecclesias-
tics, save the most
humorless, are loaded
with native stories.
Even the solemnest
bishop in Maorilaud
tells how he went
ashore there for the
first time with all
canonicals on and
crozier in hand to
awe the natives and
consecrate the new
land. But the natives
stripped him naked
and took turns at
wearing his robes, and amicably prodded each
other with the crozier. The bishop says he kicked
hardest when they started to take his trousers off,
but like the rest be let them go.
“ Lady ” Sarah Wilson, the female war
correspondent who fell into the hands of the
Boers, and was “exchanged ” for a horse-thief, is
daughter-in-law of Samuel Wilson, who intro-
duced salmon to Victoria, and built the Wilson
Hall at Melbourne University. University Hall
and the other haul that Salmon Wilson made—
his title—cost him .£30,000 ; all made out of
scoured and greasy. Wilson went home and took
Disraeli’s house, and married his son to Sally
Churchill (Randolph’s sister) ; and now the value
of the young woman is assessed at the price of a
horse-thief.
An Elizabeth-st. (Melbourne) watchmaker
to a local pressman : “You know old B ”
—mentioning a well-known politician—“ queer
sort, ain’t he ? He came wandering in here the
other afternoon ; stood for a couple of minutes
staring abstractedly at the clock, then put a letter
down on the counter, and drifted out again.
Looking at the letter, I saw it was stamped and
addressed to somebody in Ballarat, so I ran after
him, and returned it. ‘ Haven’t you made a
mistake,’ I said; ‘you left this on my counter ? ’
‘ Eh, what, what?’ lie grunted in a vague sort of
way. Then he woke up. ‘ Good God ! ’ he
gasped, clapping 1 1 is hand on his pocket, ‘l’ve
posted my watch ! ’ This man voted for sending
the Contingent to Africa, and probably he doesn’t
know yet that he did it.
Winston Churchill on General Kitchener,
now at the Transvaal war.
The General, who never spared himself, cared little for
others. He treated all men like machines-from the pri-
vate soldiers, whose salutes he disdained, to the superior
officers he rigidly controlled. The comrade who had
served with him and under him for many years in peace
and peril was flung aside incontinently as soon as he
ceased to be of use. The Sirdar only looked to the sol-
diers who could march and fight. The wounded Egyp-
tian, and latterly the wounded British soldier, did not
excite his interest, and of all the departments of his army
the one neglected was that connected with the care of the
sick and injured. The lamentable episode of the Mahdi’s
tomb has already been noticed. The stern and unpitying
spirit of the commander was communicated to his troops,
and the victories which marked the progress of the Kiver
War were accompanied by acts of brutality not always
justified by the hard customs of savage warfare.
The hard-jawed man’s brutal methods attracted
comparatively little attention in a black man’s
war among the obscurities of the Upper Nile,
though even there stories about the wholesale
slaughter of the enemy’s wounded leaked out un-
pleasantly. But if, by any chance, Kitchener gets
full scope for his barbaric proceedings in a war
between white races, he is liable to do something
that will make the hair of the British conscience
stand on end.
A return placed before V ictorian Leg.
Assembly shows that Chief Justice Madden, the
garrulous, still continues to break the record, so
far as available evidence goes, as the very worst
lawyer on the Supreme Court bench. The return
shows the number and the result of appeals in
civil cases from each of the judges from Jan Ist,
1896, to Sept. 30th, 1899. Chief Justice, allowed
20, dismissed 15; Williams, allowed 3, dismissed
9 ; Holroyd, allowed 8, dismissed 14 ; A’Beckett,
allowed 9, dismissed 19; Hodges, allowed 11,
dismissed 14 ; Hood, allowed 9, dismissed 16. A
similar return for the County Court judges for
same period gives the following figures: Moles-
worth, allowed 2, dismissed 1; Chomley, allowed
4, dismissed 5 ; Hamilton, allowed 5, dismissed 6;
Casey, allowed 6, dismissed 5; Gaunt, allowed 2,
dismissed 5. Two things are especially noticeable
about these figures. In the Supreme Court the
two most talkative judges, Madden and Hodges,
are most frequently wrong in their decisions
according to the wisdom of the Full Court; and
the law of the County Court men compares very
favorably with that of the judges of the Superior
Courts, several of whom never lose an opportunity
of sneering at their County Court brethren. It
would be a good thing if such a return were pub-
lished every year.
Reverend Thornton, the departing Bishop of
Ballarat, brutally called “ Turkeylegs ” by the base
and unregenerate for his want of visible support,
has been constantly cadging for 15 years for his
local Anglican Cathedral, a very unfinished edifice,
with a fine crop of hay growing over the founda-
tion. On one occasion the good bishop tried to
work a point with the Ballarat Council, and ad-
vanced the claims of the cathedral for municipal
assistance. The scheme was shattered by one
brutally outspoken city father : ‘ ‘Who is this man,
Thornton,” he asked the meeting, “ with his
‘my lord ’ here and his ‘my lord ’ there ? Call
him a man ! I’ve seen better men made out of tea-
leaves.” This ribald language broke up the
scheme, and the grass still grows and the goats still
amble on the foundations of the good man’s
cathedral. Thornton, by the way, always claimed
to be called “my lord.” Anybody who called
him “Dr. Thornton” or “Bishop” was instantly
withered. As a matter of fact, no bishop is a lord
in Australia, and it is to be hoped they will all
remain that way. It was outside the office of the
Ballarat Star one day that a small boy was stand-
ing disconsolately in front of a carriage. “Well,
nay little man,” said a kindly bystander, “ are you
looking for anybody! ” The youngster drew his
three’feet up imperiously. “My father is the
Lord Bishop of Ballarat,” he announced, “ and I
am not P erm h te d to speak to strangers.”
“ E.” : The Rev. Aminadab Sleek of the
Serious Family has a couple of worthy descendants
in Victorian Premier Allan M‘Lean and ex-Pre-
n m .1 r 1
miei George Turner. Both these careful adm
strators of the public purse decline to allow any
pension to old Robert Russell. Russell is the
man who laid out the streets of Melbourne ; he is
now 94 years of age, and, with his wife, is living
in straightened circumstances in Richmond.
«Kl Turner's ohjwtion to smootWng the
few years more likely months of the lite ot
SAME OLD TALE.
SWELL (to jeweller): "Have you any — haw! —
temporary wedding-rings?”
the old pioneer is that to give him a pension would
be to create a precedent, and cause the appearance
of a host of similar claimants ! These eminent
politicians are apparently under the impression
that Melbourne is “shtifE” with pioneers of 94
years of age who laid out the city in the thirties.
Aminadab Sleek, be it remembered, refused to
subscribe for a man who had fallen from a ladder
and broken his leg, the sadness of the affair being
increased by the fact that the man had a wife and
family. “If I were to subscribe to this,” said
Aminadab, “I should be putting a premium on
accidents, and we should have no end of men with
no end of wives and families falling from no end
of ladders and breaking no end of legs.”
Dr. Shields, the Vic. Govt, medical officer,
who showed up in the Melb. boot-trunk affair,
has been testifying in courts for 30 years, and has
hardly ever been known to give a really under-
standable answer yet. A few weeks back, city-
coroner Candler became so exasperated that he
threatened to commit Shields to his own gaol for
prevarication, but, remembering in time the wit-
ness’s confused habit of mind and his inability to
say yes or no without 16 reservations, he wisely
abstained. It is 25 years since Candler first en-
countered Shields. A lunatic was being inquested
at Sunbury, and Shields was giving formal and
unimportant evidence. The coroner asked for
some information and received about two columns
of cautious and profoundly learned yes-no.
Candler’s struggles to disentangle it only made it
into four columns. At last, Candler told Shields
to tell his story his own way, and took it down
word for word. At the end of the first sentence
he read the evidence to the witness. “ Ah, weel,”
said Shields, “ thot is not exactly what ah ean-
tended to convey,” and he went on to an explana-
tion that covered three pages of foolscap. The
coroner then read the first sentence of the explana-
tion, and the witness found again that this was
not exactly right, and he proceeded to explain his
explanation. Candler wrote until his hand tired,
and then desperately flung Shields the pen and
paper, and told him to write his evidence. He
tried and tried again, and at last, after correcting
and recorreoting, and tearing up several reams of
paper, he confessed his inability. He had spent
so many years trying not to say anything he
wasn’t quite sure about that he had lost the art of
saying anything, or being sure of anything.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
WOLFES
'SddVK/HDS
The Favorite and Best Summer Drink -n
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
Look for
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriglnalities.
H. J. M‘Cooey on an abstruse point :
Re snakes. In answer to “ D.J.” (8., 30/12/’99), let me
say that the generic distinctions between the rock snake
(Liasis childreni, Krefit) and the carpet snakes {Morelia
variegata, Gunther) are simply these :—ln Liasis the
lower labial shields are deeply pitted ; in Morelia the
anterior upper labial shields are pitted. Also, in M.
variegata the entire dorsal surface is beautifully varie-
gated ; whereas L. childreni is, in general color, dark
olive green. Again, M. variegata never attains a
greater length than 13ft. ; whereas L. childreni may
attain to a length of 24ft. In re distinctions between the
carpet and the diamond snakes. There is in reality no
specific difference between M. variegata and M. spilotes.
They both work out the same, and are anatomically iden-
tical. M. spilotes is spotted all over ; and appears to
non-experts to be a different and distinct species ; but
mere color-markings are absolutely worthless in the de-
termination of a species. In one word, Morelia spilotes
is not a valid species. It is simply M. var. variegata.
* * * *
“P.”: The bush-teacher’s lot. When
State-school teaching in Wagga district some
years back I had to board with a boundary-rider.
Bedroom 7xsft. ; earthen floor. Walls covered
with dirty hessian ; tin wash-bowl on stump out-
side ; junk of home-made soap in sardine-tin
tacked to wall ; broken pocket-mirror nailed on
ditto three feet from floor. Crib overrun with
mice ; had to turn out straw mattrass every day,
and remove dead mice overlain on previous
night. Mutton three times a day (1095 times
a year). Mrs. Boundary-Rider caught me one
day eating bread and butter and honey, and made
.such a fuss that it finished me : I started to
“ batch ” in the school.
OUT WEST.
THE ARTIST: “Now, there’s a glorious sunset”
THE COCKY : “ Thunder, man, what’s the good of
it? Look at the glorious grass !”
Dear Bulletin.— The luck of drunks and
children. I remember, when a youngster in Tas-
mania, in company with a younger brother,
killing (as we thought) a big black snake. We
carried it about a mile and a-half to the railway
line and put it across the rails for the next train
to run over. Went away a hundred yards or so
to bring the old man so that he coidd see train
going over snake; returned to find no snake. - No
train had passed in the meantime. Of course, since
then, I have seen snakes appear and disappear
more suddenly even than this, but they have
generally been bright green and red —not black.—
W.H.D.
“ lota R” : Be ’possum as a diet : —
In some localities—as in belar forest—it is not only
good to eat, but is an actual delicacy. Where the animal
is eucalyptus-fed, however, the flesh is unpalatable.
When writer was prospecting once at Billy’s Look Out.
Fresh meat was all but uhobtaihable, so we were driven to
tackle’possum and even cable to relish it, as a change
from salt beef. Best way is to dress a ’possum as soon as
killed, plucking off the fur, which then parts easily. Re-
move the “innards” and replace with crumbled bread
and sliced onions.; then roast or bake. It is noticeable
that, whereas aboriginals skin eucalyptus - feeding
possums, the belar forest denizens are invariably
plucked for roasting. The skin retains the juices, and
the flavor is superior to rabbit. Next to the bandicoot
and the belar-forest ’possum, as an Australian dainty,
comes the spiny ant-eater, which must be scalded to re-
move the hair and quills. Baked, the thick skin gives a
delicate “crackling," like that of sucking-pig, and the
flesh tastes like a combination of goose and “sucker."
Personal experience, all this.
* * • •
A correspondent from the way-back :
Concerning the paling-splitter’s youngster, pictured in
a recent Bulletin, who rushed in terror to his mother on
catching sight, for the first time, of “something like
father.” This is the true-bill of a five-year-old child who
was lately similarly terrified by a smart shower of rain :
The youngster had been taken to Adelaide from a selec-
tion in the Lower Darling back-country, in far-western
N.S.W. He was born the latter part of ’94. Next year,
the total rain-register by the nearest gauge was 7’3in.,
spread over about 60 drizzles. Next year, under 6in.
was recorded, also in about 60 dewfalls. Then '97
was worse—under sJin. Ninety-eight was a good year;
B%in. fell, mostly in February ; but the family had been
dried out (there was not a drop of water on the selection),
and had gone to Adelaide, where there was no rain at
that time. In ’99, the record was s£in. ; and the family
had to leave again. This time, a heavy rain-shower fell
while they were in Adelaide—the first that this five-year-
old Australian boy had ever seen, and he howled with
terror and crawled under the bed. And still some people
wonder why the Australian isn’t a fleshier, juicier sort of
person.
* • * •
“JO.” : In London at last. I stood at the
door of my aunt’s legacy—a baker’s shop. Two
Unkempt urchins with brcoms in hands gazed in
at the window, and presently No. 1 came inside.
“Ha’penny currint starver.” I gave him the
roll and took the coin. He shared his loaf with
No. 2, who, filling his mouth, grabbed the rest from
No. 1 and levanted. No. 1 then came back cry-
ing, and said “ Yer’s a brown; giv us another, and
put it down me back.” He bent his head to my
vest. “ Down furder,” he said, as I pushed it down
his spine. “Down furder. He won’t get this
one !” he remarked as I pushed it farther. His
eyes thanked me, and he ran out smiling. Pre-
sently, No. 2 came back. “ Hi, Mister, look at
your chain.” It was broken and the watch gone.
With an oath I cleared after No. 1. When I
returned alone, No. 2 had stolen the cash till. I
am back in Australia, and shearing again.
* * * *
“ Courant ” : lie those mysterious rum-
blings heard in Tas. Once in ’B3, at Gordon
Downs (Q.), on a calm night everybody heard
noises as of a stampede of iron tanks ; but we
afterwards found that it was the time of the great
Krakatoa earthquake in the Sunda Straits.
* * * *
“ Fab.” : Any of your readers know why
insular cats have tail-failure? Most people know
of the taillessness of Manx-cats, but it will be new
to many that Japanese and East Indian cats are
mostly caudally deformed. Australia is an island,
but its cats are all right so far. How small has
the island to be before it injuriously affects the
cat’s tail ?
• * * •
Two stockmen, proceeding along the sea-
beach in Richmond River district recently, saw
an unusual sight. A native dog
was in hot pursuit of a kangaroo,
when the latter took to the sea, the
dingo following. The battle lasted
for some time, when the onlookers
disturbed the chase, and the animals
returned through the heavy breakers
and were captured. Another proof
that the ’roo can swim.
• • *
A yarn is told of a newly-
imported British officer who com-
manded a regiment marching in
Bechuanaland. The day was hot
and the transport oxen were toiling
along at a slow walk, with their
tongues hanging out, straining at
the heavy, sand-checked waggons.
The officer was thirsty, and very
anxious to reach the next “spruit,”
so he wmnt up to the conductor—
there is a white Cape natiue to
every six colored bullock drivers—
and said “ Conductaw, carn’t you
make those cows trot? ”
* * *
“Eller” : Once saw a tom-tit
become entangled in a large spider’s
web. It took the insect about 15min.
to kill the bird.
* * •
“ S.S.” : The bullocky was
yoking up, and we were deeply in-
terested in the peculiar conduct of a
large red bullock, who pushed him-
self in out of place, and made
obvious and most extraordinary
efforts to be harnessed up next the
polers. The bullocky drove him to
his proper position in the lead, and
then offered explanations. “That’s the dashed-
est old heifer you ever saw. Get onto his
game ? I alwuz have the same trouble with
him, an’ he goes out fer sausages fust deal I can
do. Why does he want to git on early ? Well
he’s cuter en you, seemin’ly. He discovered
more’n a year ago that if he’s yoked up in the
middle of the team anywhere, the other bullocks
have ter haul him along, but if he’s put in thelead
he has to walk fer himself. Cunnin’ ?
. And lazy ! ! ” And he
went slowly down the road, cursing the red bul-
lock with the enthusiasm of an artist.
* * *
A N.S. W. country storekeeper with a con-
siderable Chinese clientele received a commission
to buy in Sydney a copper joss for some slant-
eyed customers. He wrote to a crony in Sydney
re idol and received this reply: “What do they
want a copper joss for? Thought you were a
little tin god up there.”
THE SMALL BOY’S SCORN.
JACOB: “P. er, please, mein son.”
YOUTH: “G.[?] less lip and I’ll sell you one; I
ain’t no bl min’ ’Ebrew.”
A very bashful johnnie took a couple of
lively girls for a row on the Hawkesbury the other
afternoon. When in a secluded spot one of the
twain, turning to her companion, enquired,
“ What say to a dip ? ” “ Delightful ! ” was the
response. Both began to disrobe, Johnny mean-
while looking for a friendly volcano wherein to
hide his blushes. But when the girls had shed
their raiment, and went over the side of the boat
in most proper bathing dresses—which they had
donned prior to putting on their outdoor cos-
tumes, his composure returned. It had been a
preconcerted plan to pull Johnny’s leg, and he
having a telescopic leg, it pulled beautifully. (The
Bulletin prints this story, but admits that it
doesn’t hang together well. The question is, how
did the young ladies get their wet bathing-dresses
off and their dry clothes on when they came out.
Johnny must have pulled their combined leg then.)
Dear Bulletin. — Be snakes, here is some-
thing that occurred within my own knowledge to
one of our largest genera (Lias is childreni) on the
Darling Downs, in the spring of 1898. A 19ft. 6in.
specimen, evidently ravenously hungry, found a
newly-dropped dead lamb and swallowed it.
Proceeding onwards he saw another newly-born
lamb just inside a seven-wire fence, and putting
as much of himself through the fence as the bulge
in him caused by the first lamb would allow, he
swallowed it also. After that he found himself in
a difficulty, his head and one lamb being on
Yalboombah run, and his tail and the other lamb
at Callangatta, and neither lamb would go
through. So he settled down to wait on both
these pastoral properties till One or both animals
digested. He was found still digesting by
“ Crooked Mick,” boundary-rider on Callangatta,
and handed over to me. Though the lambs could
not have been swallowed longer than 24 hours,
yet they were in an advanced state and swarming
with intestinal snake-worms. The digestive
gastric juices of snakes are marvellously active in
their action—much more so, I imagine, than in
the carnivora, or even in the pig.—H. J. M‘Cooky.
* • * *
“ Kitty,” one of the last of the Dandaloo
blacks, died recently, and was attended (or rather
dragged) to her last resting-place on a shallow de-
pression, and covered over with loose gravel by
her late lord and master, “Jimmie.” Subsequent
rains, however, undid much of his handiwork, and
the boundary-rider found the body exposed a few
days after. He called to Jimmie as he passed :
“ I say, Jimmie, you better bury Kitty some
more ; rain alonga hill wash her out.” To which
Jimmy replied briefly : “ Ugh ! too much hot,”
and disappeared over a ridge. The body remains
unburied. Query : Is the casualness of the white
Australian an inheritance from the black Aus-
tralian who preceded him ? In other words, is
the casual microbe in the air of this country ?
Bull- voiced Salvarmy captain to a young
Swede farm-hand : “Won’t you help me to labor
in the Lord’s vineyard?” “No, dank you,” was
the ingenuous reply— “l got a yob al-
retty ! ”
* ♦ * *
“Xerxes ” : Whatever cobras and
pythons can do, Australian snakes do not
jump. What they do is to throw them-
selves swiftly backward to their full
length, so that a person standing
3ft. to the rear of the tip of a
4ft. snake’s tail would be just
nicely in range. As to pace —
there is a thin brown snake with
a diamond-shaped head in Queens-
land that could easily give
“ C.F.’s ” python 50yds. in a hundred
and a licking.
* * * *
“Pelican ” : Be butcher-birds :
“ W.H.F.” (B. 9/8,’99) is absurdly wrbnsr with
his 11 varieties. There are certainly not more
than two in Australia, and as to white-chinned,
and so on, one might-as well make innumerable
varieties of Englishmen according to slight hair
and complexion differences. The head of the
b.b. family is the crow, with pale-blue or white
eyes, essentially a carrion eater. [No ; the crow
does not belong to the Lanidae.j The kurra-
wong (red eyes) will eat flesh, but is a “ whale ”
on fruit, while the “ magpie ” or piping crow eats
meat, but prefers insects and worms. Butcher
birds of both varieties have the same menu as
the magpie, but are more pugnacious and cruel.
They take delight in killing canaries or other pet
birds when they can get at them, and will tackle any-
thing from an eagle hawk downwards, if found sus-
piciously near b.b.’s family residence.
“ A.A.A.” : Pitiable to think of the
agonies some cattle endure through ingrowing
horns—caused generally through their having
been knocked out of place in the animal’s younger
days. Many times I’ve sawn off horns which
were growing into the side of the face. Saw a
bullock once that had starved to death through
having one of his horns grow down into his
mouth ; the end had been partly chewed away,
until it became too tough for the poor brute’s
ja_ws. Recently, I discovered a bullock’s skull
with a horn that had grown through the nostril,
and out at the back of the mouth.
• * * •
“ Wooli ” ; Can any bush-naturalist ex-
plain why the grey crane always builds its nest in
close proximity to that of a hawk ? The crane
here (Clarence River) is always noticed to choose
such a position, though I cannot say if it has the
same habit elsewhere.
ENOUGH'S AS GOOD AS A FEAST.
C ONSTABLE: “ Now, then, O’Hafferty, you won't
be satisfied till you yet yourself into trouble
again. Moind ye, Oim not sayin’ there's
any harm in a dhrink or two, but , wid you,
it’s one more, and one more, till the last one
does the mischief.”
O’RAFFERTY : “Faith, that's roight, constable;
Oi’ll knock off jist before Oi take the last
wan.”
Dear Bulletin.— ln re ‘ ‘Kangaroo Dick’s”
inquiries as to treatment of dogs when tick-'
poisoned (8., 30/12/’99). I have found hypoder-
mic injections of strychnine effective and life-
saving on several occasions; also injections of
hydrochloral of morphia. In the absence of either
of these, I know of nothing better than continu-
ous submersion in cold water, or cold shower
baths. The cure, however, is to render the dog
immune by attaching ticks to it, beginning with
one, and increasing the number until the dog
suffers no ill-effects from any number of tick-
bites. Dr. Martin, Sydney University, has
further demonstrated that the serum obtained
from an animal rendered immune is an infallible
cure for snake-bite when used as an injection.
But Dr. Martin has not discovered this remedy,
for the late brilliant snake-man, Gunther, in his
“Snakes of British India,” informed the world
half a century ago that the Hindoos of British
India rendered themselves immune in a precisely
similar manner.—H. J. M'Cooey. P.S.—Some
few months ago, on the Darling Downs, a bright
little girl of five years old had a bottle-tick
fastened on to her for only about three hours, and
although it was removed and turpentine and
kerosene applied to the injured part, she died in
great agony the same night, 14 hours after being
bitten.—H.J.M. s
THE POETS OF AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
they are rising in endless numbers
From ways that are wide and lone,
Dream-eyed with the fire that slumbers
And feeds on the heart, unknown ;
Deep-souled, but with lips grown scornful,
And shallow to careless eyes,
With hearts that are tender—mournful
Those cynical writers rise.
From realms of a restless roaming,
From creeks where the camp-fires glow,
From flash of the waters foaming,
From plains where the night-winds blow ;
From, dreams of a mighty longing
To deeds of a sordid world,
From the memories softly thronging
To lips that are grimly curled.
By shadow and star, in sadness,
By dusk and the lonely moon,
By moan of the midnight madness,
By calm of the deep mid-noon ;
Pale-browed o’er their sun-brown faces,
Hard-handed and soft of heart,
All reckless, the squadron paces,
And each in his soul apart.
And what are the hopes they cherish ?
And what are the dreams they dream
When cynical seornings perish,
And lawless the lovelights gleam ?
Bent low o’er the sweat-stained bridle
They ride, with a careless hold ;
Each with his broken idol,
Each with his dream untold.
WILL. M. FLEMINE.
TWO DIGGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two diggers from the Dargo
Went upon a blazing spree,
And looked upon the liquor
Rather long and lustily.
And after drying up the town
Commenced to paint it red ;
Then they started home when moral-
Minded folk were all in bed.
A scrub the town surrounded,
And the night was coaly black.
They were awhile confounded,
But anon they struck a track.
Their minds were sort of muddled
’Tween the liquor and the gloom,
And all the night they scooted
Like ghosts scooting to the tomb.
But at the birth of daylight
Their language burnt the trees,
For in the softened grey light
The facts they found were these—
The town were still beside them
And in their homeward flight
They’d been racing like two demons
Round a puddler all the night.
BEN SUN.


Aclvt. from the Standard, published at
Wanna in bool (Vie.) where the mealy potatoes
grow :
Warrnambool Detachment
WESTERN ARTILLERY.
FAREWELL TO OUR BOYS.
TV/TEMBERS of the Detachment are requested to
" LV - L Meet at the Orderly Room at 7.45 This Evening.
Uniform —Waist Belts Only.
W. T. M'GEE, Lieut.,
Commanding Warrnambool Detachment Western
Artillery.
And the advt. of this shameless exhibition “in the
nood ” —for a “ waistbelt only” is so very little
clothes that it is practically no clothes at all—is
headed “Amusements.” There was a time when
men with waistbelts only would be run in at
Warrnambool. Now they are requested by public
advt. to come together in that state. The demor-
alising effect of Contingents !
For Bilght, Inflammation, Granulation and
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S.W. Agents wanted.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teet' or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
DIAMONDS
Guineas
20
We bought in large quantities before the late enormous rise in the price—caused
by the Transvaal war.
We are now offering Diamond Jewellery at much less than London Prices.
We show the loose stones if desired.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS,
VIGE-JtEGAL JEWEL.!.ERS,
HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
Lever Bros, Ltd., manufacturers of Sun-
light Soap, have forwarded an advance copy of
the Sunlight Almanac for 1900, which contains
valuable information for all, and is freely illus-
trated. Among the subjects dealt with may be
mentioned the “ World’s Harvest Calender,”
“ The Housing of the People,” “A Guide to Good
and Pure Pood,” “Home Millinery,” &c. The
almanac, which contains 128 p., may be obtained
by forwarding 2d. in stamps (cost of postage) to
Lever Bros. Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George-
street, Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
<3i£, per H , /*•<-« hi/ pout thro a// ho at,
A list fill ill.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’la'id.
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
ARTHUR DAVIS (“Steele Rudd.")
Photo, by Poul C. Poulsen, Brisbane.
“ W.M.F.” : Never noticed any mention
of the usefulness of the ibis as an insect destroyer.
Nor is this bird protected by the law, which he
certainly should be. Last November we of the
U pper Hunter were threatened with a plague of
grasshoppers. Along cante flocks of ibis and
stowed them out of sight. When the ’hoppers dis-
appeared so did the ibis. Some people plead for
crows. Some people also speak up for the Inqui-
sition. Likewise there are people who approve of
Hell.
* * * ♦
W.: Generally stated that emus will run at
thesightof man even when with chicks. Never saw
any such cases. Have come across a good few
emus with chicks and brooding, and been attacked
vigorously by the bird. Emu, under ordinary
circumstances, is a very shy bird,but when breed-
ing it becomes a most savage and dangerous fowl.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin.-- In the early days of
Cairns (N.Q.), news came to town of an alleged
slaughter by blacks at Double Island Station,
and two parties hastily armed themselves and
started for the scene. No 1 party, consisting of
the police sub-inspector, two troopers,
and half-a-dozen civilians took to the
road, whilst No. 2, composed of bank-
managers, tailors, clerks, &c., went by
boat. The two parties were to attack
the homestead simultaneously, and
capture the alleged blacks. All went
well, till the land-party, hearing a
noise on the beach, let blaze at what
they thought was the enemy, and re-
ceived a volley in return. This kept
going for a few minutes before ■ it
dawned upon the Sub. that he was
attacking the boat-party. Casualties,
two wounded on each side, and
after these had been patched up
the amalgamated forces advanced
upon the house. Receiving no
reply to a summons, they cau-
tiously entered, -and a sight
that filled them with horror met
their gaze. On the floor lay three
persons ; the manager, and two
young gins, all in Nature’s garb
and all dead-drunk—with a
dozen empty rum-bottles to
tell how desperate had
been the struggle. The
avenging parties returned
to town and reported how
they had repulsed the enemy
at a cost of only four
wounded. One bank-manager
long carried three shot pellets
in his shin-bone as a memento of
the “Battle of Double Island Station.”
There was no tragedy except the accidental
shooting, and the fact that the manager didn’t
look well with his clothes off. —P.F.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufliciently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by pout or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Mark Antony : Good ideas, but verse bumps
something awful . ..T.G. : War poem only lacks one
thing—poetry ...Caroline : Would have printed if it had
been a lot better or a lot worse. We are always yearning
for the very best or the very worst poem on earth .
Scots-Australian : When The Bulletin points out that
J. Bull is doing wrong, it is just in the position of the
parson who tells a British congregation that it is all
miserable sinners,” and one is just as much a traitor
as the other. By the way, nearly every historian now
says that the opium war with China was an infamous
affair and a stain on British honor. Therefore, almost
every historian is a traitor and a pro-Chinaman...
N.S.W. : Nose poem dull . C.P. : Lady whose “grey
eyes gleamed across the years ” is too suggestive of
a wild animal staring across a creek at night. ...
N.J.E. : “ Coincidence” lacks interest. As a rule, when
you want to tell a story about Smith, and do it by making
Brown relate the story to Robinson, it spoils the story.
Jeff : The 1456th poem about the death of Bill. This
constant dying of Bill in long metre will do him harm
some day Louie Love : Will probably use “ Bitd Call.”
Others unsuitable .ludas Jones : Scheme for the falling
off of Brassev too vast -K.S.S. : Will use “ Dogs ” and
“Getting Directions.” Considering! “ Baft.”., P.F. :
“ Ploughing” mainly a story of the continuous walloping
of two lean horses Green Hyde: “She got familiar
and started pulling him about.” The romance of “ Jude
the Obscure.” M.L.A. : Appeal to the British Lion to
“Rise and Shine, most noble Beast” is horribly sugges-
tive of a phosphorescent lion gleaming like decayed fish
on the hills .. Bind.i i : Will print “ Butler” and possibly
“Victory.” ... L.D. (Nyngan) : Great truths told in pain-
fully lame and dry verses .... A. J. Gough : Still in the
19th century... Volunteer: “We two” is correct
Rough-Rider: Not worth while P.F. : Your verses
show feeling and insight, but are incoherent and metric-
ally impossible. Prose sketches, will cons'der . Picnic:
Verse suitable to the occasion, but not to The Bulletin.
Luna: “War-notes’ commonplace. Other sketch
very trite subject, and challenges (by its title) comparison
with Hans Christian Andersen Floreritia : No literary
aptitude Tom F. : Good piece of verse, though the
sentiments are exaggerated. May use Bronzewing:
Both rubbish D.B. : Hardly interest enough
P.Q.R. : That dialogue too slow, and wastes too much
space F.G. : “ Appartment” is novel, but the rest is
only the familiar little-girlish crudity Narranghi:
Not interesting or convincing enough.. . Davna: The
despairing girl and her unlawful infant may pass with
frills—not plain .... F. Herbert : Pretty hymns written on
large blue paper. But there’s no demand for hymns. ...
E Bowling: “ Jimmy’s Theology ” under consideration.
W.H.D. : Singlet joke old and unwholesome . Bux :
Treasonable joke Milky White : Has a certain vague
prettiness, hut lacks force Wager : We are still in the
19th century .. . E.A.M. : Already dealt with R.A.F. :
ThanTcs ... E.F.L. : “War Queen ” is loud, clanging com-
monplace, like ass’s hoof hitting large gong L. de
Grant : Theal’s “ History of South Africa ” can he ob-
tained from Bulletin Book Exchange, five volumes £4,
post free. It’s a paralytic price, but there is compensa-
tion in the fact that having read it you have read practi-
cally all histories of South Africa, as they are nearly all
prigged from it ... G.S.D. : Pars, not serviceable
Choput: Only one really novel line : “ Blighted by bless-
ings that but blast him” is good. Why not add:
“ Blamed by baboons and blinded by blotted brass gods.”
Exile: Good enough till you rhyme “fear goes”
with “pianos.” Helen I. : Commendably simple and
concise. May use... Jew M. : Versification rather neat,
but “ Don’t worry ” is a weary old gag. Nobody would
worry, anyhow, if he could help it Milky W. : May
have a “show.” A.B.G. : Not quality enough
Marah : Promising, but not quite up to B. s standard
W.J.C. : Received; may use some .. Sirius: Too flap-
doodly Jimmy W. : You are not “ in it,” James
Seth : Flat, tame, dull, weak, dreary, &c A Reader of
The Bulletin for 10 years : Tiie Bulletin’s war articles
were not written by either a German or an Irishman, but
mostly by an Australian and a Scotchman. You may
call and see the Scotchman if you bring some whisky.
The Australian takes rum ... I.A.H. ; It isn’t “love
of luxury and ease ” that is the matter. There are some
nations whose military organisation is ever unready.
Instance the old proverb: “Help from Spain alwais
AT FLANNIGAN’S SELECTION.
PATRICK : “ An’ why don’t you wear your gold
watch, Mrs. Flannigan?”
MRS. FLANNIGAN: “ Phat’s ther’ good, Paddy,
it's not going"
comes too late.”... .Schehallion : Show a certain skill, but
lack originality of expression Tommy Atkins: Verse
not nearly so good as intentions . .. Cronje : This isn’t
the 20th century, despite Brisbane Flashes’ allegation to
that effect Gobung : “ Ignorance ” has only its steep-
ness to recommend it. Its angle to the horizon is simply
indecent W.M. : The Boer-boar cartoon idea is a
weariness and an anguish. .. Bullagheen : That good old
20th century begins Ist January, 1901. But 31st Decern.
ALLEE SAME.
LADY OF THE H OUSE: “ Well, John, which do you think the prettiest—Chinese girl or English
girl?”
JOHN : “Oh, you see, not much difflenee: Chinee girl, she small feet, big waist; English girl,
she big feet, small waist. Allee samee catehee man. You see?”
her has nothing at all to do with the birth of Christ. His
birth is celebrated on 26th December, but the real day
and year are both lost. About 600 years after Chri.t it
was decided to adopt as His alleged birthday the old
pagan festival of the birth of the sun—2sth December
Ruthie G. : None above mediocrity E.C. : “Nell”
may do—though it’s a little nebulous Watts; Good
study ; may see the light Carrolli: Has more spirit in
it than skill ... Satellite: Want to see sample of the
grass that yields cream when boiled Riverina : Not
quite good enough . S.T.S. : Not obvious enough.
Obviousness is always a good thing to have about the
house San Remo : Will print “ Tarpot.” Thanks
H.E. (Gympie): None of the suggestions auite suitable,
Milky W. : Will probably use “ Barmaids’ Lip 5.”...,..
a.E.P. (Melbourne): Long narrative poem with no
climax... Shellback : “ Fragment ” too slight Veritas
P. : The Queen’s box of chocolate is used up for poetic
purposes Kruger to Bull : Verses not nearly up to
mark .... P.F.B. : Good in places, but in the main just
ordinary tree-and-hill poetry. Traveller : Feeble
hen joke Vindex : A thousand thanks... H.R.H. :
Verses seven different kinds of vile Wal C. :
Very wild soul-cry... E.W.D. : And in all that mass of
learning you never touch the real question—that if there
are 19 complete centuries in 1899 years, then there must
have been 18 centuries of 100 years each and one century
of 99 years Goldfinch : Here is one verse of your poem,
anyhow :
Chorus.
its Loyal it’s Brave we repeat it oer and oer ;
for God and our Queen they are going to the war.
and may each Brittain one and all survive all danger
through ;
and plant out in the transvaal our red white and Blue.
P.T.F. : To hand... Jo: Would end better without
the reconciliation, which savours anticlimax. Will con-
sider H-R. : Thanks. A bit too strong .. John C. :
“Hubby,” may stiffenup and use. F.J.L. : Well
enough versified, but lacking in spontaneity and force.
Bindyi: May possibly patch-up for print W.M.F. :
“Nature” has strength; may do Judas J. : Both too
obscure and fantastic. Also, why the quasi- Yank eei sm
of “Manifest?” .. C.P.Q.C. : Tried to doctor it up, but
the weak end killed it.... Fleetwood : The city-bush com-
parison is so hackneyed that only the strongest treatment
would carry it; and your touch is miserably feeble
Stockyard Stripling: “Girl I Love” is killed by the
monotony of the refrain Son of an Irish Lord : Re-
ceived with thanks ... . A Loyal Subject of the Queen : In
other words, you hold that it is base and shameful not to
swear that Britain is right whether It is right or not
because this country “ enjoys Britain’s protection.”
Which means that when Britain isn’t in the right the
protection is to be paid for by lying and misrepresenta-
tion. Also a person who won’t swear that Britain is
right whether it is or not is disloyal—so your brand of
loyalty must involve a good deal of hard lying. By the
way, though you say a lot about this paper’s “ misstate-
ments ” you don’t quote misstatements. And jou
haven’t even the courage to sign your letter.
Accompanying this paragraph is the latest
photograph of Arthur Davis (“Steele Rudd”)
whose book, “ On Our Selection,” was the success
of the local Christmas publishing season. Mr.
Davis is a bright young Australian still in his
early twenties, and resident in Brisbane, where lie
is known as a dashing rider and polo-player. In
fact, he doesn’t write, in his own phrase, “asking
s there’s a horse to straddle” ; it’s chiefly when
the weather is too wet for polo that lie can bring
himself to take up the thread of his selection yarn.
And his photo, looks-just like that.
“What do you offer me in place of my
unbelief?” murmured the sick man. “Only-
Hell ! ” “ Ah, my dear brother,” said the preacher
lovingly, “Hell is better than nothing.”
“ F.G.” writes : —Dear Bulletin, —Do
please publish my special Transvaal war cable.
Here it is :
London, Jan. 9.—A terrible battle took place yesterday
at Oolenso. Five hundred British troops and three
bull dogs advanced on the Boer position. It was im-
pregnable, on top of a mountain 80,000 yards high, and
surrounded by barbed wire and broken gin bottles. The
enemy numbered 20,000, Boers poured a fearful fire into
the advancing troops, who for 12 hours were exposed to
a hail of lead. Captain Smyth-Jhones was dangerously
hit on the little finger. The British, with fixed bayonets
and the three bull-dogs in front, charged. On seeing the
dogs the Boers shouted, “ Dis am no place for us,” and
fled. Five thousand of them were killed and three thou-
sand bitten about the seat of their trousers.
Later. —The superstitious Boers thought the bull-dogs
were Chamberlain, Salisbury and, Kitchener. The
enemy’s fire was most murderous. One Highlander was
killed and two slightly wounded. At finish of fight the
Highland bagpipers played. Soon after all the injured
Boers died. One lyddite shell burst among some rocks
and dug a hole 800 yards deep. Fragments of shells were
scattered for miles, and the noise of the explosion could
be heard 100 miles away. Two Australian Lancers put to
flight 1800 Boers, and captured their Maxim guns. Presi-
dent Kruger is prostrated, and has not slept for two
months.
Old England is delighted with her Brave Colonial Boys ;
and the Government’s of her Colonys without making
any noise ;
called for volunteers in Englands hour of need ;
and there going to the transvaal proves their sympathy
by deed ;


THE NORTH SHORE BRIDGE.
(The O'Sullivan is going to amuse himself by inviting competitive designs for a North Shore Bridge.)
THE O’SULLIVAN: “There, now, isn’t that a nice bridge?”
L.B.M. : “Oh, yes! very nice—on paper; but what about raising the to pay for it?”
THE O’SULLIVAN: “Oh, that will be raised on paper, too!”


The Tragic Story of
[?]itian Jones
■HE GIFTEJ? SOUU of IiTIaN JONES
T ilAS LEFT TH-IS Troubled Scene; , _-"7
lilt LIGHTLY, EARTH, ABOVE. HtS BONLS, / /
A.ND .GRASS, GROW EXTRA GREEN! / £
The. Land ■WHEREIN HE Now DOTH LIVE
rr. Is FAIR AND LARGE, I HOPE :
[OO LARGE IT CANNOT BE TO GIVE r—
•HlS SPACIOUS GENIUS SCOPE.
X Have t o live , and make my home ,
In Weather wet or dry,
JjENeath This small, blue, eggshell dome
TBurlesquely named The Sky;
Bur. Thus cooped in coulo not dwell—-/''
- He loathed a Narrow place — ' f /
y\ND SO ONE DAY, HE BROKE THE SHELL,
«y\.ND FLUTTERED INTO SPACE - J . \
J\*(l ?, rfoW r iH Purple nourninc,- ink., \/y
. iilS STORY SAD I WRITE : V'
IF TEARS WERE Coop To DRINK,/
1 WOULD BE GAY TO-NIGHT. —
*Mi§ Rl&k <^/
The BRain ofTTtian Jones was rife,
On earth with fancies rare, f £
JHE Picture Gallery of Hife >. I JM
'To Him Was ALWAYS FAIR \- V IfjEfX.
Things that move,with WiNgs or
_ nE painted, great and small; AM
Jjur ."Woman Was the subject sweet /"W
He*"Painted best of all:—
]SQ>t\i/o>/an she goes about Ik&I
__ (onUEHTiOnallY dressed ,
MaWLED STERNLY IN . euFFED PROUDLY OUTT^^B
c£>Ylph's waist with. Juno's chest.— ■
RutJV/oman SimPlY Clad in Sr'iiuE.S,
In suNWy smiles alone, O ~~r~w
A.S STILL SHE is IN happy ISLES ''J®
'Jo MISSION—SHIPS unkNOWjJ .
RlS WoMAol with th*«r slender feet, GM
L/\kd round white bosoms bare, l
ike love-songs set to music sweet l
’"JhEY moved Through AMBER AIR \
R 1GHT WELL This ARTIST knew, God wot, \
X)espite the Beardsley school,
of angles weird is not
AS a RULE .
<§>o Though theHymph might coyly flee
TT "With ardour unsubdued
His FAIR Ideal Woman me
'with BRUSH and Paint Pursued
T3o OFT ME FOUND NpT WHAT HE SOUGHT.
„/\nd DISENCHANTED STOOD j
HS was Apollo when he caught /
TJie Inymph Who turned to wood
£ OML CHARMS of shape HAS EVR/ lass
Jones selected these ,
_/\s DID UN OLD DAYS PHIPIA5
A\np great Praxiteles.
1 {HUS C- r EW Ipl BEAUTY UNASHAMED
.... The dream of Pink, and Pearl
vVHich by t the Public soon was named,
T*e. Jones IDEAL. GIRL. yp^\
His cDZLCKyvfEi ''
xfo MAN F\OMaNc.E LhTViolatel
May keep To CHANT OR LIMN
Ton SOON WiTT IRoni fingers JAtE.
JjOTrt CRUSH it out <pr mini.
So Jf /HE * N Jones's Time of life
i» For. Jji Si elusion came /
xtETTook. unto himself a WIFE'—M
I never K.NLW HER NAME,
£uT I Will Say that M a -> Jones
1)1 P always Seem To me
1° OWN A DOUBLE set of bones
<Bo angular was she
-Hg r Beauty— and her charms were rtpe
<.> Though eke Bizarre—
Was of the cold flirtation type
That jTmE. can never, mar
,she was cold as herring canned,
tj-Anp rale as frozen earp ■
xlER. chinWas like an anvil, anp
WAS AS AN ANVIL HARP.
►She very seldom smilep, but when
_.ttlrthin lips Would uncoil
The thoughts of all who saw her then
"Would run on castor-oil. .
ItHTNK , OR BATHER I SUSPECT
(One musthot go too far")
ohewas aBaptist OFThl sect
They call particular.
But that is neither here nor there
„ Her soul was white as lawn
OHE. THOUGHT THAT JiDNESS FEMALES FAIR
"WERE ALL FROM FANCY PRAWN. j
lie pip NOT UNpE.CE!VE HER : WHY /]
• Should he so heartless be ? //
She ipoltslp him, '’Let her I — / I
POUSsE. ME STILL, " SAlp HE f •
She. Was in fact the sort or prude/
. Who looks on Art askance, y.
And in the rhyme of lewd and nude >
Sees peep significance.
One pay when Jones forgot the KEY
That locket his studio poor
IhEThing OCCURRED -THAT WAS Tt> BE
Anp she stoop on the feoor^
l'l HE MOPEL* HAP NO TIME TO FEY
AnP , on HER PEDESTAU
OHE STOOD AS Candid TO THE EYE
A\s Eve beforethe Ea.ee. ,
Tes,There she Pose-p with eiftep EE<i|
A-Nymph about to dance — £
J\s nakep as a nelw-eaip egg,-
THOUGH not so FRESH, PERCHANCE 'S'
Bor MTJoNes could scarcely
* But, OH, HER El PS GREWTHIN kJJ
_A strange nude woman-was to her/
(For his sake) Boftstw; sin . f
' 1 HEN IN THE SORT OF TONE THAT STINGS
v L.IKE iciCLES the. EAR „
( She said to Titian Jones — What Brings
yfo This brazen hussy here?"
Titian became, a bore*,
\ bore crew he.;
yThev-hunc his canvasses no more.
NJ ,Jn either. Gallery.
He. turHep him to the weeklies then,
-l I Amp TSREW IN BIACK ANP WRITE
/ IVL SEEN SOME REALLY DECENT MEN
/y KePUGEP to THE3AME PEIGHT.
/ /Z HiSPicTures none HAVE COME Tb STAY
/ / Si PUT A<you ARE AWARE. '
// He had to lug in Mrs. J.
// 1 | J3>y HAIIS,.
JYTRAIGHTWaY he. Dip TO HER. UNFOUD
CXhCF*- -Artists' Etiquette. ,
COPE. OF MORALS PURE- ANP COED
jhat ruAes the Artists' set
In VAIN : LlIKE LIGHTNING SHE UNLACEp
0 /Vs unper- Petticoat,
/Anp tied it round the Models waist,
/ -And Pinned around her throat
Al handkerchief — with Dismal groans—
To HIDE HER BOSOM BARE
Jhe Model, wildly winked at Jone^,
But Jones could only glare.
Irom that day Mrs Jones was bent
O n keeping in control -v
He.r husband’s morals — with intent
Jo , SOMEHOW, SAVE HIS SOUL.
In vain hevow/ed, in bitter Moop
That, SINCE HE MARRIEP HER,
haremful or houris nude
H'S TULSE5 COULp NOT stir.
<§0 WHEN HE HAD A MQPEL.SLIM
-A.ND YOUNG, WITH 'PRETTy LOOKS,
JSHE-SAT AND READ TO HER ANP HIM
fRpM EPIFJ/ING BOOKS
when hep go,with gentle hand,
_ The Model's pose To ease.,
ANHED, RISE AND SAY " T UNDER^ANp!
I LL FIX HER, j£ Y ou PLEASE."
C §>HL MIGHT HAVE URGED HIM NOT To PAINT
0 Y\ND TURNED HI5 FROM ART;'
nuT, THOUGH SHE WA5 A STRAIT-LACED SAINT
HAD HH, FAME AT HEART
_NoW r cIoi|Ey V/H0 HAp AMBITIOUS VIEWS
u T° nR<>Jones HAP said
HE ‘meant t° paint THe Austral Muse
In sunlight garn|enthJ?.
JHen in the Watcher of the night /
i. WHEN DREAM-CHATEAUX ARE BUILT // A
JSHE HAD AN INSTIGATION BRIGHT 1 -- ///
Blushep beneath the quilt / 1
PAT WITHIN HIS STUDIO. CLAP ill
<- J/N OXYGEN NO MORE ; — I"' 1
GL> Hf -A TO Y p - He GA5PEP "IMUST BE MAP.'
_/\>ID SWOONED UPON THE FLOofr
_-rf V_ /
UPopJ TK05E. PAPERS PACjLJ> PRAB *
SOON THE.y CHEW TO BE.
'vHE LAV AS ON A DEAD-HOUSE. SLAB
<=2 Bopy yov ma y see.
/\t TIMES MORE.LiVE.Ly SHE- APPEARE-p
T° ciVe. HE.R Justice. put.—
_/\np likel a nightmare, grim anp WejRP
INyo PUBLIC VIE.W.
N | HE. Public tpathinc, is amasse-P
> , .At le-ncth That , you mav Guess
jhe. 'Worms of Owners turned at last
y\ N P HE- LE.FT THE. pRE-SS, •
' r To Postl-Rt-Art then'Titian Jone-r
. PT.LUCTANTLV CAME- POWN crffL,
nAnd MR5Jo»je< abumpant bone -5>
KOBlp in a poyTLfS ||p
5\In Rum Advertisements
. HER PICTURE. MEXT was SES.M — g
Lon G, gaunt HeBL WITH a 5UssNk
Of old Dr/ benzoline
)<LB uT passers-by Their hea^^v/oulp^hakt
l MURMER 50LE-MNLY
"It MUST BE AWFUL STUFF To MAKE.
SUCH SEEL ' "
p Pied in 6lapes vilLL .Such isTate. !.
. . »• /HEV SAY HE TA55EP away ■
"WHILE- DHAWj MG ON A 'SyLUM SLATE.
r JhiE-J>AME. OLD J.
) ENP5 the tale of'TiTiANi Jones ,
C|ONE. FROM TH*5>TROUBLED scene—
Lightly,earth, aboveH15 bor/es
, crow .extra greeIt
> 'R
c f JUT ,MAJ> OR 3.ANE. HIS HANPS WERE. Tltt?-
v Me. wa5 no uongelr freX’ '
ROM, forth, until he. PlE$
ilopLL 50LE. WA3 SHE_ . ’
THE TRAGIC STORY OF TITIAN JONES.


NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
%
&
SB
Ya
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our celebrated
Watch and Chain at6/6
in 13 months,and now
to universally adver-
tise our famous 4s 6d
Paraguayan 14kt. Gold
Chains to every pur-
chaser of one (either
gent.’s or ladies), we
will present on pay-
ment of 6s extra the
RAILWAY WATCH,
as illustrated, guaran-
teed, timed to closest
accuracy. It is a
JEWELLED FULL-DAY PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT SHORT WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stein, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. Gent.’s are medium size, and
ladies a perfect little gem. They give entire satisfaction,
that is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days, money is refunded. These are unprece-
dented terms. We make this extraordinary offer merely
to circulate our PRICE LIST, and make ourselves talked
about. The Watch and Chain is sent registered (any
colony) on receipt of 10s 6d and 6d for postage.
No. 1, Paraguayan solid gold gilt Cuff Links, and your
initials engraved on each pair, 2s.
No. 8, Heavy sterling silver, do., do., do., 3s 6d.
No. 2, Paraguayan solid gold gilt Name Brooches, any
name handsomely engraved, Is 6d.
No. 3, Sterling silver, do., do., do., 2s.
No. 6, Real gold fronts, marvel of cheapness, 4s Gd.
No. 4, The latest Pocket Knives, German silver handle,
stronger, lighter and less bulky than the ordinary
handles, best quality “ Eye Witness,” with your full
name, 3s.
(Queensland only, 4d extra for postage).
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
JMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
Monday, 15th January, 1900.
OPEN FOR THE FIRST TIME!
MDEMEII’S
||eui ]|rt gallery
(upstairs)
74 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Admission, Sixpence.
(Purchasers will have Admission Money returned.)
The Old (Lower) Gallery is Free as usual.
The New Gallery open daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
The Old Gallery open daily from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Saturdays—Closed 1 o’clock.
The ways of many waters
By E. J. Brady.
“ Titua Salt ” holds forth :
Dear Bulletin. —The late lamented Beaconsfield used
to say that he didn’t trouble about revenge personally.
When a man Injured him he wrote the enemy’s name on
a slip of paper, put it in the drawer devoted to accumu-
lated insults, and watched the downward course of that
man. When he arrived with a thud at the bottom and
went under for good, the bit of paper was burnt, and a
satisfied Hebrew smiled inscrutably at the ashes. You
have said something after the same manner of philosophy
that the world was a slaughter-house, and the only
reason why there was a Deeming-curse or a Dean-curse
was that the public attention became fixed on one group
of people, and thus their going-under attracted attention.
I agree with both of you, more or less. I have just taken
a bit of paper out of the drawer where I keep my accu-
mulated wrongs, and burnt it. It was very yellow, for it
had been among my heap of old insults since’B3. I had
half an office then in a certain goldfields town ; I was
very young and was under the delusion that I was a
sharebroker and mining expert. Jonathan Smith had
the other half of the delusion. Young Cohenstein, the
rejected son of old Oohenstein, had no delusions, but he
used our office for his business and didn't pay any of the
rent. He was an itinerant financial agent who raised
money unaccountabty on the edge of the pavement and
leered at the daughters of the Gentile as they went by—
I think old Oohenstein had fired him out for undue leer-
ing. Also, he was a gay, weedy, stunted .youth, and his
garish diamond pin blazed down the street at night like
a lantern hung above a quicksand. Cohenstein was a
blatant cad and fond of execrable practical jokes, and he
was a good oopyist of signatures which weren’t his own.
So one day a girl reoeived a letter with a decent imita-
tion of my signature and my writing, containing most
objectionable remarks about her d< arest friend, the
other girl. She showed it to the other girl-of
course. I was sweet on the other girl, but despite
two weeks’ hard explanation I found the door of the
other girl’s house closed in my face with a bang which
nearly shook the mortgage down. 1 also found that the
story was everywhere and that I had become disliked. I
took to drink for a month over it, and Jonathan Smith
said that mj- conduct in my half of the office —it was a
single room 12ft. x Bft.—was ruining business and bring-
ing discredit on him. As there had never been any busi-
ness, except that of lending envelopes and such to Oohen-
stein (and he used the office gratis), this seemed uncalled
for. I knew Oohenstein had written that letter by the
insane way he cackled if I happened to pass while he was
doing his financial transactions on the edge of the pave-
ment, and one Saturday night I hit him It whacks with my
walking-stiok in the billiard-room. He was a small man,
and he crawled under the table before I could hit him
the other 77 whacks. The eleventh whack landed on his
ooat-tail as he went under. I also threw his diamond
pin through the window and danced on his hat and tore
some of his clothes off. Public opinion turned against
me on account of hitting a man not my own size—and so
did two policemen. It is still on record, in the file
of the local paper, how a “dissipated person describ-
ing himself as a sharebroker ” was fined tfi and
costs for an unprovoked assault on that well-known
oitizen Mr. Oohenstein, and ordered to pay for a new
suit and hat. Public opinion seemed to remain against
me after that, and Smith wouldn’t even let me come
within gunshot of my half-office (not that I wanted to),
and the girl wouldn’t speak to me, and my hotel ejected
me for assaulting Oohenstein on the premises, and Cohen-
stein appeared muoh too expensive a person to assault
any more—so I left. But I made a note of Oohenstein,
and deposited my ourse on him, and waited. He married
a fat girl who developed into a fat woman and had
hysterics. She got into the habit of having a baby every
year, and occasionally twins for variety. Old Oohen-
stein died insolvent. Young Oohenstein’s knack of
making a livelihood out of nothing on the edge of the
Saveinent gradually deserted him as Time went on, and
e became too stout to hustle in the old precarious way.
He grew to be a slow Jew, and his prey used to keep
ahead of him. Last month Oohenstein, aged about 50,
and with a large, distressed family, got 1)4 years’ hard
labor for a 30s. swindle, and wept over his paste pin in
the dock ; and last week Smith, who fired me out of the
half-offloe, gave up his delusion that he was a mining ex-
pert, and was fished out of a Queensland river. There
was nothing in his pookets but a small eel and a pawn-
tioket. So I burn the bit of paper with Oohenstein’s
name on it, and overhaul my collection of old enemies
to see how the rest of them are getting on.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
rv
fKAHC
8t F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Fan's Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 108, 15. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20#.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid void, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Oharm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d ;
15c., 26s. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 25s; 16c. Gold,
35s, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, 6s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 16c.
Gold, 85s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12* 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rape.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 8 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 25s.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 16c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 25s.
H
Pure Diamond Hand
Rings.
16c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 25s, 30s, 35s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £10s, £12 10s,
£16, £20.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very nsat, £2 15s.
S-0
O’O
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 85s.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 35s.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
TRY
US.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £6.
Superior Quality, to, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, t'3and t'4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGrH[-CLiA.SS LEA.DIKTGr JEWELLER. & SILVERSMI 1 H
niQP! AY of PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS
mfi Greorge*Btreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), JNT^i'ST


Writes a Parliamentary reporter :
Concerning’ Reid and Lyne. Reid dashes ahead at a
terrifio pßce, and swerves at the first obstacle. With a
flight of imagination he reaches an ideal, and scampers
away from it when it is within his grasp. He holds put
his hand for the proffered reform, and his arm is sud-
denly stricken with paralysis. He has the courage to
ask, but lacks the temerity to receive. He has the
vocabulary of a statesman and the executive force of a
clerk of records. He has perception without purpose,
promise without fulfilment, strength without direction,
ambition without belief. He is a leader when he should
be an outpost; an outpost when he should be a leader.
He is virile and vulnerable —a political desperado, who
despairs at the least difficulty.; a legislative weakling
who unconsciously survives the greatest peril. Lyne
moves slowly with measured step, and never turns aside.
His progress may be stopped, but his efforts to push
onward never cease. Satisfied he is on the right track,
he allows nothing to divert him. Political death and
destruction may threaten him, he remains at his post,
confident in his ability to sooner or later break down the
opposition in his pathway. He has the will of the states-
man and the words of the unaccustomed debater. He
despises speech and exacts action. He carries much in
his head and conveys little from his tongue. He has ex-
cited jealousy among a generally dull following, and con-
fidence among those who once opposed him. Given an
opportunity, he will probably prove the most practical
and productive Premier N.S.W. ever had.
HAVE YOU
AMD LEE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the p ■ ■ er to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals a: ' had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeh or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I i AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others lia\;e failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. S ure-,
&e. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per bux. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England
Agents -, ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers shou.c
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lal el on - aeh box. (Regd. copyright).
INDIGESTION.
Jfevar fails.
' / Per Bottle t \
•Q- Postage y
WASHINGTON.H.B9UUC9
160 PITT STREET
SYDNEY,
Recent S.M. Herald advt. :
p IRLS, under 17 years, to assist in drink saloon,
hours 1 p.m. to 11 p.m., watres 7s.
Less than three-ha’pence an hour 1
COMFORT IN WALKING.
rife
A
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the' worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
rjIHE SCHOOL OF MINES, BALLARAT.
This School, with its large staff and extensive
appliances, affords special advantages to students
in Assaying, Chemistry, Geology, Metallurgy,
Mining Engineering, Mine Management, and
Treatment of Auriferous Ores.
Duties resumed sth FEBRUARY.
FRED. J. MARTELL, Director.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
hegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
CADIES !
—Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 0d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEM,
New South Wales . . . \
Barbers ’ Supply Souse >
680-2 George-st. r
SYDNEY.
THE
PLUM
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop/ 7s. 6d. eaoh. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. TO!
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exohange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.IG & AITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stick Brooch, Is 6d.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
[■^NELLY^]
Gold-Cased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is6dand2s6d.
All the Bags t
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Lady’s or Gent.’s),
18s (id to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d.
Rolled Gold Watches,
equal in appearance
to best 18et. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to £3lss.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 15s
to 20s.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Rolled Gold Chains, 5 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wishbone Brooch, with Paris
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s 6d.
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s 6d.
Post free in N.S:W.
Mention The Bulletin .
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired tothe wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
FOPtBIGrKT STA-MFS
33EH3H
Z&i
QETS 4 Soudan (Oamee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg', Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s.
Remit by P.0.0. P.N. Ulus, catalogues of albums and
stamps post free.Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
BONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THEBE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Oo. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Eiding Breeches, 25/-. W ater-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, eto.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers. 5/11. Tweed Over-
0
■era, D/li.. iweeu uver-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2,11, 3 3. Warm Travelling
Bugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 6 6, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4/6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 6 6. Caps, l/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
't'
e>
r
v'.S
PJP
OLD
RNS
SUNBU
FINg
<s>
96
CHA
N
6&C
rAr
Y
99
“ONE DEAD BROUGHT BACK TO LIFE.
THE EXCESSIVE HEAT THE CAUSE OF THIRTEEN YEARS OF MARTYRDOM.
“at/l day and every day. a dull, aching MISERY.’’
CLEMENTS TONIC Cured me and made a Man of me again.
You Can Easily Find This Witness and Prove for Yourself.
The Case >f
H& WILLIAM CAMPBELL,
{Reported /or “ The Rockdale Advocate.")
Between Rockdale and Hurstville, lying
to the right or hilly ground, is the pretty
suburb of Bexley. It was here our reporter
found the home of Mr. William Campbell,
a well-known identity of the district, and a
man of stei ling integrity and wide experi-
ence. Mr. Campbell was at home, and
received our reporter with great civility.
“ 1 hear, Mr. Campbell, you have had an
almost astounding recovery from a dreadful
sickness ; would you object to giving me
the details and confirming the statements I
have heard ?”
“ With the utmost willingness,” replied
Mr. Campbell; “ for I was; as one dead
brought to life again, and my : thankfulness
and gratitude make me speak of it continu-
ally. I am, as you may judge, naturally a
strong, robust man, with nnat I thought
an iron constitution ; but the climate of
India, where I lived for some years, found
out my vulnerable point. Without doubt,
it was the excessive heat of that country
that affected my digestive system and
caused me for thirteen years to be a martyr
to chronic dysentery and diarrhoea. No-
thing I tried would cure or even give any
lasting relief. For nine years L was com-
pelled to live on bread and vegetables ; the
least morsel of meat was intolerable to my
stomach, and was immediately vomited or
purged away.”
* “Such a continued strain must surely
have left you very weak, Mr. Campbell?”
i, I can assure you I arrived at the last
stage of exhaustion —to the utmost verge of
total collapse I had griping cramp-like
pains in the stomach, with a constant roar-
ing and rumbling —this when I exerted
myself in the slightest, ot strove to walk a
little distance. At intervals, a pressure as
of a large, heavy substance came on my
chest, compelling me to gasp for breath and
lie down. A dull pain pressed between.my
shou ders, not constant at first, but gradu-
ally increasing in duration till, during the
last days of my sickness, it never left me.
My heart palpitated loudly, so that you could
hear its movements like the ticking of an
ole clock, l’ains in my head made me dizzy
and affected my hearing, so that I was
nearly deaf and could not hear the noise of
a dray passing close beside me. Then my
eyes suffered, a mist floated before them,
making me nearly blind, like a man groping
his way in a dense fog. I had only sighc
enough left to prevent my running foul of
things in my way. Sometimes my head
pains were so intense that the head would
swell; and my outward appearance got so
aged-looking, as the neighbours round here
will tell you, that some of them said I must
be at least eighty years old.”
The reporter here took a good look at the
broad, athletic form of Mr. Campbell as he
stood up, and it may be said with certainty
he would pass at the present time as being
under fifty.
Mr. t ampbell continued :—“ I became
that weak 1 was not fit to walk. My limbs
got stiff and dragged after me. I had no
hope in life, no energy ; only all day, and
every day, a dull, aching nrsery. I thought
my only chance of peace lay in death, and
I prayed to die.”
“ But surely you did not arrive at (this
fearful pass, Mr. Campbell, without seeking
advice ? ”
“You may be sure I did not—l souglit for
years and years ; all the time I was getting
steadily worse. Pounds and pounds, in
money that I could ill spare, I have paid for
all the remedies I could hear of or that were
suggested to me. I had tried more drugs
than I can count; then I went to Sydney to
consult one of the herbalists that make so
much fuss about their cures, and I bought
some pills the herbalist recommended as
certain to do me good. But, as I expected,
my old experience was repeated, and herb
pills, like homoeopathic globules, did me no
good. It happened when I was in Sydney
that a lad in the street gave me a pamphlet
about Clements Tonic, and I put it in my
pocket and took it home with me. I was in
that state I would have tried anything, for
no change in me could be for the worse ; so
I bought a bottle of Clements Tonic, and
took it with just the same hopeless fear
that I had tried scores of so-called remedies
before. ”
‘ ‘ And what wa3 the result ? ”
“ Thank God ! I had relief almostatonce—
lelief that I had never found in all the past
thirteen miserable years of my life. It was
after taking three doses of Clements Tonic
that I noticed the change for the better;
and step by step, as I continued taking
Clements Tonic, my serious symptoms left
me. The despondent, hopeless feeling of
the mind, the cramping pains in the
digestive organs, with th*sound of rumbling
wind, the palpitations cf the heart, the
oppression on the chest, and all the head
pains, with the accompanying deafness and
blindness, passed away; but what surprised
me most of all, with thankful amazement,
was the cure of my chronic dysentery, for
this, as I have mentioned, had afflicted me
for thirteen years and delied all remedies,
that I had come to never hope to escape
from it.”
“And you are positive Clements Tonic
cured that ?”
“Yes, I am positive, and more than
thankful to say it cured me and made a man
of me again. My digestive powers are
quite restorei. Meat, that had not passed
my lips for nine years, I now eat freely
and from being an old man, helpless, ''
and deaf, doubled up with patn, and praying
for my coffin as speedily as might be, I am
now strong and hearty, willing and capable
of doing the hardest physical work. You
may judge of the truth of this when I tell
you that after taking three bottles of
Clements Tonic I signed for a trenching
contract on stiff ground, and carried it oat
with perfect satisfaction.”
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Campbell, to
make this testimony public?” asked the
reporter.
“ Of course lam willing, and most freely
consent. A man saved as I have been by
Clements Tonic can never forget it or tho
obligation it has placed him under. Nor
can he miss an opportunity of telling its
merits wherever the occasion calls for it.
Believe me, I am always talking to my
customers of Clements Tonic and recom-
mending it, and shall continue to do so in
simple gratitude for what it has done for
me.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Campbell, of Bexley, near Sydney,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the an-
nexed document, consisting of five folios and
consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving- any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“ An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oath*
and Affidavits *
Deolared at Arnollffe, this 26th day of June, one
■ , A ueand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before, mei
H. V OHILCOTT.J Pi


ADVICE TO CRICKETERS.
. The interest taken in the manly game of cricket
is almost universal. Boys and girls, youths and
maidens, business-men and even hoary-headed
patriarchs eagerly scan the morning and evening
papers to see how “Our Boys ” are acquitting
themselves on the cricket-fields.
However expert a cricketer may become, there
is one thing demands his constant care, viz., his
health. When staying in Adelaide, we observed
a professional cricketer partaking refreshments
with a comrade, and were struck by the fact that
he declined an “ extra ” drink on the ground that
he was “ playing.” The hot weather of Australia
makes one particularly susceptible to liver and
kidney complaints. A. man who has a disordered
liver cannot do himself justice either in batting,
bowling or fielding.
We would recommend those desirous of shining
in the cricket-field to follow the example of B. H.
Babbidge, Esq., ex-Mayor of Brisbane, who
writes : ‘ I have been asked by some of my
friends if I have ever taken Warner’s Safe Cure.
I replied, I have, and found it a most excellent
medicine for general debility and for toning up
the constitution, and have always recommended it
for the same.’ ”*
the Favorite
WHISKEY.
0, ROE&C#
STRALASIAN REPRESEAITAnveS
JOHN MEAGHER ACS cvnMCV
82 A PITT ST. OIUNtT.
ASK
FOR
stin
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leadinr Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
NIX-
VDOSKT
pagne
BRANDY
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
/' 'iiv uit live nttcl Fine A.vt A.\ict i ioiieevs 9
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
tST" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Labor-member Hepher, M.L.C., is com-
piling information about State clothing factories,
and purposes introducing that highly explosive
subject into N.S.W. Leg. Council when Parlia-
ment re-assembles.
THE AUSTRALIAN VOLUNTEER.
He’s an absent-minded beggar,
And I have a sad conviction
That the absence here referred to
Is a permanent affliction.
“ Via gives his private opinion :
The political wobblings of Glassey, Q. M.L.A., are be-
coming more apparent every week. Looks as if the
erstwhile Labor leader was preparing to do a “ Drake.”
significant that he couldn’t, or wouldn’t, join Dawson’s
-abor Ministry.
The Q. Ministerial barrackers declared
they would take the election of a Labor M.L.A.
for Enoggera as a condemnation of their war
policy. Drake stated he would take it as a vote of
censure on his conduct. Well—Enoggera did re-
turn a Labor man, so by their own showing they
are both censured.
Tasmania raised a Patriotic Fund of
.£26,000 for the Crimean war. The present effort
to elevate the atmospheric disturbance has, at
time of writing, resulted in less than .£lOOO, and
every shop and factory has been ruthlessly raked
for the threepences of the sweated seamstresses
and the small boys’ ’a’penny.
The Royal Commission appointed by
Queensland Govt., at Glassey’s instigation, to
enquire into, among other things, the cooking
and sanitation of Never Never shearing sheds,
should make a goodly number of slummy dis-
coveries. Some station-owners’ ideas of shearers’
needs still hover over the primitive.
When the Vic. Assembly had passed its
vote of .£35,000 “for the purpose of equipping and
despatching a second Victorian Contingent to
South Africa,” dreary Vale, M.L.A., moved the
addition of the words “and elsewhere.” Vale
would like to send those 262 young Contingenters
all round the world to fight the globe in general.
N.S.W. Unemployed Advisory Board
ought to receive the happy despatch. One by one
the members have dropped away, till the body is
now more useless than ever it was, if a body that
was never any use can become more useless. The
scheme was originally suggested to G. H. Reid by
a politician out of harness, and the then Premier
hailed it as an excellent expedient for disposing of
some importunate backers. Reid inaugurated it
as an unpaid board—but that was part of the
game
MALIGNED.
“I wish to remove the impression which has been fostered by paragraphs in the newspapers in
the eastern colonies, and in correspondence sent to Victoria and N.S.W. by new arrivals in
Western Australia, that lam personally hostile to Federation. Nothing of the kind. I have, at
much personal inconvenience, travelled many times from Perth to Melbourne, Sydney, and
Hobart, to attend conferences and conventions in connection with Federation, and I have never
thrown any obstacles in the way of federal action ."—Premier Forrest.
LEGREE FORREST: “ Now, what in the name of reason can have led the people to think I’ve ill-
treated this girl?”
People who best know W.A. Premier
Forrest reckon that his bear-leader, Hackett, was
well-advised in following him to the East when
he came to open his Federal negotiation. Forrest
is a large, weak, blusterous man, and if he had
been left to negotiate by himself with the lean,
dry Holder and the long, cast-iron Lyne, there is
no knowing what he might not have done,
Forrest’s reputation for nerve went to pieces that
luckless day at Kalgoorlie, when his own secretary
accidentally prodded him in the ribs with his own
secretarial brolly, and Bigjohn thought the graze
was a murderous assault by 1000 infuriated
miners, and ran for the railway station and his
life-
‘ Jack ’’ Murray, member for Warrnam-
°?]y man Victorian Assembly
who dared to object when the Govt, asked for a
■ r ,y ote of -235,000 the other night. Next morn-
thn,^^ PreS |~J W nch 18 80 va bantly upholding free
hought and free speech in Africa—clamored for
iviurrays head and warned him most solemnly
that free speech won’t do in Australia.
McGr. • If anything were capable of
XmVT V he y,’?' to the old age pension
reoo^!H lt | Sh - 0 ' i < !i be , fche n . umber of aged suicides
“T de , d during the last six months. Scarcely a
week has passed without some tottering sep-
thrPy an v a? i han g' n g himself or cutting his
S!; ll yi W °^ hir<iB , of the found drowneds
hauled out of the Yarra have white hair.
During last week great pressure was
rough t to bear upon Alfred Deakin from many
quarters to induce him to take command of the
t ! lcto ™ n Liberal party, and lead the attack on
the M Lean Government, but he steadfastly
refused. Several weeks ago Deakin said to a
riend: 1 intend to have no more to do with
purely Victorian politics after the end of this
Legislature Alfred hiS ® ye ° n the Federal
The short time during which the Labor
Ministry held power in Queensland brought to
light a very fair share of the dirty jobs worked in
secret by the Continuous Government. The
Barron Falls business, since declared invalid by
the Crown Law authorities, is said to be only a
nrst instalment of many disclosures. Anderson
Dawson has unearthed some very interesting facts
concerning the famous Western strike, which he
promises to give the public shortly.
The Australian Federation Bill will pro-
bably be introduced into the House of Commons
next month. The date when it will get through
is, of course, uncertain, but one or two Australian
Premiers want it to be hurried up, so that the
making of the Commonwealth can have additional
lustre shed upon it by happening on the Queen’s
birthday. Some Australian Premiers have weird
ideas about lustre. Who will remember 1000
years, hence whether the Commonwealth began on
the birthday of Victoria or of Moses.
S.M. Herald in its issue of 11th January
headed a paragraph : “ Cowardice of the Free
State Artillery.” In the same issue appeared a
letter from a N.S.W. Lancer named Clark dated
from the Orange River. In it was the following
story:—
On Saturday last we were out scouting with mounted
infantry (about 200) also the 9th Lancers (about 150 to
200). We were lined up to do a charge on the Boers,
when they changed their position and charged us. The
lancers and infantry left us (20 men) alone against about
uoo.
According to Majah Reay, jingo corres-
pondent for Melb.. ’Erald, the British military
person is greeting his Australian cousin in South
Africa with sweet words of patronage as follows :
“Such an awf’ly sporting thing for you f’lers to
do, doncherknow ; and bai Jove ! you deserve to
have the best of everything that’s going”—meaning
the cream of the risks, and the fat of the Boer
fusillades. In all probability the spry amateurs
from Cape Colony, Natal, Australia and Canada
will get a surfeit of “ good things ” between now
and Easter.
Tasmania’s second detachment of 45 mer-
cenaries (4s. 6a. a day to shoot Boers is a lot more
than most of them can earn at home) have been
toiling manfully at drill in Hobart barracks,
Many old sticklers for military etiquette were
much troubled by the fact that the men were
allowed to drill in half-dress (pants and braces)
because of the warm weather. The cavillers would
have pushed their protest further if the weather
had been cooler, but under force of circumstances
they lay low in the ice-chest and contented them-
selves by pointing out what a dreadful thing it
would be if the British war authorities were to
reject the 45 Tassies because they had attended
drill in their shirt-sleeves.
It is proposed that Edmund Barton and
Alfred Deakin should ge to England to see the
Federation Bill through Parliament. Joseph
Chamberlain points out that if he has such a dele-
gation at his elbow to coach him as to the reasons
why provisions which may be objected to were
put in the Bill, and the reasons why they shouldn’t
be recklessly amended out of the Bill, it may save
much trouble. And it almost certainly will. If
the British Parliament starts amending glauses in
order to make the Convention Bill suited to British
ideas and conditions, and there is no one at hand
to explain the Australian conditions and circum-
stances to which the Draft Constitution was
adopted, it is just possible that Australia may not
know the Federal Constitution when that docu-
ment comes back.
Re the much-talked-of British “suzer-
ainty ” over the Transvaal, an accurate definition
of the word is badly wanted. Pu
shortly, “ suzerainty ” appears
to be the taking away by a large
nation—partly for its own con-
venience and partly for the grati-
fication of its own national pride.
and partly, it may be,
for better motives—of
a portion of a smaller
nation’s liberty; the
subjection of the
smaller State to irri-
tating and humiliating
conditions of partial
servitude and political de-
gradation, against which the
large one would itself fight
to the last gasp, and which
it would regard as the last
possible insult if a still larger
State tried to impose them
on it; and something akin
to the right of the old Caro-
lina planter to be suzerain over
his own nigger. It is slavery
revived in a mild form—the right of
the big State to have round it a herd of
small, partially-enslaved communi-
ties which, it claims, are better
off that way than if they were
free—just as the old Carolina
planter claimed in the case of
his nigger.
The little British posses-
sion of Gibraltar is a curious
place. Not only has the Outlan-
der no vote there (the Briton
hasn’t either), but no Out-
lander can be naturalised there now under
any conditions, and no new Outlander is allowed
to settle there, and no Outlander woman already
resident there is allowed to have a child born in
the place under pain of fine and expulsion. The
reason is that the little town is already much over-
crowded and hampers the fortress, but all the
same it looks rather rough on the Outlander.
Lyne and See, being driven to some
straits to find money for the N.S.W. Contingent
expenses (that part which can’t well be charged to
loans), have hit upon the device of sending aged
poor, who have hitherto been receiving money
allowances, into the various asylums. Their
maintenance there costs something, of course, but
still a small economy is effected. Also many old
people who have, been in the habit of receiving
rations have had the allowance summarily stopped
to help cover the cost of an excited gentleman
with an unpaid-for gun going west.
Hobart Clipper, the only secular paper in
Tasmania to say a word about the unrighteousness
of the Boer hunt, is being written down by its
reptile contemporaries in general as a dreadfully
“disloyal” sheet, which knows nothing about
South Africa or its hi story, and which only re-echoes
the frothy mouthings of ill-informed agitators,
who are always opposed to good government.
The Clipper neatly counters by reprinting from
the English Tory, J. A. Froude’s “Oceana,”
about the most damning indictment of British
see-sawing in South Africa ever penned.
The Southern District (S. A.) Leg. Council
election, to be fought about April next, will
probably be the liveliest in S.A. records. Ex-
Fremier Kingston intends to run against Stirling,
the Tory Council leader, and fight him in his own
electorate on the Suffrage-reform question. The
other retiring member is Attorney-General
Gordon, practical leader of the anti-reformers.
Gordon now poses as a convert to the ,£l5 com-
promise—also rejected by the Council. He has a
lot of hard explanation to do to account for his
present attitude ; but, then, Gordon could explain
a circle till it became an egg-shaped square, if
necessary.
Methuen, V ic. M.L.A., who has been
declaiming against ex-Premier Turner for appoint-
ing too many boards, was himself a member of
the Board of Agricultural Education, which dili-
gently did nothing at great length and cost, and
collected fees and travelling expenses for five
years. The only results have been the selection
of a dairy-school site. Methuen now walks into
Zox s shoes as the Govt, nominee on the Harbor
Trust, although he represents Brunswick elector-
ate, five miles from the sea, and is as comic an
institution as the Rose of Denmark Lifeboat Crew
of Fitzroy—another in.land suburb. The Harbor
Trust is also a paid board.
The proposal of the N S. W. Dentists’ Bill,
that every tooth-drawer, however ignorant or un-
qualified, who had habitually fooled with the
public’s molar for six months before the Act came
into operation, should be officially licensed for the
rest of his life, has started a fresh crop of tooth-
quacks in N.S.W. The Bill may pass sooner or
later, and it is always well to look ahead, Also a
Government diploma declaring that the person
named therein is a qualified dentist, is valuable
property, for no man knows what he may be glad
to drag out for a living some day. So quite a crop
of chemists and others, who didn’t formerly touch
this branch of business, now snatch a tooth occa-
sionally in order to keep within the limits of the
prospective Act. A loose front tooth that will
come out easily is what they mostly aim at.
Australia, having sent a few hundred men
to fight abroad, will probably reckon for the
future that it knows all about war. But it will
know hardly anything. If Australia can help
Britain abroad, Britain’s enemies will, at some
time or other, naturally prefer to give it something
to do to keep it at home. Then Australia will
begin to know what war is. And in those days
the fighter will not get (any more than the
ordinary British soldier gets now) double pay and
insurance policy. And will
the South African gang
help Australia in its
hour of trouble ?
It doesn’t look
like that sort of
gang.
GETS NO CREDIT.
1ST DOMAINER : “ What price this,
Bill? Tooth, the brevier, has given
£10,000 to the bloomin’ Patterottie
Fund.”
Bill: “ It’s mighty rough on us coves as found
the sugar, an’ was never asted if we objected."
The letter of Charles Lyne, secretary of
the Public Works Committee, to N.S.W. Speaker
Abbott, flatly contradicting allegations made
against him in Parliament by John Norton, is a
rather rare sort of document. Mr. Lyne is a civil
servant, and, if M’sL.A. are to get “back-talk”
from civil servants through the Speaker for racy
imputations, half the fun of being a violent
M.L.A. will be dissipated. But, though rare, Mr.
Lyne’s letter is not the only document of its kind
among N.S.W. Parliamentary curios. When the
late Geoffrey Eagar was Under-Secretary at the
Treasury, he was fallen foul of by John M'Elhone
in the House. Eagar wrote to John, challenging
him to repeat his words outside, and threatening
a Supreme Court writ if he did. John called on
the Govt, to jump on the audacious civil servant
who dared to speak back to an M.L.A., but the
Govt, only replied that it was a little deaf in that
ear.
N.S.W. Minister Hassall, last week, did a
silly,puerile, Deadwood-Dick brag at Wollongong
It had given him the highest pleasure to unite in send-
ing our New South Wales contingents to the front, and as
an Australian he was pleased and proud of the splendid
part the Australians were playing in the battlefields,
shoulder to shoulder with the soldiers of the grand old
mother country. He was delighted that Australian troops
were covering themselves with glory at the front. The
Australian troops now in the field had always'proved a
terror to the enemies of the Empire and had called forth
the praise of some of the best generals of the day. In
this instance they had taken the Boers in hand, and the
Boers would find to their cost who they had to
deal with before the Australians were done with them
He only wished he could go right into the thick of the-
campaign with a good strong force of Australian bush
riders behind him. If so, he would guarantee that the
result would be a revelation, not only to the Boers, but
to all the world. The first thing he would do would be
not to charge them in the front in the regular army style of
doing that kind of thing-, but would make a raid into the
country behind entrenchments and cut off their supplies.
With a sufficient number of the right kind of Australians
he would undertake to shake every horse, cow, calf, and
sheep within 100 miles of wherever the Boers might
collect their forces.
feo N.S.W. has got rid of the God-fearing Govern-
ment, and the Cow-shaking Government reigns in
its stead.


AND
ORGAN
It may be you intend buying a VIOLIN for
Here since ’53.
your boy, and foster liis taste for music. We
stock Violins from 10s. 6d. upwards.
Your daughter wants a MANDOLIN. We sell
them at very low prices and made by the best
makers
In fact, if you want any-
thing musical you cannot
do better than write to us
for information, quotations
or Catalogues.
Don’t buy your Piano or
Organ until you have seen
PALING’S
MAGNIFICENT
STOCK
We can
Save you a deal of money and give you new styles
and models that cannot be purchased elsewhere,
and at a Low Price too.
We are open for more new business and shall be
glad to hear from you. We sell on very easy terms.
Call or Write for Catalogues—Post Free-
W. N. PALING *C° L lO 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbai)€
4
Newcastle
national Cash pgister.
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
It protects the customer.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
QiNatioQal Cast) Register
COMPANY.
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
READ THIS POSTCARD.
It Speaks
for Itself.
Albury Cycle Agency,
Albury.
..
' ytcx^.
Jfe&z' f*SVC,
' jA/Z- -. 1 <2r.AA-'T <^ r -'
<2/£s?sZ ?*&&*
s/Ucjt&y
/?/? ' ~r '#- -
%jf££
t &4,& £&®4*hju4?»
w
FOR
SPEED AND DURABILITY.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO., OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
v>
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nsa-.s/w.
fflont depietej).a|i|.Co.,[ l td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEEEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manageb.
The City mutual Cite
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. hia-hilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessor, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Perth., West A.nstralia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only £5 each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting gorapy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-tJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER.,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Lofydoo & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New ßranch7 ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of ||erth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager — Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... . .£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
OPALS r PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sapphos
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GI VEN.
n. BCNJAMIM at)d SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-, Melbourne-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
W'est Ik South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE’!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Sat., January 20, 12 Noon.
Btininyonjr, Tues., Jan. 23, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyongr, Tues., Jan. 23, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 23, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE -v
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON [,
BUNDABERG J
Leura, Sat., January 20, 12.N00n.
Koonoowarra, Tues., Jan. 23, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Sat., Jan. 20, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cai’go for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets' Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
1 arker & Co. or Messrs. MThvraith, M’Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb€ Trustees, €*€cCstorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Horn J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDIv. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable bj' Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commei cial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. 800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12’99) ... 423,159,571 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ; ’
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 liishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GKOItGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nali.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford 'with airency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
' —THE—s
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. • Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLtE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Managed.
Bank of 'New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackkllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. . F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office-Old Ero id Street.
With Branches in all the Australian ■ Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest.on fixed deposits ; collects for
its justomers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other hanks; issues drafts; circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
ir in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TH€ ABCRPCCN LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
The following masmificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Lalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
E
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Jan. 22 ! Feb.
Feb. 19 March
I larch 19 April
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
"•TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MARKET :
The Principal Selling/ Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
m- MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
D.S.MAI R
nwrnrTA
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulat' d and Guaranteed 1 year, 2 6.
Best quality new English Main,springs,,2/6. .
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25, -
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 86, 9,6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Dian end
Ring. £4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— QB-3L George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDrSTEASSHIFM
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
t.oall North Western Ports
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, Jan. 19.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Jan. 27.
(Without Transhipment).
Brisbane
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Jan. 19.
For BRISBANE )-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Jan. 20.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect wil-h the P. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best <V Cheapest, Route to Golil/ietfs.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A. [J.S.N. Co.
& CO., L'ip., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. IN. Coy Ltd.
KOYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON - Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via llrls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenr/er A ccotnmodntion , A tteii thin re find
Cuisine unvivallecl.
Full Particulars from the Agents .
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
p. "and" o 7 company.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
H
Sydney,
Noon
ARCADIA ..
ROME
HIMALAYA
♦OCEANA .
* BRITANNIA
6603
5545
6593
6603
6525
A. C. Loggin ... .. Jjan.
•T. Cowie, R.N.R. ... ...Man.
W. L. Broun, R.N.R. Feb.
L. H.Crawford,C.B., R.N.R. Feb.
F. H. Seymour ...March
13
27
10
21
7
♦ Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
tirnes’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
fjuddart, porker § go's [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cir-rent Rates.
CJOEaCjLDXTA. and
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY", Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin :
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH‘|liDraith,f|| < Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
Lfllwraith, M'Eacharn Si Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 65Q0 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Steamer
Com- Sydney,
mander. I Noon.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m.
V. de la CIOTAT Fiaschi ... Jan. 22 Jan. 25 Jan 07
POLYNESIEN Chevalier Feb. 191 Feb. 22 Feb 24
ARM. BEHIC ...jPoydenot iMar. 19 Mar. 22 Mar. 24
AUSTRALIEN iVerron (April 16,April 19 April 21
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7o’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assislance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Publications.
“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney, Post, Is. 7d
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 6s. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10 vols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sjdney.
*PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES.
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED
"RTITH numerous anatomical
’' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MEDr
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ILLUSTRATED
I BOOKLET
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913 ? Gr.P.O., Sydney
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
JJO IK)SOX ’S Hi
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodqson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
2*7
FOREIGN STAMPS.
QETS of 12 Transvaal, Is ; 5 Orange State,
iO 4d ; 7 Natal, Is ;11 Cape, Is 3d ; 50
Cuba, 3s 6d ; 50 Spain, 2s ; 9 Borneo, Is 6d ;
5 Guatemala, 8d ; 5 Bolivia, 6d ; 12 Luxem-
burg, 9d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d .
250,1 s ; 500, 2s ; 1000, 3s6d. FINE COLLEC-
TIONS, 1000 differents (mounted) only 20s ;
postage 2d. Kemit P. 0.0., P.N. or stamps.
Price Lists free.
Wm. Ackland,
162 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
IAHIOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS ancl MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection o£ songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere'for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 468 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
ALLAN’S
MELBOURNE
MUSICAL
MAGAZINE.
No. 4. For 1900.
The Finest Number Ever Issued.
PRICE 1/-
OR
POSTED 1/2.
Every lover of popular or
patriotic songs should at once
order a copy of the number
just issued. For quality and
variety it is unequalled by
any other Xmas Musical
Magazine.
Allan’s Magazine contains:—
No. I.—REMEMBER MAJUBA.
No. 2.—SONS OF THE SEA, for
Pianoforte.
No. S.—WRAP ME UP IN MY OLD
STABLE JACKET.
No. 4. —THE IRISH MESSAGE.
No. S.—YOU SHOW ME YOUR
SLATE.
No. 6.—HUSH, LITTLE BABY,
DON’T YOU CRY, The Great
Child’s Song.
No. 7—THE COON’S SERENADE.
No. 4.—SING A SONG OF NON-
SENSE.
No. 9.—CAN IT BE LOVE, Waltz.
Founded on the Popular Melodies.
rJow obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout
Australasia or from the publishers
ALLAN & CO., Proprietary Ltd.,
276 & 278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for ,£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, J 26 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Toll Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, <£3 15s.
60 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
TN€R€ IS ONLY ON€!
Mignon Piano. there is only one
HXTanon Piano. there is only one
FLoniscli Piano. there is only one
Beclistein Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
NOT E.—Our ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY,
SILVER-PLATED BELTS,
Will fit any size waist. 7/, 6/6, 6/, and 6/6 each.
(20 Different. Patterns).
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver.
| Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
GOLD CRESCENT
BROOCH,
oririßoP
Set with Lovely Pearls or Pearls and
Turquoise, 27s 6d ; smaller size, 17s 6d.
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Pearl-set
Bird Brooch, lls 6d each.
Solid Gold Motto Brooch, 11s 6d.
Also, same Style in Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck, and Mizpah.
Solid Gold and Beal Amethyst, 8s 6d.
Our New Wild Boar’s Tusk
BEOOOH,
with Chain and Bell # »
Pendant,
xkm
Silver Mounted,
5s 6d.
Gold Mounted
148.
LUCKY SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with 1 Pearl,
2 Amethysts, or 1
Topaz or Obsidion, 4s.
9c., 10/, 12'6, 15/, 20/.
15c., 20/, 22/6, 27/6.
18c., 21/, 25/, 30/.
With any name or
Motto, Is extra.
All Goods sent
Post Free.
Solid Gold,
14s pair.
With any Monogram
50 other Patterns.
18c., Half-Hoop, 5 fine
Diamonds, £7 10.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5,
£6. 2 fine Diamonds
with 3 Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals, or Pearls, £3, £4,
£5. 5 Lovely Opals, 455,
50s, 555.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 425, small size, 355.
15c., 50s, ~ „ 455.
18c., 555, „ „ 50s.
Solid Gold, set with 5
Turquoise, 10s 6d ; or
Pearl and Turquoise,
12s 6d; 5 Opals, 15s
and 21s.
GOLD LUCKY WISH BONE
MERRY THOUGHT BROOCH,
With 2 Pearl and Turquoise Love
Birds, 14s 6d.
With 1 Peai-l and Turquoise Love
Bird, 11s. 6d.
\
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s Tooth
Pendant
BROOCH,
13s 6d.
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark’s Tooth
PENDANT,
6s 6d.
The New CENTURY GOLD BEOOCH,
Latest London Novelty, 10s 6d.
DC Please send for Our Illustrated
SLIPS OF NOVELTIES.
MagniAbent BROOCH, 15c. Gold,
Set with 6 Diamonds and 2 Rubies, Sapphires,
or Opals, 70s,
with Amethyst &
Chain Pendant,
Gold Two-bar
BROOCH,
13s 6d each.
ca
m
ear®
New Gold Cross Brooch, with Raised
Mizpah and Bird, 12s 6d.
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER PATTERNS.
£
MEMORY
MEMORY,
. Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO learn.
7 SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School pf Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas. —“History
was always my dread in exams., but by your System I
have just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
your System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. R. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“lt is of
inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service candidates. It will always repay a hundred-
fold the small fee invested.”
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
A
m
: a
rfe
»m 111'
Thomsons I
ttte MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stoch.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
.—SAUCE.
THc
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy :—“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
#
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.


DON'T be left behind on a “Good enough.”
A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
is cheaper in the end.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH^BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lofl<i*i)za CoGgb-
rv 7T- rCT
tc-'&jC'Sk
fled flird 'Cifeles are flight
Because they’re built right. It is as reasonable to expect your local plumber to manufacture a lmh-
grade watch, as to turn out a high-grade bicycle with a set of fittings which can be purchased for a few
shillings.
Each workman in the Bed Bird factory is an expert in one purt only, and his work is super. ised
by a corps of 85 inspectors.
There are many reasons for Bed Bird Excellence.
Ma " u andG™a;a S n o t£d„y Che Goold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st.,
261 Collins-
Edward-st.,
VICTORIA-ST.
Sydney, Head Office in Australia
■st., Melbourne, Vic.
Brisbane, Q.
, Wellington, N.Z.
We have a Line
NEW MACHINES at £ 5 each, fitted with best Tyres and Rims. Second-hand Cycle.-
(aU makes) at price of the tyres.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Biennial Australasian swimming champion-
ships, concluded in Sydney Saturday last, demonstrated
beyond the shadow of a doubt the immense superiority
of N.S.W. cracks over those of all other provinces. Not
one of the visiting contingent finished first, second, or
third, and not in a single instance did they even secure
a standard certificate, which calls for nothinc extra*
ordinary and allows a wide margin under record time.
M.U crack Hamilton performed best, and would have
done even better with proper condition. Maynard,
puffed up by the Australasian as capable of breaking
26j for the mile, didn't do 28, and failed throughout to
show any unusual form. The displays of Sinclair and
Rich (M.L.) and Hobson (CJ.) were very poor —not equal
to average in one or two instances.
* * • *
The interprovincial conference of swimming
delegates held at Sydney last week has decreed that Aus-
tralasian premiership contests shall take place in each of
four contracting provinces—M.L,., Queensland, Victoria,
and N.S.W.—every year. S.A. doesn’t own enough
energy or enthusiasm to take an interest in the matter.
Bar cricketers, S.A. hasn't an athlete worth speaking of
nor an athletic association—when compared with the
rest of the group.
• * • •
Quarter-mile Australasian Supremacy at Govt.
Priming Office Swimming Carnival, at R.rlfern, Jan. 10,
attracted 13 starters. First heat went to Bond (Sydney),
time 6min. 23 l-ssrc. H. Smith (Sydney) was second ;
Maynard (Vic.), and Hamilton and Sinclair (M.L.) were
behind. Boy Dick Cavill got away with the second heat
easily in 6min. 21' l-ssec. ; Craig (Balmain) was second.
None of the others—among them Rich (M.L.)—finished.
Final proved something to he remen.bered. It was seen
early that either Cavill or Craig would own the title, and
that, if latter eonld keep going the whole journey, he’d
give Dick a hot time. Eighty yards from home they
were swimming stroke for stroke, with every oz.
on. Once Dick seemed to get away, but Craig was
upon him in a twinkling. Cavill and Craig rounded into
the second last lap simultaneously. Just here Hamilton,
coming in, collided witli Craig, and, besides putting him
out of his stroke, gave Cavill a lead of 2yds. Nothing
daunted, the Balmain lad (who is hardly a year older
than Dick) laid himself out to reduce the gap, but it was
no go ; Cavill never wavered a second, and ultimately
won with something over a yard to spare, amid cheering
that lasted minutes. Sydney has never seen a better
swimming race. Expert docker, Billy Kerr, supported
by other watches, made the time 6min. 1 l-ssec. Best
Australasian record is Lane’s, 5 54jfj. put tip at Bronte
(Sydney), Feb. 11, '99. World’s fastest (5 43.1-5) stands
to the credit of ex-British amateur Tvers, and was
achieved at Manchester, May 11, nearly four years ago.
When the race was over Craig fainted, and had to be
helped out of the water.
* * • •
N.S.W. champion schoolboys—Baker, Pert and
Byers—made the pace very hot from start to finish of
Schools’ Invitation Scratch (100yds.) Race, at Sydney
Government Printing Office swimming gala last week.
For close on 70yds. they were in a line ; then Baker and
Pert singled out. Ten yards from the finish Byers came
again, and looked like overhauling the other two, hut he
presently fell back. The other two finished—“a dead
heat!” everybody yelled, but the judges conferred and
gave Pen (Fort-st. Model Public School) the palm. Byers
was a yard furl Iter oft, third. Time, 1 9.3-5. Judging
by appearances, it’s about time Baker “chucked” school,
unless he’s going to slay there all his life. Writer has
seen many men with much younger-looking chivvies
keeping families.
■ * * * -
Atop of the mile and the J-mile supremacies of
Australasia, Dick Cavill (Friday night last) gathered in
the £-mile laurels with the greatest of ease, and not once
throughout the whole journey was he pushed. Rich and
Sinclair (M.L.), badly beaten, threw it up early, and
Lennon (Q.) was nearly 200yds. behind at the finish,
while Hamilton (M.L.) and Maynard (V.) touched in that
order with a yard or so between them, fully 100yds. away
from the w inner. Bond was second, 30yds. behind, and
Plugger Smith third, 10yds. further oft. Young Dick’s
time (12min. 53 1-58 PC.) is 13 l-ssec. outside his brother
Percy’s Australasian best, established 2vrs. ago ; but the
little chap could have done much better still had he
been out on a record-breaking mission. As it was he
simoly went for a win and a comfortable win.
* * « •
Balmain champion Craig’s swimming in the
440yds. event on the previous Wednesday prepared most
people for his appropriation of the furlong championship
at Enterprise Swimming Club’s gala in Farmer’s Sydney
Domain Baths, Saturday last. Leading from end to end,
he was clocked to do 2.39 —just 4-ssec. slower than
Freddy Lane’s Australasian record. Boy Dick Cavill was
ten yards away, second, and Bond, two yards further off,
third. Three named, having finished inside 2.50, gain
standard certificates. Little Dick hadn’t a spurt in
him and seemed dead stale absolutely devoid
of the brilliancy he had displayed in previous
events. Once or twice he looked like giving it
up altogether. Nothing but sheer grit kppt him going.
All the heavy work of the week had completely broken
him up. Given Cavill at his best, Craig (a powerfully-
built youngster of, perhaps, 18) would certainly have got
away with the race, hut not by anything near the mar-
girl mentioned. Like Fred Lane, both these youngs ers
are at. one and the same time top-not.chers over the sprint
and long distances, and as they will improve a lot it is
difficult to foresee what possibilities are ahead of them.
• • * *
“ Coogee ” : Saw young Dick Cavill—full of dash
—regularly fly over the water in sprint supremacy race
(6th inst.) and very nearly pip it in about 1.4 3-5. On the
Bth, he gave a wonderful display (for a lad) over the mile
and won easily. The 10th saw him engage in a gruelling
tussle throughout the 440yds. championship, and just
win after swimming two heats. The half-mile took place
on the 12th (Friday) and he got home again, hut didn’t
show the same amount of vigor. Saturday’s 220yds.
premiership witnessed a great falling off—the lad dragged
heavily and seemed to have lost all life. Cause is not far
to seek; he’s a growing youth (16 on Wednesday) and
was asked to go through what would have been a big
thing for a matured man. Pity those behind Dick haven’t
got more sense than to take such risks.
• * * *
Cavill, Craig and Bishop, who among them hold
all this year’s interprovincial championships, owe their
remarkable powers to the fact that they simply live in
the water. Cavill hangs round his father’s baths all day,
flopping in and clamherint. out, as the fancy
seizes him. Bishop earned his sobriquet of “Mud”
through floundering about the waters of Balmain at all
tides and in all places every time a chance offered ; and
Craig allows no opportunity, at any time of day, to slip.
Bishop and Craig hail from Balmain, as also do those
other two cracks—Proudfoot and Byers.
* * • •
“The glorious uncertainty of cricket.” This
season Victoria led off by heating South Australia ; then
N.S.W. went over and walloped ’em both. Now S.A.,
after again going down before Vic. en route, comes to
Sydney and belts N.S.W. by six wickets. For glorious
uncertainty of this sort many a racing pony has been
«* sent up ’’ for life.
• * a *
As events turned out, the South Australian
Cricket Association would have done better in accepting
the £l5O offered by N.S.W. for the Sydney match. The
agreement of one-third of the profits did not pan out
nearly as well.
* • a a
Bad fielding was the cause of South Aus-
tralia’s defeat of New South Wales in the Sheffield
shield contest. The first innings of the crow-eaters
should not have totalled a hundred ; the easy chances
missed would have disgraced a team of schoolboys. In
second innings Howell missed Hack (whose batting won
the match)twice, once when he was only seven. Darling
and Reedman each made 55 and were both missed befoie
scoring.
Trutnpers 4a in the first innings, and “colt”
Hopkins second innings total of 64, were by far
the best individual efforts for N.S.W. in the recent match
airainst S.A. Both played the only “doubtful wicket"
came and forced matters—Hopkins, especially, getting a
lot of power into his strokes without apparent effort, lie
is a sturdy youngster who never forgets that the use of a
cricket-bat is to hit the ball with, and he smites it hard
every time. Trutnper’s fondness for the “ pull ” got him
out in each innings; he practically threw away his
wicket in the second innings by attempting to pull to leg
a fast one from “Jonah,’’ high on the off stump. “ Noss”
I redale, with 31 and 76, did {rood work unassumingly and
without, taking any risks ; and old ironbai k Jim Kelly,
who smacked tip 1)2 in his two efforts, struck out in his
frond though labored style, and made the crowd laugh by
scooping off balls round to the leg-fence. None of the
others did anything special, except Mary Ann Noble,
who at tempted the “tied elbow ” game, and didn’t shiue
at it to any extent.
» * * •
“ W.” writes : — Probably the most hopeless
batsman N.S.W. has produced for some years is
huge Alick Mackenzie. Something under 7ft. high and
built in proportion, he is, in club cricket, a regular
lionnor, and smacks the ball around for hours at a
stretch. In big matches, how-ever, he gives potter-
ing, weak-kneed displays, and everyone yells (or thinks)
“Hooray" when lie gets out. The showing-up young
Ilopkins gave him in the second innings of the recentS.A.
match should make selectors drop him. When Mackenzie
went in Hopkins was 8, and when about an hour later
Mac. was out. for 16, Hopkins had knocked up 50. For
three consecutive off-theory overs from Jones, big Mac.
stood stolidly in front of his w icket and daintily smote
the hall twice. Then Hopkins got down that end and
nearly knocked pilings out of the fence with Jonah’s off-
theory, and Jonah was removed.
,• * * y
The bush humorist is in town. At Sydne
Cricket Ground t'other day a big heavy bushwhacker i n
the “hob ’’ reserve asked a neighbor what the “green
stuff the chaps was playin’ on’’ was. Was told that it
was grass. “Oh, that’s grass, is it?’’ said the bushy,
with labored wit ; “ I must ’ave a look at it. The cook at
Curiaweena was talkin’ about grass the other day,’’ and
he climbed the fence into the playing-ground, raising a
momentary hope amongst spectators that he was going
out to bash the dreary Mackenzie. But he only squatted
on his heels, solemnly scrutinised the sward for some
seconrls, pulled a few blades, and, remarking that it
seemed “orlright kind’er stuff,’’ clambered back to his
seat amidst applause.
* * * »
“W. ” : By gathering in three wickets for 40
and six for 89, in the recent interprovincial cricket
match, fast howler Jones badly “knocks” the delusion
prevalent in N.S.W. since his efforts in previous matches,
that he is a “ has-been.” In last match Jonah, pal-
pably half-trained, trundled as W'ell as ever ; and
although, in the second innings, catches were dropped
off him, and he was kept on until he pulled oil his sweater
and refused point-blank to bowl any longer, he comes
out with an average of 15. Jonah’s trip ’Ome has taught
him to “ bowl with his head."
« * * *
After a month’s spell, the Sydney premiership
cricket matches were resumed on Saturday last. The
most peculiar contest- of the day was between Central
Cumberland and North Sydney, at Parramatta. C.C.
started batting, when the whole Tailin’ were disposed of
for 104, of which Farquhar made 55, not out. North
Sydney’s innings was even more disastrous, the innings
closing for 64. In their second innings, C.C. have so far
scored 53 for six wickets, and, unless rain stands to them
during the week, it looks as if they will suffer their first
defeat at the hands of North Sydney. The century men
during the day’s play wore : Trumpet-, 118 : Gee, 103, for
Paddington; and Harry Donnan, 133, not out, for
Burwood.
* • * •
The crushing defeat administered by the mother
province’s team to S.A. cricketers at Adelaide had its
effect in Melbourne, for the “gate” of the S.A.-Victoria
match only totalled ±384 odd, as against over 1909 last
year. Victoria gets all but about ±3O of this under the
reciprocit3' agreement. Latter province has now
accounted for S.A. in five consecutive matches.
* • * *
Jack Lyons first played in big cricket in 1885.
He has made ten centuries in first-class matches—five of
them in Adelaide, two in Sydney, two in Melh., and the
other at Lords.’ Probably the latter was “Carbine's"
best; it was made in June, 1893, against a strong bowl-
ing combination. Altogether Lyons has made 6880 runs
for 286 innings (not out 11 times), averaging 25 runs per
innings—a splendid record of 14 years of continuous
work. The story of Lyons’ memorable innings in Sydney
in Feb., 1892, against Sheffield’s team i.ended by the
great W. 0., is still remembered there. Australia batted
first, and failed miserably for 144, to which England re-
plied with 306. Interest in the match had practically
ceased, but the crowd rolled up when Lyons and Banner-
man wiped off the deficit of 162 before the first wicket
fell. Jack made 134, and subsequently Bannerman
stayed in with Giffen and Bruee, and the Englishers
didn’t get Bannerman until he had made 91. Bruce was
a fine dashing hat- in those days, and he made 72. Aus-
tralia made 390, leaving Grace and co. to make 229. They
made 166, Stoddarf being the only one to stand up
against the great Giffen, who took six wickets for 72.
That win of Australia against England undoubtedly be-
longed to Lyons, Bannerman and Giffen. It was, perhaps,
the best win of Australia over England in Australia, for
England had Grace, Lohmann, Stoddart, Briggs and
Peel, all at their best.
Jack Lyons, in bis hesfc days, was a sure draw.
The Londoners went to Lords in thousands to see him.
In the ’92 match in Sydney, there were a few hundred
present at the start, hut Lyons’batting resulted in an
attendance of 13,000 after lunch. “Carbine" scores in
Adelaide, against Vic. and N.S.W., were nearly all made
in wiping off deficits. Present day conditions do not
seem to produce big bitters of the’Lyons calibre. We
seem to be gravitating towards the precise players like
the brilliant Trumper, who make beautiful strokes but
don’t take risks, as “Carbine” did from the jump. The
bowling is certainly not better; Peel. Lohmann, Giffen,
Briggs and Turner, were, perhaps better trundiers than
Howell, Trutnble, Hearne and Noble, of the present day.
We have men, like Joe Darling, who can hit; but they
won’t. Hard to account for it, considering that the publio
wants lively cricket, and will always roll up in thousands
and pay for it.
• « » •
Obit.—William Bates, Yorkshire professional
bowler, aged 44 years. Early death partly attributable
to an accident on Melb. cricket ground. While practising
(howling) an off-driven hall struck him on the right eye!
For many days he remained in a dark room at the White
Hart Hotel. He never recovered the sight of the injured
optic, and did very little cricket after.
* • * «
“ Reversals of form ” are of such common occur-
rence that small notice is taken of them by our racing
stewards. At Itosehill (Syd.) on Saturday Carline won
the Nursery Handicap in great contrast to her dis-
play at Moorefield on the previous Saturday, when
she made a miserable exhibition in the youngsters’
race, won by Lucifer. Four horses were prelerred
before old Wliakawatea for the Rosehill New Year
Handicap, but when it came to fighting out the finish,
the old warrior put in his run and beat Portague by a
neck. If ever a horse deserved to be pensioned off at the
end of his racing career it is old Whakky ; and although
racing men as a rule have little sentiment about parting
with their worn-out geldings, it is to be hoped that Mr.
Ilungerford will find a few acres of clover for the old
Maori to finish his days in.
* * • ■*
“ W.”: Rosehill races on Saturday were remark-
ably good betting events, and as usual the long-suffering
punter mostly lost his cash. A hot favorite, young Bill
Kelso’s common £2O nag Argyle, snared his fifth hurdle
race and gave backers a start, but then things went
wrong. A 7 to 1 chance in Belle Isle walloped the
favorites in the Granville Stakes; the lanky old bay
wonder Whakawatea gathered in the New Year Ilandi
cap, downing: two weightily-hacked ones in Amourette
and Portague ; and War Ood’s ugly half sister. Carline,
collected the Nursery event, unbacked. For the principal
event the cash was stacked on Meribah, Willie, and
Summer Cup winner Blue Metal, hut the black St. Albans-
bred inure. The Prize, hadn’t any trouble with 'em, and
leisurely cantered in ahead of Guardsman and Blue
iletal. And then Ikey Mo had the cheek to squeal when
Defendant, rushed by his party at the last moment,
helped himself to the final Welter.
* * * *
A pood field started on Monday for the Brighton
(Sydney) handicap trot. Tommy S, who is now owned
by Mr. B. Byrnes, started ldsec. behind, and never gave
anything else a chance, winning: with ease from George.
Tlie winner covered the distance at a 2.42 gait.
* ♦ * V
Michael Fitzgerald, ofDapto, and George Tate,
of Moss Vale, both alive, rode at the Wollongong races (10
years ago. The veteran Andrew Lysaght, who vouches
for this, has been forty-seven years an official of the
Wollongong course.
* * * *
Bavs Melb. Aok horse-reporter: “ It is probable
that Merriwee will not be seen at his best at Geelong, as
naturally he will be in course of preparation for important
fixtures at Flemington later on.” Considering that
Merriwee is Australia's representative gee-gee at present,
Tin? Bulletin hopes that his owner will not descend to
the policy of “running him into form.” If not at his
best, or nearly' so, Merriwee isn't fit to carry the money
which punters would naturally stake on his reputation.
* • * *
Weights for S.T.C. Challenge Stakes and Anni-
versary Handicap saw the light last week. Coralie tops
tiie lot in the former event with 9.10, and, even nt that,
might he given a good chance, but writer thinks she'll be
reserved for something later. Gameboy, on his track
work and form in Kogarah (Moorefield) Stakes on Satur-
day week looks good enough with 7.2 up. Saraswati,
Goldsmith and Cavalier also wear a taking appearance.
In the Anniversary Handicap the pick of the lot seem to
be “ Teddy ” Knight's pair (Mora and Itoyal Purple) and
one or other should win. Royal Purple has only 4lbs.
more than when she got away with that fast mile-and-a-
quart.er at Hand wick a month or two ago. St. Clare (7st.
Albs.) is another animal worth consideration. Despite
the fact that he has since won a six furlongs race, and
vas only just beaten in a tnile-and-a quarter event,
Jiullomin is asked to hump 3lbs. less than he carried in
the Summer Cup. Looks as if the handicapper thinks
this nag can't live over the distance.
* * * •
Famous old Goldslirough—Flora M'lvor mare,
Frailty, pegged out at Auckland (M.L.), t'other day.
Owner (T. Morrirt) bought her at Toca! (N.S.VV.) yearling
sales 20 years ago. Without being raced she went to the
stud in ’Bl and dropped that wonder, Trenton, to Musket,
frailty threw 16 foals altogether, and most of them
brought big prices. Havoc went for 2200g5. ; Musque-
taire, 2025g5. ; Astronomer, 1575g5. ; Lancaster, IOOOgs.,
and Zalinski, Others of her progeny were
Niagara, Cuirassier, Cissy, Mary, and Edith Cureton.
* * • *
At Canterbury (M.L.) Trotting Club’s meeting
recently, Cling won the champion two miles harness race
of £2OO in 4min. 67sec. Cling is a pony bred bv Mr.
Buckland, of Wonbobbi, N.S.W., by Van Cleve, sire of
champion Fritz.
* * * *
Dr. Slate had a successful trip with his team of
trotters to Maoriland. He had wins with Iluon Prince,
Polly Huon, and Silver Hue. Occidental ran second
twice ; and the Doctor just missed the £3OO handicap
with Venus, who was beaten by Sam Slick after a great
set-to.
» * » *
Trial him, hy Traducer from Idalia, who died
recently in America, was full brother to Sir Modred, the
horse who could boast of the most sensational career in
Australian turf history before being expatriated to the
States. Idaliunt was not a great success at the stud, hut
Ihe first year Sir Mndred’s stock commenced to race in
America the latter topped the list of winning sires.
• * * •
There was wrath and langwidgein Perth (W. A.)
the other day when it was found that the parties who had
held any ticket bet ween numbers 26.000 and 28,000 had
not had a run for their money. By some mistake the
casual party who puts t he slips into the barrel had missed
that little lot at the critical moment, and when the mis-
take was discovered the man who had drawn a horse stood
and held his hair with both hands, and gasped wildlv that
the drawingcould not be upset; while the other fellow who
had held oneof the missiny numbers, and in some cases half
a dozen of them, declared loudly that the Universe would
be wrecked if the mistake was not rectified in some way
that would give him a fair proportion of the loot. Even-
tually the matter was referred to a committee of all the
prominent sports in town, and they decided that the
dr a winy should stand, hut that those who didn’t have a
shuttle for the pool should have their tnonev returned to
them. The sweep closed at 31,000, and YV.A. Tatts. has
to return out of his commission £750 to disappointed
ticket-holders.
* * • .
“The Wassid ”: Re par on general utility
horses(Rrt.LßTtx, 30/12 '99) a horse here (Euroa, Vic.) lias
won hurdle race, trot, attd handicap flat race on same
day, and has done this more than once. On New Year’s
T)nv, at Merton, he won hunter’s jump, ran second in
hurdle, and won trot. Owner, a travelling agent, took
the general utility animal out, of his buggv at Longwood
on Boxing Day, and won two hurdle races with him.
Horse (Penalva) is 23 years old. [Tiik Bulletin desires to
state that it takes no personal responsibility as regards
tins remarkable animal's age.]
* « * «
The “Yellow Agony” has advanced another
stage in the North. At the races held at Miiani, near
Macka.v, in December, a Japanese had what is popularly
known as a “ Yankee Sweat Table.” The strange thing
was that he completely spoilt, the business of the white
‘• table " men, for the crowd was around hint all day, and
his rivals were left lamenting. Representations were
made, however, and he wits debarred from having a table
at Eton races last week. But he hired a white man to
run the business, anti the old luck stuck to the table,
whioh did practically all the trade there was to be done.
• • . ,
M.L. bruiser Otto Cribb attached another scalp
to his belt at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydnev) Saturday night.
The victim this tune was big, clean-built Harry Dawson,
who came as the winner of a lost, novice tourney—
the man who, on a recent occasion, laid out M‘Cart.hy,
whilom sparring pal of that slippery customer Herb
M'Kell. Otto dashed in from “time” and floored his
enemy on four different occasions in the first three
minutes. Next round was the last. It started with a
rally ; Dawson hacked away ; Cribb followed, feinted in
bis “ awkward-clever ” style, and Dawson fell into the
trap. He got right and left on the point and became a
peaceful and horizontal bruiser on the boards—dead to
the world. A packed house paid double ordinary tariff
to see that—well, not fight, for there was only one in it
from the jump.
• * • *
Broken TTill (N.S.W.) has proved a fruitful
hunting ground for Australian middleweight pug. Tim
Murphy. After waiting till he was nearly rusty for a
fight in Sydney, Tim look Jack Dunne of W.A.on at “the
Hill” at two weeks’notice, and toed the mark with a
sprained ankie because Jack wouldn’t stand a postpone-
ment. Murphy got most of the punishment, but bided
his time until an opening offered in the 9th round, when
a “daisy” on the point sent Jack to rest. Dunne’s
backers argued that it was a fiuke, and they made a
second match which eventuated on the 10th inst., when
Tim wrecked the audience s mental faculties by “outing”
his man decisively ere a third of the second three minutes
had expired. Tw o weeks hence Murphy meets Archer, of
Queensland, at Broken Hill—apparently another very
soft thing.
* » * »
Colored Felix had an unreported two-round go
before he quitted Westralia, and won. He suddenly
dropped the engagement with Dooley, whereupon
Michael claimed r. 20 “ wages and expenses incurred and
sustained”; also as Felix had booked East, Michael
brought the Absconding Debtor's Act to help him. Mr.
Barker seconded Dooley ; Mr. Smith was behind Felix.
Mr. Fairbairn, R.M., was referee. The mill came off in a
large but ill-ventilated ring. Dooley led in the first
round, hut Felix answered heavily 7; and the referee gave
the match to the colored gentleman on points. So Felix
was permitted jto come East.
* * • •
News frotn ’Orne is that the resurrected Aus-
tralian black pug., Pluto, had a cut at one Fielder in
London, Nov. 21), and after a punishing bout, of which
Pluto got much the worse (though flashes of his old-time
vigor enabled him to give the enemy a good set-back now
and again), the man from this section was badly beaten
on points. Last decade Pluto’s meetings wit It Griffo
were sensational—they got together perhaps half-a-dozen
times in long-drawn-out slaughtering battles which were
exciting, but rarely decisive. Also an impromptu scrap
in the st reet, or a dust-up in a bar parlor, were occasional
happenings with them. Fr< quently, however, t hey were
seen having a good time together. It was only when
fight was talked and the relative merits of tlie two
were discussed that the rumpus would begin, and
then they would go looking for each other.
Pluto has exploited Yankeedotn and been done badly
there several limes; albeit now and again, despite his
(from an athletic point of view) too great load of years
and handicap of lengthy inertia, he managed to score a
w 7 in. A good showing at the N.S.C. (London) brought
him his latest match, but Fielder was much too big and
strong—nothing but, Pluto’s great grit kept him on deck
for the stipulated 20 rounds.
* » * *
“Ternpe”: See much-boomed pigeon-shooting
match between Massy (Yass)and “ Locksley'' (Neeld), of
Wynlong, for championship of N.S.W., has fallen
through—temporarily, it is said, but more likely 7 perman-
ently. A Sydney paper explains the why and wherefore
in a somewhat, jumbled-up sort of fashion, advancing as
causes of postponement, “ the changing of the -half-holi-
day” (w hatever that has to do with a legitimate match
for £ 100 a-side), “Locksley” wanting to go to the Trans-
vaal and not being able, the fact that his broth'r is
going, the serious illness of Massy’s father} the other fact
that “ Locksley ” is suffering from an internal complaint
and has to undergo an operation, etc., etc. Is it
on record that two champions genuinely bent
upon meeting each other were ever previously
stopped bv so many things at once? Despite “ Locks-
ley’s" “internal complaint,” he cut up a purse at
Brighton (Sydney) very recently, and despite the fact
that he must “ undergo an operation ” lie is prepared to
“ increase the prize-money,” whatever that may mean—
is it the stake? If so, how much will it be necessary to
increase it ?
* * * *
The Sydney Flying Squadron’s 22-footers
championship was decided on Saturday last, over the
Manly course. Nick Johnson’s Effie once again proved
her right to the 22fi. championship, by finishing lmin.
25sec. ahead of the Keriki, which beat the Plover by
nearly fiuiiri.
* * * *
Few men stick to their early loves as long as
Mr. Clarence Hannell, who has run the annual New Year’s
Day Regatta at Newcastle for a couple of life-times. Mr.
Hannell, who is a very powerfully-built man, was a fine
oarsman in his younger days, and there is a tradition
extant in Newcastle that on one occasion, when rowing a
race in a waterman’s skiff, he pulled the poppet-heads
clean out of the boat.
* » * *
“S.S.”: A dog-dealer in Melbourne told me
this; “The.v’s a great demand for poodles. Nobody
wants nothin' hut poodles—specially women. If you got
a poodle to sell, uo matter w 7 hat’s his family connections
an’ pedigree. I’ll get you a customer in narf-a-nour. You
wouldn’t think political economy’s got anythin’ to do
with the price o’ poodles. Well, it has. ' Bad politics
drives away the young fellers outer the country, or else
makes w ages so low blokes can't think o' marry in’. There
you are. No marryin’ means ole maids, an’ ole maids
means no babies, an’no babies means poodles—sometimes
it means toy terriers an’ cockertoos, but this time it
means poodles. Women what should he nussin’ babies
an’ aint must nuss somethin’, an’ just now 7 they’re nussin’
poodles. It was Gillies an’ the boom an’ the banks’
break-up in ’93 that makes the demand for poodles now 7 .
The girls that should'a'got married then an' couldn't
are just gettin’ to be ole maids now an’ they want
poodles.”
* * • •
Some ad vts. on the back of the programme of
White Cliffs (N.S. W.) race-meeting :
XT A LF-A-SECOND ! Call in at Alf. Richardson’s
Kips.v, and sample Ale (not Adams’). First-
class Ink still on tap, also a Stock of Pickle Merchants.
Sole Agent for the latter, also for Boer, British and
Australian Conlingents.
"REQUIRED Immediately!! 24,999 Boers, Gem-
-LV/ seekers, or such-like, to come and discuss the
Transvaal Situation, also a quantity of Ink, at Pat-
terson’s Exchange Hotel during Race Week. Writing
fluid of quite as good quality, and of all hues on the
Ground To-day at the Booth.
T) ELIEF of Ladysmith by Lyddite Beers !! At the
entrenchments of W. Johnstone’s White Cliffs
Hotel are always procurable Dum-Dum Lagers, Maxim
Shandies, and othersof thatilk. When fully charged,
Hoist the Flag of Truce ! 1!
r PRANSVA AI, Volunteers are cordially invited to
x inspect the Tailoring and Mercery Stock of Skip-
per ami Wallace for Lyddite, Dum-Dum, and Mauser-
proof Shirts, Hosiery, Knickers, Combinations, &c.
So far, not one man wearing the foregoing killed dur-
ing the Boer struggle. No white flag has been up-
lifted by any of them.
* * * *
Thursday last Lithgow (N.S.W.) cyclist .Tones
put up a record that will take some beating. Fora wager
of 10 to 1 he tackled the stiffest task known to have been
essayed by any Australasian wheelman—that of riding
from base to summit of the Big Gap Hill, Lithgow,
1$ miles. Several grades of lin 7 had to be negotiated.
From start to finish Jones never made a slip. L’pwards
Of 300 people looked on. He rode a Cleveland, geared to
66. Ten years ago someone, discussing cycling possi-
bilities, offered to bet big money that the climbing of the


“ALWAYS ON TOP
AND LIKELY TO
STAY THERE.
Derb^)
Tobacco,
Best,
Purest,
Most Fragrant
I I II I II
I ,1
I!
n..
<tJ/ k‘4
~s r=sr- SQY
ss
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS.
m
C£rf ecl
>
THU]
Ji Sd Jll/Jit £lw Jl
BICYCLE,
AS TITE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The ‘DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEV ;
for ACiStralaSia . . .
, IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
2 a 3-2 ait Clarence Street , Sydney,
With the holiday season coming' on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables plate,
jewellery, papers, etc. —at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (hack of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
j 8 now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
“The Light of Asia,” which, as is well known,
was one of the principal, hooks of its year, was an un-
doubted success, and without doubt so is the new light of
Australasia, the “ Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires
no trimming,” emits no odour, uses less oil, prevents
smokey chimneys, and is far safer than the ordinary wick.*
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
. • GEO. W. ELLIS.
Proprietor
“ The photo.-fiends apparently managed to have
the departure of the second crowd of four-and-
sixpemiy slayers for South Africa fixed tip
strictly in their own interests. It was set forth in
general orders that no friends or relations were to
be allowed on the pier when the troops embarked,
the official reason being that leave-takings at the
last moment made the scene less animated and
picturesque. Presumably a picturesque scene was
only wanted for pictorial purposes. Also the
stay-at-home troops were present with their de-
parting comrades —to make the army look more
imposing in the photograph. These troops which
didn’t go will buy that photo, largely and pre-
serve it carefully, and in after years they will
show it proudly to their descendants as a picture
of father starting for the war. And if father
happened to have a good front position he will be
there all right and quite visible.
“Lord Richard Nevhl intends to remain in
Australia a year or two longer. Brassey will
almost certainly secure for him a post on the staff
of the first Governor-General, to whom he
will be very useful socially. But Wallington has
also powerful friends who want him back again at
Government House. His tact and knowledge of
affairs and people averted many a blunder, and
Hopetoun, who, as Lord Chamberlain, is now a
considerable personage in England, will almost
certainly advise the Governor-General to pin his
faith to Wallington.
“The most genuine specimen of English
johnniedom imported here for some time is cer-
tainly the Gavan-Duffy’s new young step-brother.
More accurately speaking, he is the youngest son
of veteran Charles Gavan Duffy by his third wife.
The young man comes to these parts with a repu-
tation for brains, but in his present caterpillar
stage one merely notices he is long and soft, and
narrow and wriggly. The vine he clung to most
at the garden party t’other day was a round-eved,
pink-cheeked cousin, but ex-Postmaster John
trotted him proudly round and introduced him to
the vice-regals. jiliss Lorna Price, the jolly,
short-inched daughter of Colonel Tom, lias been
taken under the wing and protection of the noble
‘Mother of the Afflicted,’ at Cliveden, till her
martial parent comes home again.
In Maoriland, Country of Virtue, even a man’s
wrong doings arise purely from conscientious
motives. It came out in Dunedin the other day
that somebody’s husband lias been going patiently
to gaol for six years, tiff and on, because, though
earning a good screw, he refuses to pay the small
maintenance order which a mere earthly Court of
Justice has awarded to his separated wife. His
reason is that the quarrel between self and wife
ought to be patched up, but as previous efforts in
that direction led to the necessity for patching up
the wife as well, the Court hasn’t seen its way
to oblige. Latest news is that the martyr to
principle has been sentenced to a solid six
months, and that the wife, an invalid owing
to lack of necessary luxuries, is kindly
preparing to make him a widower. Result of
difference of climate, I suppose. In Australia the
husband who gets tired of parting with the coin
frisks off to a far-off land. In Maoriland, he
merely goes stolidly and methodically to gaol.
Reward of piety! This incident comes from
Home. A certain man, having purchased some
religious books at second-hand, noticed that the
pages of one of them, a Bible, were
glued together. Ungluing them, he discovered
banknotes to the value of thirty pounds, also a
letter saying that the owner had no relative to
whom to bequeath his wealth, and had chosen this
way of rewarding whosoever should go to the
trouble of ungluing these papers in his search for
heavenly truth. The discovery was made by an
atheist hunting up texts to heave at Dr. Talmage!
“ When they got into the fragrant bush she was
overcome with an intense longing for flannel
daisies. They accordingly pulled up and hitched
the gee-gee to the fence and wandered off to col-
lect Lady Carrington’s favorite flower. When
they came back the gee-gee and spider had dis-
appeared. There were wheelmarks, but though
they searched up and down till they were nearly
exhausted they could get no glimpse of their lost
property. So they sat on a stone, and the girl
cried and the man cursed inwardly. The girl
wondered what mamma would say, and the man
trembled at the thought of what the livery-stable
man would do. He made shocking remarks
about Lady Carrington and all bush flowers, and
he threatened himself with sudden death if ever
he was caught in such a predicament again. Sud-
denly the girl stopped crying and smiled through
her tears: ‘Well, Jack, dear, if they do go on
at me very much, we can get married, can’t we,
dear?’ Jack’s reply shocked her. Then they
tramped to the nearest railway station, four miles
away, and found that there would be no train for
two hours, and to make matters worse he was
threepence short of their two fares. The station-
master was a taciturn person who said he had
been taken down that way too often. So they
held another council of war, and .Tack pointed
out it was no good her going in—her old man was
so mean that once she was in he wouldn’t send
money to fetch Jack ; he’d be sure to talk a lot of
rot about ‘a nice bracing walk for a healthy
young man.’ So Jack said he would go, and of
course the old man would have to shell out to
bring his daughter home. When the train came
in he went accordingly, and the girl he adored
waited in the lone bush station till ten o’clock,
when word came that her fare had been paid by a
kind gent at the other end.
\ ours aSectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Gap was beyond tbe powers of the best. Riders front all
parts of the province frequently made attempts, but
failed badly, despite the fact that at least £6O could bate
been secured as the reward of success. Reminds writer
of the Yankee cyclist who, a year or. two ago, rode down
the steep steps of the Capitol at Washington (U.S.A.) for
a big sum, hut wouldn’t try it again at thrice the price.
That bikist has had no imitators. Ilis was a far more
daring performance than Jones’s, however. The latter
did not risk his life, while the American’s chance of
getting down alive looked hardly woith mentioning.
The Chinaman holds that if you presume
to save liis life under any circumstances it is your
duty to provide for him for the remainder of his
days. How like a woman !
The last depth of military bathos (from
Sydney Telegraph):
SriuNowoori, Saturday.—Constable Tomkins’ horse, a
specially-trained and favorite animal, has been taken for
service in South Africa. The residents were quite excited
about losing this horse, as he lias playful peculiarities
which made him much liked by them.
The grief of Australia at the loss of Tomkins’s
playful horse will leave a big tear-mark on the
page of history.
The Bulletin has received from the pub-
lishers, Messrs. W. Brooks and Co., of Sydney,
“The Principles and Practice of Australasian
Woolclassing, bv Geo. Jeffrey.” Mr. Jeffrey is
wool-ex pert to the Technological Museum at the
Adelaide School of Mines and Industries, and in-
structor at the same institution, and also at the
Roseworthy Agricultural College, and should
have some idea of what he writes. The Bulletin
doesn’t know anything about wool-classing, but
when it has read’ the 120 pages of information in
this volume, it hopes to be full of knowledge.
The 1900 edition of Sand’s Sydney and
Suburban Directory is now to hand. The present
volume contains 51 pages more than that of last
year—a pleasing indication that the Directory and
its publisher are getting fat. The Directory is got
up in the way that is now so familiar to its users :
the first part containing the city streets in alpha-
betical order, with the names of the people residing
and carrying on business therein. Then follow
the suburbs in order of alphabet, a carefully com-
piled list of all government institutions, banks,
companies, business firms, and private addresses
of the residents of greater Sydney. The Trade
and Professional Directory has been brought up
to date, also the list of European manufacturers,
A vety useful addition is the list of the firms with
fixed pay-days. Then there is a pastoral section
which gives the names of all the stations in the
country and their postal towns, and there is a
whole mass of information about a whole host of
other things far too numerous to mention.
Our womankind delight to vex
The sense of logic. Notice when
A sister is much sought by men
She’s called “ abandoned ” by the sex 1
The Order of Ancient and Loyal Giraffes,
and Other Orders.
“Jack Shay” attacks secret societies :
This is a question which, in the larsrer sphere of Aus-
tralian policy likely lo evolve out of the Federal estab-
lishment, will be worthy of the attention of our politi-
cians and publicists. Past history of Australian affairs —
not the history of books, but the intimate history made
up of little things known to individuals—has shown
that the various secret societies have always been a mis-
chievous, vicious, and at times even a dangerous, factor
in our public affairs, and beyond their own assertions
there is practically no evidence to prove that they have
ever been anything otherwise. Taking government as a
society itself—a society of the whole population—the
right of other societies composed of only a section of the
population ought to be inferior to those of the society in
chief.
Government in these provinces has been always in the
greatest degree and in principle open and free of secrecy.
Public comment on t he actions and results of our Govern-
ment institutions and personnel is not hampered or sup-
pressed. We demand to know why and when and how
everything was, is, or is going to be. We have no secret
service funds and no secret officials. Our institutions in
all their workings and departments are passably open
and free of secrecy. And such government in vindication
of its own character and right to exist should not for a
moment countenance secrecy in any lesser public organi-
sation whatever.
Of the various societies, the most are benefit societies
or call themselves such. Their alleged reasons for exist-
ing are mutual benefit -and, if such is the case, why
secrecy? If their sole motive is to do good they have no
need to be ashamed or frightened, and to cloak them-
selves in hiddenness and gloom like an assassin or
usurper or burglar. If Oddfellowship, or Druidship,
or Butfaloism are pure in all their thoughts, words, and
actions -if their desire is to benefit everybody—if their
principles and benefits are so desirable—how much must
they have to gain from an audience of non-members?
Why all the mumbo-jumbo and gibberish of knocks and
raps and pass-words, and regalia and paraphernalia, 1 of
which the hack parlor lodge of pub. Buffaloes is a fair
sample. If Freemasonry or associations of Enslaved
Bricklayers are societies for the regeneration of the
universe under a Masonic system, how much better it
would be to take every individual in the universe into
the society! It's a big job this regeneration, and a
heavy one, and many hands make light work. Neverthe-
less, no man is under a mee sitv to join a secret society,
and become an Imprison'd Plasterer, in order to honor
his friend’s wife, to love his neighbor as himself, to suc-
cour his brother in adversity or affliction, or to collect a
dole or pay a doctor when he is in adversity or afflicted
himself. And as for his old age, our Governments are
going to provide for that soon, and that excuse
will "be wanting, even if secrecy is necessary to
the running of a sick-and accident fund. Secrecy
is in most affairs associated with bad intent, with
rascality, criminality, with nepotism, boodleism, and
Worse. To be a full-blown and honorable citizen
no deep concealment is essential, and to be a full-blown
citizen of the Australian nation should be membership
sufficient for any honorable and upright man who does
not want to rob his country or neighbors—unless he
wants to join a society in order to have a drink, or a feed,
or sing a song ; and men don’t as a rule want to meet in
solemn and murky conclave w’ith aprons on to have a beer
or a feed or a concert. If the Hibernians, or Bulgarians,
or the Good Templars, or the Ancient Buffaloes, or the
Obscure Camels, or the Orangemen, or the Striped Gen-
tlemen meet solely with pure and holy intent, the working
out of these intentions in broad daylight would be for
good, and would hurt no honest man.
“ Why was he appointed ?” “ Why was he not sent up
for trial.” “Why was he not convicted and gaoled?”
* Why was he elected, or rejected, or hung, or feasted, or
left to starve?” These questions are of daily occurrence,
and the answer usnail.v is : Because he either was or was
not a member of some secret society. Justice, business,
social intercourse and even religions administration, are of
secondary import to a man being a Holy or Ancient
Something, or a Mediaeval Thingumbob, or an Aged Bison
or a New and Accepted Rhinoceros.
If this millinered obscurity is not for the common good
it has no right to exist. If holy guilds, Good Templars,
Ancient Foresters, Hibernians, Loyal Orangemen, Free
and Accepted Masons are as holy, good, ancient, loyal,
free, and accepted as they make out they are, they will
cease to skulk behind a cloak and mask like an ancient
conspirator or modern burglar. Then, on the subject of
their usefulness and morality, the large public and this
scribe will give perhaps a more favorable opinion after
open inspection.
Otherwise the scribe moves that they all be abolished,
and a public department of sick, accident, and benefit
funds lie made co-existent and co-operative with the old
age pension scheme, and so relieve them of their pub-
lished excuse to continue. Then lock them up for having
no visible means of existence or tax them as companies
under the Act.
—■♦«
The charge of the Light Brigade, even
as Tennyson told it, looks a small item of bravery
compared with the charge of the Highland
Brigade remnant at Magersfontein. In the
Crimean case, the men were rushed along by their
horses, and the full force of the foolishness of
their proceeding didn’t strike the survivors until
they were back in camp. The whole thing lasted
a few minutes. The Highlanders, on the other
hand, "ere required to foot it towards the Boer
entrenchments. About 600 of them (unless the
cable is a more unnecessary liar than usual) fell
within two minutes, and then the General urged
the unwounded ICO or so to shake off the moral
effects of this awful disaster and resume their
journey, and they did. In due course, General
Wauehope met his inevitable death, with one
bullet through his chest and another in his thigh,
and to the three or four soldiers gathered round
him, he spoke Ijis last words: “For Gods sake,
men, don't blame me for this.” Nobody asked
the famous Bight Brigade to make a second effort
after its first disaster, and yet the wreck of the
Highlanders before they made their second effort
was worse than all the Light Brigade s losses.
“ Theodolite,” on a subject which, un-
happily, is important to many :
To the weak-chested young fellow, the average medico
says “ Go into the country ; try station life in the interior.
Drop the sedentary habit and go on the land.” And it.
mostly ends up by the said w.o.y.f. going in the land. As
a ten-years' member of the damaged-lung brigade, I
claim to know something of the subject, and I say what
the lung-er really needs is work in the open air, and
eight hours’ sleep in ditto—i.e., under canvas. If the
man with the bad lung tackles station life in the dreary
way-back, possibly he increases in weight for a time, but
the same old routine work, the same old draughty hut
to sleep in, and the ditto stag mutton to eat (with
much dust always thrown in on sheep stations)
all tend to make the tired young man from
the city want to hie him back thereto. Let him
return, and in a tew months his sorrowing rela-
tions will probablv pay a visit to a monumental mason.
In the early ’DU’s iuy chest collapsed through office-work,
and estimates were various as to the passing of my
“ Early Closing Act.” A surveyor acquaintance induced
me to try camp-life (1 had previously sampled the holiday
side of it ineffectually) and, in desperation, 1 sallied forth
in midwinter equipped with many blankets, flannels, and
chest-protectors—and with sorrowful farewells hanging
heavily upon me. Five weeks’ flying camp among sand-
hills lOUft. high ; dense scrub and porcupine. Everyone
wet to the skin morning after morning-walking to work
five to seven miles through the dew-wet bushes ; even
carrying our swags and camping on the out line. Same
walk hack in the evening, utterly knocked out; hut had
to cook the tucker. Afterwards turned in (five of us in a
10 x 8 tent) on the ground. Would wake up with stiffened
hair (water-hags often frozen solid) but feeling fresh as
daisies. For one fortnight we had to live on flour and
water; and without tobacco at that. Wound-up by
walkin" 30 miles to main-camp, to find I’d increased in
weights miserable 20lbs. City life again played havoc ;
and 1 returned to camp, suffering from hemorrhage.
Within a month self and another left the flying camp to
do 33 miles across unknown country to the main depot.
It took us 11*4 hours—raining heavily all the time—
without bite or a stoppage. My mate got light-headed
miles from home, and 1 had to half drag him into camp,
where he dropped helpless, having to he undressed and
massaged by the growling cook—whereas I (the invalid)
had enough strength left to whip my clothes off, have a
rough towelling, and afterwards a square meal. I fully
expected to peg-out on the morrow, but flint’s six years’
ago, and the old complaint hasn’t troubled me since. I
have camped in the open air winter anil summer, doing
mv whack of hard graft with the best of ’em. So 1 say
survey life is the ideal existence for the weak-chested
man because he is always in a pure atmosphere, having
to work and sleep in practically the same temperature,
and he can always put away that most important thing,
a good breakfast. Also, ‘ surveyors nowadays seldom
camp more than a few months in one locality, so the con-
sumptive has the change which is so desirable in his
condition. Surveying, in a word, is the healthiest of
occupations, bar none ; and a good canvas tent is whole-
somer than the best-ventilated bedroom in the world.
[The above is all very well—as Mrs. Nickleby
says, “ to a certain extent, of course, and as far as
it goes ” —but note should be taken of the fact
that, while the fresh air and regular work which
so benefited “Theo.” would doubtless also do
wonders in other cases, the exertion and hardship
in spite o f which he recovered, would he promptly
fatal to the majority of similarly-affected persons.
—Ed. B.]
IN THE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear little love, whose visioned form
Stole nightly through the dreaming dark,
With pillowing cheek and tresses warm
And shadowy lips that left no mark—
With burning mouth last night. I prest
The pillow where your curls now rest.
Dear little love, made real at last
Yet shadowy still, ’tis strange to think
The softness of those rounded arms
Should rouse so fierce a joy, love link
Ilis greatness to so frail a form,
And eyes less calm create no storm.
You’ll rest within my arms, my bride,
As you have lain long nights ago,
When Fancy led you lo my side,
As now the I’riest : Sweet, whisper low,
Did Fancy’s torch your pathway light ?
What, no reply ? Ah 1 well —Goodnight.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from S/fl each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, f/(i. oil ,eal Pair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
wortted up, ya per oz.
We ore the ciieapestin Au*-
trails for all [Jair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigz«l|,
1.10 w 11,1,1 am Street,
corner rtf I’alnrer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.,
Send stamps for full Prioo List.
Progapt attention given to Country Order*.
% WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
'
This is the Latest Type THIS MACHINE
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
x-
Oarriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action,
j Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sole—
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart, man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EDlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
w. ,T. N. Oldershaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
—— Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
LOZENGES.
BOTTLE OF
Webbers
Purely Herbal
A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION
PRICE: 5/6 and 3/6. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Thousands Recommend
VITADATIO.
IS A LONG STEP TOWARDS
GOOD HEALTH.
...BLOOD POISONING ...
Mr. S. A. Palmer. 86 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that WEBBER’S VITADATIO
POISONING ” 1 CO rl nSU^ e f doctor f> and they told me I was suffering from “ BLOOD
SONIN G, produced by the sting of some venomous insect. I took several bottles of medi-
ne presen bed by the doctors, but found I was getting worse. I had severe pains in mv arms
fo”r thTpafn " M°y friends‘tho ““ht /“* Walk ’ ” y appetite was and I could not sleep
bottles of VitadaHo T fell ® 1 WaS ? ever t golDg t 0 get well again, but after taking four
Dottles of Vitadatio I feel quite strong again. I can eat and sleep and get about to do mv work
F g EFT a ArATN USr Sa f ? ratefulness tha t VITADATIO PUT ME ON MY
SIIbLOOD !' m k that l has do “ e , me “XRood. Besides curing me of
, X \L' UU - U Vitadatio has also cured me of a rash I had nn mv nnri
neck. You are at liberty to use my name if you wish. Yours gratefully, 7
(Mrs.) T. E. KIRK,
AN UP-TO-DATE LADY.
CUT RATE
Consulting and
o
g 9
)RUG
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18s. fid.
Dr. CLARKSON'S
REINVIGrORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medicalsciencecau pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
: Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime Of Life. What is more disappointing and
'disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
' ’ Dr. Clarkson’s Reirivigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all w'asted substance, makes the
>bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day's delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these I
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so [
much for our suffering- people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7s 6d ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Isr. Hughes’s Pitsepilep.
This Celebrated KEMEDV FOH EPILEPSY AND PITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the age.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST PR EE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
abl ■ in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
cont inuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
C rrent Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action. —Aided so ably by I>r. Clarkson’s
Keinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Ele' tro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all 'competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt i. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life !
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Pyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
INWA if I > or ()TTTW v KD PIIjES readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price Bs. fid. per hn\-, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Country Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


Ni!i RaSsn)(iSs€o’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Tears.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I fiave also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in. the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) ' Mrs. H. SMITH
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Bxood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
flliSliiTitllTii HiliTi?)TrniTV'l'n 1 1 iiiiimi I 111 II i itmimilliiUP
JL 5
D d
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A lfaline VITALITY pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondenoy, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
■persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does riot travel
selling his Remedies,
■neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmwssen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ - WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
i Remedies can only be
obtained from his
i Head Office, or
\ his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Aljaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADYIOE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiI,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus —
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shatte’red nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. 1 tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALF ALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS. Justioe of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, anti renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago, ISoxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier —A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. PamphLt sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Aifalina Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmissen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., 598R60,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: *


Circumstances alter faces.
BLIGHT. BLIGHT.
Morris's Imperial Eye Ointment—beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
each. Never be without it.*
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.P., Patent Agent,
of this city, has received by the last United States
mail a notification to the effect that he has been
elected a member of the Patent Law Assoc, of
Washington, U.S.A.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Itassmusseu’s advt. on i>at?o
27 of this issue.*
The glowing lie related by the cable about
the enthusiastic reception of the Vic. contingent
in Capotown is put away sadly by private letters
of its members. Lieutenant Tim MTnerney, now
in command of the infantry unit, states that the
residents were sullen and silent, while young
M‘Lean, son of the Vic. premier pro tem , writes
to the old man that the feeling is very strong
against the British troo|>s. The Australians, he
adds, were not allowed out of camp at night,
because four English soldiers had been mysteri-
ously murdered in Capetown, and the authorities
couldn't trust any more soldiers of the Queen to
the tender mercies of the residents—these resi-
dents who, according to the cable, roared them-
selves hoarse with loyalty.
For them who keep pubs, in far-off thirsty
places there should be much comfort and profit in
the possession of a “ Hotelkeeper’s Friend.” An
illustrated advt. of the “Friend,” appearing in
recent issues of The Bulletin, shows it to be a
wheel on an iron stand, with a sort of gasometer
attached. By a very simple arrangement, which
the proverbial child can work, twelve bottles of
ordinary water placed within the wheel are con-
verted into “a dozen of the best soda ” at the
smallest possible expense—practically no expense
whatever. The hotel-keeper who buys a “Friend”
is his own ssrated-water manufacturer for ever-
more, and he spends the rest of his life in saving
the cost of the machine over and over again. For
fuller particulars apply to the Daylesford Hep-
burn Mineral Water Co., 407 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.*
THE WHISKY OF THE WISE
Ts the title bestowed on “ D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) by many hotelkeepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is ‘D.C.L.’”*
FOlt
Duck Shootwg*
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Raclcham’s Doy anil Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS-
Iran BROS. a RISC, [td.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
Rochester Lodge
zs' Superior Board'ng Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
(Jil.v. IV'iihin three minutes’ walk ot Town Hail.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CJ.KT.T.AXD
(lire UoLUKU).
i U T l 7/ It.
The Onlt/ Certain
M vital ache /Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins I
Posted (undercover)
to any j>a it of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l’rirc, Ills. <j«|.
Soi.K AI.KX IS :
Ihe luSiilt.
Craig & Ait ken, 6tO-6J2 George-st*. Sydnoy
Amusements.
TTRIt MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SVDNKV*
**■ Sole Lessee au>l Manager, C. Williamson.
Hus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. 4»reas., J. 11. Moulrie.
FOURTH WKKK FOURTH
AND CONTINUED BRILLIANT TRIUMPH OF
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON'S IStli XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeofis, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping (he Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PKICES-55., 35., 25., and la.
IJtHEATKE IiOVAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., B. Stewart, Senior.
THIS ami EVERY EVENING, at 8,
TcSS of tb€ P’UrbcnfillcS,
interpreted by
Miss EDITH CRANE as TESS
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON as ANGEL CLARE
Mr. TYRONE POWER as ALEC. D'URBERVILLE
and the Full Strength of
Mr. WILL TAM.SON’S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Cot
JjI'CEUM XIIE A T HE, SI’DNE Y.
TO NIGHT, at 7.45. TO-NIOIIT.
FOURTH WEEK
of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and hia POPULAR
DRAM ATIU COM PA XY,
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.'s.
BALACE T HEAT it E. SYT>N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
POSITIVELY CLOSING, FRIDAY, JANUARY 19.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY,
GRAND OPENING, SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, end
lie-appearance after a Protracted Absence of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS,
Supported bv the whole si rengt h of his Tivoli Minatrels
and Specially Co., including The 8 Newskys, G. W.
Hunter, Daw’s Marionettes.
Matinees Every SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
CR ITEH I O N T HEAT UE-
LAST WEEK OF THE SEASON.
Last Nights of the Highly Successful Reproduction of
the Popular Sensational Drama,
THE BELLS.
Mr. WALTER BENTLEY as MATHIAS.
Supported by Messrs. Weir and Ancelon’s Company.
“THE BELLS” will be preceded eacli Evening at 8
with the highlv-amusing Farce,
“ R ETA IN EI) FO RTH E DEFENCE."
Prices—3s.,-25., Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Season Positively Finishes, FRIDAY, 19.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our Brilliant New First Part Entitled,
ARCADIA.
Re-appearance of TOM COSTELLO, in an Entirely
New Repertoire.
TO-NIGHT, BEAUTIFUL and BEWITCHING,
The Three MACARTE SISTERS.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY. SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Lulu Zeseh, Will Whitburn, Chas.
W. Cogill, and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, melikhtrne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Burlesque Opera,
FUNNIER than the FUNNIEST PANTOMIME,
(i Little Christopher Columbus.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MRS. BLOCK.
MISS GRACIE WIHTEKORDas LITTLE CHRISTOPHER
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., la. Cd., Is., and 6*l. Box Plan at Allan's.
READY.
I7VATR OTRT.S AXD GRAY DORSES.
J 2nd Edition, l'rico 4/0.
irit<*o«’* . . .
Acme Camera
The Finest Stock in Australia
OP
HIGHEST CLASS
photographic Cameras^*
LENSES
Ajm
APPAEATUS
IS KEPT BY
w. WATSON & SONS,
*7B Swanston Street, MELBOURNE
Bcnd for Descriptive Price Met. (and LONDON).
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors .
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Ag-ency Co., Ltd.
m
m
SPARKLING^
mmm m
$777
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can he prepared with ihla
Pure aud Wholesome British
production.
CLEAIi CJi VSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & Os COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
W bole sal* Agents—BLAKE Y & LACEY, 106- IQS, The Strand, SYDNEY.
At Poverty Point.
Jf° M " ° n " P' ,ts ,. it this way :-«• A short time ago news
r, 1 h / i W la tlmt , a y°ungr soprano name<l Amy
Gas les had made a sensation in Sydney, second only to
of tP n C fh S M yea n a ?° by Mdme ’ Melha -- • • She saner so
ntiSuriu” H S u°uf SpaCe of , tlH ' e stle amassed the sum
hin ( 4 d?,°‘ Th Mt >a - See u the Parotfrapl. she will smile
bittern. The sensation she made in Melbourne (not Syd-
ney) years ayo was so great that her farewell concert,
mamly supported by personal friends and people who
were indebted to her for much gratuitous service at
charity concerts, realised a profit of £6O.
When, 25 years a<ro, Edward Faust, senr., head of the
we.ll-kuowu acrobatic Faust Family, was on Ins way from
Liverpool to New York he developed small pox, and,
on arrival, was told by the ship's doctor to report
himself to the Board of Health, lie went, and walked
into the board-room, where a meeting was being held.
“ Well, what's your trouble?” he was asked. “ “ Got
small-pox,” he replied. “Great Scott!” burst simul-
taneously from a dozen throats, and in half-a-minute
Faust had the apartment to himself.
At Hobart Royal, Alfred Dampier, with Holloway,
Appleton, daughters Rose and Lily, Mrs. Dampier, and
the limelight, has been having a fairly payable holiday
season with “Robbery Under Arms,” “The Three Mus-
keteers,” “Hamlet,” “ Uis Natural Life,” and “Britain
and Boer.” A mighty hit was anticipated with the latter,
but as the local Jingo is mostly deadhead the cash returns
were not commensurate with the noise made. Warlike
Hobartouians wroie to the local papers extolling Dampier
as a great and good patriot who ought to be extensively
patronised, but after pursuing its lurid course for five
nights “ Briton and Boer” got sore-fooled and thudded
down by the roadside. It was replaced by “ liis
Natural Life.” The cash-value of Jingo sentiment in
Raspberry Land is shown by the fact that Rufus Dawes'
Natural Life drew better houses than I‘aul Kruger's Un-
natural ditto. The latter was an awesome shriek in
several acts, which even Hobart Mkhchkt, the dullest
and consequently the most jingoistic daily in Australasia,
called “a trifle highlv-colored.” The paper graciously
gave Dampier absolution in the next sentence, however,
by drawing attention to the fact that while “ Kruger,
Cronje, Joubert, and other present Boer leaders are held
up to the execration of the audience, the names of
British officers are, with proper reverence, kept out of
the cast.” Which is an awful thing to say. When the
cast is in such a state that it would be irreverent to put
a British officer in it whut a dreadful kind of cast that
dreadful cast must be. Suppose Shakespeare, with proper
reverence, had kept Richard 111., and Hamlet, and Mac-
beth, and Henry V. out of the cast! I
“ M‘G.” on legs (this item was kept, back so as not to
prematurely blight a well-meaning show bv reflections
on its understandings): “ The chorus of the Vic. Operatic
Society shows a smaller proportion of loveliness than any
stage-show hitherto produced, though its legs, boldly
displayed in the second act, are quite up to professional
form. The reason is-hatd to find, hut the fact that the
two Germaines are distinctly nice argues that the lead-
ing ladies would have none in the rank-and-file who
might rival them in front,.- By the way, the prettiest
chorus-girl of all is tlje only one uho shied at the liov’s
costumes, in the second act. Accordingly, she appears
only in the skirts of the first and last acts, much to the
disappointment of all.”
At latest advices Florrie Forde was appearing at four
London music-halls, Oxford, Metropolitan, I’ntilion, ami
Canterbury. Old ideritity Clitherow was at the Lvceum,
with Wilson Barrett, in the “Silver King”; at <J A. 11.
Gee, a baritone once well-known in Melbourne, was «ith a
vaudeville company atSydenham Crystal I’alace, where
also was to be found Harry Paulton. At the inauguration
of a new theatre at Govan (a suburb of Glasgow) Arthur
Deane, with the Carl Rosa Opera Co., played Escamilln,
in “Carmen.” His voice was described as “ pleasing, but
light.” -
The lessee of the Loudon Pavilion (the East End
theatre, not the West End music-hall) has produced a
blood-ciirdling war-drama entitled “Send Her Victori-
ous,” introducing real’Maxims and a big scene with an
armored-train and its troops liberally shooting off real
powder. Redvers Duller is made to bob up suddenly and
victoriously at Pretoria, which, as things have turned
out, is a bit “ off. ”
“ S.S.”-: As a very sfnall boy, I witnessed the last per-
formance given in the historical Roval, at Ballarat, a
musty den, like the old St. George’s‘Hall, Melb. Here,
once, a galleryite to Ofhello : “ Say, mate, don’t kill her.
I’ll give yer a quid fer her ! ”
“Skull”: Notice-writers in Melbourne—there are no
critics—prate of the immense improvement in the little
girl artiste, Alma Grey, since her trip to London. To my
idea,, the girl is quite, spoiled. Eighteen months or so
back, she was a pleasant youngster, unforced, piquant,
and exhibiting a gift for acting. Now, she strikes
me as hard, affected, artificial, and exhibits many of the
irritating tricks of the middle-aged serio-comic. Cut,
there, the little girl prodigy always goes off as soon as
she becomes old enough to imitate.
“H.”: “The German papers are full of the 150th
anniversary of Goethe’sf birth. Having rambled over all
his writings, with profound love for him, I reluctantly
give up the second part of Faust as a mistake, with its
camel-draughts of poesy npropi.s of nothing. The best of
the first part, is the invocation and prologue in the
theatre. Goethe’s ma'sterpiece, as a symmetrical whole,
is the play of Iphigema, and his Tasso is a rich fount of
poetry. ,As a mere theatre-writer he is vastly inferior to
Schiller, hut Goethe is as much above Schiller as
Shakespere above Goethe. Wilhelm Meister is annoying,
and vet you have to r’yad it. Werther and the Elective
Affinit.iesicannot fie left out of our mental furniture. As
a qualified person, in point, at all events, of examination,
I have named everything of Goethe’s immense baggage
that one need hot lei-particularly about.
“S.S.”) They an- singing “The Absent-Minded
Beggar ” all over Me'ban rue, too, and audiences rattle
shillings into t|\e li.tle t unborn me at two houses. But
what a shocking fai.ure the song is considered as a v, u rk
of art. !—whgt a variance there is between Kipling and
Sullivan ! The glib, raucous patter of the streets, wedded
to a cheaply solemn, stately, spiritless melody written in
Sullivan’s pompously majestic vein, when his hair was
parted down the middle of his head even more accurately
than usual. Evidently Sir Arthur derived inspiration for
The Beggar by thinking fixedly for half an hour of the
honor bestowed upon him by her Majesty the Queen.
The music-maker of “Pinafore,” “The Pirates,” and
“ The Gondoliers ” should have done better.
Reported that Connie Gilchrist, the once beautiful
actress who became Countess of Orkney, is now far on
the road to blindness, and her case is’ regarded as in-
curable.
Harry Rickards is spending £2OOO in alterations to
Adelaide Bijou, which is to be reopened at Easter under
the management, probably, of Marcus. Rickards’ pre-
sent idea is to close during part of the summer, running
continuously during about nine months of the year.
Thursday, 11th January, was the 34th anniversary of
the loss of the “Loudon” in the Bay of Biscay, with
G. V. Brooke, tragedian, and 219 others.
John Burns is alleged to be coming to Australia next
year on a lecturing tour under U. S. Stnylhe’s manage-
ment.
Louis Bradfield talks of returning to Australia.
Hiatt, in his just-issued “ Life of Henry Irving,” men-
tions that Irving acted 428 parts in two and a half years.
“Melb.”: Geo. Leopold achieves the height of credit
as Gaspard, in “Cloches de Corneville.” Yet his pathetic
face, under the limelight, is a terrible reminder tiiat he
used to play clown. The man who has been a clown
generally wears a sadness in his face that makes oue’s
heart break.
Gertrude Jerrard, of Melbourne, has been waiting two
years in London for a musical opportunity. Three things
came, a few weeks hack, to give it to her. First, “Trial by
Jury ” was revived. Secondly, the leading lady fell ill.
Thirdly, Gerty had done the part in Melbourne, and was
ible to take it at a moment’s notice, the only available
A’oman in London that could.
“Melb.”: The Macarte Sisters—real name MacCarthy
—are better physical developments than Maud of tiiat ilk
and the violin. Their father and mother have every
reason to be proud of the three pocket llereuleses, enst in
exactly the same mould, ot perfect health ami form, for
their pluggy type. The Macarte girls represent the other
end of the see-saw from Euclid, algebra, and the use of
the globes, by women who are gaunt—not globular.
“ H." : Demise, only a few weeks ago, Heine’s sister,
Madame Embden, the banker’s widow, aged 99 —born
r -]ose to the poet. The Austrian Empress was fond of
chatting with her. She is the beloved Lottchen of Heine’s
poems, and took a deep interest in them, whereas his
pttle wife, most amiable, loveable, and beloved, «u an
gnoraat person, with no conception of poetry.
« «■" Amel ’ loan critic discourses on a New York ballet.
We saw legs—many lees, iimtimerable lets, forests of
letrs. merry legs, provoking legs, jocose letrS. saucy legs
th»s".»lt 5 . ejf8 ’ u enti<: . ,n K le *s : h ‘*» ‘hat laughed, legs
that talked, legs that sighed. There was a bewildering
W° ' e n fV a ''“Khty wind of leas, a very rush ofleg*
"? 8 that frisked in absurd farces, lejrs that waved in
solemn tragedy ; elegant legs that posed and glided and
ul|| raCe U ’ F r ” tesqLle ,e £ s that se t rules of elegance
.°, e > an «l Hew anout in mere enjoyment of their
own existence. There were legs in all attitudes—
stiaightened out, elevated in various degrees, crooked
a "f n' and , UvLste<i into ,nan >' contortions ;
legs scatteied all over the stage, legs hung from ropes or
posed on pedestals; hundreds of legs pointed directly at
us, or elevated towards the heaven of the back part of
the s age. Legs long and short, thin and stout, rounded
and slim ; legs in calm repose or violent motion ; it was
a \ery Bedlam of legs ; legs run mad and given over to
their own devices.
John Matlock, a popular colored variety vocalist, was
once traveling the country towns when the coach pulled
up at a bush pub., which the company entered. A hack-
».„f, 111 1®!* ,a * w |j° u ' as refreshing, at once accosted
Matlock with, Hullo, John. How are you gettin' on ?
ll a ye a drink, John ? ” “ Why, certainly !** said John,
gratified at this tribute to his wide-spread fame. “ You
XVS h .t Said to his companions, “ thev all know me ! ”
" hen ‘he time for departure arrived, the new acquaint-
ance, who had been highly delighted with some archaic
jokes Matlock fired off at him, held out his hand, with—
" ell, I in blessed if you aiu't the jolliest Chinaman I
ever came across 1 ”
Col. : Some years ago visited a waxworks show in a
country town. n ne of the effigies was that of a verv
bloodthirsty murderer who had been hanged. Presently
there was a little commotion amongst the sightseers,
which l soon ascertained was due to the fact that two
well dressed young women who had just entered Hie
show and were closely examining the waxen image of the
murderer were the daughters of that criminal. They
carried on an animated conversation regarding the
figure for some, minutes, when 1 heard the elder remark,
with much pcsitivencss, “ 1 tell you, Sis, it ain’t a bit
like poor pa ! ”
Australian theatrical scribes commonly write of a
crowded theatre as a “packed” bouse, which phrase
would in bngland convey that the house had been exten-
sively “ papered ” (using “ packcil ” as it is applied to a
jury or a political meeting). Another common blunder
is the use of “ caste ” for “ cast ” in the theatrical sense.
“ H.” : It is said that Gluck was very nervous and of
defective sight, lie conducted a new opera of his own
before Marie Antoinette. After the show, he was inlro-
dueed to her, and almost fainted. On recovery he said,
“ Pardon me, your Majesty—a ridiculous optical delusion
—btil 1 see a ring of blood round your throat.” The
Queen laughed, and took off her favorite necklace of
little rubies. This oddly reminds me of a yarn told by
Hick Stewart (Nellie’s dad), in his gold-digging days.
Two mates, on Bendigo, went to see Brooke's Othello.
After the play and a drink, they started off to the hut of
a newly-married friend. Peeping through a lighted
chink into the sitting-room, they found it had been
turned info the bedroom. Their friend’s wife was lying
in bed, with her throat cut. They stole into tiie oilier
room and laid hands on the husband, who was quietly
reading. After an extraordinary scene between the
three men, it luriied our, that, the lady was only asleep.
A bit of red tringe, off the bed head, had dropped on her
neck.
" hen in a Scotch theatre, recently, was produced
an American play, introducing much Indian fighting, a
lot of local supers were engaged to represent the noble
red men. But, during fhe first performance, even a
Scawtch audience was convulsed when tile “braves”
rushed on yelling, “ Hair h to the paie-faces ! Doon wi’
them ! Doon wi’t hem a’ ! ”
“ J.A.0.” : Coming into use amongst theatrical folk the
absurd word “ ballerinas ’’—meaning ballet-girls. Bailer-
jna is Italian for a French dancer, but its plural is baller-
ine. “ Ballerinas ” exists in no language.
Some years back a youthful stage aspirant was given,
in the production of “ Matsa,” in Sydney, the fore-legs
of a giraffe to play. He afterwards told a friend, “ when
we came on the stage and [ saw, through the peep-holes,
that immense house, I got such a fit of stage-fright that
I hardly knew what l was doing.”
Tim BtTLLRTtx’s reverend friend, Haskett Smith, is due
hereabouts in May next. Haskett Smith is the interest-
ing Holy-Lander who always does his shopping at
Nazareth when he lives in Jerusalem. All the old sacred
places have lost their sacredness before his lecture is half
through, so he finishes up by assuring his audience that
he has satisfactorily proved the divine inspiration of
the Scriptures, and the audience never knows the
difference.
“The Actor is a Sculptor who carves his Image in
snow.” —Lawrence Barrett.
Harper’s Monthly revives a curious bit of stage
history, of forty years ago. The burlesque of
“ Pocahontas” was in the zenith of a triumphant run, in
New York. Just before raising the curtain one night,
Pocahontas (Miss Georgia Godson) could not lie found.
She had bolted with Mr. W. S. L.vster. The management
could not get any substitute. ' Brougham ami Walcot,
the comedians, gagged through the piece without any
Pocahontas.
R. S. Smythe, the Much-Travelled, who is just now in
Maoriland preparing the way f< r Rev. Cfiarles Clarke,
ran a show (a concert co.) through the Transvaal in
the earlier days. And he speaks feelingly of the
tall, sanctimonious Boer who dropped in, very late, to
the first concert. Smythe, seated near the door.’ held out
his palm to receive the price of admission, whereupon
the unsophisticated Boer shook the out-stretched paw
with religious fervor and passed himself along to a front
seat. Remembering this, Smythe considers that the
present v. .\r was inevitable.


Business Announcements.
D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPOSTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
at reform
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS 1
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klnndyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 71S George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
X
X
XJSE
Spooler’s
ImLIUTHEBIU
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPIIONS
: DIBECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary 1 ‘ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address — L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. AII you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 28, Endsleigh Gdos., LON DO N.
Iks LiqGcr Habit.
AN INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
EOcrasy
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCHASY
00., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B. —Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
lf!D!An CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, usthma, Nervous
Cousrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness an l Oppression
immediately relieve'! by GRIMADIiT & CO S
Indian Cigarettas. Sold by all Chemists.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
PRAPCRS * FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.O.
The Life of the System.
ISHL
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!!5!p?
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
m,oj
9^£BRKf*s
nEffectiveCuri
JUGHTIHFLAMEOEYES&IiBS
Weak Eyes Dimness E t _ c
531 GEORGE ST.
DNEY^
.ESTABLISHED 1856/^8
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR— —-
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, Ac.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal sue-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
631 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
0 bo
V 5
4
V/x
s
<v»v
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
: Cl AN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
|DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
; LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can,
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, |
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. |
(They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and.
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and <
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands, |
THEY WILL GUHE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a'ila jhments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
§ m
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Medical.
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of Tine Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luckham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
Warners
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
fe BRIGHT’S DISEASE
H.H.WARNER & C 9 L T J?
MELBOURNE, AUST.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
16 PBR ORNT.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
WHAT
IS CATARRH ?
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicatoi
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
6C
ffl
MEDICATOR.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, five, or
send order direct to
Notice Catarrh CGre Co.,
231 cor. BINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DEAF
TO
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible._ Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


earae’s
Core
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
« , ‘Y?- am azed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain oi
Sourness the Chest, expeiience dt h Jitful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
-1 ‘ knmiai tn pvist where “ C'Hiurha l ’ P nm f s len gth to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain & ' aV6 3een properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Air. W. 0. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing’ to tell you
about the won lerful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the couch was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. 1 had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my.case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without, benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until l used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asf cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven mouths old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Mr. Hearne.—
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
or your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine o.' that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by llearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Stalfordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
1 Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.'
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Lleuwellyn, Kalunga,
\ ictoria.
HER DAUGHTER IIAD BEEN 'VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than 1 have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, hut ilearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite stronif.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to tret it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. lie tells me this
week he can make nothing; out of it, he never saw any-
thing; like it before, so there is only one thing; for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months 1 was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more 1 must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very .much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more lie could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
arid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require nny more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGn
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having lieen tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. 0. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
larjre bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I ain more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES P. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, ns
in m.v case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I lmd been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine 1 was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome reliefj
and 1 steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until 1 became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,’
11. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to;try liearue’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARJNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ DOWJRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
BY
ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE
QUEEN."
Ask for
WbiSky ai)d
‘ScbW€pp€’
SCHWEPPES
SOPAWATER, &c-
Ask for
Braody ai)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Xllawarra), near SYDKTBY
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mmmmm
i
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
‘ ILLAWAREA”
. • BItAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Wbinbkbg, Manager, The Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S W
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
Infants
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized*'
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.


They Were the Greatest Friend of
Mrs. Shergold,
“They would almost save you from your coffin,” said
Mrs. Shergold. of-Wilton-street, Merewether, when asked
by a Newcastle Herald representative as to the genuine-
ness of her cure from the use of Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. “I shall ever be grateful,” she added, “to the
lady who advised me to try them. I had been suffering
for four or five years, more than I could describe, and
these Bile Beans have cured me. I am now able to do
* 1 »»
l// S\
, *
*
-)> i
s
isr^3^^\
that which I could not
think of attempting be-
fore.”
“What were your
symptoms?” inquired the
reporter.
“I had been off and on
bad for nearly five years,
suffering from general
weakness and a bad
stomach, and for 1!) years
T had suffered with my
head. A little over a
year ago I consulted a
doctor, and he gave me a
prescription for indiges-
tion. This gave no per-
manent relief. Then I
tried another doctor in Maitland, who said I had rheu-
matics in the head. He, too, failed to do real
good, and as month succeeded month I grew worse, and
the more I tried to rest the more tired I became. My
nights were a perfect misery to me for the want of sleep,
and when I got up in the morning I could not eat, and
on one occasion I ate next to nothing for a whole week,
and never could I take a breakfast until very late in the
day, my stomach always .feeling sick when I first got up,
and many a time my husband has come home and had to
prepare his own meals. I got so bad eventually that it
was not only a difficulty for me to walk, but it was pain-
ful to even bow my head. I commenced taking the
Beans about eight months ago. I felt a relief after the
first couple of doses, and in a short time I felt completely
well; I can now eat and sleep splendidly, and it is a
pleasure for me to take a walk out. Yes,” added Mrs.
Shergold, in reply to another question, “you are at per-
fect liberty to publish my testimony. It is the truth I
have told you, and while I tell the truth I do not care if
it is placarded all over Merewether. ”
nil wr DCTItJC act on the bowels in a gentle
UllsEL EJ ELM Fl O natural way, and the patient
is not weakened in any- manner by the process. The
enormous success of this preparation the world over is
the best possible proof of its great worth. Millions use
Bile Beans annually, and thousands say they are an un-
doubted specific for Biliousness, Headaches, Dizziness,
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Constipation, Bad Blood,
Pimples, Piles, Costivemess, Fulness after Eating,
Female Ailments, and for a general toning up of the
system. Obtainable at all Chemists and storekeeper,
13|d per large box, or direct from the Australian Depot,
Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LAPIES !
Po •
Yo(i • • •
KNO
• o o
Tbs
VALUE -
Of • • •
«
«
o
: VO
m
Todd’s Clothes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WHITE this by way of explaining exactly what I
know of Todd. I am middle-aged and growing
affluent, and I have left off Boheniiamsin. load
is middle-aged but not affluent, and he has given
up Bohemianism also —and taken to plain beer.
But he also gives his friends—who are mostly
seedy and addicted to the same liquor that Todd
takes —letters of introduction to me, in which 1
am requested to find them billets. Also, he asks
me through the post to oblige him with small
loans, and he speaks of me generally as a person
who was struggling in the hinder ruck of journal-
ism till he took me by the hand, and who un-
gratefully dropped him overboard when he had
raised me to eminence. And I wish to clear my
character by telling all I ever knew of Todd,
which wasn’t much, and all I ever wish to know
of him, which is less.
It was about 20 years ago when I first heard ot
him I was something or other then on a dreary
paper Far North, towards the Gulf where Original
Sin has its residence, in a sweltering little town
by a sweltering little river which had been
accursed since its first beginnings, and had re-
mained more and more accursed ever since. Tnere
were four of us in the office —the Old Man, Hop-
kins, Trane and myself. The Old Man was very
old and very tired of it all. There is a peculiar
brand of tired Old Man in the North, and every
paper has him. Trane was dying of something
or other, and was of no particular service. He
was a depressed, unfortunate kind of man. Ihe
paper had changed hands often, and the pro-
prietors were apparently an unhealthy lot, for
they mostly died, and Trane had broken his leg
at the funeral of one of them, and his collar-bone
at the funeral of another, and caught a fatal cold
at the funeral of a third proprietor’s wife, and
now he was getting ready for his own funeral.
Hopkins was a desperately energetio young man
who did everything in a sort of way ; and I spent
most of my time killing the large green insects
which came in through the fanlight. And one
burning day when I had no shadow, and the six-
penny beer was lukewarm, and I couldn’t get into
the bathroom at my boarding-house because the
brown Mrs. dog was rearing a young family there,
I grew dead weary of it all, and handed in my
resignation to the Old Man.
Next evening Todd rose suddenly from no
visible place and secured my billet. I didn’t see
him, but I heard him explaining things in the
next room. He had a glib flow of language, and
he wore a beautiful new suit and a belltopper, and
he had a barrow-load of the most lovely testi-
monials on record. He was engaged to start when
my week’s notice expired, and, as it chanced, he
was staying at the same hotel as Hopkins. That
was how all the trouble began.
Todd was also a desperately energetic man, and
he took the same size in beer as Hopkins, which
created a friendship between them. He wanted
to do something during the week lie had to spare,
and Hopkins introduced him to the Rev. Brown.
The Rev. Brown ran a small religious magazine,
and his last editor had worn out, so he got
measured for a new one, but the new one hadn’t
yet arrived. So Todd agreed to run his paper,
collect accounts, hunt up advertisements, and do
all manner of lawful and unlawful things to pro-
mote the prosperity of the business during a period
of seven calendar days, at the end of which time
Brown expected to have a permanent man in
hand. The temporary man started next morning,
and p ro v e d satisfactory beyond belief, and versa-
fcil® be y° nd description. On that blazing day,
when everybody else in the town was wilted and
broken up, Brown’s new man repaired the
machine, secured a six-months’ pill advt. at good
P ri °es, wrote a scholarly essay on the origin and
morals of Abraham s uncle for the next week’s
issue, and also a brief busmess-like article show-
mg how to raise the funds for certain much-
needed improvements to the church. Likewise he
came back in the eve-nmg and made out all the
overdue accounts, and next day he went out to
collect them leaving behind him a shining repu-
Ration for talent and vigor. And then the repu-
tat>on proceeded to fade like the morning dew on
th e big gum tree in midsummer. I saw Todd go
out to collect these accounts, and I never saw him
really clothed and in Ins right bell-topper again,
He was missing for two days before preacher
Brown organised search parties. Brown had
vague ideas that Todd had gone for a swim in the
river in the intervals of energetic and honorable
collecting, and that an alligator had got him, so
the river bank was explored both ways. There
was no very definite idea of finding him if an
alligator had got him, for the ’gator drowns his
victims, and then buries them in the mud at the
river bottom and keeps guard over them till they
are high ’ before he eats them. But it would
probably leave lodds hat on the bank to show
where the departed one had gone in, and a splay
footprint beside the hat might help to eke out the
tale- 1 reaoher Brown was a conscientious man,
who wouldn’t dream of abandoning a distressed
fellow-creature, so despite the awful heat, he
plodded away up the river with two friends. And
nw energy was rewarded, for he found Todd,
I hat shining light who had written the beautiful
and improving essay on Abraham’s uncle wasn’t
dead. He was plain drunk, and lying under a
tree. His hat had a large piece bitten out of it,
and one boot was gone, and ho was unclean and
profane, and being walked upon by strange cater-
pillars.
Brown was a good man when occasion called
for it, but he knew when to drop the good man
and come to business. He found the account
hook in Todd’s pocket. Todd had kept it care-
fully until he became too intoxicated to keep any-
thing, and then he had taken to writing doggerel
in it, and had finished up with pencil sketches
“ »> the nood.” Preacher Brown tore out the
doggerel and the nude sketches, and jumped on
them. Then he added up the accounts and found
that Todd should have .£23 upon him. As Todd
had nothing on him but his clothes, and the cater-
pillars, and a locust in his pocket, ho was carried
back to town in dishonourable custody. It was a
fearful job, this conveying of an intoxicated editor
three miles down a dusty road, but the preacher
never flinched. He delivered Todd (partly sober
by this time) at lus hotel with an intimation that
if the money was not forthcoming by next day he
would take criminal proceedings. His now editor,
he said sardonically, had apparently taken every-
thing else, including the good character of the
paper, but he would take them anyhow. Where-
upon Todd hiccupped at Brown and went to bed.
This was about four o’clock in the afternoon,
About 8 o’clock Todd woke up, put on several of
his clothes, caine downstairs, and had six drinks
in quick succession. Six lukewarm Queensland
beers are sufficient to account for nearly anything,
and by 10 o clock Todd had an idea that some
large, horrible, undefined crime lay at his door—
not being a householder with a door of his own
this is a mere figure of speech. So he went out
by the back yard stealthily, and fled from justice,
feeling himself an outlaw. When he reached the
very last pub. as you go out of the town west-
ward, however, he remembered that there was a
dry stage of many miles ahead of him, and he had
one or two more drinks. These made him even
more pessimistic than he had been before. He
shed tears on the counter and told the barmaid,
who knew him slightly, that he was a lost and
ruined man and was going out West to be an
Ishmaelite and a shearer for the rest of his life.
Then he struck westward under the stars, and the
gloom swallowed him. .
We heard about this exit late the same night,
and then Hopkins, who occupied the next room
to Todd’s at the hotel, had an inspiration. He
was always a rather seedy and frayed-out looking
youth, and lie and Todd were practically the same
size,—and Todd had left much of his wardrobe
behind flint in his flight. Very early next morn-
ing he annexed all Todd’s clothes in a silent sort
of way, with a view, as ho afterwards declared, of
preventing the landlord seizing them for unpaid
board, find thus further oppressing an already
crushed fellow-creature. When the case came on
at the court some time afterwards, Hopkins
solemnly swore that his intentions towards Todd
were so honorable that they amounted to a disease,
and that he fully intended forwarding those
clothes to Todd by post, along with a sympathetic
letter and a few pounds in cash, as soon as he
knew of Todd’s address. And the magistrate
said that his conduct, though perhaps technically
illegal, reflected the highest credit upon him, and
that he appeared to be the only person who came
out of the business respectably. The last remark
was intended as a reflection on me.
The landlord was a sordid person, and he
attempted to seize Todd’s clothes for his unpaid
board bill just as was expected. His language,
when he found absolutely nothing to seize, was
unprintable.
So Todd evaporated out of our lives and Hop-
kins came down to the office in the morning in all
the gorgeousness of a new suit. In the afternoon
he turned up in another new suit. In the evening
he appeared in still a third outfit, And by about
midnight his glory became too much for him, and
lie hurst, in a manner of speaking. He told me
confidentially that there was a fourth suit and I
might have" it cheap. I told him that I owed
Smith, the tailor, for one suit already, and wasn’t
affluent enough to buy any more. I was lea ving
in two or three days, and was too weary of it all
to take as much interest in Todd’s clothes as I
might have done at other times. But Hopkins
was so expansive that we ended by doing a deal,
I exchanged my scarf-pin for the suit. Hopkins
proudly put on the pin, and I carried a bundle of
clothes home in the darkness—and took the curse
of the great Todd complication home alopg with
me-
• • * •
For two hot dreadful days after that nothing in
particular happened—except locusts and large
spiders and mosquitoes, and the like. I came to
the end of my term of servitude, and on the night
I was to get on board the steamer and leave the
sun-cursed North behind me the Old Man
brought in a dozen of something bottled, and we
bad "a farewell. Everybody was there except
Hopkins, who was out on business, and the hoys
said more kind things about me than were ever
said before or since. Trane, in particular, shook
me by the hand, and said we would never meet
again in this world—which was true, for poor
Trane died a few weeks afterwards. The Old
Man said that my articles on foreign politics
would be much missed, and that during my stay
in the office I had thrown more light on the
machinations of Bismarck than any other journa-
list in the North. This was also true ; Bismarck
himself didn’t know one quarter the things which
I had brought to light concerning him. We
smoked the cigar of peace all round, and then at
last it was time to get on board, so I shook hands,
and they all wished me every kind of prosperity.
I never knew till then what really good teilows
they were, and I felt a trifle hoarse as I returned
thanks. But just then Hopkins came up the
stair, and without warning or explanation said
that I was a thief and a ruffian of the deepest dye,
and that I had blighted his prospects for life, and
made him a criminal and an outcast, and broken
his parents’hearts. Also he fell on me right there,
I saw it was no time to ask for explanations, so I
fell impartially upon Hopkins and we both fell
down the stair. There were seventeen steps. 1
bumped on eight of them and Hopkins bumped on
the other nine.
The Old Man, despite his age, was the most
prompt and vigorous person in the office ; he was
also the largest by a long way, and it was lie who
quelled by main force the tumult that was raging
at the foot of the stairs. He held Hopkins
asunder while I was held asunder by two corn-
positors, and then Hopkins was called upon for an
explanation. He gave it backwards, sideways,
endways, upside-down, in fact every way that
could make a story utterly incomprehensible and
incoherent. He gave it with one foot in his hat,
which had been wrecked as we came down, and
with his coat-tails flying, and both hands sawing
the air, and he denounced me generally as a
deceiver and a Borgia and all manner of things,
I gathered up part of the story then, and gut the
rest afterwards by instalments,
It seemed that when Todd fled out of the town
that night, escaping from Brown and justice, with
a vague idea that he had committed some crime
of great magnitude, he didn t go far. lie had
only fled half-a-mile before it occurred to him that
the whole business was profound foolishness, and
then he went to sleep beside a fence. When he
woke up next morning he was still confused, hut
lm had abandoned the idea of being a wanderer in
the West all the rest of Ihh days. Still, lie was
too much of a wreck to feel like returning to face
Brown, and to argue about (lie lost money, and
resume his duties, so in tlm early daylight he stole
back to the hotel where he had confided to the
barmaid the previous night, and hired a room,
and swore the girl to secrecy, lie lay low there
for two days, partly because he was swollen to
unnatural dimensions through being bitten by
many strange insecis while sleeping under the
fenoe. Finally he took to drink again, and at a
certain hour, and just in the middle of a ccr-
tain drink, he reached the exact stage of intoxica-
tion he had been in when he lost Brown’s money.
Or rather he hadn’t lost Brown’s money at all, but
had planted it in a hollow stump for safety,
Everything came back to him with preternatural
clearness in an instant. And fearing it might go
away again lie dropped Ins glass, climbed over
everybody who stood or sat in the way, and ran.
lie ran right round the town—it wasn’t good
enough to run through it just yet—and recovered
the cash. That evening, just as the Rev. Brown
was sitting down to tea in a composed frame of
mind, a decayed apparition called on him and
paid him his money in the presence of witnesses,
and demanded reparation for the injury done to


The Commonest Ailment of the Day
is malnutrition, inability to derive benefit from food
taken. Food that does not digest is worse than wasted.
The complaint which doctors most often hear is just
this:
•*/ Eat but my Food does me no good.* 9
Food that fails to feed sets up Indigestion, Sluggish
Liver, Lack of Appetite, Weakness, Biliousness.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
cure these ailments, and give new strength by enabling
the blood to take up, and profit by the food we eat.
They add threefold to the nourishment; they clear the
skin, improve the appetite, renew the energy. They
are a true tonic, but they improve instead of deranging
the digestion like other tonics; they strengthen instead
of weakening, as purgatives do.
MALNUTRITION. ANiEMIA.
Mrs. J. D. Nelson, of the Pearl Bay Pleasure Grounds,
Sydney, was 17 years ago attacked with indigestion, but in
’BB she became much worse.
Nervous prostration, anaemia
and debility set in, but their
continuance was caused
chiefly by inability to derive
benefit from food taken.
Eminent physicians pre-
scribed, and although under
their treatment for some
time, Mrs. Nelson did not
recover. Tonics and patent
medicines were tried without
avail. On one occasion she
lay utterly helpless, and un-
able to speak for 48 hours
together. Insomnia set in,
and' Mrs. Nelson was de-
prived of sleep. At last she
commenced Dr Williams*
Pink Pills. A few days
after her appetite improved.
Soon her system was able to
digest the food taken, and
from that time she rapidly improved, until to-day she is
strong and well—in fact, in better health than she has been,
for 17 years. She says: “ Anyone who wishes to see me will
find me at Pearl Bay. I shall be very happy to tell them of
my cure.”
All the elements necessary to give new life and richness to the
blood and restore shattered nerves are contained in a condensed
form in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. They are a
specific for troubles peculiar to ladies. They build up the blood
and restore the glow of health to pale, sallow cheeks. In men
they effect a radical cure in all cases arising from mental worry,
overwork, or excesses of any nature. They likewise cure rheu-
matism, neuralgia, consumption, bronchitis, dyspepsia, dysentery,
insomnia, weakness due to fever, influenza, etc.
Sold by the Dr. Williams Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, 2s.' 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d., and by all chemists and
storekeepers—
But Mind You Ask for D!R. WILLIAMS’.
BILIOUSNESS. INDIGESTION.
Mr.Thos. Gorman, a well-known milk-vendor, residing at
4 Palmer-st., Woolloomooloo, in conversation with a reporter,
said: ‘ Six years ago I began to suffer from biliousness and in-
digestion. No matter what I ate it did not benefit me. After
a meal I felt violent pains across my chest, and a sense of
tightness. I turned from food, and it was an effort to eat.
My sleep was broken, and I woke in the mornings as tired
as when I retired. Sometimes when delivering milk, bilious
attacks would come on. Black specks floated before my
eyes, and the pavement seemed to move up and down. At
other times when driving I became faint and dizzy, and
reeled in my seat. When I got home I would throw myself
on the bed unable to stir for several hours, only to rise later
with a maddening headache. I tried many advertised
remedies, but without benefit. Seeing 30 many authenti-
cated testimonials in the papers concerning Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, I commenced taking them.
Three boxes improved me, and I continued them until
cured. Now lam in perfeot health, have a good appetite,
and indulge it without ill effect. I sleep well, and rise in
the morning feeling fresh and energetio. I never felt better
or stronger than I do now.”
FULL NAME IN RED.
DVWILLtAMS’
INK
ILLS
tor
ALE,
FACSIMILE GENUINE PACKAGE.
° ba * ac , ter - The apparition pointed out that
the pastor 8 conduct in publicly accusing him of
embezzlement, when he was merely suffering from
sunstroke, was uncharitable and illegal, and would
be visited in any civil court by a verdict for heavy
damages Metaphorically sneaking, he wiped the
floor with Brown and cast the remnants of him
over the place. When the preacher had partly
got over the shock he realised that the situation
was a bad one, and lie compromised for <£2o on
the spot.
Then Todd went down to his hotel, paid his bill
i °* a * ser ting his dignity and quelling
slanderers, and went upstairs to put on a clean
smrt before having dinner. It was only when he
discovered that his belongings had vanished to
the last shred that he burst in real earnest. The
effort with which he had overwhelmed Brown was
nothing to what he poured forth on the landlord
as he demanded his goods and chattels, and re-
ferred to the Act which dealt with larceny as a
bailee. The landlord could only deny all know-
ledge of the goods and chattels, and by way of
corroborative evidence, he expressed certain sus-
picions of Hopkins owing to that young man’s
unusual magnificence. So Todd borrowed a clean
a 1] j k° bave dinner in respectably, and waited.
And when Hopkins came jauntily in with Todd's
clothes on, there was no end of trouble.
Hopkins was a perfectly local youth of 21, while
lodd was 10 years older, and, when sober, equal
Co an y reasonable emergency. Todd, if sober,
could have come in with Hopkins’ clothes on and
carried the matter with a high hand. Hopkins
could only wilt. He handed over the belongings
in a state of great apology. But when Todd
learned that he had only taken them to prevent
seizure by the landlord, he was appeased—he was
even grateful. Still when he found chat one suit
was missing, and Hopkins reluctantly told him
he had exchanged it for a scarf-pin, he remarked
that there was a pretty large hole in the explana-
tion. He even alluded to our conduct as criminal,
and said that I was a receiver of stolen property,
but offered to square the case for .£lOO. And
when Hopkins offered him the scarf-pin as
security, he rejected it on the ground that it was
glass, and worth Is. Gd. at most. Which it was.
Hopkins had never asked me about the intrinsic
value of the gaud which his soul coveted, and I
had offered no needless explanations.
Hopkins told this story to the Old Man at the
foot of the stairs—told it in confused barks till
the beginning of it got tied round the end and
the middle broke away and blew down the street.
unnoticed in the centre of the narrative, just
when he was asserting that I had undermined his
previously sound Christian principles and led him
into crime. I couldn’t return Todd’s clothes, for
they were in my box in the hold of the steamer
somewhere. I didn’t want to wait and argue
with anybody, or to miss my passage, or to be
run-in for stealing Todd’s suit—so I just left. I
(fot on board as the steamer was letting go. When
it was a dozen yards out and just gathering speed
I saw Hopkins and Todd and a policeman and my
tailor all coming down to the wharf at great
speed, so I went below. When we were outside I
hired certain minions, at a cost of several pounds,
to find and bring up my box, and next night I threw
Todd’s suit overboard. Something happened at
the first stopping-place—l was “ detained,” as it
is euphoniously termed, but as the clothes weren’t
in my possession, and I strenuously denied all
knowledge of them, and telegraphed to Todd
threatening heavy damages for illegal arrest, no-
thing came of it. Then Todd sued Hopkins for
illegal detention of his garments and for compen-
sation, but Hopkins now denied that there had
ever been any such garments at all, and explained
so convincingly how he had gone to great pains to
help Todd in his time of trouble that the case was
dismissed with costs. The magistrate even
threatened to commit Todd, and called him a
blackmailer.
That was the whole of my acquaintance with
Todd, and when he alludes to me as a journalistic
struggler whom he took by the hand in the bad
old days of our youth I hold that the case doesn’t
justify it. My own opinion is that Todd ought
to be deeply grateful to me .for something or
other—l don’t exactly remember what.
TITUS SALT.
Thirsty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Take the left branch of the creek, and you’ll
find a good hole of water twelve mile up, said
the stockman. '
“ Thank ye. Good day! ” and Mao. rode off.
“ Be sure to take the left branch 1 ” shouted the
stockman after him.
And, when Mac. got to the junction, he took the
right.
The day was hot, very hot. He climbed off his
horse to have a drink and found his water-bag had
a hole in it, and all his water was gone. This
annoyed him, and he swore at the water-bag—at
the country —at the stockman for sending him
that way—and lastly at the old horse, jerking the
poor beast’s moutli savagely with the bridle, and
calling him a cow.
The country grew rougher. There was no road
along the creek. At times, Mac. would dismount
and try for a soakage, but the sand was too deep
for him.
His irritation increased. He expressed his
opinion of the stockman continually. A very bad
opinion—expressed in very bad language. At
times, he chewed leaves and a metal button.
When he was not chewing his lower lip would fall.
His eyes were bloodshot.
The sun was nearly setting when the old horse
—which had been wearily stumbling along, goaded
by the spur—knocked up.
Mac. dismounted. “ It’ll go doom hard wi’ a
Scotchman if I don’t strike the water soon,” he
said to himself. “ It’ll go hard wi’ a Scotchman,”
he muttered again and again as he strode along—
leaving the horse to his fate.
His irritation had now given way to fear; an
impulsive fear that drove him on, fast—faster.
There were now no whites to his eyes—red as
blood. His lips and throat moved continually—
“lt’ll go hard wi’a Scotchman” —unconsciously
striving, perhaps, to preserve his sanity by fix-
ing his thoughts on the phrase.
On !On ! “ How hot it is ! ” Off went his
shirt. The rest of his garments followed one by
one. The ti-trees on the bank waved like funeral
plumes above him. His sight began to play him
tricks. Bushes, trees, stumps assumed the shape
of men and animals. The country was alive !
Surely that was a man hanging from the branches
of that tree and leering and laughing at him.
Yes, there they were hanging in scores, hundreds
—grinning and jerking their limbs convulsively.
The ghastly mirth was contagious. Mao.
joined in with a burst of laughter and a wild
dance in imitation.
When they found him he, too, was hanging on
vtree 1
A. D. ELLERMAN.
Thine Ain Countree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was squalid and unlovely, and her tattered jib
was brown,
Like a greasy, vulgar dishclout in the evening
light flapped down.
But our hearts went out to meet her,
And our glad souls rose to greet her,
And we cheered that little trader from the
wharves of Sydney town.
It is ever what you're bred to
In your own old line ;
It is ever what you're led to
Sin' the days of Auld Lang Syne.
We have climbed the purple ranges ; crossed the
level plains and wide,
We have ridden with the stookmen on the burning
Western side,
But we hungered for the daughters
Of the Overlords of Waters—
For the thunder of the breakers, and the tumble
of the tide.
Let the lion to his desert;
Live the oyster on his shore :
But the hunger cf the exile
It shall hurt him evermore.
She was innocent of outline; she was ugly and
unclean ;
She was not a painted liner or the pride of Aber-
deen,
But it gripped us as we neared her
And we gat us up and cheered her,
For the sake of what we oared for, and the sake of
What-Has-Been.
Oh, the kitchen-maid’s a lady when the lady’s at
the ball,
And the palm-tree in the desert is the fairest of
them all—
Shall the heart forget its true love
For the glamor of the new love ?
Shall the grapes from thorns be garnered, or the
figs from thistles fall ?
And she told us of the waters, and she spake of
open seas,
When she grumbled down the river with her
engines all a-wheeze ;
Then we wotted of the plaoes,
And the tears were on our faces,
For a man is but an infant when it oomes to
things like these.
It is ever what you're bred to,
And you find it as you go
That you're tempted back and led to
Little things—of “ long ago.”
So we followed her in fanoy till she swung across
the bar,
And we saw her lights a’ blinking on the heave
and roll afar,
By the magio fair whose touches
Turn the scullion to a duchess,
Make the kitchen-maid a lady and the tallow-dip
a star.
They shall pine beyond the rivers for the rollers
and the foam,
They shall pine beyond the rollers for the rivers as
they roam :
She was ugly, and we loved her,
She was nothing, but we loved her,
For she told us of our country and she sang to us
of Home.
E. J. BRADY.
The recent knighting of Slangdon Bony -
tlion, of S.A. Advertiser, had a good deal to do
with the crawl-down of Premier and Treasurer
Holder after he had said “No ’’ to Lyne’s second
contingent proposal. Of course Slangdon is in-
tensely “loyal”; and as he is the Holder Govt.’s
only journalistic prop and stay, the long lean man
had to throw his Lope of another small surplus
overboard and wire next day to Lvne that when
he sent the previous reply to Sydney he didn’t
know it was loaded. But how the frugal Methodist
must have cursed Lyne (within the Methodist
curse-limit, of course) for making the suggestion !
“ Bugle Call ” -writes to the Melbourne
dailies: “ Had the passage and fortifications of
the Tugela been forced by several days’ ceaseless
cannonade of 200 guns and lyddite shells, the
effect would have been tremendous. It would
seem that in our very latest and most terrible
weapons, lyddite and quick-firers, are the true
solution of the Boer war, the honor of British
arms, and the salvation of our gallant regiments.”
Well, The Bulletin, not having thoroughly mas-
tered the philosophy of patriotic slaughter, will
take “ Bugle Call ” at his word, though it certainly
seems that if the Boers had been able to shoot
lyddite shells from 200 quick-firing guns all the
honor, glory, salvation, and true solution of the
war would have rested with them. It is nob yet
quite certain that they don’t possess the true
solution without the lyddite.
“Alba ” :
Lions in captivity are terrible curs, and it is only due
to the tales of Rougemont-travellers that the brute is
symbolised as the embodiment of courage. Writer is
friendly with a keeper employed at a certain Australian
Zoo. One morning we were walking past the cages when
a big African bounder began howling and tearing at the
bars as though he wished to chew us on the spot.
Keeper ofily laughed. “ Doesn’t like me,” he said ; “but
all this is mere blatherskite. Look here ! ” He stooped
suddenly, picked up an iron rod and dashed at the cage-
front. In a flash the den was empty save for a bit of tail
protruding from the inner recess—and that bit was down.
Like his kinsman the dog, your lion can smell a coward
and fights accordingly ; but when an unbiassed tradesman
happens along with a bar of iron your symbol of kingli-
ness falls over his own tail getting away. Writer
has long yearned to overset the great belief in the
lion. Barring the gamin he is the most advertised
animal on earth. Editors print his pictures and give you
the circumference of his paw, and the number of niggers
he used to consume for breakfast. And people like to
believe it This homage to the king of beasts arises
from the fact that every Britisher considers the lion to be
a compatriot at heart. The army-liar is accountable for
much of the adulation paid to the cur of the desert.
Colonel Smifkins, say, of the Smamiland Baggagery,
starts after big game. After cornering his lion (it's
astonishing how the symbol of courage has to be cornered)
Smifkins proceeds to blow off its mangy hide with a
portable Maxim. Then Smif of the Baggage is photoed
with one indecently large foot resting on the animal’s
head ; and the picture is despatched in great haste to the
nearest magazine. When Smif gets’Ome he talks lion
over port wine—not the lion he met, but the lion of
English literature, “ that sprang with a mighty roar into
the centre of the waggons.” Smif never tells of the real
slinking overgrown dog that is shot in the hindquarters
Dine times out of ten and then bulleted in the head te
give dashing verisimilitude to the hunter’s story.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out imparities l~m »*»«•' b ”^“
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and power.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
<s§gp
V///A
L! ///,
i
tt*
i
es.
\wm
w
Mrs. T. Kennington, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends us
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter:
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative. .
“Sometime ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid. . .
“ I did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for Sarsa-
parilla.’ My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla in Ayer s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like “Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that. . -
For removing impurities from the blood, for making become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for up the
nervous system. the
S- 1
\ | U
h ! i I wrm
tils Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted.
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, whioh makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
' One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aubt. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is od.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can-only be obtained from him —are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOST.
WINES “• B “‘ °* o) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &a
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
jam
TtOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and' Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
± Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
™ Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
CHUNK A A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediemt Ml
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
Seh~Sen <?,
FARRINGDOKAWEI
r LOJiDOli*
TO
PeArukc
£
P
vet
LEA &
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Observe the
Signature
SA
■tSTEMHWS
SgiWdS
rc ?S
1/
,f > Blue Ink
the Outside
s Pfler 0 f every Botl
AGENTS
■■ '
ORIGINAL
-
Messrs, VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPIV
and DAVID COHEN and CO., S
.
y.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. EtDKIDGE &c GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
pm A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing- virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they am
spurious.
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bonnington’s
lrish Moss
AAAAAA * AAA _ _ .
-'▼▼"t" - •
Instant Relief - - - Speedy Cube.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
■* _______
manufacturers of
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
M ANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
£0 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
[arket-St
Board or Apartments at Option.
SHHOJ <9 SMOOdS
«she
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pboprs., SHEFFIELD
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLER^
nmnKi
Umpire Chambers, 93 Tork St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
in the prld
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
B. & J. DICE,
Greenhead Works,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria Sb.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM ... ... 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
WSPJTEBT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales daring the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important-
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents:
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
.S.W. FRESH FOOD
PASTEURISED The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally tc
BTTTTP1? o © • cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma
u jlxaSx pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not l
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between _
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this aineren^.
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we wm ueiiverTWP-
Grood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter
fit any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
di
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
MININ
.mifiti
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MACHINERY. ENGINES & BOILERS.
Ropp Straight one Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoil Rock Drills
MfMf
43'
Knowles Steam Pumps
Bullock Diamond Drills
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
_ Nagle Engines
Bartlett Concentrators
. - Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H- P.
ENGINEERS’ and
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY &
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOK I HI NOTCH.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER PEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
• . Send for Catalogues . „
