

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
BEAVER STOUT.
USE
MALTED COCOA
<SMCTA^-A.TXm ,, E3EiX> PURK COCOA. AKTD EXTRACT
OF MTALT.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mmmg a “fl o C o ntractor S ’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
-LOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
===========
Roller. Steel aud Special CHAINS
m
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WiNEA&>
AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Mention this •paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREE T, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C ® ’B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
„ °: e A " ents f ? r The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States. America.
Elevating ana Conveying- Macliinery . . .
Detachable Chain Bell ting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances Coal Ore and
Gram Handling Machmery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery. Ure and
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY,
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
n
mgn
m
RACKAROCK
nm
Hadley’s Orient Botel.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
„ I M I 7 > GEORGE H OT EL ,opposite st.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
a/£,
-rf-taS.
oo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month
THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
LSELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWIGF& SON, LTD.,
UL’7 "XTaarlx. S fcreet,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
Messbs. T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Brand of
“ WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
The knowledge which the manufacturers have gained in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory, and Diadem, enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE
Ediswan - Lamp.
wmm
EDtGV/ANI ; •=====:
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
msM&sw
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street*
WYNYARD SQUAiViU, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Voi 21. —No. 1050
j Saturday, March 31, I^oo.
at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LTJITGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
('. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and ~
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO coeaine or other poisonous dm// . . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, Is 6cl; from the IVoprietor. <!. HUi>BOX, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEKN’S I’LAOE.
THE RED PAGE.
N.S.W.
Oh, to begin again 1
Not from the first, but now,
Letting the threads fall where
Tangles too bitter grow.
Oh, to begin, and look
Straight into everything 1
Seeing without the beam
Of old traditioning.
How would I see thee, Death ?
Mother with'melting eyes,
Waiting to waft her child
Into some Paradise,
Whether of rest or joy,
Laughter or solitude,
Just what would satisfy
Each child’s unspoken mood.
Mother with loving lips,
Calling, in tenderness,
All the worlds unto her,
Even the motherless.
How would I see thee, Love ?
Casting tradition’s beam
Out of my eyes. Ah, Love !
Swift little fiery gleam,
Faded before it breaks
Into the heart’s recess,
Where the black shadows link
In languid loneliness.
Faded and passed away,
Turning the shadows there,
Colder and deadlier
After that golden glare.
How would I see thee, Truth?
Fought for so patiently :
Ah, for thfi wounded Hands !
Ah, for the Agony !
Must I behold in thee
Only a sacrifice
jEons have perished for,
War-time and armistice.
Wonderful sacrifice !
Yes, and I come, I come,
Low to the altar steps,
Farewell to hope and home !
Seeing without the beam,
Of old traditionings.
. . . Brighten the altar fire !
Tighten the victim's strings !
Z.
The Disappearance of Car 8809.
it’s a sure thing this ain’t a fake ? ” asked
, Jimmy Horgan of the lawyer.
" “ Perfectly- sure,” was the smiling re-
sponse. “Your uncle left you the $5OOO
without restrictions of any kind, and it is in the.
bank awaiting your orders now.”
“Say,” said Jimmy, “I don’t seem to savvy
tliis thing somehow—could you let me have two
hundred so’s I can kind of feel it ? ”
“Certainly.” Think of that answer to such a
request! James gasped, and when a few minutes
later he walked down the steps with twenty crisp,
succulent, legal-tender ten-dollar bills in his pocket
he wondered who the man was that his legs were
carrying along so jauntily.
That was the beginning of the great mystery -
not the germ exactly, but the place where the
germ began : The Disappearance of Car Number
8809.
How so large and eminently practical a thing as
a trolley-car —a thing so blatantly modern and un-
imaginative and withal so hard and heavy—could
vanish from the face .of the earth and leave neither
track nor wrack behind, is a problem that has
caused silver threads to appear amid the gold-and-
bald spots of the-officers of the Suburban Trolley
Company.
With it went motorman and conductor ; gone,
vanished, dissipated into thin air. The whole
business was, and then it was n’t; that is all they
knew about it.
The facts in the case are these:
“ Say, Billy,” said James to his conductor, when
he arrived in the yard, “here’s Willy Waldy
Astor, and that’s me,” whereupon he poked him-
self in the chest with, a dramatic forefinger.
“ Huh ! ” sniffed the conductor. “ Somebody’s
grounded his wire again ! Where do you feel it
worst ? ”
“No, b’gosh! Pm givm’ it to you straight,”
said James, earnestly, and then he poured his tale
of sudden 'fortune into Billy’s ears, to a running
fire of “Ah, gwan !■” of wonder and admiration.
“Now,” he concluded, “we’ve got fifteen
minutes to skip over to Jimmy’s and celebrate,
before we pull out.”
That was the germ. Long before the fifteen
minutes had expired, they found that they were
sick of trolley-roads. Sick is a poor word ; they
were belligerently opposed to the trolley-road.
The germ sprouted.
“I’m dead tired of goin’ over the same old
streets,” said Jimmy. “Sometimes it seems to
me .that I’d bafter turn off som’ers or bust. Say,
if you ’ll go me on it, we ’ll take the old ambulance
clear to the end of everything this morning.
There’s more’n forty thousand switches we can
hit, and they can’t stop us. I ’ll back you if you
lose your job. What do you say ? ”
“- Shoot ! ” answered the conductor. “ I’ve got
you faded. 1 don’t know as I care if I
never work again, and as for jerkin’ fares for
these people, why” , and then followed a
rapid and vigorous description of the officers of the
Suburban Trolley Co., from Billy’s point of view.
In the meanwhile they started for the car.
“ Come, you fellers - ! ” yelled the starter. “Get
a move on. You ought,to be out now ! ”
“ W.e’re cornin’, Uncle,” said Jim.
“Give him the bell, Billy,” said the starter.
The conductor pulled the strap. “Adoo! Fare-
well ! Good-bye, Reddy ! ” he called. If we
don’t see you again, hello ! ”
The starter waved his hand and smiled per-
functorily. He was used to these small jokes, and
had no thought that the words were loaded with
meaning. .
8809 droned merrily along the track, until she
came to the first switch.
“Give us the Squarebush line, Jerry 1” said
James.
The melancholy man jabbed Ins iron into the
track. Squarebush, North Pole, or infernal
regions, it was all one to him. “ Come along,” he
growled. .
“Hey there! Hey!” cried an excited old
gentleman, as the car shot up the switch. I
thought this car went through Lethe-street ? ”
“ It use! io.” answered Billy, soothingly, “but
it’s got tired of it.
“ Tired of it l Tired ? ” said the old gentleman
blankly. “Here, let me out!” he concluded
with energy.
“A lunatic —no doubt of it,” he added to him-
self, as he watched the car depart. Then he
waited a weary while on the corner—in vain, for
no other car would be sent forth until 8809 passed
a certain turn-out which she had not the least idea
of even approaching this day—and that ruptured
the schedule.
A sour-faced young man with a fighting jaw
boarded the car a few blocks further on.
“Say, do youse go t’rough Scrabble Grass
Avenue ! ” he asked in a voice like a curse.
“ Now, that depends,” answered the blithe
William. “If we want to, we will; if we don’t,
we wont —d’ yer feel like makin’ it an object to
us ? ”
“Say, you’re a pretty fresh duck,” sneered the
sour-faced man. Then he donned his most fero-
cious look. “Now, I want to go to Scrabble
Grass Avenue,” said he, glowering, “and the
quicker I git there, the better ’t’ll be.”
“Sure!’ answered William, heartily. “Of
course!” and he stopped the car. “Now then,
you are right over there —get a move on you, too,
for I don’t like your face.”
Sometimes a fighting jaw merely implies a
fighting character, and does n’t insist upon it.
“D’yer mean 1 ’ve got ter walk?” asked the
sour-faced man in a milder tone.
“Sure thing—-unless you can slide it. Come,
get a waggle on you, or I’ll kick you half-way
there.” . .. . . .
“Say, what’s got into you this morning?”
gasped the stranger.
It was Billy’s turn to scoff. “ You ort to read
the papers,” said ne, “ then you would n’t act like
such a lobster. Tilings ain’t run like tney used to
be, my friend; me and my pardner has bought
this car, and we ’re runnin’ it around gettin’ cus-
tom where we can.”
“Ain’t there any more railroad company!”
“Nope,” was the prompt answer. “The hull
business is in the hands of private parties like us
—and we ’re losin’ money on you by the minute,
so step off, please.”
For several hours after this, 8819 had a peculiar
career. Slie stopped for passengers like a well-
ordered trolley car, but if William did not like the
looks of people as they drew near, she bounded
ahead like an antelope.
Then there was a rive mile trip on a branch line,
merely to accommodate a pallid little woman with
a big oa by.
Jim escorted her to her destination several
blocks from the trolly-line, leaving 8809 to block
the mils.
“! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ” said the motorman of the
car that belonged there. “Go on !Goon ! What
d’ yer mean by sitting there like a toad in a rain-
storm, holdin’ us up, when we ’re twenty minutes
late a’ready ? ” "
William spread his hands in deprecation. “ It’s
orders -! can’t help it,” said he.
“Orders !! ! What orders? What are yer
doin’ in this part of the country, anyhow ? ”
“ Old man Rockyfellbr has come over to call on
an old woman that useter cook for him, and the
compny’s give him all rights on this car—my
mate's takin’ him around to the house own.
If he wants to come back with us you ’ll have to
wait —that’s all.”
The other leaned back in astonishment and fury.
“Well, wouldn’t that knock you?” said he.
“.Them rich old devils can have anything they
want, no matter what breaks, can’t they ? ”
“That ’s about the size of it-but here comes
Jim—we ’ll spin ahead and turn out for you up
above.”
“ Thankee, pardner,” said the mollified motor-
man. “I’m obliged to yer, but I kin tell yer
one thing. I’m goin’ to join the ancient and
honorable order of amalgamated Anarchists this
night. Aou bet. Call on his cook and block the
whole line ! Well, ”
But 8809 had gone on, rushing to her fate.
As she sped down Poolton Avenue a party of
young men with long hair rushed out of a cafe,
yelling wildly.
“ Pull up, .Jim ! ” said Billy. “ They look like
our land.”
“Where do you go?” asked the first panting
youth.
“ Any old place.”
“Hey?”
• “That’s what—we’ve broke loose and we’re
takin’ in the country to suit ourselves.”
“ C’m on, fellers ! ” snouted the young man.
“We’re strictly in it. Say, are you giving it to
me straight ?” ! . ,
“Read our signs,” answered William. The
young man guffawed. “ .Say, this is great! Have
a drink ? ”
William took the proffered flask and partook
freely. So also did J ames, coming back from the
platform to do so. Left to herself, 8809 rammed
an Italian’s banana cart, scattering the yellow
fruit to the winds.
“Got to pay for what you break,” said Jim,
and he heaved two silver dollars at the vender,
“You’re the right kind, pardner,” said the
young man. “ Have another drink with me—l
insist.”
“Oh ! you needn’t strain yourself,” answered
James; “ I can be coaxed.”
Amid the hilarity one young man began to ring
up fares.
“Hey, what cher doin’!” shouted‘Billy in the
grip of habit. Then he remembered. “Go
ahead ! ” said he. “No harm done.” The register
rang—the signal bell rang—both gongs rang. The
people stared, and the horses stood on their hind
legs.
The first young man was quite carried away
with excitement. He clambered over the seats to
the front platform. “Here, let me run this old
shebang,” said he. “I won’t kill nobody.”
“Well, we’re in the country now,” answered
Jim. “ I guess you won’t do much damage.” So
he gave him a few pointers and joined the revellers
in the seats.
Fifteen minutes sped by, when they were
startled by a yell from the young man, who at the
same moment began to grind frantically at the
brake, the huge muscles of his back nearly split-
ting the coat in his effort.
Jumping to their feet, the party saw ahead of
them a sharp incline ending in an unprotected
bridge.
“Jee-roo-saluin !” shouted Jim. “Wood’s
Bridge—the worst place in the hull country ! I
forgot it ! ”
At the same instant there was a snap and a
jingle of metal as the brake broke. The car,
which had slacked a little in its speed, leaped
ahead again.
“Turn off your power—reverse, I mean!”
yelled Jimmy. Then there was a thudding sound
on the car-roof. “ Oh, Lord !” he groaned, “ the
trolley’s jumped.”
Billy had spotted a long haystack not five feet
off.
“ Quick, boys !” he yelled. “ Get on the step
and jump ! ”
They were upon it in a twinkle, and every man
leapt.
Over and over they rolled, but they struggled to
heir feet to see the end.
t
8809 ran down the grade, bucking like a mus-
tang. She took the bridge _ with a rush, popped
high in the air, and, turning completely over,
went down into twenty feet of water —trucks up—
with a tremendous splash.
There was a moment of appalled silence.
“ She’s gone,” said James, solemnly.
“Everlastingly,” assented Billy.
“ And now I reckon we’d better go, too.”
“ Right you are ! ” said Billy. “ You ’ll excuse
us, friends, but we’ve got business away from
here.”
“Sure!’’said the college boys. “Good-bye.
We’ve had a great time.”
“ Good-bye ! ” shouted the trolley men as they
hustled through the fields.
And that was the last that anyone ever saw of
8809.
Henry Wallace Phillips, in N. Y. Criterion.
Here are some pure-bred animals from the herd
of Australian bulls —and some cross-bred blunders.
“ Via ” writes—
Our ’bus-driver had a jibber in t’ other day, and there
was the usual halt. After vain floggings, Tim, the driver,
fervently ejaculated—“ O you cow l ” A lively lady
inside remarked to her female friend —“ What a singular
name for a horse ! ” And the friend replied—“Oh, it’s
an Irish bull! ”
During the flood of ’93 houses and land went floating
down the Brisbane River. One allotment that had evi-
dently been on the sale list came careering along with
the illiterate legend placarded on a pole in front—
This House for Sail.
Living the Colony.
From “A.A.” ; —
In a North Adelaide hotel we had been talking about
the death of a prominent citizen the day previously.
An old Irishman, who had been silent all the time, rose to
go with the remark, “ Yis, sure, there’s men dying this
year that never died before.”
In a hotel-bar. Publican: “Now, look here, MacCarthj :
you clear out; you have had enough.” Mac. (on his ear) :
“I won’t.” Publican: “Then I’ll put you out.” Mac.
(on his ear): “ Come outside and put me out! ”
G.N. writes—
I heard a woman say, after looking at your “Hints to
Suicides,” that she could not commit suicide to save hex-
life.
From “Gestor”—
, A Cousin-Jack miner, to whom a friend had lent five
bob, said ; “ Thanks, my son, I hope I see thee in want of
five bob some day.”
From “Joe Rocks”—
An old aboriginal chief cadging from a bygone Governor,
remarked : “ I’m that plurry hungry I don’t know where
I sleep to-night! ”
A jockey-boy who returned to his quarters late at
night with some information for one of his mates, sang
out at the latter’s door—“ Joe, if you ’re asleep, don’t
speak ; but if you ’re awake I’ve got something to tell
you ! ”
During - the banking, crisis in Sydney, when the sus-
pended banks were paying small accounts, one depositor
rushed in and shouted, “I want my money!” “All
right,” quoth the clerk ; “ take your turn and you ’ll get
it directly.” “ Can I get it all right ?” “ Yes ! yes !in a
few minutes.” “ Well, I don't want it then. But if I
could n’t have got it I wanted it at once.”
A shearer washing himself : “ Lord ! soap has a nasty
taste when it gets in your eye.! ”
From other correspondents—.
One O’Brien, a wealthy Vic. colonist, being asked at. an
election meeting if he was in favor of a Zollverein,
promptly replied: “ Certainly, and if I’m returned I ’ll
have one bought for the colony at once.”
“ The country is alive with dead sheep ” is a drought
bull.
“ Anarchist” Andrews as Inventor.
J. A. Andrews writes to The Bulletin
The journal printed in 1891 with movable type
cut on slips of cigar-box wood, of which some
rare copies are to-day kept as curiosities, was a
work of patience rather than ingenuity ;' however,
it is true that I have always been Somewhat of an
amateur inventor. When I was about 19 years
old my room was a complicated curiosity; I had
altered all the locks of the apartment and contents,
covered the door with a network of strange devices
for opening, closing, regulating;, &c., fitted the
Venetian blind with an automatic adjuster made
of the neck of a powder-horn, and covered the walls
with a multitude of weird designs in luminous
paint, upon which I could fix lights and shadows,
and from which evolve the colors of the rainbow,
by a process of photography which I think is still
my own secret. For the benefit of those who
may desire to produce Luminous Photographs
I may as well explain. To take a temporary
picture is a mere matter of casting light and shade
on a dark surface of the paint. The light develops
luminosity where it falls. This picture fades in a
couple of days if left in the dark (as is necessary to
prevent it from becoming a uniform mass of light)
and can only be renewed by taking afresh. Now,
to “fix” it, my plan was to expose as for photo-
graphic printing for several weeks together. The
parts made luminous by the action of light became
gradually exhausted, whilst those kept dark
remained fresh and capable of shining; so that
there was at length produced a picture capable for
a long time of being developed by merely taking
the plate into general light. Colour I produced
by veiling the paint and exposing the portion
intended to be red to red (strontium) light only,
and so on successively ; but the coloured luminosity
is relatively feeble, and endures only for a few
hours. I did not attempt “fixing ” colour effects,
but they might perhaps be “fixed” on luminous
paint by complementary exhaustion.
About this time I took compassion on the many
would-be poets and invented a Poetical Machine.
to consist of movable bars of rubber type, governed
by the very mechanism Which somebody has since
thought of for making the linotype replace its
matrices. All that the aspirant would have to do
would be to select his rhymes from a list exhibited
on the machine, place them in whatever order he
desired, and turn a handle, whereupon the
machine would print verses accordingly. Of
course the maker would have to stock the machine
with lines that could be read in any order and
always make some vague approach to sense, or to
the semblance of it. This—who knows’-some
enterprising manufacturer may yet put on the
market for the relief of millions of love-sick
swains, popular-song writers, and prominent poli-
-I<More likely to be welcomed by practical people
troubled with Jumping Gas-Light is the idea that
I hit upon when that nuisance interrupted my
writing. I took off the burner and put on a piece
of rubber tube, which I led into a basin of water
placed on the table. The burner I screwed into
the bottom of an old dipper -without a handle, and
filling this dipper with. water 1 put a sheet of
cardboard over the mouth and inverted it in the
basin, withdrawing the cardboard. Ihe gas rose
into the dipper ; the force of the spurts was spent
in raising the dipper, and the weight of the latter
then maintained the outflow of gas by the burner
in the intervals when less or none came through
the tube. The elevation and depression of the
dipper were not noticeable in amount, and the
burner emitted a steady flame perfectly free from
TEX Greatly-Improved Gaslight by merely
taking a common brass paper-fastener of the
round-headed kind, and attaching it by the legs
around the burner, making the head come over so
as to just catch and spread out from its curved
surface —-placed at about the angle of an italic
parenthesis mark [ ) ] —the escaping gas. This
gives a great increase of light practically free of
Here is a wrinkle which I frequently adopted
for Carrying Ink Without a Bottle, and which
may prove handy to a business man or clerk who
would be convenienced by being able to transfer
a small portion of copying-ink, for instance,
from the office to his abode. I used to gum
the inside of a common match-box, and the
outside of the part that the lid fits on to ; and
then having filled and closed the box, 1 gummed a
strip of paper round the seam. I have earned a
gallon of ink by matchboxfuls in my pocket in
this way without leakage, walking two miles.
In later times, my devices have been too closely
connected with my particular circumstances to be,
in the main, of practical interest to anyone else ;
but there are a few exceptions. It is just an off-
chance if a traveller in a railway carriage when the
lamp goes out (a familiar occurrence on the New
Soutn Wales lines) happens to be provided with a
candle ; but being so situated I once overwhelmed
a fellow-passenger with a most unreasonable
amount of astonishment by a very simple expedient
for not having to hold the candle in one’s hand. Of
course it could not be cemented down with its own
grease, on account of the jarring. What I did
was merely to cut two holes at opposite sides of a
common match-box, close to the bottom, pass a
small pocxet-Knife through, with a blade, open at
each end ; and then, setting the blades'at right
angles with the handle, I drove them under the
foot of the iron upright rising from the back of a
seat, between two semi-compartments; and there
was a socket made and fixed in a few moments. I
should not remember such. a. trifle but for the
ludicrous enthusiasm displayed by the fellow-
traveller in question, who on recovering his breath
swore that lie “ had travelled all through the
United States and never seen a, trick like that.”
Water from Fire is a possibility that,ought not
to be overlooked in a dry country like Vves-
tralia, where perhaps persons might travel with a
portable condenser and fail to find anything to
distil. I have produced a good deal of water
from flame. Any fuel that contains hydrogen—
tiiat is, practically, any but pure charcoal or
anthracite—will produce steam while burning. It
is a very common experience in winter to place a
billy of cold water on the fire, and for some time
afterwards to have drops pouring off the outside
at a rate which threatens the fire with extinction.
These drops are formed by the condensation,
partly of moisture evaporated from the fuel, but
principally of that newly formed by combustion of
Hydrocarbons. In case of necessity, then, water
could be obtained in sufficient quantity to
save life wherever the escape draught of a blaze
could be drawn off through a cooler. I used to
obtain water for moistening a postage stamp, etc.,
by holding a piece of massive brass momentarily
over the flame o,f a candle. _
If I ever have the means to bring it out I shall
put forward a machine which can be manufactured
to sell uuder £5, for casting and setting up type,
one letter at a time. It would not be nearly as
quick as the linotype, etc., but it would be a good
thing for the small printers. Probably before the
chance comes nay way, somebody else will invent
it independently.
Meanwhile, I am gravely meditating a machine
for writing penny dreadfuls. A profound study
of Frank Beades, JDeadwood Dicks, and luck
Carters, has convinced me that it is possible to
turn out these indispensable adjuncts of civilisa-
tion wholly by machinery. The author need only
be employed to write one key work, so to speak,
and the talented machine will produce from that
one hundred and forty-four distinct and different
MSS., all superior to the original.
I have signed here, using a pen in the ordinary
way, and afterwards smudged the signature over
with my thumb dipped in ink, to make the writing
plain. The signature is white; in fact, the unaltered
color of the paper. If you would like to sign your
letters in white that way, try it. It is easy, and does
not require a visit to. the chemist’s. The paper show-
ing up in the signature is bare as before the signa-
ture was written. Well, if you want to puzzle
your friends, sign with melted candle-grease, and,
after laying on the smudge, take out the paraffin
or stearine by heat. That’s all.


qECOND-HAND
utew furniture
JM (Best Quality).
buy from us and
SAVE 60 PER GENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned I
# Q i f _ tnr thA Furnishincr of the HOME of best
prf«.
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (8 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023. -
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyWE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of tliis well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, & c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number ok simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.’
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERA ES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day. ,
Address—The Irving Homoeopathic Co., corner Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Days’ Trial.
n
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
• KELTS and
APPLIA NC It S
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a sleady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will peruwueuu.v. cme .yj>u. ... If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
vhat we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,"we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
;.lso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
A
A
. Cures all EYE
Get a genuine
pot trom any Chemist.
Proprietor STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Kd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne''). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
m
INDIGESTION.
Never fails.
nm
Per Bottle
Postage
n
jWASHINGTOH.H .SOUL&C9
160 PiTT STREET
SYDNEY,
Dear Sir. —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude ami
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
rs*
v
««
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL ANk>
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Life of the System.
ISNL
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLCROWERS
J - New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the “Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company t° Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSO.LI-
- COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The Following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION . • ••• I Per Cent -
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire
Insurance, and all other Charges) ... 3s. 9d. per Bale
ON PRODUCE other than Wool—viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., SPECIAL
RATES will be quoted on Application.
rmr T iTl F - T -a WTHTWIII llllllillllliil 111 II II 111 mi lir
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Ag*ency Co., Ltd.
Sydney, March 14, 1900. F. W. Lawry, Manager, Sydney.
THE 1 />J
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co
* T.TTVTT'PTITI
Offices
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
.tin o'± s ' f ec».
Q^> < £
Co&lltfyM
rt'Sft f.OR-
99
Pf
COMBINES WHISKY
PERFECTION Of QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
QOt^
0
0
0
WH £f,£
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
-
Zonophone-
Price, £7. \
i^“
THIS MACHINE
mn
TALKS, SINGS,
Flays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Oinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Oinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EDlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to l and 3 Bowe Street. (120 PITT STREET),- SYDNEY (ONLY).
H', N. Oldershaw, Manager. Nearly opposite 0.P.0.
AMTJSEMENX for OLD and 10UNO. y
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articlef
comprising One Performing- Skeleton, Book of Oonjurii*
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter!
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket ai )
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizaitf
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can b«
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magia
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously', direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716*4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
m
MEDICATOrt-
("CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots aw 7 av the small
frontal bones of the skuli. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Norpe Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
« COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.
rfht>
DEAF
<HEAB>
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
ten
DEAF
n
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A, M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and’Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Ansemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Reader, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful foroe of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
| Hypnotism, ,which_fnlly explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever * publ shed. ” Fot k short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in/. A postal card will bring it.
"Order to Hyp-1
notize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address—
m
V/'
mn
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZEMGES.
TORONTO.
CANADA.
A
m
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
T
ißiaHmm^aManagEEEi
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & Co. Ltd. ,Wool Brokers,
* SYDNEY (Selling Agents only).
BEST FIRM IN AUSTRALIA for the SALE of WOOL, SKINS, TALLOW, BARK, LEATHER, WHEAT, etc.


TATTERSALL’S
ADAMS, Holbart.
Address: Care geo.
Doncaster H. April 14.
25,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name_
Address.
® « i
Sydney C.
April 16.
50,000 Subscribers at S.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Adelaide 0. May 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Birthday C.
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in above.
Name.
Address..
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Newcastle C.
June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in above.
Name
Address _
8
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
V*S¥r-£J
m
\
\
Ss.'
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
xt ®J n P er * a l Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
m
1
UJ>ll
all I
!Ns£ Q%
Beware- hi r
i)QF IMITATIONS,
fdgfdg
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss to 12s
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
X733E1 ' ~~ '
Spooner’s
:RCVAIIIH(MESSIii(
a= FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
ill; OF AIL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressing's, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
n
mn
GrO TO TTT^T.T-
-IUOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AO&traliai) tyOtfial Provident Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
76
«<»
ms&m
m
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Price List. ISS
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &0., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
Of PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MEDIAN'S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The
Authoress ot
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
youp
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Ha r Falling-, Promotes,Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prr-’eit to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i '=, 2 16 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,. LTD.
16, Beyis Marks, Loudon, England.
THOMSON’S
MEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING'’
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long toaist.
Thomsons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & BIT RA BEE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALB DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Go-, Ld-, London
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Loncl on,
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
HET" R. -A. 3XT JE3Z JAjR-VIS •'
(who has had2o years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.’
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen BRISBANE,
victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
IV.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery MTanf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, YVHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Sprfng Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Bivgies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S IDDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OLi It SPECIAL Ao. 2
£8 18/6
nm
Delivered at any Wharf ,)r
N.S.W. Railways, Statiou
£lO 10/-
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Ruddi.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Red Wine, My Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the story : the woman, his wife,
Grew tired of his arms and threw him over;
Love is the salt of a woman’s life,
And her world lacks taste without a lover.
He married beneath him, the story ran,
His friends applauding with stifled wishes;
Love is like meat to the heart of man,
Though his banquet-board bears other dishes.
She liked him a little, his gold meant much,
A carriage and pair, the latest dresses,
A sphere above her (now out of touch),
A place of stars, and stars in her tresses.
An overlord of his heart was she,
And various voices spoke her praises,
Till last the moon, the stars, and the sea
Had less delicious lights and phases.
One would think that so fair a prize
Had need of a careful ward and warning,
But, no, his faith was of such a size
As met these thoughts with an idle scorning.
She wore his jewels, his gold, his name,
But suffered him with a sleeping passion,
Unlit as yet, but alert for flame,
As soul and heart grew tired of fashion.
The fruit hung high in the eye of the sun
Till one beheld it who knew it mellow,
And thus was a beautiful woman won—
Won and worn by a worthless fellow.
A touch on her arm—her arms were bare—
They stood where the dance-whirl swept no
longer,
A strong light blazed from a gem in her hair,
But the blaze in her great, dark eyes was
stronger.
’Twas afterwards, ’neath a creamy sky,
When the earth seemed spelled in a dream of
rapture,
That she tripped on a kiss —but where kisses lie
There runs the road to a certain capture.
The rest was easy—no need to tell—
As easy the grade from hill to hollow ;
Enough for the moment—the woman fell,
Nor cared a trifle for what might follow.
This to its credit —the sin did good—
(The good belonged to its unnamed features)
It ripened and filled her womanhood,
And made her one of earth’s near creatures.
The man, her husband, he heard it first
With scoff and scorn and a spice of humour,
Then hands to his ears, shut out the worst,
The word on the wind that was more than
rumour.
When guilt stood proven he made a feast,
Was it peace he sought in the merry medley ?
He laughed the loudest and grieved the least,
But signal-lights in his eyes burned redly.
The woman sat at her lover’s right,
And right of her sat her husband darkling ;
Two wine-full glasses—red wine and white—
Before each guest on the board stood sparkling.
The husband arose. “ A toast! ”he said,
“ To the good, scarce coin of God’s own mintage,
To all true wives,” and he bowed his head,
“And drink it, I pray you, in pure white
vintage.”
His wife’s heart shuddered, though not with sighs,
And her colour paled to a faint suggestion,
She searched for a word in her lover’s eyes,
And he bowed low in reply to her question.
Sin has its heroes ; they stirred and stood,
And one could have heard the fall of a feather.
The red wine—red as their love, their blood—
They drained in the face of the world together.
She looked a queen in her royal charms,
But, white and agasp, a moment after
She went to sleep in her lover’s arms,
With a kiss and a curse on her way to waft her.
The wine was poisoned—’twas tragic, sad
In such a manner to end such beauty,
But what would you have ? the man went mad
When his truant wife played false to duty.
For the rest, this moral is scrolled above,
For the heart to read at each life’s portal :
“ ’Tis venial only to sin for love,
But to give one’s self for gold is mortal.”
RODERIC QUINN.
Wonders will never cease. At recent
Beechworth (Yic.) municipal election it curiously
happened that each of the two candidates polled
160 votes. The returning-officer then gave his
casting vote to the teetotal candidate, although
the other man is a publican, and the R.O. himself
a brewer.
Dear Bulletin. —Amongst the things the
heathen can give us points about is letter-address-
ing. The Jap’s method :
SYDNEY,
214 GEORGE STREET,
BULLETIN OFFICE,
THE EDITOR.
Here the P.O. people have the main destination
as it should be, first, and the other particulars in
their natural order, instead of, as now, having to
wade through half-a-dozen lines to find to where
the epistle has to go before delivery.— Amb. G.
[But in letter-sorting, as it is, the bottom-lino is
taken first, so that the one method is just as con-
venient as the other.]


THE
PLUM
n
Price —SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or wich Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Cues. 21b. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEJJ, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds d£220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TatterSall’S* Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. J. Adams, Manager.
Tariff— lo 9. per Day.
£3 per Week.
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
o
rmjemar
/
ft
C 4ASG^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Ealgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria ,
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
K
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALLISTIC won over £2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899 ; or over =BlOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, J une 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland 9 Messrs. Brabant & Co.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Ofcgticsi tgmand
l': V * ’" ■ l' : -"' i . ' . , ' , - ;• ■ .. • "
Because the Best.
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 71 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Brandin N.S. Wales.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAMPION
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
mn
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
BONANZA CIGARS -
Retailed
4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1050.
SATURDAY, MARCH 81, 1900.
Prick 6d.
nm
A/^°y M —~s
/
_ . [t
MORE COMPARISON.
Relative sizes of things in Australia just now, as seen by the inhabitants: “Plague, Football and Cricket.” Puzzle, find Cricket


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.t 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum. ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2k6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and JMaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1900.
A Broken-Down Municipal System.
So far, the plague in Sydney is a very small
affair. It isn’t a patch on the daily, hourly
typhoid as a means of slaughtering the
public, and so far it has proved about as safe
as football, and much safer than it was a
few weeks ago .to have doubts concerning
the absolute justice of the war in South
Africa. Compared with influenza, the situa-
tion is about this—where 4000 people took
influenza and, perhaps, 100 died, 20 people
take the bubonic disease, and 18 die. The
mortality isn’t nearly so great, and the
bubonic disease progresses with a snail-like
crawl compared to the joyous velocity of the
other complaint. The total mortality from
the disease which has filled Sydney with
panic isn’t large enough, so far, to make any
noticeable increase in the total death-rate.
The plague doesn’t even begin to com-
pare, so far, as a destructive agent with
diphtheria, measles, cancer, consumption,
pneumonia, bronchitis, convulsions, apo-
plexy, Bright’s disease, epilepsy, dysentery,
rheumatism, whooping-cough, and a dozen
or two dozen more maladies. It isn’t even
in the same street with premature birth,
malformation of the spine, old age, or that
peculiarly fatal disease known as suicide, and
it isn’t far ahead of that cause of death
described in the Registrar-General’s returns
as “ privation through being lost in the
bush.” The main points about it are that it
is a new and mysterious disease, it is very
dangerous when it starts, though it very
seldom gets started, and it is liable to bolt
and run amuck under favorable circum-
stances.
* * m m
Still, The Bulletin at first viewed the
panic with satisfaction. All the chronic
heavy mortality from typhoid, diphtheria
and other dirt-diseases failed to move the
authorities to a visible knowledge of the fact
that Sydney was a lamentably ill-regulated
city, and if a small, cheap sudden plague
could arouse them to a terror-stricken con-
viction of the fact there were great possi-
bilities about it. But there is much panic,
a mad rush to the Blue Mountains, a desire
to have a violent, temporary washing-up, a
yearning to quarantine people, and isolate
people, and inoculate people, and a general
inclination to leave the system whereby
Sydney is so much in need of cleaning, just
where it was. And if that is done Sydney,
after this plague leaves it and the scare is
over, will settle down to accumulate more
dirt and to get ready for another small epi-
demic and another cheap spasm.
* # * *
The question of the Moore Park ‘‘ tip ”
came up at an early stage of the trouble.
In any decently-civilised city garbage isn’t
“ tipped,” nor buried, nor thrown into a
river or harbor, nor even dropped into the
sea so that a great part of it may wash up
again on the shores along 100 miles of coast.
It is utterly destroyed by fire. But the area
ruled by Sydney Corporation is small and
closely built upon. There is no spot in it
where a destructor ought to be placed. If
Sydney tried to put its destructor in any
other municipality where a more convenient
site was obtainable it would almost certainly
receive a flat refusal. If it didn’t receive a
flat refusal there would assuredly be trouble
with intervening municipalities about the
constant procession of Sydney’s garbage
through their streets. And in this respect
Redfern, Darlington, Glebe, and several
other places are in the same situation as
Sydney. Then, supposing Sydney does
reform, and abolish its tip, and put up a
destructor, there isn’t so very much gained
if the one comparatively clean municipality is
still surrounded by 40 dirty ones. There is no
central authority which can compel the erec-
tion of four or five large up-to-date destruc-
tors around Sydney to consume the garbage
of the entire 41 metropolitan municipalities.
There seems no possibility of agreement
among them for joint action. If they all re-
form and put up 41 destructors—one apiece
—it will be a needless and useless expense,
for 41 small destructors will cost about six
times as much as four or five large ones.
Moreover, Sydney and its environs would
then be pretty nearly all garbage-destructor.
No respectable city of (say) 450,000 popula-
tion should have 41 garbage destructors.
The excitement is too great.
* • * •
So the idiotic municipal system stands in
the way. In fact every proposal for per-
manent reform bumps up hard against the
system somewhere. The system is a hog by
nature and a cul-de-sac by education. More
money is wanted if Sydney and its sur-
roundings are to be decently clean, and a
different kind of alderman is wanted. The
expense of keeping up 41 separate councils
and sets of officials, and the burden of all
these separate debts (for the credit of the
much-divided city is much worse than that
of a united city would be, and its debt is
needlessly expensive) has something to do
with the scarcity of money. Moreover, the
system, being a natural and acquired ass,
doesn’t compel the councils to raise enough
rates to meet their outgoings, so they are
getting more and more embarrassed, and as
they get more embarrassed the city grows
dirtier. It is impossible to get rid of the
slums where the plague naturally locates
itself, for the system gives councils practi-
cally no power to resume property for im-
provement purposes. Over a very large part
of the N.S. W. metropolis there is no Build-
ing Act —the system is too primitive for
that; so the manufacture of new slums and
new plague-haunts goes on apace. The 41
municipalities created by the awful system
of sub-division can’t agree about the need for
a Building Act. If the Sydney municipality
did acquire special powers to reconstruct the
worst parts of the city, and used these powers
wisely, still it could only do a little ; it is
necessary to give the same power and to
instil the same wisdom into forty other
municipal authorities before any general
good could result. And under the system
it is impossible to get aldermen with suffi-
cient brains and originality to make good
use of the powers they have, and make a
united demand for the new powers they re-
quire. The brilliant man doesn’t care to join
an institution which has little power, no good
repute, and where he will be over-ruled by
eleven vulgar dullards. If the community
does elect a better man than the average he
is presently petrified by his surroundings.
The surroundings can’t be got rid of because
the people aren’t allowed to make a clean
sweep of the old crowd and elect a wholly
new one, and partly for this reason the
people take little interest in the busi-
ness and make no special effort to get
good men. The other reasons why the
people take little interest is that only a
few of them have votes ; there is little
excitement in electing a man to be, perhaps,
one-twelfth part of the power which, within
certain very narrow limits, helps to boss one-
fortieth part of a second-rate city ; and they
know they can’t get first-rate men if they
try, for first-rate men aren’t going into so
small and mean a business. The system is
the same old cul-de-sac everywhere.
* * * *
The moral of all this is that Sydney doesn’t
want a mere spasmodic cleaning. It wants
to abolish the old system which made it
dirty, and find a new one which may make it
cleaner, and certainly can’t make it more
filthy. If Premier Lyne is content when
he has struggled round with a whitewash-
brush in one hand and a bottle of insecticide
in the other, he doesn’t comprehend the
situation. A much more essential proceed-
ing would be to call Parliament together
while the scare is on, and take advantage of it
to establish a wholly new order of things.
What is wanted most is one central authority
in place of 41 ; the mayor and aldermen to
be elected in a body every three years by
one-adult-one-vote ; the new Council to
have practically unlimited powers in the way
of enforcing cleanliness, ordering the
destruction, alteration or repair of undesir-
able buildings, preventing the erection of
undesirable buildings, making new streets,
improving old ones, resuming property
for public purposes, controlling streets,
wharves, parks, water supply, sewers, etc.
Then if Sydney wanted to be clean it could
be clean ; whereas at present it can’t be
clean even if it wants to. The only real
difficulties in the way are that the 41 sets of
aldermen don’t want union because it might
diminish their importance—and that can be
got over by not asking the permission of the
41 sets of aldermen. Also there is the ques-
tion of the debts. The latter is a real diffi-
culty but not a serious one. An independ-
ent tribunal could decide the actual present
value of the assets which each municipality
brought into the partnership, and by
deducting them from its debt find
the net liability which each brought
in. Then the new Council could levy uni-
form general rates through all its territory,
and a variable rate in the territory of each
of the old municipalities to pay interest on
its old debts and gradually pay off the princi-
pal. The rate could be so graded that all
the old debts would be extinguished about
the same time, and thereafter the new
Great Sydney would start fair with uniform
taxation all round.
* • • *
It is commonly alleged that people can’t
be made moral by Act of Parliament, though
there is no certain evidence that they can’t
—in fact, there is abundant evidence that
they can, to some extent at least. It is also
alleged that they can’t be made clean by Act
of Parliament. This latter point is also
more than doubtful. Certainly the existing
municipal system of Sydney is a remarkable
proof that they can be made unclean by Act
of Parliament. It is a remarkable com-
mentary on the existing order of things that
the instant a really serious difficulty
arose the municipal authority, which should
surely be doing something, should practically
drop out of sight. The Council is somewhere
in the background, where its component parts
are violently calling each other bad names
over the old, old proposal to erect a garbage-
destructor, and adjourning in great fury
without doing anything in particular. Evi-
dently nobody expects anything of the pre-
sent N. S. W. municipal system at a time of
real emergency.
Five lives Lost.
The coroner’s jury on the Sydney Harbor Colliery
accident followed the coroner like sheep. Accord-
ing to the reports of the inquest, the coroner
appears to have preferred to stroke things down
and smooth things over. He seems to have given
the jury their verdict like a bolus to swallow; and
the jury swallowed it obediently. The verdict
was Accidental Death —and thanks to the Colliery
Co. for the care it took ! But then the jury was a
Sydney jury of publicans, grocers, and photo-
graphers. What could they know of mining—
beyond what they were told? A jury of miners,
independent of the Harbor Collieries Co., would
no doubt have given a very different verdict.
* * * »
The Colliery Co. is sinking for coal on the shore
of Sydney harbor. Its shaft is 1815 feet deep, and
its expects to strike coal in another 1100 feet. The
shaft is 18ft. wide, and bricked for some distance ;
but the diameter is reduced by ironbark timbers
let into the shaft on two sides —to hold the guides
for the cages, when there are cages. At present
the men go down in an open bucket, each with a
leg over the side, and a hand upon the handle _ or
upon the wire rope. The bucket is 3ft. sin. wide
at the top, and 2ft. llin. at the bottom. Between
the men’s legs and the projecting timbers there is
4ft. 2in. space. The bucket is sent 1815 ft. in a
little over 2min. with men; in about lmin. with-
out. As time is money, naturally no time is
wasted.
• * * •
On March 17 six men were sent down in the
bucket at the usual speed. About 500 ft. from the
bottom the bucket swayed and struck a projecting
timber; overturned; threw five men out and
killed them. The sixth man held on till the
bucket was stopped a little lower down, and later
reached the bottom safely.
* * * *
Tne accepted theory was that the men moved in
the bucket and made it sway. But there was
evidence that the bucket had swayed previously
when its speed was checked in descending, and it
is obvious that any such loose weight at the end
of 1300 ft. of wire rope must be liable to sway dan-
gerously.
» * * *
What the jury of saddlers, and jewellers, and
ironmongers should have been told is not the fact
that the Colliery Co. is taking due precautions,
but that it is exercising great care in applying a
most dangerous method. To send men down a
shaft in a swaying bucket, without guides, at ten
miles an hour or more, may be safe enough when
the shaft is only a few hundred feet deep ; but
when it is more than one-third of a mile deep the
method risks life at every trip. The Sydney
Colliery shaft should long ago have been provided
with a proper safety cage, so that there would be
no risk from swaying, and if a man fell sick his
mates would still be safe.
* * * *
The distinction between a sinking shaft (where
fewer precautions are used) and a working shaft
(where more are compelled) is nonsense after a
certain point. The risk to life should be the
criterion of safety regulations ; and the risk is at
least as great in a sinking shaft as in a working
shaft. There is nobody directly responsible for
the accident. Safety cages—or bucket bearers
—cost money and delay work; and the Colliery
Co. naturally wants to get its work done
as quickly and as cheaply as possible.
The Collieries Inspector should have seen that
work at 1800 ft. required greater precautions than
at 500 ft.; and the conditions should have been
altered accordingly. But permanent officials get
into a coroner’s-way of letting sleeping dogs lie
and making as little trouble as possible. In this
community, where nearly every politician
can be “pulled,” and nearly everybody has a
“pull,” the official who makes trouble is cold-
shouldered. And the Collieries Inspector was
guilty of no fault under his Act or regulations.
* « • *
The only thing to do is to tie the regulations
tighter and then a cry would come (supported
by miners in search of employment) that industry
was hampered, and the Department would grant a
special permit nullifying the tighter regulations.
All Acts and regulations depend in the last resort
on the brains and hearts and consciences of the
men who administer them; and the chance of
getting administrators with brains and hearts and
consciences is small indeed in N.S. Wales. Look
at the Parliament! elected by the people !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Curse of Foreign Capital.
Melbourne Age (17/3/’00) takes up the parable
which this paper took up years ago—that the
“ influx of British capital ” is a curse and a delu-
sion and a blight. Apropos of W.A. mining it
says :
It is evident that the evils we are suffering from are
traceable to the fact that Australia no longer controls her
own share markets, the commanding influence having
passed away to London. That is the price we are paying
for taking the British capitalist into partnership, from
which such great things were expected. The actual ex-
perience of the free investment of English money in some
Australian mines is thus proving the very reverse of the
great blessing anticipated. . . . The evil effects will live
long afterwards. For the unwieldy, over-capitalised com-
panies will remain, equipped with a costly management
and a system of control that must, if unreformed,
spell destruction eventually to the mining industry. ...
In the case of the mines managed from London the diffi-
culty is sought to be met by burdening the property with
a large and terribly expensive staff of mine superinten-
dents, engineers, managers, and sub-managers, and advi-
sory geological, chemical, mechanical, metallurgical and
other experts. Victorians, who are practically acquainted
with the simple methods in vogue here, may well laugh
over such extravagances. [Yes, when they see the rich
and clever mining magnates of Bendigo attending board-
meetings and doing their duty as directors conscientiously
at ss. per time. —Ed. B ] But these fantastic excres-
cences help to make the London system of management
possible for a time. The small army of high-salaried
officials knows no master but the London board.
The mine is kept closed to visitors, and its secrets
divulged only to the London directorate. . . Ever
on the scent for new sources of wealth, and having
exploited all old world possibilities, the company pro-
moter has found the English investor a ready and willing
follower on to the, to him, new fields of mining enter-
prise. Actual mining is, however, little benefited by
these operations. From this quarter we first heard of
the evil system of paid-up and contributing shareholders.
It is the paid up shareholder who represents the spoils of
mining. His sole contribution to the industry is his name
on the prospectus. The other fellow —the contributing
shareholder —has to find the money for everyone to play
with. The issue of paid-up shares is a most ingenious device,
whereby certain influential personages are induced to put
their names to prospectuses, and have their scruples
overcome about sitting on the board of directors. For a
certain number of paid-up shares these personages also
induce their auriferously inclined friends to go in for “ a
good thing.” Of the subscribed capital, the major part
also finds its way into the capacious pockets of the pro-
moters, vendors or underwriters, who are often identical,
but operate under different names. Perhaps the greatest
evil of all is the presence of these same personages on the
London board, drawing immense fees, in some cases £IOOO
each a year, as “ managing ” directors. Thus they are all
the time in the swim : always posted with the earliest
information, and all the time playing the part of the spoilt
child of fortune, who “ tosses ” with a double-headed coin,
or on the principle of “heads I win, tails you lose.”
[The Age omits to add that on top of their colossal fees,
these managing directors often scoop in, for absolutely no
valid consideration whatsoever, huge percentages of the
companies’ profits—book-profits, mark you, not actually-
divided profits, such percentages amounting in some
cases to many thousands annually.]
As one way of spoiling the ‘ ‘ first information ”
swindle how about an Act of Parliament declaring
that on, say, one day every week any shareholder
shall have power, on production of scrip to show
that he is a shareholder, to fully inspect the mine,
and that the results of each cleaning-up shal 1 be
posted conspicuously in some place accessible to
the public, within an hour after they are ascer-
tained ?
Cooling Down.
On March 19, Sydney Daily Telegraph started,
in a feeble sort of way, to hedge on the Contingent
question and its consequences. It began by re-
marking that the war had “ consummated for pood
or evil the military federation of the British
empire.” The mere hint that the Contingent-
fury might pan out for ultimate evil is in itself a
lamentable falling away from the pinnacle of
“loyal” frenzy on which the Australian dailies
have tottered and whooped in recent times. Then
it went on to state that “it is impossible for the
colonies, after the attitude they have just assumed
in Imperial affairs, to remain content with their
present voiceless position regarding the manage-
ment of them.” The Bulletin said the same
thing long ago. If Australia is going to waste its
men and money as a regular thing in British wars,
it must sooner or later have some voice in making
these wars, or else its soldiers are mere mer-
cenaries, fighting for pay in another country’s
quarrels. And the only way it can have
a voice is by having representatives in an Im-
perial Parliament or Council. And that means
Imperial Federation, and Imperial Federation
means permanently humping our share of the
Imperial war burden —our share being about
£4,000,000 a year. The Telegraph, however,
held that it would be no use for Australia to have
representatives in the Imperial Parliament,
because there wouldn’t be enough of them to have
any appreciable authority. So it suggested in-
stead the formation of an Imperial Advisory
Council, which would have no authority at all—
it would merely give advice just as Australia can
do now by cablegram, and the Imperial Govern-
ment would take no notice of the advice unless it
felt so inclined, just as it does now. And Aus-
tralia would form so small a part of the Advisory
Council that its share of the advice would be prac-
tically nil. The Telegraph alleged that Australia
would thus avoid “ raising the financial question.”
By having no control over British war policy it
would avoid paying its share of the British war
expenditure. And the fact that the out-
lying provinces of Greater Britain didn’t
contribute towards Britain’s regular war
expenditure would further justify Britain in
taking no notice of their advice. The only differ-
ence would be that, instead of Australia sending
occasional advice by cablegram, it would pay cer-
tain broken-down party hacks to sit round per-
manently, and be ready to obtrude their sugges-
tions and views at any moment. And Australia
would be as “voiceless” as it is now, for it has
always given advice—the trouble is that no one
takes any notice of it. What does this country


want with a regular Advisory Board when the
A.N.A., and the Mayor of Geelong, and Bard
Fitzgibbon, and Henry Copeland, and G. Pile s
dog are always ready to advise at the shortest
notice ?
The Gall of Agent-General Reeves.
Australia has had to put up with a lot of things
during the past ten years, but sundry new pro-
ceedings on the part of Agent-General Reeves, of
Maoriland, are about the last drop in its cup of
bitterness. The five federating provinces have
five delegates in London to help in the good work
of pushing the Commonwealth Bill through in its
entirety. The number looked needlessly large at
first, but now it begins to appear as if they would
all be wanted. The five provinces have agreed to
unite on certain conditions, and if they are content
with the conditions, and the British Government
is content, it seems reasonable to assume that
there is no more to be said. Adjacent provinces
which, by their own act, have kept out of the
Commonwealth, have no more to do with the
internal concerns of the five provinces united than
they had with those of the five provinces when
disunited. Yet the Federal delegates found Par-
ker, of Westralia, in London demanding that the
proposed internal government of the five provinces
which have agreed to federate should be altered
on certain lines laid down by an outside party
named John Forrest—a party who is outside by
his own deliberate act. And later on, Agent-
General Reeves, of Maoriland, demanded that
further alterations should be made to suit Maori-
land, which has never been in the movement at
all. What he desires is that the British Govern-
ment shall compel the insertion of new clauses,
providing that Maoriland may come into the
league, when it feels so inclined, on the same basis
as the Original States, and also that, if it doesn’t
feel inclined to come in altogether, it may come
in so far as to have the protection of the Federal
defence forces and to make commercial treaties
with the Commonwealth. Both Westralia and
Maoriland would probably have got all they
now ask, if they had presented their requests
to the Federal Convention, or later to the
Conference of Premiers, but they were too
tired, or too haughty, or too undecided to
take any steps then. Maoriland wasn’t even
represented on either occasion, and didn’t recognise
the existence of the Convention. But when, after
tremendous labor and expense, the five provinces
which stood together have arrived at an agree-
ment, and carried it through five troublesome
Parliaments, and secured the popular assent at
five separate Referendums, after months of toil
during which hundreds of speakers and organisers
stumped a territory of about a thousand million
acres —after all this the W. A. and Maoriland dele-
gates propose that the whole stupendous structure
should be pulled down so as to insert their particu-
lar half-brick in the foundations at the particular
moment when they choose to want their half-brick
inserted. Agent-General Reeves, in particular,
gravely states, according to the cable, that the in-
sertion of his particular half-brick wouldn’t in-
volve a delay of quite a year. He doesn’t
know exactly why another year of political
storm should matter much. It would onlv
mean carrying another amended Bill through
five Parliaments, and possibly five more
Referendums, with the possibility that the amend-
ments would cause the rejection of the measure by
one of the provinces and the Commonwealth
which took so much building might fall to pieces
again. Why Maoriland hadn’t the common cour-
tesy to ask for what it wanted while the Common-
wealth Bill was in preparation Reeves doesn’t
explain. Neither does Parker as regards Wes-
tralia. Reeves doesn’t promise that if all this
enormous labor is done over again to let Maori-
land come in that Maoriland ever will come in.
He doesn’t even allege that Maoriland has decided
that it wants to come in. Parker, of W.A., is in
much the same situation. Neither explains why
it wouldn’t do as well to get the union of five pro-
vinces definitely established, and then let the
Federal Parliament arrange for the entrance
of Maoriland and Westralia, instead of run-
ning the risk of wrecking the whole struc-
ture by tinkering with the Constitution before
the Commonwealth is really established. They
merely say that they have taken a sudden
desire to have the moon and must get it imme-
diately. If the federating provinces sent a depu-
tation to England to demand that the British
Government should withhold its consent to some
Maoriland Act of Parliament, which related
solely to Maoriland’s internal affairs, the remark-
able nature of the situation would probably dawn
on Agent-General Reeves. The cases are exactly
similar. Maoriland stood aloof from the Federal
movement though it was invited to join. _ It made
the Federal movement a purely Australian affair.
And it has no earthly right to interfere with
purely Australian affairs.
+
Oom John’s Defence.
When the W.A. Separation party got up its
famous petition to the British Govern-
ment demanding severance from the territory
bossed by that aggravated Boer, Oom John
Forrest, it set forth, among other things, that
the Goldfields had been unjustly treated in the
distribution of expenditure. They contributed
much, it was alleged, and received little. Where-
upon Boer John instructed his Government
Statistician to get up a set of figures showing that
the Goldfields really got more expenditure than
they should have, and that Oom John had been
to them a liberal parent and a lavish uncle. He
didn’t appoint any independent financial authori-
ties to investigate the matter—they might have
examined into it and reported that the Goldfields
complaint was fully justified, and he couldn’t sack
them for doing so. On the other hand, he
could sack the Statistician if that trodden-on
official didn’t report that the Goldfields com-
plaint was all a lie—which made all the dif-
ference. The Statistician struggled manfully to
make out a good case for his boss and the old
bloated regime. For the period 1896 to 1899 he
credited the proposed new province with 33 per
cent, of the postal and telegraph revenue, and
charged it with 60 per cent, of the cost of working
the post and telegraphs, and 80 per cent, of the
cost of telegraph extensions. Out of an item of
revenue described as “Reimbursements” he
credited it with nothing at all. He credited the
proposed new province with 20 per cent, of the
railway revenue and charged it 25 per cent, of the
railway working expenses. Previous to 30th June,
1896, he alleged that the goldfields supplied none
—absolutely none—of the railway revenue, though
fully three-fourths of the receipts in these times
arose from the tremendous goldfields traffic in the
great boom-time. Of miscellaneous receipts and
interest on bank balances, &c., he credited nothing
to the goldfields—the Bunbury end of the pro-
vince absorbed the lot. He charged the proposed
new province with one-fifth of the cost of Parlia-
ment in the years when it had only about one-
twentieth of the representation, and two-fifths of
the cost (40 per cent.) when it had only 11 per
cent, of the representation. By these and other
silly and outrageous fakes he arrived at this
result: —
Revenue derived from proposed new province, Q43
1895-1899 .. •• •* ” 2' 965,447
Expenditure on it out of revenue .. • • ’
,, . . , , . £345,596
Goldfields defrauded of •• •• Q ’ ,
This meant, roughly expended
on°Kbout £600,000 more than its fair share—that
it got the benefit of all own revenue and the
£345,596 stolen from the Goldfields, and that the
£240,000 or so which formed the deficit at 30th
June, 1899, had also been expended on the older
portion of the Groper country. y •*
Government Statistician’s own showing the.older
portion of Westralia—the Perth and Bunbury
portion, where the Forrest interest lies-have
badly swindled and defrauded the section which
now demands separation. This is the best that he
can do after practising weird dodges with the
figures, of which any sober and respectable pawn-
broker’s clerk should be utterly ashamed. Leav-
ing out the dodges, the real fraud probably
amounts to a million and a half. A wiser man
than Oom John would have dropped this docu-
ment in the sea with a brick tied to it, and
remarked haughtily that it was beneath his
tremendous dignity to notice the Separation
party’s manifesto. When a man s enemy calls
him a great political swindler it is bad ; when he
opens his mouth and calls himself even a small
one it is a great deal worse. And the man who
can’t fully acquit himself after a private trial
before himself and his own servant is in a pretty
bad way.
Concerning the Lyne and See Life
Assurance Co.
When the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. held its
recent annual meeting in Sydney Manager Garvan
got this noble cube of wisdom off his chest :—
Last year I referred to the necessity of legislation in
connection with financial institutions. The way matters
stand now, companies may be formed to transact business
under the guise of life business, and by offering a contract
altogether impossible of fulfilment, attract some business.
In fact, the greatest nostrums, until found out, meet with
some success. Legislation such as I advocate would at
least compel an institution to transact its business with
sufficient premium rates.
Not only has Manager Garvan here struck a
great want—he has also struck what should, be the
best possible time and opportunity to fill that
want. In all the Australasian provinces life-
assurance legislation is shamefully and disgrace-
fully loose. Anybody may start an assurance office,
with or without capital. He may make his con-
cern look gloriously solvent by leasing a miserable
little office at a few shillings a week and calling it
“leasehold property, £15,000,” or anything like
that. He can put down in his balance-sheet
all manner of assets that don’t exist at all. He
may estimate that his assets will earn in the
future 5 or 6 or 7 per cent, interest; he mhy
attract business by quoting impossibly low rates
and he may do almost anything else that occurs to
him. There is practically no law on the matter,
no legal standard of solvency, no State audit or
valuation of securities —nothing ! The Federal
Parliament is supposed to deal with this subject
when it starts, but it won’t start for some time,
and it will have an awful lot to do when it does
start, and it may prove as tired and indifferent as
the State Parliaments have done, and the best
thing that can happen is for one of the State Par-
liaments to take up the matter and pass drastic
legislation now, and thereby force the hand of the
Central Government. The Federal Parliament
must make the life-assurance law uniform As
things are, it can do it by letting things slide all
over Australia, but, if one province has a good
and stringent life-assurance statute, the Federal
Parliament must either repeal it —which it will
never dare do — or extend it all over Aus-
tralia. What is wanted is a rigid annual
State audit, a regular State valuation of secu-
rities, and a law providing that future inte-
rest earnings shall be estimated at not over
3J per cent., and prohibiting insolvent offices
from doing any new business until the shortage in
the funds is made good. The Lyne Government
should take this matter up, if only in its own private
interest and to further embastion its own private
speculation. Premier Lyne and Colonial-Secretary
See are both directors of the Citizens’ Life Office,
and their manager and colleague says that he
wants more stringent assurance, legislation. They
should let him have it promptly and liberally. It
would prove that their own office can stand the
most rigid inspection, which would be a very good
thing for them and for the office and its clients ;
and it might drive out of the field some shaky
and shoddy institutions which are interfering
with their business, which would be good for
them and still better for the public. Of course if
they pass stringent legislation it will be said that
they did it to wipe out some rising competitors,
and that their motives were mean and sordid.
But, on the other hand, if they don’t do it, these
same competitors will wink at possible clients in
secret places, and say that Messrs. Lyne and See
would have legislated in the matter only they
couldn’t afford to have their own institution too
rigidly overhauled. They are bound to be
calumniated either way, so they might as> well
take the way that is best for themselves and for
the public interest.
Dr. Ashburton Thompson, of N.S.W. Board of
Health, on a part of Sydney’s plague-infested
area
I say deliberately that I know of no place worse than
this—no, not even in the London slums, of which I have
had large experience. It may not look as bad as a London
slum, perhaps ; but this is merely because of our more
liberal sunlight and clearer atmosphere. This collection
of filthy brick huts —I cannot call them houses —and all
other such places as are discovered, will be presented by
the medical officer of health for the metropolitan district
to the local authority as places unfit for human habita-
tion. They are simply ghastly.
It is just as well that all tlie public should know —
the thing can’t possibly be yelled out too often
—that the Central Board of Health has abso-
lutely no power to compel any landlord or tenant
or inhabitant of a house to clean his filthy
premises or have his pestilence-spreading cheap
sewerage remedied; the Board only has jurisdic-
tion over buildings in course of erection. And all
it can do in the case of the typical rotten old
plague-factory is to report the circumstances to
the City Council (which in its turn has no
power to have the necessary work done at the
owner’s or tenant’s expense, but can only pro-
secute him and have him fined mildly over and
over again until he remedies the evil). But
the Council so far has never got anybody
fined ; it has been elected by and mostly composed
of landlords, and lias been there all along merely
for the purpose of conserving the interests of the
landlords’ pockets. Some of the most hideously
dangerous houses in all Sydney—certainly the
most dangerous houses existent in any “respect-
able” quarter—were the property of a landlord
who was a member of the City Council and at the
same time a member of the Leg. Assembly. In
his aldermanic capacity he for years steadily and
effectually resisted all efforts to make him spend
money in repairing his typhoid factories; and
when health-law amendment which might affect
his purse was introduced into the Legislature he
would lobby against it day and night. And for
seventy or eighty years Sydney has been governed
by such hogs as that alderman-M.P., and such
hogs will govern it till it gets municipal one-man-
one-vote.
N.S.W. Minister O’Sullivan’s idea that the
State should guarantee municipal loans, thereby
enabling municipalities which now pay a ruinous
5 or 6 per cent, to get money at 3 or 3), is a great
idea if the money is raised locally instead of being
borrowed in England, and if any means can be
devised to make the municipalities pay up more
regularly than they pay their other State obliga-
tions. The average N.S.W. municipality pays
its outside creditors regularly, but when it owes
money to the State it never pays at all if it
can help it. If the State is going to guarantee
municipal loans, there should be a separate
fixed rate to cover interest and sinking fund,
it should be agreed upon when the loan
is contracted, the aldermen should have no
power to alter or abolish it, and the town-clerk or
other functionary should be a State official for the
purpose of collecting it and paying it direct to the
State, while he would remain a municipal official
for other purposes. His State and his municipal
bosses should I we equal right to sack him if he
failed in his duty, and inasmuch as he would be
partly a State official part of his salary should be
paid by the State out of the money collected on its
behalf —or, better still, the State should pay him
a small percentage on collections. On that basis
it would be an excellent and workable scheme,
but it doesn’t seem workable on any other basis.
♦
Isabella Downey, midwife, was sentenced to
death at Melb. Criminal Court, last week, for the
crime of attempting to get Ellen Butler “ out of
trouble,” after the young spinster had herself
made sundry reckless attempts to effect the same
unholy purpose. Isabella Downey’s case seems
to deserve a little more sympathy than the down-
fall of the average abortionist, insofar that there
was no evidence of her having been a habitual or
avaricious offender. Ellen Butler doubtless
persuaded this woman against her better judg-
ment to do the criminal deed for a fee of
40s., promising gratefully that she, the said
Ellen, would take all possible care of herself
after the event. And because she didn’t take care
of herself—her father gave evidence that he had
protested against her stupidity in shifting her bed
from one room to another, and getting up to cook
the meals— Ellen Butler died. And before she
paid the penalty of her foolishness, ungrateful
Ellen “split on” the woman who had put her
under an obligation. That’s the story of how
Isabella Downey came to be sentenced to death,
the same old story that often, to use the prisoner’s
words, “comes of doing some people a kind
turn.”
For cool originality Big John Forrest —the great
Federal-Anti-Federal wobbler —deserves a leather
medal frequently. Oom John suggests that the
Australian Governments should contribute some
£20,000 or so to the Indian famine-fund, and
Melb. Argus and Age, amongst sundry other
dailies, cordially back up the proposal. It is in
accordance with the eternal fitness of things that
the most untrustworthy wobbler among all the
provincial politicians—the man who has done
most to wreck the Federal cause in his own pro-
vince—should thus be first and most eager to pro-
pose Federal action. But let that pass. The
argument of the Argus is that the existing local
demands, on top of the Patriotic Fund contribu-
tions, will tax the energies and resources of the
charitable to the utmost, therefore the Govern-
ments should each vote a sum, according to popu-
lation, out of revenue. But when the provinces
are invited to provide for their own starving and
old and poor, the Conservative press rises in a
great hurry to observe that there are no special
funds available, and that it would be a heinous
crime to further tax the thrifty Fat-man, who is
already so heavily burdened. This overpowering
desire on the part of Big John and other Tories to
assist —with other people’s money —a number of
hapless niggers a long way off is a touching cir-
cumstance, and stands in fine contrast with their
attitude towards their own poor and suffering.
The Argus lays it down that it is Australia’s
plain duty to contribute. Which is a cheeky
assertion to come from a paper that has so long
and so enthusiastically approved of the selfish,
mercenary neglect of the local wreck. Victoria,
which provides only a gaol for its own sick
poor, and gives the starving and the sick and
the paralytic six months’ hard labor in order that
they may be provided for, is a curious place to
find sympathy with the starving Hindoo. There
appear to be two ways out of the difficulty so far
as Victoria is concerned. One is to cable the
Indian authorities—“ Why don’t you put the
famished inhabitants in gaol as we do, and if you
haven’t enough gaols to put them in why haven’t
you ? ” The other is to provide some other home
than a gaol for its own sick and aged and home-
less, and then send along its Indian Famine con-
tribution if it has any money left.
The British Secretary of State for War offers 114
commissions to Australian officers. The selection
of the men to be made by the “ Governors ” of the
provinces, “after consultation with Imperial
officers commanding local forces.” The Bulletin
is much mistaken if this does not mean that Aus-
tralia is to be practically stripped of and
that the men who have been educated and
trained at considerable expense by Australia
for Australia’s defence, are to be drawn off to
fill the gaps made in the Imperial army
by Boer bullets. Seeing what we have seen,
it is not reasonable to believe that consideration
for Australian interests will prevail in the minds
of Australian “statesmen” against the express
wishes of their present tin divinity, J. Chamber-
lain. Australia can perhaps spare all the men she
has sent to Africa better than 114 officers, since
the loss of the latter would leavh us with no one to
knock recruits into shape. It would be interest-
ing to know before this order is filled exactly what
114 officers represent in hard cash to our bleeding
country.
The Queensland Government is playing a truly
artful game. Recent events have shown only too
clearly that the languid Bananalander was becom-
ing somewhat weary of the Continuous Boodlers,
with their chronic crop of public frauds, petty
swindles, and malodorous jobs of all kinds. Last
session of Parliament saw the Ministerial gang
a-tottering ; subsequent events in the election-line
haven’t improved matters. But this Transvaal
business, with its disloyalty corollaries, has been a
perfect godsend to Philp and co. With the
utmost cunning they have contrived to cast sus-
picion on the “ loyalty ” of Labor representatives,
whose one democratic sin is that they believe in
the wretched Transvaal job just as fervently as
their Capitalistic opponents. The stigma of pro-
Boer has been craftily affixed to the Parliamentary
Opposition, and the Philpites trust that, under
the present Imperialistic mania masquerading as
eatnotism, the Q.N.B. scandals, the disgraceful
hillagoe job, the Seaforth Purchase business (to
say nothing of a dozen minor iniquities), will be
clean forgotten, and that Labor will be downed
that the Empire (supposed to be on the verge of
ruin) may be saved. In fact, had the present war-
like fit seized Bananaland on the eve of a general
election, the chances are Democracy would have
gone to the dogs entirely. Unfortunately for the
Ministerialists, the war-fever soon cools, and the
people sit down again to reflect, and the stink of
the old jobs rises up again—loathsome and damn-
able as ever!
♦—
Me. W. Rodier writes to The Bulletin from
Tambua, Cobar: —
Editor Bulletin. —You say (B., March 10) that the
squatter is responsible for the deterioration of the Wes-
tern country by overstocking'. The person who wrote
that evidently knows very little about things. Take the
rainfall for the last four years over the west: you will
find it very much below the average, varying up to 70 per
cent, in places. Also, take the number of stock : they
are very much below what is considered a fair thing in an
average year. There is also the rabbit question to be
considered ; and in this our landlord, the State, has
systematically shirked his fair responsibility, at least for
the last 12 years. What is wanted is for the State to
find out the proper means of coping with the pest; then
it will discover that the squatters themselves will very
soon set to work and clear the country. At present
every one is either using his own plan or doing nothing
at all; and as the drought has ruined nearly all owners
no one is inclined to spend any money in trying to solve
a question that in common justice and fairness should be
solved by our landlord.
To which The Bulletin remarks :—
This country had droughts in the past as bad as this,
probably worse ; yet it was not ruined, as many squatters
now say it is. Why ? Simply because it was not then
heavily stocked, or stocked at all. It is naturally drought-
resisting country ; the scrub, &c., is built expressly for
the climate. But it cannot stand drought and over-
stocking. When drought came along the squatters ought
to have nursed their land ; they ought to have stocked
some of it lightly and much of it not at all {vide Mr.
Peter Waite, boss mulga-and-salt-bush squatter). In-
stead they tried to keep as many stock as ever on it—
often, poor beggars, because, as previously said, they had
to pay as much interest out of wool at 6d. as they did
out of Is. wool. Also, on general principles, if Pro-
vidence and the squatter are jointly blameable this
paper prefers to leave Providence out of the indictment.
The only reason for blaming anybody is to get things
improved ; and this paper regrets that it has so little
influence with Providence that it seems a waste of good
blame to direct it at that quarter.
-<>
Says General Roberts in his proclamation to the
Free Staters:—
Orders have been issued by me prohibiting soldiers
from entering private houses or molesting the civil popu-
lation an any pretext whatever, and every precaution has
been taken against injury to property on the part of any
person belonging to, or connected with the army.
From the comments of the Australian daily
press one would suppose that this is a new
departure in the direction of humanity; General
Roberts has been lauded to the skies for it
—yet it is only the substance of a standing
order that has been in force in the British army
for over a century. It is to be found repeated
over and over again in the “Wellington Des-
Eatches. ” It was in the standing orders of the
light Division in the Peninsula with an injunction
that anyone who infringed it was to be “tried on
the drum-head and if found guilty hanged.”
Punishment was swift in those days. Humanity
has nothing to do with it. It is in the
interest of the army and of discipline. If
an army plunders, the population of the country
is made hostile. If soldiers are allowed to leave
the ranks to maraud they are apt to be murdered
by the angry people. Besides, pillage means
waste. Men destroy more than they consume.
If it is necessary to live on the country, it is
better to get what is wanted by means of requisi-
tions and payment. If supplies are taken without
payment, the people will hide what they have.
If payment is offered, they come in of their own
accord. Even in a country so hostile as Afghan-
istan there is no difficulty in getting supplies for
payment.
Ikey Mo has just been awarded a first-class cer-
tificate in S.A. by “his Honor.” Two men had a
fancy for Antarctic in the Brown Hill Handicap at
Vic. Park, a local course—the only city course, in
fact. They weren’t going out themselves, so they
got Cowley, who keeps a shop, to undertake to
put on two half-crowns for them. Which, being
an A.M. Beggar, he didn’t do. According to the
evidence—
Plaintiff Frankel saw Cowley at the latter’s shop, when
defendant said, “ Well, old man, you’ve had a bit of bad
luck. I had it on with the books.” Frankel replied,
“ Books be blowed ; I could have had it on that way any-
where in town.” “ To tell you the truth, I forgot all
about it. But I’ll pay you the bookies’ limit, 10 to 1 ;
that’ll be 50s.”
But as the tote-div. on a 5s. investment was
£32 4s., Frankel “ wasn’t taking any absent-
mindedness”; and neither was the court. Ver-
dict accordingly. What the “ books ” would have
offered if Cowley had rushed them with the two
half-crowns Heaven only kows. Also, Heaven
only knows what the books would have offered if
there hadn’t been the tote-competition to squeeze
them into moderate liberality. Still, despite all
the squeezing, the man who went to Isaac got
only; 50s., while the people’s own price, mathe-
matically ascertained, was 644s. Which seems to
mean that, if he did all the business, Isaac’s end
of the purse would be 594s., and his successful
client’s 50s. ! And yet there are some presum-
ably honest people in Australia who are fight-
ing the tote with all their limbs, while Isaac and
Moses and Reuben smile—likewise Gad and
Manasseii.
A return furnished by the Victorian Neglected
Children’s Department for ’98—the most recent
issue—sets forth some startling facts. In that
year there were no fewer than 4588 youngsters in
the care of the Dept.; and of these no less than
1020 had been made wards of State during the
year. The Australian juvenile is contracting a
confirmed habit of regarding the State as his
father and mother, also his uncle and aunt and
nurse and general relation. No less than 251 of
this 1020 had been deserted by their fathers, and
51 didn’t seem to have gone to the trouble i f
getting a father at all —at least, that necessary
individual was returned as unknown. Presumabl y
he existed in a cursory, negligent sort of way, an l
then departed casually. The Dept, had ap-
parently grown so accustomed to this evanescent
progenitor that it didn’t trouble to enquire into the
perfectly usual circumstance, but just accepted
the infants as part of its daily duty. As
inquiry wouldn’t have diminished the casual-
ness of the parent, this was probably the wisest
course. The Dept.’s plan of boarding the grow-
ing youngsters out with farmers, fruit-growers,
etc., works well on the whole. Of the 4588, 350
were in the schools ; and of these 350 no less than
67 had absconded in the one year. Nothing hap-
pened. They simply walked out in an accidental
sort of way, and were no more heard of ; and the
Dept, was probably only too glad to get rid of
them. Yet despite the 1020 children absorbed by
the State in one year, the streets of Melbourne,


THE KTEW POLICY OF
TI)S tyGtCial Life IqS<i raiKS Co. of New York
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance. _____
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
ra
AGENTS
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Colmns-st., Melbourne.
Bl ( Queen-st., Brisbane.
65 ItuNDLE-ST., Adelaide.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
m
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engin:.
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sola A aants :
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
as of every other big Australian oity, throng with
incidental waifs and strays. Some sell papers or
flowers, most don’t. All are first-class gamblers
and up-to-date “sports,” and all are utterly un-
educated and uncared-for. All the multitude of
the children that the State takes in doesn’t seem
to diminish by one iota the multitude of the chil-
dren that the State ought to take in but doesn’t.
Apparently the descendants of the great Casual
Father are past counting.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Youth.”
Royal “ The Happy Life."
Lyceum “ Defender of the Faith."
Palace “Lady Dolly.”
Criterion Rickards’ 00.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Theatre Royal “ When the Lamps are Lighted.’
Bijou Rickards’ Variety 00.
Alexandra “Hamlet,” March 30 (last night
of the season).
Miss Nance O’Neil has probably made her
greatest Sydney success up to date in “ Peg
Woffington.” Certainly her rather scratch com-
pany has shown to better advantage in it than in
either of the previous productions. “Woffing-
ton ” is described as a comedy, and it is certainly
supposed to have been regarded as such in the
days of our cheerless forefathers, who are now
dead, and are probably happier and more frisky
that way than when they were alive and
having comedies. Its heroine wastes her
heart on a very ordinary lout who is
already married, and when she discovers the fact
she puts a good face on things, and tries to forget
that the one man she ever loved is a lout, and was
always a lout, and will be a lout to the end of his
days. She endeavors to make him a better lout
than he was, and to make his young wife think him
a better lout than he ever will be, and then she
goes back to the paint, and the footlights, and the
gentlemen who ask her to be their unmarried
friend for a consideration. The other characters
include a young wife with a shattered illusion—
a wife whose lout has fallen like Dagon from
his pedestal, so that he will never be quite the
same moral boor again. Also a starving dramatist
puts his ghostly face in at the theatre back-doors
to have his play returned to him with scorn,
whereupon he goes home to his hungry wife and
his two hungry children who had a slice of bread
yesterday. A good part of the audience wept
mto its handkerchief over the hungry home and
the two pathetic children—yet a bygone race of
undertakers really and truly regarded this moan-
ing mass of pathos as a comedy. “Peg. W.” in
its lighter moments depends on sundry gentlemen
of fashion whose language towards each other is
cheerfully insulting. There are two ladies in the
piece, and the most fashionable gentleman offers
one, by letter, £3OO a year if she will “ fall.” He
does this on a reasonably lengthy acquaintance, so
his conduct is excusable. In these days it was the
square thing to ask a lady to fall after a reasonably
lengthy acquaintance. But when he requests the
other lady to fall at their second meeting, and
without even offering her £3OO a year, he doesn’t
seem so wildly comic as he might be. It was an
age when things that now wear clothes went
around in the Altogether, or wore q very disreput-
able kilt at most.
* * * *
In the tragic part of Peg Woffington
Miss Nance O’Neil appears to better advantage
than she did as Leah. She is blighted in both
characters with exactly the same blight. Leah
and Margaret Woffington both lightly turned
their young woman’s fancy in the spring to
thoughts of lout—and were left. But Leah took
it cursing, with her sombre clothes dis-
hevelled, and her arms uplifted, and her long
hair flying to the winds that blow in the
halls of heaven, while Margaret Woffington took
it quietly, in her best frock, and with her hair
done up in a tidy knob at the back. Leah be-
longed to a primitive age when a deceived woman
might curse on the housetop if the roof was strong
enough to support her, and Mrs. Woffington
didn’t. Miss O’Neil has a stately figure to hang
good clothes on, and in various ways she is
a great success as the broken-hearted actress,
while she was only a moderate one as
the broken-hearted Jewess, but it is the same
tragedy each time. Clay Clement, after being
one dead failure and one deader one, makes a very
fine Charles Pomander. Barton Hill bears up
the character of Triplet—the crushed writer whose
children had something to eat yesterday—in a
way that leaves little to be desired. And Miss
Inez Bensusan, as the trusting wife of the lout,
only wants to be a stranger from America, with a
huge advertisement, to be recognised as a very
fine actress ; but, being a local product, she
will probably have to be content with being
regarded as a nice girl with a pleasing ribbon,
in her hair. The writer had some idea of saying
severe things about the lout, but decided to leave
that person to be gnawed by the worm of silent
disapproval.
* • • *
This is Miss O’Neil’s last week at Sydney
Royal, though she re-appears at Her Majesty’s on
14th April—bubonic plague permitting—com-
mencing with “Camille.” On Monday Robert
Brough takes up the thread of comedy at the
Royal with the “Happy Life.” He was an-
nounced for Saturday, but the steamer which bears
Robert and his fortunes from Maoriland has been
delayed. Brough is supposed to come for nine
1 weeks, but if he oan see his way to make it ulna
i months it will be so much the better.
** * *
“ Youth ” is going with a reasonable
amount of support and a loud bang at Her
Majesty’s. There is more banging in this version
than in any previous one, and the Doppers’
terrific attack on Kimberley can be heard all
down Pitt-street. Peaceful persons half-a-mile
off drop their beer in affright when Oom Kruge ';
scanty legions rush the fortifications ; and dogs,
and girls with perambulators, and Greeks with
barrows of 16 specked bananas for 3d., light out in
terror for parts unknown. Yet there are appar-
ently only ten Boers altogether in the force which
bursts headlong over the British fortifications,
and the courage of these ten brown-clad men with
slouch hats ought to be better appreciated. To
keep up the idea with which the play was written
the British force should be much smaller, and
the landscape outside should be brown with
the old cheap weatherbeaten hats of the
enemy. Despite the uproar, and the lavish
scenery, and the fine company, and the new
patriotic tail that has been pinned on to the old
drama, and Brownlow’s melody, it is obvious that
the war-fever has cooled down somewhat. There
isn’t enough of it left to make “ Youth ” more
than a respectable success. Probably when the
troops come back and are kissed things may
brighten up somewhat.
** * *
Up to time of writing C. Holloway had
announced no change in the bill at Sydney
Lyceum. The play with the unjustly incinerated
bishop in it is now in its fourth week, and possibly
the loud local demand for a destructor to take the
place of the Moore Park tip may lend it enough
extra support to keep it going a while longer.
The complete obliteration of the bishop by fire
appeals to the feelings of Sydney at the present
moment. Just now the obliteration of anything
by fire strikes Sydney as appropriate and tending
to the public good.
** * *
Sydney Liedertafel proposes to have one
of its occasional breakings-out into opera at the
Palace Theatre on Saturday. The basis and
foundation of the proceedings is to be “Lady
Dolly.” The literary part of this effort is supplied
by Margery Browne —the advertisement gives no
further information, not even a prefix ; and the
music by Alfred Hill. Sundry influential persons
of great political or liquid capacity are mentioned
as patrons.
* * * at
In another portion of this issue appears
a portrait of “ Nat ” Douglas, a one-time favorite
actor, who died in Dunedin (M.L.) early this
month. He was born in Dublin, but spent most
of his life on the Australian stage. “Nat ” and
the late Maggie Oliver and “ Bill ” Holloway were
amateurs together in the very long ago, and used
to indulge in lurid sixpenny shockers in an ancient
bam that stood somewhere about Queen’s Place,
Sydney. At one of these performances, in 1865,
Nat attracted the attention of someone who even-
tually got him a start in the Victoria Theatre
under Tolano. From that time forward he be-
came a stock actor of great renown, and played
many parts well, and some exceedingly well, and
none very badly ; and earned distinction as a man
who had absolutely no use for the prompter. He
was strong as Laertes, lago (the gentleman whom
a historic back-blox critic once described as
a “ perfect cow ”), Oassio, Bassanio, Richmond,
and many other characters. Mr. Douglas leaves a
widow, at one time known in the theatrical world
as Miss Docy Mainwaring. Sad to say, his
last days were embittered by poverty and profes-
sional obscurity. His health failed years ago,
necessitating a long retirement from the stage,
and when he recovered, his former reputation was
forgotten, and he was too old to start building a
new one. So the good old veteran had mostly to
go back to the cheap shocker and the barn again,
m his declining years.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion a pleasant-looking
young man named Ernest Brinkmann is making
his first appearance and sings a respectable,
ordinary song in a respectable baritone voice.
Two more new arrivals are the Mintons, who do
some good work in the rather old song-and-dance
and banjo line of business. The Amann boom is
now a subdued roar which becomes aggressive
when Sir ’Enery looks round on the audience, or
Baden-Powell flings up his hat, or Buller waves his
sword towards Ladysmith. It breaks out with its
old-time bellow when a stout German-looking lady
bows distantly to the cheering mass of humanity,
but all the same Ludwig has been at the Cri. a
good while now.
** * *
“ When the Lamps are Lighted ” came
along to Melbourne Royal on Saturday night with
the air and swagger of a melodrama that meant
business. G. R. Sims wrote this four-act work of
fiction, or, rather, he was part author and sole
editor, consequently it possesses commercial
merits, and makes many orthodox appeals to pub-
lic sympathy. All the old reliable characters,
sentiments and situations that have done duty in
a dozen previous dramas from the Sims factory
are crowded into these four acts. The unjustly-
convicted father who drowns his sorrow in gin is
there all the time, together with his wife who made
herself over to a conscience-stricken capitalist for
her daughter’s sake, and the tall, noble young
man who refuses to “ chuck ” the gilded daughter
when he learns her mothah’s Past, and the murder
in the private study where the safe gets burgled,
and the wicked trap-door, likewise the villain
in the garret, and the burglar’s penitent para-
mour, and innumerable other items. The capitalist,
by the way, gets knifed in his bad conscience in
the second act; but he is such a strangely unpic-
turesque person that nobody feels sorry to see
him expire, moreover his decease tends to thicken
the plot and shake up the survivors. If it were
possible to kill him again in the third act the pre-
sent scribe would not attempt to stay the assassin’s
hand.
• * • *
Outside of these domestic troubles, John
Sheridan and Gracie Whiteford, assisted by a
most intelligent kiddie and an unkempt hireling
gal called Semolina, run a caravan show in a
breezy little world of their own. Sometimes
the caravan makes a comic entry into the
domain of grief and wickedness, and for
a while Sheridan is an Irish detective of
the Grattan Riggs type engaged in tracking
the villain to his dingy lair. But he wears a light
heart under his disguises, and he circumvents the
blackest schemes as though he didn’t take them
seriously. Even when he gets rolled down the
trap-hole there doesn’t seem to be any cause for
alarm. The belief that all is well with Sheridan
proves to be quite correct. He turns up again in
the coat of the man who rolled him to his watery
grave, or wherever they went together, and in the
pocket of this garment he discovers the dear old
proof of the inebriated father’s innocence.
Meanwhile the drunken parent aforesaid has also
plunged into the river, which cures him of the
drink habit and reconciles him to his unhappy
wife, who decides that she will take up the broken
thread of respectable matrimony, instead of going
forth to nurse poor and suffering citizens at large.
“ When the Lamps are Lighted ” is a prettily-
mounted drama; also, the stage-management is par-
ticularly effective from time to time. The acting
of the people who undertake serious or sinful
characters might be stronger in most cases, but,
take them altogether, they are a capable co. The
little part of a bent-legged Hebrew toddling up
and down the “ den ” in search of rubies is brightly
played by Frank Weathersby. Leon Roche is a
satisfactory burglar ; Fred Sinclair gives a stiff,
natural impersonation of an upright young man ;
Henry Willard, as the father, humps a heavy
burden of woe to the best of his ability ; and Miss
Maud Denny is hard and sweet, like a ribston
pippin. Miss Maud Gwynne, as the emotional
mother, promises at the outset to score heavily,
but her acting powers are limited, and she relies
MANDARIN KONG YEW WAI, late Chinese
Minister for Labor, who will shortly visit Australia
in the interests of Chinese Reform.
almost entirely on an impressive voice, which has
much pathos in it, reminding one of Miss Beatrice
Lamb’s beautiful monotone.
** * *
The war pictures, the lively legsome
ballet, and the all-round gorgeousness of “Little
Red Riding Hood ” will continue at Melb. Prin-
cess’s for one more week only. No flies have
settled on J.C.W.’s panto., and the new pictures
are calculated to lure many persons into a second
visit.
** * m
Dampier’s profitable season at the Alex-
andra ends next Friday night (30th) with Shake-
speare’s goriest tragedy. “ Hamlet ” has been re-
garded for the last two or three centuries as the
most money-making of the Bard’s productions, but
no thoughtful student has ever suggested a practi-
cal committee of enquiry into the secret of its
success. To tell the truth, the milk, figuratively
speaking, in this great classical cocoanut is
berlud—pure berlud. “ Romeo and Juliet ”
is an entertainment which always commands the
patronage of the Butchers’ Union, but for real,
sanguinary interest the Italian love-story can’t
hold a corpse-candle to “Hamlet.” The one
humorous individual in all Denmark, so far as this
story shows, is the grave-digger. Yorick, in his
time, was a fellow of infinite jest, no doubt, and
the grave-digger seems to have become addicted
to conundrums when he buried the jocular Yorick,
thirty years previous to Ophelia’s decease. There
is no evidence of frivolity on the part of anyone
save Yonok and the working man who disturbs
his bones. The grave-digger is, indeed, the only
character permitted to smile aloud during the
evening, also he is the only live person of import-
ance when the curtain falls. Everybody else
worth mentioning has come to a violent end, and
we are to suppose that after the digger has
put the whole crowd of them underground the
original ghost comes out and gloats over the whole
cemetery. Two nights of “East Lynne” will
sadden the way for “ Hamlet.” On Saturday the
Dampier Co. will depart from Melbourne with
Sydney in view, and other places in between.
The Sydney season opens on 14th April.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania announces a
profit, for the half-year ended 28th Feb., 1900, of £6611,
which is the best record since the end of 1892. The
recent profits of the Oommereial have been :
June, 1892 .. £13,393 December, 1896 £3833
December, 1892 8352 August, 1897
June, 1893 .. 6589 (eight months) 4969
December, 1893 5586 February, 1898 3463
June, 1894 .. 4345 August, 1898 .. 3823
December, 1894 4378 February, 1899. 3885
June, 1895 .. 4610 August, ‘1899 .. 4519
December, 1895 3700 February, 1900. 6611
June, 1896 .. 4199
The profit is equal to £5 9s. 6d. per cent, per annum on
shareholders’ funds (capital, £141,493 ; reserve fund,
£100,000). A dividend at 6 per cent, per annum absorbs
£4245 ; dividend tax thereon is £212 ; bank premises are
written down by-£ISOO ; and the remaining £654, added
to previous balance of £9BO, leaves £1634 to carry for-
ward. Six months ago the Commercial of Tasmania wrole
£90,000 off its reserve-fund to cover losses and deprecia-
tion, and the fact that it. is already found necessary to
provide another £ISOO out of earnings to write down the
paper-value of premises suggests that this provision, large
as it was, was none too large—in fact, not quite large
enough. It also, last year, raised the dividend from sto
6 per cent., which was a tolerably solemn thing to do on
the very day when it admitted to £90,000 of losses, and
wrote off nearly half the reserve it had accumulated in 68
years of existence. Whether the largely-increased earn-
ings this half are due in any great degree to amounts re-
covered out of the losses written off six months ago, or
whether they are all ordinary trade profits, doesn't
appear. At all events, the Commercial is paying a quite
large enough dividend at present, and it is to be hoped
something vigorous will be done in the way of rebuilding
the reserves before there is any further increase.
The Tasmanian Commercial has a good steady
business. During the half-year its note circulation has in-
creased slightly and deposits have expanded by over
£lso,ooo—from £1,318,405 to £1,472,102. It holds £272.969
cash and £158,019 in Government securities—equal to
nearly 30 per cent, on its liabilities to the public. The
reserve of State securities is especially solid con.idaring
the size of the institution, being equal to £16,000 more
than the paid-up capital. Altogether the bank looks
better than it has done for a long wh'le.
• * » •
A few days ago the Bank of Victoria and
National Bank of Australasia paid off the final instalment
of the reconstructed deposits of 1893. They were the
last of the reconstructed banks which paid the full 4i per
cent, on their old deposits. The institutions which still
remain in a reconstructed state have all, in some way or
other, made new and easier terms with their depositors.
There were 13 reconstructs originally, but only seven re-
main in that state ; in fact, one is so nearly free that the
number may be called six--the Commercial of Australia,
Colonial, London, English Scottish and Australian, A,J.S.,
and Queensland National. The City of Melbourne Bank
was the only one which died of the reconstruction process,
which is the more remarkable as it hung out longer in the
panic time than any of its rivals. Not reckoning the
Federal Bank, which was a death, not a reconstruction
(the date on its tombstone is 29th January, 1893), the Com-
mercial of Australia, which closed sth April, 1893, was the
first to go, and the two last were the Queensland Royal
and the City of Melbourne on May 17. The plague lasted
just 42 days.
* * V •
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation,
of London, a concern which does a large business in Aus-
tralasia, issues a balance-sheet for 1899 which is calculated
to make many rival institutions green with envy. The
net premium income is £718,746 (in 1897 net premiums
were only £334,102, or less than half). After making pro-
vision for liability under unexpired policies the profits are
£129,635, equal to over 94 per cent, per annum on the
paid-up capital of £137,493. During the year the Ocean
00. bought up the business of a rival institution, and the
sum paid for the goodwill thereof is wholly provided for
out of this year’s revenue. If it had been written off by
instalments, as is the custom, the year’s profits would be
still larger. A dividend and bonus at the rate of
20 per cent, per annum absorb something over
£27,000 ; an addition of no less than £IOO,OOO is made
to reserve fund, which increases it to £350,000; and a
small balance is carried forward. These are magnificent
figures, yet large as the profits are they would he still
larger'but for the painful accuracy with which provision
is made for various kinds of contingency. The Ocean 00.
publishes, along with its balance-sheet, a list of the
securities in which its cash is invested—and the fact that
it can get a statement of the particulars of over £1,000,000
worth of investments on to one sheet of paper may pos-
sibly convince some Australian companies that they
could be a great deal more explicit than'they are on this
important point without ruining themselves in stationery.
• * * »
The Union Marine Insurance Cos. of Liverpool
(Eng.) and many other places (Sydney included) 'pub-
lishes a balance-sheet for 1899 which looks eminently
prosperous, though the mode of keeping the accounts
seems needlessly complicated. The co. has a net premium
income of £290,244, and after meeting all outgoings there


t
A
THE
HEME!
mvm
UIJE
iMTEI
The |
ZETZW
i&lBMOM
mm
M*S o W°
9cbaeee&
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AID WAR OFFICE.
iwp
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 '
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros. .& Co„ Ltd., Liverpool, Agema; M. Rutty & Co„ Sydney.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
E laced an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
td., South Melbourne, to build a pair of Compound Con-
densing Engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mil-
ling plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proell valve gear; the flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons ; the
total weight of engine will be 85 tons. The engines are to
be completed by the end of the year, and will be the finest
and largest plant on the field. Three engines under con-
struction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie Goldfields
have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, have a
vacancy for a pupil in their ore-testing works. Therough
tuition in assaying, metallurgical work, ore testing, etc.*
♦ • • •
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
• * • *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
Insurance Spectator,3<Xuly 1st., 1899 : “The
Colonial Mutual Society stands on a broad and firm basis.
Its interests are widely spread. It has the confidence of
the assuring public, a strong programme, and energetic
management.”*
* • * *
Bendigo’s recent spurt is over; the develop-
ments that at one time promised to keep it going have
not come up to expectations. Most of the deepest-level
stone is poor, or very poor ; New Chum Railway’s 3200ft.
formation is at present hardly inside the pay-limit. As
for the middle levels, about the best stone in quantity is
being got from the Shenandoah—oz. stuff. In the less
fashionable quarters the Prince of Wales group is look-
ing up most; but that in the present depression doesn’t
mean much. Meantime this field’s awful sacrifice of
miners continues.
« « * *
Old Bendigo hands have often wondered why
some New Chum co. didn’t cut at a depth for the Black
Leader—a vein a few hundred feet from the main reef,
narrow at surface but very rich in some of the places
where it has been pot-holed. No co. has, however, ven-
tured to risk swamping its deep workings with water;
but it is now likely that the N.O. United will face it.
* * * *
Parramatta Copper Co., floated last year, mostly
at Lille, France, is laying big plans for working its mine
at Moonta.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Ny. Markwald
XI Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & GO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining-, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNEB,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-at., Sydney.
is a balance of £166,538.. But as it doesn’t’nake an
allowance for unexpired risks and call the rest profit it
w“e decided ?or another 12 months whatt the net
earning for 1899 actually were. The net profit for 98,
however, after setting aside £17,500 for possible further
claims, was £29,572-equal to over 18 per oent. on capital,
and the 1899 net earnings look like being much larger. A
dividend of 15 per cent, is declared. The Union is a great
and solid institution. It has £163,500 of paid-up capital,
and various, reserves amounting to £614,384 (reserve
fund, £300,000 ; contingency fund, £11,680 ; underwriting
suspense account, £43,8/6 j balance of 1899 underwriting
account, £166,538; and profit balance, £92,290).
» * * *
The balance-sheet of the Sydney Permanent
Freehold Land and Building 00. is more than usually
interesting, because this is a rare kind of co. which pays
no interest at all on its deposits. In 1895 the depositors
agreed to accept reduced interest at the rate of 2) per
cent per annum, and next year it was resolved that on
and kfter 25th Sept., 1896, deposit interest should leave
©ff entirely. As it was really being paid out of assets,
which was altogether too like the depositors getting their
interest out of their own principal, this was undoubtedly
a wise proceeding. The co. devoted itself to clearing off
the mortgages on its property and the bank overdraft,
and when these burdens are lifted it is understood the
position of the depositors wifi be reconsidered. During
the three years that the Sydney Permanent Freehold has
had the use of some £90,000 of deposit money absolutely
free things have gone like this :
Income. Sur P luß ‘
1897 „ £2936 £2748 £IBB
Deficit.
1898 ~ 2001 2033 £32
1899 ... 1600 1633 £33
£6537 £6414
In 1897 the Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and Build-
ing Cos. set aside £58,000 as a reserve for depreciation, and
losses on sales, &c., have so far eaten away this provision
that only £34,371 remains available to provide for future
losses. Assuming that this is all required, the co. stands
as follows :
Liabilities. ] Assets.
Capital .. .. £102,756 Land, &c., alleged
Deposits, not bear- | actual present
ing interest .. 88,413 value (deprecia -
Small debts .. 769 tion deducted) .. £145,303
Mortgages bearing Deficit .. .. 67,878
interest .. .. 11,243
£203,181 £203,181
This is a curious result. The Sydney Perma-
nent Freehold Land and Building Cos. claims to have
£44,878 of its capital intact, after making provision for all
losses. Out of £IOO,OOO of borrowed money it gets
the use of £88,413 absolutely free. It has £145,303 worth
of assets, to earn working expenses and interest on only
£11,243 of interest-bearing liabilities. And for the last
two years it hasn’t managed to do even that. Its gross
earnings last year amounted to only £1 2s. per cent, per
annum on the alleged bedrock value of its assets. The
trouble seems to lie in the fact that the assets consist
very largely of bare lands (country and suburban) which
are very difficult of sale, and on which some occasional
cow grazes gratis. And until there is more activity in
the property-market the co. will apparently do nothing
save exist in a sort of way. In fact, if the income keeps
falling as it has done, and the property-market doesn’t
rise, the co. will soon only exist in a very bad sort of way,
for there is a point beyoud which economy in working ex-
penses can’t go.
* • * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W. completed, on 31st January, 1900, the most profit-
able half-year in its history. Profits of late have been :
January, 1896 ..£3273 July, 1898 ..£4184
July, 1896 .. 3275 January, 1899 .. 4968
January, 1897 .. 3785 July, 1899 .. 4801
July, 1597 .. 3962 January, 1900 .. 5495
January, IS9B .. 4250
A dividend at the rate of TO per cent, per annum absorbs
£350, and 10 per cent, bonus to shareholders accounts for
another £4588. The remaining £557, added to previous
balance, leaves £930 to carry forward. Under these cir-
cumstances the society ought soon to be able to make
some further additions to its reserve fund which has been
stationary at £11,500 for a long time. Also, with the in-
crease of earnings, there begins to be hope that the over-
draft will gradually disappear. Since the society moved
into larger premises and commenced to keep a much
larger stock the overdraft has been chronic.
» * * *
Melbourne Mutual Store did a trifle better last
half-year, profits for six months to 31st January, 1900,
being £1687. The dividend (£2 4s. sd. per cent, per
annum) absorbs £1250. Recent earnings and dividends
have been :
Dividend,
January, 1893 Profit £761 Nil.
July, 1893 .. „ 133
January, 1894 Loss 1747 ~
July, 1894 .. Profit 1427
January, 1895 ~ 1801 £2 4s. sd. per cent. £1250
July, 1895 .. „ 2173 £3 6s. Bd. „ „ 1875
January, 1896 ~ 1890 ~ „ ~ ~ 1875
July, 1896 .. „ 2244 „ „ ~ „ 1875
January, 1897 „ 1448 £2 4s. sd. ~ ~ 1250
July, 1897 .. „ 1332 ~ „ „ „ 1250
January, 1898 „ 2557 £3 6s. Bd. „ „ 1875
July, 1898 .. „ 1221 „ „ „ „ 1875
January, 1899 ~ 2210 ~ ~ ~ „ 1875
July, 1599 .. „ 1275 £2 4s. sd. „ „ 1250
January, 1900 ~ 1687 ~ „ „ „ 1250
At July, 1899, the Mutual Store took £2OOO from its scanty
reserve of £7200 (reducing it to £5200) to pay for sewer-
age connections, law costs, &c., and, as these things were
fairly chargeable to revenue, it really made no profit that
half-year. After paying its present dividend, the profit-
balance carried forward is £1552, and, lest the manage-
ment should again be led away from the safe though
obscure paths of £2 4s. sd. per cent, to the dazzling
pinnacle of £3 6s. Bd., it would be well-advised to put
£ISOO of that to reserve straight away. What with losses,
depreciation, sewerage ex.’s, law costs, writing-off, bad
trade, and the £66,116 overdraft, the Mutual Store hasn’t
been doing well, and the increase of its overdraft by £1754
during the half-year is a bad sign. Also, the reserves are
£9OOO less than they were at January, 1893, and the half-
year’s sales are £38,000 less.
Reported that B. H. Junction North began
March with “ the best output made by the co. so far—l2oo
tons sulphides, giving 222 tons concentrates, worth 62 per
cent, lead, 30oz. silver, and 7 per cent, zinc.” And the
market sprang. But it isn’t much of a “ best output,”
anyhow. This co. issues only an annual report; last was
to July, ’99. In the preceding 12 months 46,989 tons ore
had been milled, producing 8459 tons concentrates, worth
31oz. silver, 60.) per cent, lead and 6'9 per cent. zinc.
That is, taking the official figures, 903 tons of ore was
averaged weekly, which produced 162) tons concentrates,
worth practically the same as this last week’s product.
A third more ore (less 4 tons) was milled than in the
average week of last year, and a third more concentrates
(and 5 tons besides) were produced—which, considering
the additional plant provided, is not an improvement to
get excited about. Still, it is a fact that the mine looks a
good deal better underground than it did a while back.
Last 12 months the concentrates produced were set down
at £52,195, and expenses (including £3350 depreciation)
amounted to £53,017. But metal prices have moved in
favor of the co. since then.
Concerning the price of metals, one of the most
noticeable features of the past 18 months, during which
most of them have jumped anyhow, has been the steadi-
ness of silver, usually the most unsteady of them all.
For two-thirds of the whole time it has been 2s. 3d. and a
fraction, and it has not been a penny either above or
below that level for more than a fortnight.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Water Supply Cos. finding
itself in a terribly tight place owing to the threatened
competition of B.H. Proprietary Cos., seeks to block by
legal technicalities the B.H.P. dam-site application.
« * * *
B.H. Water Supply is in more trouble. Govt.
Analyst Hamlet has reported so unfavorably on samples
of water submitted that N.S.W. Health Dept, has sent
him up to determine to what extent the use of the water
damages the public health. When the. co. refused the
local municipal council’s handsome offer of £300,000 for its
works it threw away a splendid chance to get in out of
the rain.
* * » *
Most of the Broken Hill stocks are at boom
price have been so for months. The slump in
many of the big Westralian mines favored B.H. scrip, and
the increasing output of the latter is in marked contrast
with the decreasing yields of many of the former.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, directors have just got the sanction
of shareholders to sell any of the co.’s outside blocks
which they may see a chance to get rid of. In the dull
days, when it wasn’t certain whether even the main-lode
mines could pay their way on sulphides, practically all
the outside shows were allowed to lapse ; and the B.H.
Prop., on the plea of wanting water, took them up one
after another, until now it holds 32 leases in that district;
and many of these leases were formerly appraised by the
market at £IOO,OOO or so each. Apropos the many dis-
cussions of the life of the B.H. Prop, leases, just as well
to put it down here that the principal leases held by the
co. date from Sept. 3, ’BS.
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation shares, in the beginning
held almost exclusively in Europe, have been, contrary to
the general order of things, drifting so steadily out from
the t’otherside to Australia that an Australian register
has been opened. Shares sprang lately, but it was more
through this register than from any development at the
mine. The mine is big, and the plants are doing good
work, and the movements in the metal markets favor the
co. ; but things were like that when the last annual re-
port was issued and the big dividend declared. This year,
though, there will be an interim div.
* * * *
South Broken Hills have finned up considerably
since the squabbling as to who was to manage the con-
cern has been settled by the rejection of a prominent
Adelaide man, who long sat on the Board without holding
a qualification in his own right.
The reason for the strong demand lately for
South Broken Hill shares is partly attributable to
developments at the mine, and partly to an offer
having been received by the directors from a Melbourne
broker to float two of the co.’s blocks into a separate co.
The co. was offered £IO,OOO in cash and one-fourth in-
terest in paid-up shares in a proposed new co. to take
over the two leases. The directors have declined this,
and the broker now offers one-third interest in fully paid-
up shares. This would be accepted if promoter would
put £50,000 to the credit for working capital, but his idea
is only £IO,OOO. The directors are now considering a
proposal to float off four blocks (they have six leases
altogether) into a separate co. amongst present share-
holders, without asking outside assistance. These four
blocks are quite separate from the two which the co. is
now mining, and include the lease once held by the old
B.H. Block 5 00., which has a shaft and machinery on it.
* • • •
Mt. Drysdale (N.S.W.) is crushing and con-
centrating lower-grade ore. Two excuses for not sending
further consignments of high-grade ore—heavy freight
and treatment charges, and inflow of water necessitating
opening out at a deeper level. No official announcement
fiven. Wide margin between buyers and sellers—l4s.,
Bs.
• * * *
Girilambone (N.S.W.) —“The ore has gone
clean away from the east." No copper being produced
and not much prospect of any. Shares, Is. 6d. !
* •
North Nymagee, N.S.W. : “Lode in the face
broken and disordered. No perceptible change ; still
going strong underfoot.” The usual wheeze. The unseen
is always the best. Shares, 7d. forpaids ; the others can’t
be given away.
m m * *
Cobar, N.S.W., boasts that over £24,000 has
been distributed in’divs. from Oobar mines since January.
The largest amount, £14,000, from Mt. Drysdale, which is
not a Cobar mine ; it is nearly 30 miles from Cobar, and
in that distance there is plenty room for distinct gold-
fields.
• * * *
Always look for something new from White
Cliffs opal fields about this time of year. The field’s
suburbs consist of several thousand sq. miles of N.S.W.’s
most awful wilderness, dotted with the victims of a five
years’ drought; and in the absence of a decent water
supply and other accessories of civilisation, the acute
gentlemen who buy opals quit the field in a body
about the beginning of November, and stay away till
March. In those months there is no market to speak of ;
most of the sales are made to absentees’ “buttoners”—
the gentlemen who hang round the pubs, and “ do in ”
the “ cronk stuff,” which is the stuff that t-ributors get
and don’t propose to say anything about. Therefore if
anybody who isn’t desperately hard-up finds stone during
the summer he sits on it till the legitimate buyers are
about due ; and then the public hears of the “ new ” finds.
■This year’s crop has been a shade better than usual,
chiefly because through the English co.’s wholesale
“ sacking ” of hands there has been more prospecting.
Also gems have been found in formations where they were
never suspected ; but opals, like horses, run in all shapes.
* * * C
Lake George mines again reporting develop-
ments. This large but very poor-ore proprietary never has
paid and probably never will pay a penny in divs.—
except to the brokers. It has been as tricky a stringer
as Girilambone, and on a much bigger scale. The two
mines were merely Brokers’ Joys.
• • * *
Tin dredging at Stanthorpe. The new co. which
has its prospectus out probably has some good tin in its
wide area of 1000 acres, but if the judgment of some
experts be accepted, there is very little metal in a large
portion of the claims. The co. seems to be under the
guardianship of the not too successful Australian Gold
Dredging 00., of many dredges and leases on the Shoal-
haven and elsewhere.
* * * ♦
Chillagoe Railway and Mines issues the usual
colorless depressing report. No stranger, wading through
the co.’s bulletins of work on its various leases and
observing the chilly statements about “no mineralisa-
tion,” “ copper pyrites in rather less quantities,” “ con-
tinues to show impregnation of copper carbonates in
benches,” “no ore,” and so on, would ever dream that
this is the property that has a market-value of more than
a million of money and will need fully half-a-million to
fet on its smelting legs. However, the level-headed Mr.
tewart is general-manager, and that means a lot.
Some Q. results: Gympie, 2 South G. Eastern,
837 tons, 8500 z., lsdiv. ; Oriental andGlanmire, 756 tons,
6580 z , 3d. div.; Raub, 2150 tons, 20500 z., shares £5.
Oh. Towers Brilliant and St. George, 1400 tons, 13240 z,,
Is div Kellys, 1100 tons for 1010 oz„ 6d div. Band of
Hope, 6d. div. ; Brilliant, 1050 tons, 12860 z. Victonas,
210 tons, 4850 z., and Papuans, 465 for 4330 z. Both pallid.
• • * •
At the Hampden copper-mines, Cloncurry, Q.,
230 tons of 40 per cent, ore has been taken from the
cuttings, and is to go to Normanton for shipment.
• * * •
Let the directors of the Woodlark co. now
prove their faith in their own venture by putting the
paid scrip again up to 30s. Out of 50,000 shares about
one-half is held by 20 holders, who could easily hold up
the market pending 1 the arrival of that 70 tons which
is to go Boz. per ton. Mr. Johnstop, who has just returned
from the field bringing 15 tons with him, knows all about
the show, and can recommend it to his co-directors.
The following reaches The Bulletin from a
reliable man who thoroughly knows what he is talking
about“ A few lines from Woodlark Island may interest
you. This is certainly a most extraordinary formation to
bear gold. There is nothing in the Australasian group
carrying that metal like it. The gold-hearing country on
which the Koolomodan formation lies is about 2) miles
long by about 1 mile wide. I have followed it to where
the coral overlies the primary rock, east, west, north and
south. Everywhere there is the color of gold ; the tops
of the highest hills have an alluvial formation on the sur-
face in which gold can be got, but nothing payable.
Also in some of the coral creeks, with coral bottom, gold
has been found and worked. Such gold, no doubt, has
been derived from the higher alluvial and not from any
reefs or lodes now in existence. Excepting outside bound-
ariesof the ground of the Sydney and Charters Towersco.’s
the lode seems to dip, both at the north and south end.
To the south is all taken up by the aforementioned
co’s to where the formation seems to end ; I think it will
be expensive work to find anything payable northward
outside the co’s boundaries. The difficulties in the way
of developing ground here are great indeed. Native
carriers are very scarce, and their food crops, such as
taro and yams, have been a failure this season, so the
carriers have to be fed on rice and the usual fanned dog.
In travelling through the island one comes across large
creeks running through coral fissures, visible for about
half a mile, each heading out of an. enormous cave and
emptying into another —nothing being known either of
source or outlet. Also, round holes are to be met with,
about 3ft. in diam., with no bottom visible, and opening
out below to an enormous size. If any unfortunate
travelling by himself should fall into one, he would never
get out alive. These holes are most treacherous, being
covered up with vegetable matter. Concerning the pro-
perties at work, I do not think the year 1900 will see any
divs. I hear from Sydney that shares have dropped, and I
am sure that ere a crushing takes place on the ground they
will be very much lower still. For some unknown reason
the Ivanhoe has been temporarily detained here. She has
very rich ore on board, while the Victory got away with
an inferior sample. The result of the Victory's shipment
will be known before this reaches you, and if it has not
caused a slump I shall be much mistaken. There is a lot
of sickness on the Island. It rains in torrents nearly
every day, and when a man is not drenched with ram ha
is saturated with perspiration.”
* * * *
Woodlark Island: The last consignment went
under an oz. to the ton; of course it will not pay to bring
ore so far for so little. One paper asks why the publio
should be alarmed because one parcel of ore had not
realised expectation. There is every reason to be alarmed.
Is history going to repeat itself ? Many ounces to the ton
before the float and only a few dwt. afterwards. With
ore such as this surely it would be easy to at least roughly
judge its value before it was consigned; whoever was re-
sponsible for sending ore under an ounce to the ton from
Woodlark Island to N.S.W. should not be given an oppor-
tunity to repeat the mistake.
* * • •
The Sydney Sunday tipster says that Great
Boulders are now dirt cheap and should be bought as they
are bound to see £3 or £4. Also he remarks that the
Boulder has on hand a million tons of tailings which will
go an oz. per ton. Well, if the Boulder had a million tons
of tailings worth £4 a ton gross it would have a lot more
gold in its tailings heap than ever has been produced
otherwise by the mine. For a good while the Boulder
crushed with 10-head only ; now it has 60-head going. It
would take 60-head of stamps over 20 years; steady run
day and night to turn out a million tons of tailings. Yon
can’t get two or three tons of tailings from one ton of
stone.
* * * *
The London director again. Under article 86
of the rules of association of Lake View Consols Cos. the
four directors took for the year ended August 31, fees and
percentages amounting to £6300. There are now five
directors, and the accrued percentages alone for the past
five months amount to £7OOO. Monstrous Robbery 1
Unspeakable Grab ! Shameless Reach-out 1 And the
beauty of the average London director is that, so far_ as
he can manage it, not a single item of valuable information
is imparted to his Australian shareholder until the Gang
at headquarters has worked it for all it is worth.
Boulder Perseverance. This gilt-edged W.A.
stock has unexpectedly followed the down-grade course
of its lower-priced neighbors. Considering that F.
Gardiner and his ring held upwards of 100,000 of the
175,000 shares in the co. the combine would be expected
to back up their own ; but, perhaps, they are gathering
them in at the reduced figure. By the way, a story
comes from London that the pallid-faced Sitting Bull
Gardiner has not been raking in millions lately on ’Change.
* * * *
A correspondent tells The Bulletin that the
Balia Balia (near Roebourne, W.A.) copper-shows are, so
far, not a glittering success. Thirty men have been at
work for a year, and under 200 tons ore has been shipped ;
this has been got by extensive picking. The writer avers
that the formation consists of a surface deposit only—no
lode. One mine in the district, the Evelyn, 40 miles from
Balia Balia, promises well, he says, and threatens to
develop into a really good property.
* * * *
Peak Hill Goldfields, Limited, for which Gov.
Jerry Smith was consulting engineer, or something, pays
an interim div. of 2s. Co.’s share capital, £230,000; divs.
to date, £99,666.
* * * *
Princess Royal will shortly help Norseman out
of the dust and the ashes in which it has been having a
bad time lately. As the result of 12 months’ work the co.
now has a 30-head battery, a cyanide plant (1800 tons
capacity), and a mine opened up sufficiently to keep the
works moving. From April the output should be doubled.
* * * *
Venture Corporation : The last meeting of this
crowd in London showed its experience in Westralia,
where it has lost to date £420,000. The only thing
it got of any value was the Boulder Main Reef, which
since it passed to a subsidiary co. has paid £120,000 in
divs. The co. engaged the very highest-paid experts to
examine for it. Of the Golden Cement Claim, White
Feather, the boss expert said it was worth in gold
£2,774,280. The directors then employed a high-toned
London firm of engineers to condemn or confirm these
figures. The firm’s report valued the property at £2,286,291.
Since then the property has been absolutely worked out,
and the gold realised £2290 2s. 6d. No explanation has
been given as to what has become of the balance
of £2,771,990. One shareholder innocently asked the
chairman if it were not possible to get a refund
of fees from the examiners, as they were men of great
eminence in their profession ; to which he replied that
the Board would willingly give a very good commission
if it could be shown how it was to be done. The
strength of this organisation is shown by the fact that,
despite enormous losses in Westralia, it has still
£900,000 cash in hand, and is doing mining and other
business in other parts of the world. It was for this co.
that T. A. Rickard, the State Geologist of Colorado,
travelled through Westralia to see what it had got for
its money, and it wag on his advice that it dropped
all its remaining options and pulled out of the country
altogether.
• * * •
The pioneer of the Westralian public batteries,
after lying idle for some months, is now to move on.
Originally intended for the Magnet, it was passed on to
Yalgoo ; and now, Yalgoo having duffered, East Magnet is
to get it. One-third of the public batteries are now
clearly not wanted where they are. Districts applying
for batteries in these later days are asked for certified
statements of ore at grass; one of them, Siberia, has
already responded, and goes on to show a return of £6075
in the first six months, charging only 15s. per ton. Really
it is a wonder good things like this aren’t rushed.
• • • *
Westralia’s first copper-smelting furnace, at
Murrin Murrin, outside Menzies, is, along with the mine,
owned by one man, Charles Taylor. Before putting up
the works, parcels, amounting to nearly 300 tons, were
sent away ; and the returns ran up to 25 per cent. The
plant is small, of course, but fairly complete, even to
electric-light for nightshift. The show was originally
taken for gold ; the ore so far has been quarried, but
shaft-sinking will be necessary.
• * * *
The expectation (first ventilated in these
columns some months ago) that the South German Reef,
Maldon, would strike a floor at 1700ft. level, has been
realised. They have now sunk about 20ft. through blue-
stone, and, by all appearances, the shaft will go right
through to the bottom of the 1750ft. level in the same
country. Local shareholders are now getting anxious as
to when the reef is likely to make again and where, as
where it broke off it was close to the boundary of the
adjoining property. They have had to draw on their
reserve to pay part of the late divs.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
(Continued on page 19).


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERGERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
m T IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a«nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
SOCIETY
Already the old official families of N.S.W.
are reaching out for the fat billets under Federa-
tion, to which they consider they have a pre-
emptive title. Now, the cause of Australian
unity had no more strenuous or dangerous enemies
than the old official families. Almost to a man
and woman, they intrigued and plotted against
the aspirations of the people ; and now they are
intriguing and plotting to “ officer ” the people in
the important Federal departments. Will the
people let them ?
* » • •
The plague-scare has many advantages
over the war-fever. Kipling hasn’t made any
poem about it. It doesn’t move any great crowd
of idiots to sing patriotic songs every 51,- minutes.
It leads to cleanliness whereas the other only led
to dirt and neglect—women used to abandon the
usual Saturday cleaning-up to go and see con-
tingents depart. And the man who has the plague
doesn’t give himself the appalling airs of the man
with the other plague, nor does he insist on
wearing a sword and a busby and a pair of big gilt
spurs while his disease is on him. In its own
small way the bubonic affair has a lot to re-
commend it. And yet among all the thousands
who cheered for the war there isn’t one to give the
plague a well-deserved whoop-up.
* • * •
Some months ago N.S.W. Govt. Bacterio-
logist asked the Minister in authority for a loca-
tion in which to cultivate bubonic serum for
prophylactic purposes. The Minister refused, on
the ground that it would introduce bubonic germs
into the country. Then another Minister came
into power ; same request, same answer. Bubonic
plague is here now, rapping at the door of all
sorts and conditions of people. The health-office
has run out of serum, and three to four weeks is
the time allotted after cabling to get a supply
from India. To put it mildly, the undue caution
of Australia in this matter is hardly to be de-
scribed as an evidence of over-civilisation.
* * * *
S.A. seems to have had only three cases
of bubonic plague so far, and each was discovered
at Adelaide Hospital. The latest is enveloped in
the same mystery as its predecessors, for what
was certified by an outside doctor as typhoid was
declared by the Hospital staff to be plague.
Moreover, the body was buried without any other
than the Hospital doctors being consulted. The
general public have a fixed idea that S. A.’s plague-
cases originated at the Hospital, and the resident
staff have done nothing to allay suspicion. The
only medical man absolutely “in the know ” is
Coroner Ramsay-Smith, formerly senior physician
at the institution, and Premier Holder has persist-
ently prevented independent inquiry.
• * * * •
Uncleanly Sydney has a new trouble. The
fish in some parts of the harbor are dying, and the
water-police are employed in catching their
decaying remains in nets when floating on the
water or gathering them when cast on the beaches.
So bad is the smell that some of the waterside
ANOTHER FISH-YARN.
[?]SWEENEY (loq.) : “ Clancey tould me he always
smoked his fish. Dom me if I don’t thry a bit
av this wan while I t'ink av it.”
■■uburbs are almost uninhabitable; but the
hentific authorities are contemptuously indiffer-
ent to the nuisance, and possible danger.
The Fisheries Commission, having caught a few
dead fish, sent them to the Museum. The Museum
could not find anything wrong with them but
thought it might be the dirty water. Some more
were sent to the Board of Health which was too
busy with rats to attend to them. Therefore the
uninstructed outsider can exercise his wits on the
question, and he does. One hypothesis is that
there is an annual fish-epidemic in Port Jackson
every March, another that the fish are dying of
disinfectants and rat-poison, a third that the soap-
suds from the Autumn house-cleaning are to blame.
To make matters worse, fish—at any rate pi-awns
—from the harbor bays were allowed to be sold for
food at the Corporation Fish Market. Among
them were prawns from Johnstone’s Bay, and
Johnstone’s Bay is apparently one of the most
virulently affected plague areas. But it is re-
assuring to note that, in the opinion of inspectors
from the Fisheries Dept, and the Town Hall,
they were good and healthy, and quite fit for food.
Of course all the inspectors know about the matter
is that the prawns look fresh and don’t stink.
* • » •
So fearful of the plague have Sydneyites
become, and so great is the scare caused by the
recent epidemic among the fish in Port Jackson,
that the leading city fishmonger, Chinnery, ad-
vertises that he sells no fish caught in the harbor.
The plague-scare has given the fish-trade a severe
knock ; and yet another blow has been adminis-
tered by Card. Moran’s notification that the faith-
ful may eat meat during Lent. Imagine the
pleasure given by this announcement to a heretic
who had expressly imported from Yankeeland
£2OOO worth of salmon-in-brine for the use of the
faithful during the aforesaid sacred season !
* * • •
Bowes’ Tattersall’s Club in Melbourne has
removed its headquarters to the premises origin-
ally occupied by the Young Men’s Christian
Association, and subsequently let (by the mort-
agee) to the League of Yic. Wheelmen.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
In quarantining Sussex and Erskine-streets, Sydney,
the intentions of the Government are doubtless strictly
honorable, hut its logic is deplorable. The Balmain,
Leichhardt and Annandale ferry boats were sent round to
Circular Quay; but the Lane Cove folks were evidently con-
sidered immune, though their steamboats occupy one
side of wharf, the other side of which, separated by a
paling fence only, is ranked as “ infected.” On Saturday
morning the L.C. passengers, on arrival at Sydney, were
treated to a series of cheering sights, such as* many
“ bubonic” rats and a long-deceased dog floating opposite
the wharf; a short distance away a couple of “ Dagoes ”
were busily netting prawns. On 'landing the passengers
were confronted by a bobby and a fair imitation
of a dog-leg fence, which prevented entrance into
Erskine-street, the consequence being that everyone
had to pass through a fruit-shop and out of a large win-
dow about Bft. above the lane, by means of a shaky ladder.
This was one of the few occasions where the fat "man did
not come out on top, but the male lean kine who got
down first were treated to a display of ankle and hose the
like of which has not been seen in Lane Cove district
for quite a long while. The dangerous passage through
50ft.-wide Erskine-street was avoided by the simple
(Govt.) expedient of sending some 500 people through a
2ft. right-of-way between the fences of the unspeakable
back-yards of Sussex-street, into which thoroughfare the
right-of-way opened not far from where one of the latest
fatal cases occurred.
♦ * » *
The amazingly up-to-date N.S. W. Minister
O’Sullivan wants to go back to the devices of the
Great Plague of London days (240 years ago) and
burn barrels of tar in the streets to purify the
atmosphere. He says the germs could all be des-
troyed by burning £3OO worth of tar. Why
doesn’t he go a little further back and propose
putting up burnt offerings to Baal? Since
Charles ll.’s day chemists have found out how to
extract and intensify the disinfectant principles of
tar and many other substances ; and you can buy
them in bottles, and after enormously diluting
them, pour the contents over suspected places.
Since the marvellous discoveries made in con-
nection with coal-tar and the myriad pre-
parations thereof you can carry more effective
disinfectant in a little waistcoat-pocket phial than
could be put into a 400-gallon tank in the days of
which Mr. O’Sullivan has been reading in the
Parliamentary library. Going back to the stench
of the primitive burning tar-barrel is abolishing
the railway and taking to the bullock-dray. The
next thing will be a naked O’Sullivan with a
burning cresset doing the part of Solomon Eagle
along Sussex-street. Solomon Eagle was another
great disinfectant of the old days.
As the writer meandered down to the
office the other day to earn his daily beer he
observed a shambling phalanx of boys and men
lurching up Bridge St. Sydney, and wondered
what it could mean. When he went out for his
10 o’clock refresher he observed more squadrons
going the same way. At his 11 o’clock ‘ ‘ Tooth’s
draught” they were still going, and when he went
forth at noon for some tanglefoot they were hurry-
ing past thicker than ever. At 1 o’clock when he
stepped up the street for something to drink the
drove was still going strong. Then he asked a
small man with an umbrella who had just fallen
over a dog what it meant, and learned that the
crowd was rushing to be inoculated against the
bubonic rat. A panic had set in, and the people
from the infected area were hurrying to take ad-
vantage of the safeguard, whatever it might be
worth. Up at the Board of Health the crush was
dreadful and the crowd struggled and fought to
get in. When they got in the inoculation
went on merrily. The surgeon approached with a
hypodermic syringe charged with serum, and
drove it about an inch under the skin before in-
jecting the serum. The skin rose up like a little
bulb, and the surgeon kept his finger over it till
the blood had carried the injected fluid away into
the recesses of the system. As the needle was
driven in the men shouted and swore, and when
they got loose they charged out like mad bulls, and
requested that lurid things might happen to them
if ever they were caught m that place again. The
women bore the incision with a martyr-like ex-
pression. They didn’t scream. When it was
over they drifted outside wearily, and hung about
on one another’s necks, and wept softly, and stood
under the fig-trees showing each other their arms
and wondering if they were going to die. Alto-
gether, inoculation is not a cheerful experience,
but, judging by all accounts, it is a lot better than
the plague.
* * » *
Amongst a consignment of goods shipped
to South Africa from Ballarat—labelled “ Com-
forts for our Soldiers ” —were lldoz. handkerchiefs,
100 lead-pencils, 1 box of chocolate, and ldoz.
walking-sticks. It doesn’t say whether latter have
hooked handles or are just plain gold-topped. It
is proposed, amongst next batch of “ comforts,” to
include 1 gross bell-toppers, lOdoz. sleeve-links,
half-a-gross dancing pumps, and a dinner-gong.
* * * »
Daily paper platitude (any daily paper,
nearly any day) : “The training which our men
will have in South Africa will be invaluable.”
From the letter home of a Bourke trooper: “This
game is like bushranging. . . . It’s all right —not
too slow at all.” And yet when we had several
experienced men in the same line of business in
Australia we spent quite a lot to get rid of them.
* * * *
A clerical gentleman who recently vanished
from Australian ken is credited with the latest
idea in divorce dodges. While playing some ex-
traordinary capers with the heads of local religious
bodies, he engaged himself to marry a local girl.
And the wife in London ? To her was sent a long
and detailed account of an imaginary divorce alleged
to have been granted in camera by a local Judge
—and the letter closed with the intimation that
both parties were now free to marry. The cleric’s
wife must have smelt rats and things, for she
queried the Judge to know if the account was cor-
rect ; and of course His Honor handed the letter
to the police, “ who are making enquiries.”
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
S IDO: “ There goes Kangaroo Kate and Liz
O’Connor foxing that Transvaal bloke about.
What, has she slung you, Pippo?”
PIPPO : “ Yars; she called me a chump, and told
me to go and fight for me Queen and country.
I says ’aren’t I been doin’ that for the larst
seven years—stoushing them Chows.”
THE STOCKYARD RUINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By the stockyard old and falling
Golden butter-cups are smiling,
And the bell-bird sounds a prelude
To a chorus of delight—
Such a twit t’ring and a calling
In a harmony beguiling —
As the Spring displays her splendours
To intoxicate my sight.
By the stockyard old and falling
Is my Love, alone, reclining,
As the heavens blend their colors
In the mirrors of her eyes ;
And my name her lips are calling,
To my love she is inclining —
Now, will some one kindly teil me,
Is this Earth or Paradise ?
Narranghi Boori.
The building where, in brighter days,
Young saints who walk in godly ways
Were won’t to meet for prayer and praise
And healthy conversation,
Became the haunt of biking boys
Who smoked and spat and made a noise,
Nor ever sought to know the joys
Pertaining to salvation.
’Twas bad, but Fate was more unkind.
For, nowadays, what do we find !
The place where simple souls designed
Kerristian deeds —O Crikey !
Is peopled now by men of sin
Who talk about the lamb they skin,
And jugginses who hope to win
Mere earthly crowns from Ikey.


m
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
AND AT
81 Queen Street, Brisbane.
LADIES’ GOLD WATCHES, Crystal Face,
and Hunters, £8 10s. to £3O.
£lO 10s. WATCH SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED.
WRISTLET WATCHES, in Silver and Gun Metal Cases,
Lever movements, sound and suitable for rough wear.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue of
Jewellery, Sterling Silver & Electro-plate.
I
/
M
With PIGSKIN WRISTLET, Complete, £2 15s. to £5 ss.
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
n
PONDY’S
u Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitatio s
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID.”
The foil owing name & add' ess
should be at‘foot of label:
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Goswell Rd., London, Eli
It Beats
.. a..
Hot Brick
for Sleeplessness from Cold Feet, a kink
in the Back or Neck, a Tight Cough and
Silenced Cough grappling with the
Throat and Bronchial Tubes, and reach-
ing for the Lungs, can be shaken out by
| Dr. GREGORY’S COUCH MIXTURE,
'it makes and keeps the Voice and Lungs
Strong- and Safe. 1/6; per Post, 2/6.
R. Raf Fan, Pharmacist,
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—'White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTGASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
War item. At Flin-
ders-street station, Mel-
bourne. Porter: “The
Chief wants a list of the
aliens at our station. Wot’s an alien, Bill?”
Guard: “Oh, that’s what they have on your
furniture ! ”
* * * *
After all, there was one outburst of true
Hibernian feeling on St. Patrick’s Day at Melb.
Exhibition. How it evolved is unknown but it
had a powerful atmosphere of whisky. The
shrieks of a man from Galway attracted a rush,
and the malcontent was seen in the middle of a
ring, bouncing hysterically, yelling in wild Irish,
and threatening death to a conciliatory constable.
Authorities broke through, clutched the disaffected
gentleman, and soothed him with soft answers
and smcial pleading. Sure, they were all friends
and they were Britons all, and they were out for
pleasant, peaceful, and brotherly “enjymint.”
Was it Hooligan that “ ud dishturb and schkatter
the swate flowers of amity,” and mangle the
beatitudes “when the Quane, Godblesser, had
mide them all aquail wid puttin’ the shamrocks in
the soldiers’ coats?” At this the offender gave
the agonised cry of a man who sees all his ideals
shattered at a blow. “Glorybe!” he yelled;
“has the time come whin a dacent mahn can’t
aven bate a polaceman ? ”
A little Sydney girl draws a military pic-
ture for The Bulletin :
Travelling recently into Sydney I became suddenly
aware of a gorgeous vision entering the tram. , It was an
apparently millingtary person attired in a gorgeous coat
of glowing scarlet extensively emblazoned with tin-foil
and silver braid, provided with tremendous silver buttons,
and further adorned with curious black braid trappings
suspended from the neck. Over the left shoulder hung
an equally gorgeous red-silk pleated sash, and on the
great creature’s head, notwithstanding the heat of the
day, was ludicrously perched an absurd little busby,
ornamented with a stiff shaving-brush affair and some
more black trapping, and with- -passing round the wearer’s
fp.ee—a heavy silver chain, which after consideration I
decided was intended to keep his jawbone in position and
possibly to help his “mo.” to maintain that fiercely-
horizontal twist which, with his bold, black eyes, gave
him such a footlight ferocity of aspect. In his hand the
haughty one carried an immense sword and seemed to be
well aware that he was just too immense for anything,
for no sooner had he seated himself than he betook him
to the window as a looking-glass and anxiously surveyed
his ensemble to make sure that all his finery was right.
Satisfied on this score, he glanced proudly round the car
until he espied in a corner a very small piece of femininity
indulging in a very large smile, evidently at his expense.
Then over his martial countenance stole a look of haughty
dignity. He gave that insignificant atom one withering
glance which said plainly enough—“ May the Lord forgive
you, for I never can ! ” And with the twentieth (I
counted them) look in the glass and a final re-arrange-
ment of his plumage, he stood up and strode forth upon
his lofty way.
* * » *
Perhaps when Vic. Premier M‘Lean has
quite finished eating dirt over the Davey case he
will give the world his candid opinion of himself
as a strictly moral military administrator. The
wonder is that Davey has been content with so
little, considering his opportunities. Perhaps
before they have time to ship him off to S’africa he
will change his mind and demand to be made a
captain, or colonel, or something as a salve to his
wounded honor. If he does, it will be hard to see
how M‘Lean can refuse.
* * * *
A Melb. pickpocket, caught with his hands
in the folds of a woman’s dress in the St. Patrick’s
Day crowd, scorned the usual plea about being
hard-up or “ first attempt ” or mistaken identity
or anything of that sort. His sole complaint was
embodied in the disgusted observation that he had
explored 20 pockets that day and hadn’t got a 3d.
bit out of the lot. And he went to gaol swearing
violently.
Freeman, the
latest escapee
from Parramatta
(N. S. W.) gaol,
took his unobtru-
sive departure in
a way that has
made the au-
thorities boil with
indignation. Ru-
mour, at all
events, has it
that he shifted
one or two bars
of his cell win-
dow in a leisurely
way, replacing
them with bogus
timber supports,
so that he had
everything ready
to step out when
the psychological
moment arrived.
Then one night
he left his prison
clothes behind
him, departed in
his natural and
unadorned state,
and vanished.
Presumably a
friend was wait-
ing outside with
clothes for the
bare departer,
and a horse which
disappeared from
the neighborhood
and was found
wandering in
Sydney next day
apparently had
something to do
with the matter
This is the sort
of departure that
makes a gaol look
ridiculous, and
the gaol that be-
comes ridiculous
is lost. When
the premises cease to retain the unwilling respect
of the inmates it is time to turn them into a.
cheese-factory.
• * • *
Two Melbourne youths, who had a
“derry” on their boarding-house, recently paid
off old scores upon leaving. They occupied the
front balcony room, and when the landlady made
inspection after they left, she found everythin g
apparently in order. While she was in the kit-
chen not long after, however, she heard a stranr e
noise in the street, and then a large piece of rork
came crashing through the hall-fanlight. Next
minute her husband burst into the hall, pursued
by several infuriated persons, who commenced
to smash up every article within reach, wHle
outside a mob brandished their fists ar.d
threatened to pull the house down. The explana-
tion was that before leaving the late lodgers had
hung along the balcony a calico sign—“ Local
office of the Pro-Boer Fund. Subscriptions re-
ceived within in aid of the poor Boers.” Beneath
this were two stuffed figures labelled “ Oom Paul 5 *
and “Chamberlain,” respectively, the former
dashing a huge fist into Chamberlain’s eye. The
whole concern was promptly pitched into the
street, and the crowd compromised by dancing
the stuffing out of the Kruger effigy.
* * * •
Scene — A Queensland town famous for
heat and lurid iniquity. A mob of 300 people pass
up the main street, howling wildly about “ Fight-
ing for Freedom” and “them blanky Boers.”
Mob stops before shop of a tradesman of opposite
opinions, collects road metal, smashes in some
£4o’s worth of glass and departs singing “Sons of
the Sea ” and “ Soldiers of the Queen.”
* * * *
An interesting recent case in Melb. In-
solvency Court was that of a high-toned clerk, who
owed, among other things, £25 to a servant-girl
for wages. Judge Molesworth remarked that in-
solvent had not denied himself wines, spirits or
beer what time the weary handmaiden was
whistling for her money, neither was he so stone-
broke but that he could employ a barrister and a
solicitor (on cash-terms) to put him through the
Court. The Judge, strange to say, seemed to
regard the domestic servant as a more deserving
object than the alligator and crocodile. However,
there were two excuses for the defaulter. In the
first place, he bears the Christian name of Cecil,
a lofty appellation that naturally tends to make a
man live above his means. Also, it transpired
that the debts which Cecil has accumulated since
1896 are partly due to his wife having been ill for
the last seven weeks. In a less degree they result,
probably, from an, attack of measles when Cecil
was cutting his teeth.
* * * *
There’s a general growl among Melb.
lawyers at the stagnation in the courts. Practic-
ally all the cases which gave promise of decent
spoils at the beginning of the year have petered
out, and the frost is so heavy that no County
Court case has yet been taken before a jury this
term.
* * * *
Things are still not what they used to be
with the Barrier labor unions. Of 15 men killed
in the Broken Hill mines last year, only one
belonged to the Miners’ Association.
* * * *
About two months ago a Yatala (S. A.)
Labor Prison convict threw down his tools and
quietly absconded in broad daylight. He has
been at large ever since, and the police have the
mortification of receiving a note from him every
few days giving information of his last address,
and occasionally he breaks into warehouses right
under the eyes of the law. Police-chief Madley
is now in fear lest he should carry out his latest
proposal to stay at the chief’s private house from
a Saturday to Monday “whenever convenient.”
It was this escapee who headed a gang which
baffled the Melbourne police for over four years.
* ♦ * *
In the Hutchison libel-action v. Singleton
Aegus, Mr. Reid, Q.C., wanted Police Magistrate
Macfarlane to repeat certain evidence given before
him in the police-court. Chief Justice Darley
ruled that no Judge or P.M. should be asked to
say what occurs in a court over which he presides,
and instanced his own refusal to repeat such evi-
dence before a Royal Commission. No statute
exists conferring this immunity on Judges and
magistrates, nor does there exist any general
agreement among Judges that such an immunity
should be conferred. The Chief Justice pleads
public policy in support. But public policy does
not appear to exert itself much in the matter.
Besides, in hundreds of N.S.W. cases magistrates
have reported the proceedings of their courts
before higher tribunals, and neither public policy
nor the presiding Judges showed shock.
Again has the farce of sentencing a woman
to death for killing another by an “ illegal opera-
tion ” of the usual sort been gone through at
Melbourne. Everyone perfectly well knows that
the prisoner will not be hanged ; all the same the
public is bombarded with accounts of the “ piti-
able scene in court,” the “ agony and confusion,”
the “piteous cries of several females,” “the
shrieks and moans and bitter sobs ” —how the
prisoner “drew a deep breath and fell fainting
into the dock seat,” &c. It helps the sale of the
evening papers.
• * « •
Writes “ Veteran ” :
A cottage in a Sydney suburb, containing two small
rooms and a kitchen, is occupied by a woman with eight
children of her own, for whose support she gets a regular
weekly allowance from the State Children’s Protection
Board ; one foster child, for whom she is paid by its
mother ; and two adult lodgers—three adults and nine
children ! One of the Board’s inspectors regularly visits
the place. Interesting' to know whether its overcrowded
state is known to the Board, and what they think of it.
An attempt was made at Vic. A.N.A.
conference to induce the Association to set its
face against “ the pernicious practice of indis-
criminate shouting.” But the movement found
no favor; probably it was taken for an insidious
attempt to suppress A.N.A. orators.
• * * *
The managers of the Melbourne Eight-
Hour Day and the Druids’ galas are working the
INTO VACANCY.
“ I say, old man, have I offended you? I said good evening to you at
dinner, and you looked me straight in the face and took no notice .”
“ Offended! No, deah boy, I must have been staring into vacancy !”
“ art union ” ticket again this year, but now that
the A.N.A. has found sufficient self-respect to
abjure its discreditable catch-shilling device, the
Government that objects to Tatt.’s sweeps will
probably veto art-unions.
• » * •
From time to time the yachting Brassey
cables Melbourne announcing that he has just
arrived at somewhere en route to dear old Eng-
land. Nobody cares twopence—-anyhow, they
don’t care the price of a cable message—for new;
of rubicund TJncle Tom’s whereabouts, so it is
supposed that this unnatural expenditure of
pounds must be a solemn duty. Lord 8., if The
Bulletin remembers rightly, has not yet ceased
to represent Victoria as regards the gubernatorial
salary. He is at present retiring from the billet
on six months’ leave of absence and he commands
two-fifths of the “screw,” leaving the other three-
fifths for Lieut. Gov. Madden. Therefore he
notifies Victoria of the fact that he is still alive
and quite strong enough to draw his share. By
the way, the residue of the awful wines, spirits
and cigars with which Brassey used to mortify his
Guv’ment House guests was sold by a Melb.
auctioneer the other day.
* • * *
A petition for the reprieve of Jones, con-
victed of the cruel Broadford child murder, was
presented to “ Acting ”-Gov. Madden but a few
days before the day appointed for execution, when
it naturally received comparatively little attention.
Jones was one of the sufferers by the war. The
public are too busy and too bloodthirsty at
present to bother about the fate of any retail
murderer, and when nearly everybody has some
reputable acquaintance or relation killed or
wounded in South Africa, the life of a man
supposed to be guilty of a particularly
fiendish crime can excite no sympathy. Archer
was convicted on evidence ten times as strong as
that alleged against Jones, vet half Melbourne
was roaring out that an innocent man was being
sent to the gallows before the criminal confessed
his guilt to Rev. Elliott. And really there is a
reasonable doubt in the case of Jones.
* * « *
The disgraced matriculant of Maoriland
University (he surreptitiously obtained exam,
papers before date of sitting and passed, of course,
with ease) is said to differ from several of the
matriculated in Melbourne and Sydney only in
being found out. Printed University examination
papers easily lend themselves to the designs of the
artful. The same remark applies to examinations
of schoolmasters under Education Boards, and the
cure or partial cure long ago commended is to lay
more stress on the oral than on the written section
of the test questions.
* * • *
Von Kotze in reply :
“ Constance Clyde,” on the subject of sweated
females, argues as if the continuation or otherwise
of prostitution depended on the economical status
of woman. Nothing of the kind. If every, female
on the planet were to receive a minimum wage of .£5 a
day, a lot of the misery surrounding the life of the
“hunted huntress” would disappear, but she herself
would flourish just as übiquitously as ever, or nearly so.
It takes a female writer to continually introduce the
great fallen woman topic into her copy, even if said copy
should treat on the differential calculus or Polar explora-
tion. Sort of morbid King Charles’s head, I suppose.
“Snell”: We
were biking, way out
of Melbourne, the ar-
tist and I. The day
was warm, but the
way was pleasant,
and the going good.
Suddenly, on the
road-side near the ti-
tree, we came upon
a squalid woman of
about 40, hair-tangled
and bleary, lying
drunk amongst the
flies, sleeping like a
preserved Ph a r oah.
Empty bottles were
scattered about her.
A little further on we
passed a man lying
a; limp as if he had
fallen from a balloon,
sleeping between de-
puted bottles. Less
than a quarter of a-
mile beyond were
three people, tw o
women and a man.
T le women sprawled
o i the grass amongst
the usual bottles, dead
to the world, but the
man sat, with a de-
plorably poisoned ap-
pearance, handling an
exhausted beer bottle,
and muttering
strangely. When we
came in line, his
harrid red eye dis-
covered us, a wild
hope lit up his dirty,
be-devilled face, and
he pointed an impera-
tive finger, and emit-
ted a short, sharp
bark: “Gimme six-
pence !” We rode on.
He arose, and ran
after us, hatless, his
long, unkempt hair
flowing out behind.
We increased our
soeed. Three miles
further on from a
1 ill-top we looked
back, and could see
the poor dipsomaniac,
bottle in hand, still
running.
The Bathurst Gaol prisoner who broke
from the ranks while at drill the other day and
seriously injured warder Tuckett helps to maintain
the reputation of a penal establishment notorious
for such outbreaks. For years at Bathurst revolts
of prisoners followed one another at short intervals.
Seventy years ago Bathurst was the scene of what
may be called a convict rebellion. About eighty
men defied the authorities and for days the issue
was doubtful. One man and five horses were'
killed. But as the prisoners of Bathurst seem to
be more than ordinarily ferocious so their gaolers
appear above the average in the savagery of their
measures of repression. The revolt alluded to
ended in the hanging of ten of the convicts.
Bathurst’s old gallows was kept in full work. The
new one has not been worked so hard, but has
turned off some gruesome cases.
THEN AND NOW
[For the Bulletin.]
SPREAD my Bible closely +l\^r\
3 t\° argo/r\eGl codd sl\ake
f” (^i\<d k/\€w % /i\oß\er of all n\e/v
i temped b/ ar\ evil SA&kt.
) | read lk fc wo/i\af\ do/ely r\pw,
n\o;r assuredly believe
ir\ Il\fe cjarderv f\eaH\ H\e bouc^h
v serJ>en)- Wd J seduced by Eve.
D


[Forecast for at) Indefinite Period.
Frofi) MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
BCisiQe&S “Fine ai)d Clear” generally, tboCigb
“Storipy” at certain tildes of tbe year.
Tbc present indication points to disttirbance
“ACit6fi)i) FaSbionS.”
fggTURE
m
m
£
CO£s
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GLOB 6 TEAS have
Atcherley & Dawson Dimited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, March 27, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
Prince Alfred. Park, the Exhibition Building.
By one’s watch it is 10 o’clock. All the doors are
surrounded. Impossible for a woman to get near.
The papers, said we would be let in at 10. But the
doors remain barred.
Near me stands an old woman, white and weak,
cleaner of a bank near the infected area. She has
come to protect her life. All day yesterday she
stood in the crowd, thousands of men and boys
around her. This morning she was here at seven.
She waits quite patiently. In her dim old eyes
is the fixed determination to save her life—of 80
years!
Past 10 now. The men are increasing by hun-
dreds. How am I going to get through that
heaving, hysteric, greasy, grimy mass, flattened
up against the doors, flowing back over the foot-
paths, away towards the gates ?
A policeman solves the problem. Why do the
heathen rage against policemen ? I think it must
be because the heathen doesn’t call them “ Con-
stable.” Anyway, I’m inside. The odour of old
hats and daily occupation gives way to the disin-
fectant that sweeps from end to end of the Exhi-
bition Building. The place is nearly empty. But
at the far end is a door, and round that door is a
little crowd. And tnrough that door are the
serum, the doctor, the assistant, the whole gamut,
from plague to life.
“Bare your left arm,” a man cries in a loud
voice.
lam through the guarded door now. They are
getting ready rapidly. The doctor, all in white,
is thanking some young medical students for the
help they gave him yesterday. On a long stool
assistants are spreading Government towels, and
down on the towels they dump little piles of
sticking-plaster, bowls of disinfectant, clumps of
wadding, and little jelly-glasses full of a dull
yellowy-brown liquid, with a faint white froth on
the top—the precious stuff itself.
Behind the form, up against the wall, stand
bottles and bottles of serum, white-colored and
innocent-looking as a gargle. “Let in fifty
women,” says Dr. Armstrong.
“ Bare your left arm,” cries the man at the door,
and one by one the women file through. Women
of all ages, all sizes, all occupations, down to little
things of six.
And now comes the problem. How to bare the
arm! Some of the “factories” make no bones
about it—ah, unfortunate figure of speech ! They
come straight out of the whole bodice, and stand
levealed in all their thinness and their hard cotton
under-bodices or broken corsets. Some of them
struggle desperately to put up a shrunk-tight
washing sleeve, that sticks at the elbow, and
won’t go any further. Halfway between the
elbow and the shoulder it must go. So off with
the frock, and more revealing. Little girls slip
off their dresses made in one, and move about in
their petticoats.
And one—there is always one bolder, wiser,
more dauntless than all the rest. One comes in
with a slap-dash air, says “ ’Ere, do so,” and holds
out her left arm clad in black cashmere, but with
a long, calm, deliberate tear from the shoulder to
the elbow.
I looked to see if she had a cape—but no ! She
pinned the tear loosely together afterwards, and
went out as dauntless as she had come in.
A fit of panic seizes a little group to the
left. “Oh, Mary Ann, I ain’t game!” “Oh,
mummy, mummy, take me ’ome ! ” They burst
into tears. They fall into each other’s arms, and
lean against the walls. But in the end they are
all “done.” They are all so thin, so suggestive of
their hard lives, that one’s heart aches to think of
these poor attenuated arms being exposed even to
the kind pin-prick of the serum-needle.
But the arms are bare, the assistants are ready,
the doctors wait. A dab on the arm with a piece
of wadding soaked in disinfectant—that is the
preliminary step. Sometimes the wadding goes
Sale cream to the arm, and comes back deeply,
arkly, unbeautifully brown. “I do hope I have
a clean piece of wadding.”
The medical student in the white suit smiled,
and said it was only with the men that a piece of
wadding ever did duty twice. Of course the
wadding is disinfected, but then — They screw
up their mouths, they screw up their eyes, they
back a little. An assistant urges them on. The
doctor takes hold of the arm. They turn their
heads away, and a look of mortal anguish comes
over their faces. But before it can settle there,
before a real living look of pain can seize upon the
face, the asssistant dabs a bit of sticking-plaster,
the doctor drops the arm, the deed is done. And
then—oh brave, oh happy, and proud, and com-
placent factory—you are inoculated, you bear on
your left the blister of a blameless, plague-less life,
and between you and the other factories is a great
gulf fixed.
The girls who are “done” are immediately
rushed. They are implored to describe their feel-
ings. They show that blister proudly.
“ ’Urt 1 ” The voice that was full of tears a
minute ago is full of scorn. But they carry the
left arm stiffly away from them, and they go out
into the street, gazing, gazing down on that sacred
sleeve, and in the tram a twinge begins to make
itself vaguely felt.
One hour and the twinge has decided to become
a pain. It creeps down the arm, slowly, dully.
But somehow, although it is pain, there’s an in-
terestingness about it that prevents you from
moaning. Also it has a far-off feeling, as though
it were in your arm, and jet not in your arm. Or
as if underneath the cocaine, a bad toothache was
smothered, but not put out.
Ah, but wait! one hour, two hours, three, four,
five hours go by gaily. Even six, perhaps. But
after six, the deluge. The head begins to ache, a
fevered, irritable feeling gets strong hold of jou.
And the arm, —at bedtime you cannot raise it to
your hairpins. For a day and a night you feel as
if you were at the tag end of an illness without
ever having been ill.
More than anything else, Mr. Valentine
Heaton’s death has driven the plague scare among
the moneyed classes. Until then, rich people
were not mortal. Only poor men could get
plague. But suddenly the Black Death seizes a
moneyed young man who lived at Randwick in
the heart of moneyed people—Mr. Heaton, of
Heaton Brothers, big produce merchants, one of
the guests at a big society wedding last week— a
cousin of the bride, in fact—among hundreds of
other society people.
Rich people are now making for the Mountains
in great numbers, for Plague germs are said not to
flourish at over 3000 ft. Katoomba particularly is
being wildly rushed, especially with families. In
fact, there’s no joy in staying even in the best
hotels up there just now. The gardens, halls, and
balconies swarm with perambulators and nurse-
maids, and a “ quiet week in the Mountains ” has
a very sardonic sound about it.
I notice, by the way, that children seem to get
over Plague. These three flea-bitten little Dovey
children who lived on the dirt-tip at Moore Park,
and the young boy, Strafford, are all convalescing.
News has come of the death of our Go-
vernor’s brother, the Hon. Edward Lygon.
For the third time in succession Govern-
ment House is in mourning. The Duffs, the
Hampdens, and now Lord Beauchamp ended their
vice-regal regimes sorrowfully, shadowed by
death.
The Hon. Ernest was twenty-seven years old,
and had been six years in the army. He
was shot through the heart, near Bloemfon-
tein, while riding about carelessly with three
other officers, who were all wounded. Every-
one feels deeply sorry for Lord Beauchamp,
who seemed to have some premonition of coming
grief, and has been worrying himself a good deal
over the question of how to tone down amuse-
ments for the coming winter, expressing himself
as loath to start festivities when any moment
might bring bad news from the Transvaal.
Sydney heard of the Governor’s bereavement on
Sunday, at the opening of the Home for the Aged
Poor at Randwick. These new buildings, by the
way, are a boon. But why so inexpressibly un-
beautiful? Why are homes for old people always
made ugly ? Or as plain as possible ? Charitable
people still cling to the old fiction that plainness
is next to godliness. It is just about time to give
up that fiction now, when the aesthetic is as cheap
as the hideous.
In “Peg Woffington,” on Saturday night, we
saw Nance O’Neil in comedy for the first time.
Her tragedy woman, by the way, is distinctly one
of the new-woman kind, bursting into tears, then
breaking into a high, gay laugh. The old-woman
always kept a good space between her crying and
her laughing. It was a physical—and moral—
impossibility for her to laugh within five minutes
after tears, and besides—a woman with a pink
nose and red eyes roulading—they knew better,
those wise old women. No, when they wept they
did it into their handkerchiefs, seriously, and to
the point, taking a good half-hour over it, or even,
if the game was big enough, a whole day, with the
shutters drawn and a smell of scent and exhaustion
in the air.
To return to Peg, the frocking is nowhere para-
lysing. “The Woffington” herself only wears
two frocks. She lets slip her third chance—Mrs.
Bernard Beere used to take it, and come into
Triplet’s house in something radiantly elaborate—
and merely put on her third frock again for the third
act. In fact, there is only one dress to remember
affectionately in the whole play—Nance O’Neil’s
yellow symphony in the second act. This looks
like the softest primrose brocade polonaise and
panniers, over clinging dead-white gauze and
yellow lace. An immense yellow rose in Nance’s
yellow hair is audacious, but fetching. The dress
is less exaggerated at the back and side than the
first-act frock, a flowered chine, ever so bunched
and puffed and horse-haired at the back. In this
dress you can see that Miss O’Neil has some secret
theory about turning her back, for she turns it
just as much as ever, indifferent to the fact that
she is turning on the audience a fashion-freak
that is very near a monstrosity.
For the first time I liked Clay Clements. His
sardonic grin is justified as Sir Charles Pomander,
whereas it was a blot on the face of the good
pastor in “ Magda,” who would have died young
if the play hadn’t wanted him. He wears some
gorgeous suits and a black wig, and throws side-
lights on his American reputation of being a
favorite with women. Mr. Canfield has given up
looking like Dante Gabriel Rossetti—l always cut
Rossetti’s portrait out of his poems because I like
the poems—and emerges as something green-
looking, with a lot of butter on his Yankee
accent. Triplet has no clothes, of course, nor
Mrs. Triplet, but the two smart little Triplets—
where did one of them get that bran new red-
brown suit from ? Mrs. Braey’s frocks are
flowered and a little chaotic-looking from the
circle. Miss Edith Berry puts a red head round
the door once, and says two words out of some
green and brown rags. She does not come on the
stage at all, so there was no opportunity of seeing
whether she had given up that tripping walk of
hers, that showed all the soles of her feet: every
bit of them.
Next Monday night will be annoyingly full
with the dear Broughs back, at the Royal, with
“The Happy Life,” and Alfred Hill’s new
romance-opera, opening at the Palace for a three
nights’ run.
In new music, there is Victor Daley’s tender
song, “In the Woods at Dandenong,” with sweet
music by Ernest Truman (Paling and Co.). Words
and music are both so high above the average local
music-mangle’s output that nobody need consider
the printed fact on the cover that the song was
“ Composed and Published at the Request of His
Excellency.”
Speaking of His Ex.’s requests: he is always
doing kind little things to someone or another,
mostly—always, in fact —on the quiet. The latest
was to give gifted Miss Thea Proctor, a local girl
artist, an order for a bookplate.
“ Litus ” writes from Armidale:—
Armidale completely lost its head over Gov. Beauchamp
last week. The Earl came up to the New England capital
to be entertained, and the leading locals made a ludicrous
bungle of the business. At the Town Hall reception His
Ex. asked the committee to introduce him to some of the
people, and the committee responded by leading up four
clergymen and two lay cits., the hall being at the time
chockful of the public men of the locality. On the show-
ground a leading lady invited H.E. to afternoon-tea, at
which were assembled a number of prominent persons.
The invitation was promptly accepted, and here again the
introduction muddle was perpetrated. The Governor was
honored by being asked to meet two of the gathering, the
remainder, for some reason or other, being overlooked. At
the ball (from which, by the way, many of the Armidale aris-
tocracy were absent) everything was in a ridiculous state
of topsy-turvy. The vice-regal set had not been arranged
beforehand, the consequence being that partners had to
be selected in the room, the Mayor having actually to be
introduced to his fair partner a couple of minutes prior to
the commencement of the set. The Governor was not
introduced to a solitary lady in the hall, the result being
that he was compelled to gaze on and watch the company
whirl around. At supper, several guests quitted the
room before the Governor and the Mayoress had vacated
their seats, and, to complete the dismal record of
bungling, the reception committee allowed the Governor
andhisA.D.O. to drive to the State car at the railway
station unattended.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ I have been talking with one of the jurymen
in the Fraser case. The verdict is yet another in-
stance of the absolute necessity of dividing crimes
into degrees, as in America and France. The
local dailies are wild in their indignation that
Mrs. Fraser should have been acquitted, and in
one journal there are sinister hints about the jury.
But the jury did its best according to its reason,
and, of course, its sympathies. The fact that
turee death-sentences were pronounced a fortnight
before the Fraser trial, and a fourth only the day
previous, has escaped the notice of the wise men
of press and public, who are howling so loudly
against the acquittal. But it did not escape the
jury.
“The jurymen were asked to judge whether
Mrs. Fraser deliberately shot her husband or not.
The ridiculous alternative of finding her guilty of
unlawfully wounding was also offered, and they
knew that in one case the woman might be
hanged, and in the other, get 14 years in gaol.
She was a fetching woman—a golden-haired blonde
with the most lovely complexion and a bewitch-
ing bust —and the jury gazed upon this beauteous
form for two solid days. They knew that it was
unlikely she would ever be hanged, but that it was
extremely probable she might get a sentence of 14
years in the event of a verdict of guilty either way.
“They had the partially-borne-out allegations
of neglect and insult on the part of the husband.
They had the husband’s own statement that his
wife was “ off her head ” when she shot him, and,
not being desirous of obtaining for her a lengthy
sentence of imprisonment, they were confronted
with the option of finding her insane, and com-
mitting her to a lunatic asylum, or letting her go
altogether.
“ They accordingly acquitted her, as any other
average jury, unbiassed by public opinion or a
‘bluffing’ Judge, would have done, and, in the
absence of any tangible reason, and not having the
courage to refuse to give any reason at all—which
would have been the wisest course, the 12 had to fall
back on the flimsy tarradiddle that they believed
the shooting was all an accident. Had the jury
been able to limit the penalty to two or three years
in gaol, all her pearly teeth and heaving bosom
would probably not have sufficed to save her
from the penalty of the law, but the fear of
the Judge’s wrath did its work. All the same, the
acquittal of Mrs. Fraser stands as an awful con-
trast to the case of Cecile Anderson, who remains
a prisoner to this day, after serving many years,
for the impulsive slaying of a man who had cruelly
robbed and ruined her.
“ The few who gained admittance to Port Melb.
pier just prior to the embarkation of the Vic.
Bushmen’s Contingent were paralyzed to see one
f allant officer kissing all the male acquaintances
e could catch, and letting maudlin tears trickle
down his nose on to the wharf. It is only fair to
say that the same hardy Clancy, who gained his
bush experience on the Collins-st. Block, was over
two sheets in the wind.
“ Judging by the packed houses at the Princess’s
the pantomime is a great success, goodness knows
why. The soldier-girl on parade is rather fetch-
ing; also, the red and yellow ballet is delightful,
but the rest is weariness, and one worries over
such small details as the insecurity of Gulliver’s
placket - hole, and the furriness of a certain
charmer’s bare legs. Also, one wonders if most
pantomimes are written in lunatic asylums, and
if not, why ?
“Thanks to her realistic socks, Dorothy Vane,
as Red Riding Hood, comes as something of a
shock to fawnlike observers. Not that a grown-
up in baby hose is a complete novelty. Up
North more than one warm-blooded belle scouts
stockings as summer-wear, and occasionally en-
raptures beholders by a random glimpse of shapely
pedestals blushing above pink silk socks. But
somehow she-Bananalanders who happen to be
undecorative of nether-limb seem spared the
‘ rush of heat to the shins ’ complained of by trim-
ankled compatriotes.
“Lady Clarke saw the pantomime in one of
her pale-lilac frocks, with a cluster of dark
violets on the corsage and a spangle of dia-
monds in her ebon coiffure. Lady Janet’s
second daughter, Vera, has returned from her
travels with unwaved dark locks and simple white
frocks, as of yore. Ornamental school-girls with
fluffy hair and picturesque plumage are not
prevalent among the Naicest permeated with
English notions. The Australian little Miss is at
her prettiest just before she turns up her curls,
but at ’ome the Spring Chicken is purposely kept
in the ugly-duckling stage till the time comes to
develop into a swan.
“ The popular kharki gown goes well with a rosy
wearer. But for pale people, its dead-grass hue
wants brightening up, and colors pretty enough
to mend matters mar the military effect. All the
tabbiest women in town sport scarlet facings to
their Kharki and Lancer hats. I guess a con-
tingent of these stout people wou T 1 soon bounce
Oom Paul into suing for peace.
“ Fact is stranger than fiction. It is recorded
as a capital joke in ‘ Innocents Abroad ’ that
when, at a board-ship lantern display, the pro-
gramme said ‘ Our destination,’ the amateur show-
man flashed forth by mistake a convincing view
of a famous burying ground. On Wednesday
(March 21} Kew (Melb.) held its joint citizens’
picnic and state-school outing. The procession
was advertised to start, and did so, from Booron-
dara Cemetery, thence making its way with flags
flying and bands playing to the grounds of Kew
Lunatic Asylum, where the revels proceeded
under drizzling rain.
“ Nowadays theatrical shows rub off their first
freshness in the Harbor City, and altogether
Sydney scores off Melbourne. Northerners are
looting our marriage-market, I notice. In April
Miss Stanbridge, an important local heiress, is to
bestow her hand on a N.S.W. man, and in the
same month Dr. W. Hope, a moneyed, popular,
able young practitioner of Western Vic., is to
wed a Sydney girl.
“ One innovation the Harbor citizens are wel-
come to, the Plague—though they apparently
resent our backwardness in this respect. At
present, Melbourne folk in Sydney are quizzed
and laughed at for their ‘ quaint fussiness,’ and
so many jokes are (or have been) cut at the ex-
pense of * old Granny Gresswell,’ as they call our
Bubonic shoo-er, and his namby-pamby precau-
tions, that the poor thing’s left ear must be burn-
ing permanently.
“Re ‘Merchant of Venice’ at the Alexandra,
all sympathy is monopolised by Shylock, though
Dampier seems a shade too abject and crushed in
the end. Surely such an intense old patriarch
would have retained enough fire to the last for a
backward glance of hatred when no one was
looking. Even a phlegmatic eight-year-old
covertly sticks out his tongue at dad, ” though
the latter flatters himself that for once he’s
spanked the devil out of the rebel. Lily
Dampier’s Portia is a handsome, portly personage
in white, brocaded with brown, a shimmering
bodice and up-to-date touch of black in the shape
of a corsage rosette. Nerissa (Katherine Russell),
when I saw her, had white-washed the tip of her
nose “something frightful.” She was at her best
when she threw a white cloak over her hard
purple frock. The men, too, affected crude
magentas and greens, &c., and gold fringes like
Freemasons. Antonio looked a fat, sulky little
Scotchman. One thought of him as “ man Tonv”
f looming in his cups. Rose Dampier, as the
ew’s fair .daughter, wore Paisley-mixture with
magenta trimmings, and later on white.
“The cables recording his whereabouts, which
ex-Gov. Brassey is so constantly sending to Mel-
bourne, are accounted for by the theory that the
vain and prosy old gentleman still labors under
the delusion that he has some sort of a chance of
securing the Governor-Generalship. Hence he
even spends pounds to keep himself in evidence.
“ Lawyer M’lntyre, now languishing in gaol for
the embezzlement of his brother-in-law’s estate,
was positively struck off the rolls last week. The
plea that he had not been in a fit state of health to
prove his innocence at the trial was advanced
with all legal seriousness, but, after considering
the matter for some hours, Judge Holroyd decided
that the prisoner had qualified himself for dis-
missal from the learned brotherhood. Alexander
Grant M’lntyre, who once figured in Melbourne as
‘a pretty boy,’ did a good many foolish things
before he landed in gaol. Many years ago he was
one of the many jugginses who lost their hearts to
a fascinating theatrical ‘star ’ and manageress, and
when the charmer wanted coin to carry on the
show young Mac loomed large behind the scenes.
She took what she could borrow from the ardent
lawyer and gave him discreet smiles for his money.
At last the lady came along with a pretty big bill
for her dear Mac. to endorse, and when his name
was inscribed on the bit of paper she wisely con-
cluded that she had no further use for the young
man. Therefore, when he went round to the
theatre in the evening swelling with adoration
and importance, he found an usher waiting to tell
him that his presence behind the scenes would be
resented as an unwarranted intrusion. The pretty
manageress had struck his name off her roll!
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
In Victoria the boy with 12 years behind
him and a cigarette in his teeth has a free run of
the smoking-carriages, grown-ups having often to
stand while he sits, sucks and spits. In answer
to grown-up grumbling, Vic. traffic-manager Fitz-
patrick admits that the department is helpless,
and states that though N.S.W. keeps out
youngsters with half or three-quarter tickets, such
a regulation could not be legally sustained.


mn
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “ Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
GOOD HEALTH WITHOUT DRUGS
4.—Mothers and Children.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust and healthy, should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate should fortify themselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, and they can then brave the fury of the
elements with equanimity. The writer speaks
from personal experience and from observation of
beneficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores
and temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the
action of the heart, whilst Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa
gives strength, stamina, and builds up and
strengthens the lung tissues. It is indeed a won-
derful food beverage. Nothing has ever been dis-
covered that can approach it in giving lightness of
heart, joy of life, fleetness of foot, and that
general feeling of comfort which only comes from
a full capacity to enjoy every pleasure, moral,
intellectual and physical.
Dr. Tibbies’ vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Merit, and merit alone, is what we claim for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
send to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Coooa. *
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is LKADENH ALL-ST., LONDON.
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A Sydney suburban Wosleyan clergyman
who appears to be the chief mouthpiece of the
Orange fraternity had a son born to him on St.
Patrick’s Day!
N.S.W. has five police-magistrates over 70
years old. One is 77, and one 72; also, there are
on the list two P.M’s of 68 years, one of 67, two of
66, one of 65, one of 63, and four of 60.
Energetic W. P. Reeves, Agent-General
for Maoriland, has only been 13 years in politics.
Previously he played at the Bar and worked for
the Press. He was at one time, through his
fattier, chief owner of Lyttelton Times.
Colonel Lassetter’s trip to England with
the N.S.W. Lancers cost him £lO,OOO. The
Colonel’s wife was Miss Antill, sister of Captain
and Major Antill, who are in Africa with the
Contingent. The Bulletin would like to see a
few Sydney men who whoop so loudly about their
“ patriotism ” fork up in the military interest as
gamely as the Lassetter circle. Jingo skite is
the cheapest form of patriotism.
The Argus did not publish the text of the
cable it received from its correspondent MacDonald
in Ladysmith. The message was communicated
privately to a few of his friends and relatives, but
for some reason not very intelligible was not given
to the public. “Mac.” wired, “Too ill for field
work,” indicating that the long starvation had
served him badly notwithstanding his fine physique
and sound constitution. Probably the doctor sent
the message.
F. B. Freehill jumps up Major, by ex-
amination. He is solicitor, politician, President
of the Irish National League, Consul for Spain in
N.S.W., eleven (or was it twelve ?) times an un-
successful candidate for Parliament, notary public,
and now Major of the Irish Rifles. As to the
notary-public distinction, Mr. Freehill had that
conferred on him by the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, and was, it is said, the first R.C. in Aus-
tralia to receive the honor.
SHE DID.
HE: “Now, Miss Frivol, nobody seems to have
guessed what character you represent this
evening, so you’ll have to give us all a little
surprise.”
LADY IN WHITE: “Do you mean to tell me you
can’t really guess what book I represent — why,
I’m the ‘ Beautiful White Devil' !”
S. Aus. has lost two of its best stock-
judges within a week—James Shakes and G. A.
Gebhardt. The former, after gaining experience
of the country from Adelaide right through to
Port Darwin, went into stock-agency, and later
on was, with his partners, floated into a company.
Mr. Gebhardt began as a butcher, like a good
many other of Australia’s biggest squatters, and
died with four S.A. stations and a big reputation
for breeding Lincoln sheep to his credit.
While three or four front rank Westralian
mine-managers have been relieved of their charges,
one —Hainuton, of the Great Boulder—gets £lOOO
added to his salary, whioh makes him second-best
paid manager in Australia. Stewart, of Chi Hague,
still leads.
What a small place the world is ! The
last the present writer saw of “ Banjo ” Paterson
the latter was hunting round Sydney for Vincent
Dowling on some horse business, and there was at
that time no idea of the latter going to Africa.
That’s only about four months ago, and now they
meet at Bloemfontein where Dowling was a
wounded prisoner.
The ex-Australian Faith-healer, J. A.
Dowie, whose success in the business in Chicago
was lately reported, has new enterprises on hand.
The idea is to build “the City of God”—with
Dowie to hold the deeds. The only essential of
citizenship is faith—in Dowie and God. He says
£200,000 has already been subscribed. Also, no
journalists need apply. The site chosen is near
Lake Michigan. What a joke it all reads, to any-
one who knew John Alex. Dowie in Sydney !
Mr. William Hanson, at one time a
partner in the old Empire proprietary, whose 83rd
birthday was lately celebrated, was the fourth
official Govt. Printer of N.S.W. He was ap-
g tinted in 1854; the first Govt. Printer, John
itchen, dated from 1841. In Mr. Hanson’s
term the printing of postage-stamps and book-
binding were taken over by his department.
Since nis retirement in 1859, Messrs. Thomas
Richards, Potter and Gullick, have held the post.
Minister for Customs Carty Salmon (Vic.)
is a Victorian native with an Edinburgh medical
degree. He gives an excellent imitation of the
“Scoatch” dialect, and is supposed to have been
included in the Govt, as interpreter between Pre-
mier M‘Lean and the other members of the
Cabinet. He gave valuable medical assistance in
the accouchment of the new Ministry, made a
whole-souled fight in Vic. and Queensland for
Federation, and is presumed to be a hostage to the
cause given by anti-Federal M‘Lean.
The late Consul Layard, C.M.G., was a
brother of “Nineveh” Layard. In 1873 he was
sent to Fiji as joint commissioner with Commo-
dore Goodenough to enquire into the desir-
ableness of annexing the group. Both com-
missioners hoped to accomplish the
cession, and to be rewarded with
the governorship of the new pro-
vince. The Commodore,
however, declined to
have any truck with
Mr. (afterwards Sir
John) Thurston, who
held King Thakom-
bau in the hollow
of his hand, and
the astute Chief-
secretary of the
local Govt, pre-
vented annexa-
tion at that time,
though, a year
later, Hercules
Robinson pulled
it off by promis-
ing Thurston em-
ployment under
the Imperial
Govt. Soon after-
wards, when Mr.
Layard heard that
a white messenger
who had been in-
strumental in in-
fluencing the sable
monarch under
Thurston’s in-
structions had
been accidentally
drowned, he ex-
claimed, “It is the
hand of Providence ! I
am avenged.” Thurston
scooped the pool, and
eventually got the go-
vernorship, while the
other members of his
govt., including
Chief - Justice
Charles St. Julian
—once a S. M.
Herald reporter,
by the way—were
left in the cold.
Allan McLean,
Premier of Vic-
toria, is a Roman
Catholic, and comes
from one of the
very few Scottish
R.C. families.
Apropos of
which fact, a
certain N.S.
Wales poli-
tician, now
in office,
tuid who
“ travels ”
extensively on
the sectarian racket
as secretly as he can,
lately made a ludicrous and terrible
mistake through assuming that, because a family
was Scotch and bore the name of Cameron, it
must necessarily be Protestant.
THE DIFFERENCE IS THE SEQUEL.
MICK (at 6.30 a.m.) : “Well, Pat, how are ye
feelin’ after last night’s spree? ”
PAT : “ Jist as if I was going to be hanged.”
M ICK: “ How’s that? ”
PAT : “ Oh! as soon as the bolts drawn I'm going
to have a drop! ”
Sleath, M.P., of N.S.W., volunteered for
service as a bushman —no doubt on the strength of
his having marshalled a procession or two on
horseback. And now Roberts, more-or-less Labor
M.P. of S.A., has volunteered for the “Imperial
Bushmen.” But he is a fighter, whether he has
much bush-lore or not.
Little Surgeon Fitzgerald, who has gone
to South Africa as a consulting surgeon for six
months, will not do so very badly. In reply to a
question in the Commons lately, Chamberlain said
the British Govt, intended to pay consulting
surgeons on service at the rate of £SOOO a year.
Fitz. is the surgeon who patched up Lady Hope-
toun’s dainty little nose after her accident in Mel-
bourne, and Lord Chamberlain Hopetoun will be
sure to make the other Chamberlain understand
what a workmanlike little fellow he is.
Superintendent Read's retirement on
holiday to be followed by superannuation removes
an ancient figurehead from the Sydney police.
His authority was practically supreme in the
Metropolitan division, as Inspector-General
Fosbery years ago gave that area completely over
to him. With 40 London police he arrived in
Sydney in 1855. He had previously served six
years in the London force, thus counting over
half a century of active service. He will be
entitled to a pension of £470 on retirement.
Minister and Vice-President of N.S.W.
Executive Council Kenneth Mackay, Colonel of
the First Australian Horse, has personally missed
a big thing, and his N.S.W. Ministerial col-
leagues have missed a big thing too, by his
default. Think of the glory had he resigned
Ministerial office to lead a gang into the Transvaal!
Cable in the London papers : “A N.S.W. Min-
ister resigns office to head his regiment against
the Boers ! ” It wasn’t because K. Mackay was
afraid that he didn’t go to the war—there can be
little fear in so gallant a cross-country horseman —
it was simply because he hadn’t eye for a pictur-
esque advt.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Tom Hassall, he
leading cow-shaker, cannot drop the slang of his
old droving days. As an exponent of Jingoism,
Tom came as a surprise. But probably his fervor
was engendered during a trip he made to England,
some years ago, when his fine figure, handsome
face, free-and-easy style, and superb riding caught
the eye of the people of his native English county
on his return there. He did the local fox-hunting,
and thought the low fences of this ennobling sport
a very “soft thing,” while the natives of “them
parts ” looked on astounded at his jumping feats.
Afterwards the county swells fitted him out in
London with horseflesh, and he fairly “ paralysed ”
Rotten-row for a season in company with his
friends, who shone with his reflected light while
he “witched the Row with noble horsemanship.”
And now “ cow-shaking ! ” Ye gods !
Poor “Jack” Edgar, of Melb. Argus,
was originally intended for the R. C. priesthood,
and was a native of Belfast, the hot-bed of faction
troubles. Edgar frequently told a story of his
school days when the chief sport was fighting the
Protestant boys at the rival establishment. One
day he secured a prize in the shape of a lone here-
tic of about his own age, but a trifle shorter,
whom he took prisoner. Holding his captive
against a fence with one hand, and with the other
raised to strike he ordered the heathen to say
“To hell with the Queen ! ” The other refused.
Just as the blow was about to fall a noise caused
Edgar to turn his head, thinking he was assailed
by more heretics in the rear, when his in-
tended victim instantly propped him viciously on
the point of the jaw, and, sending him to grass,
scampered yelling “ To hell with the Pope ! ’
Charles Rasp, discoverer of Broken Hill,
has just left on his first visit to Europe since his
good luck came. And thereupon a reflection on
the German as a colonist. Rasp was a German;
and when he had made his money he settled in
Australia to spend it. But Rasp’s “ boss,” the
man who provided most of the money for leasing
the ground, was a Britisher —and he promptly
left for England, where he has lived ever since.
Still the early Broken Hill men have stuck to
Australia very well. Here, by the way, is the list
of provisional directors printed on the original B.
H. Prop, prospectus: George McCulloch (Mt.
Gipps Station), Bowes Kelly (Silverton), Harvey
Patterson (Burta Station), K. E. Brodribb (Poola-
macca station), Wm. Jamieson (Silverton), S. F.
Hawkins (Mt. Gipps Station), W. R. Wilson
(Silverton), and W. A. Horn and J. W. Bakewell,
of Adelaide. Charles Chappie, of Silverton, was
he first sec. —at £1 a week.
Humor is whispering that Resident Magis-
trate M‘Arthur King, of Norfolk Island,
has had enough of las peculiar subjects
and meditates resignation. ’Twould
surprise few if the rumor materialised.
At Mr. King’s age the effective govern-
ment of a community so outr6 would be
heavy task. Colonel Spalding, the ex-
magistrate, seems to be doing well on
the island, cultivating cocoa, coffee,
and other products. He takes no
part in public affairs.
Curious to note how the pub-
lic nurses the idea that Kit-
chener’s is the strategic brain
of the Britisli Army now in
the field. There is nothing
in Kitchener’s record to jus-
tify the assumption. So far
as the public are concerned
Kitchener’s military reputation
rests mainly on Omdurman, but
—as Churchill and others clearly
show—Omdurman was won not
by Kitchener’s strategy but by
the independent and brilliant
tactics of Hunter and Mac-
donald. And what was true of
Omdurman was, with modifi-
cation, true of the antecedent
battles. Kitchener’s genius lies
less in generalship than in or-
ganization. He is a consum-
mate administrator and viewed
in this light and in connection
with recent Imperial develop-
ments, what are the odds that he
will not be Australian Governor-
General during the first Federal
decade ? Under the coining Im-
perialistic regime the man who will
commend himself to Downing-street
must possess strong personality and
talent qualifying him to guage and
utilise the capability of Australia as a
recruiting-ground for the British Army.
Kang Yew Wai, the Chinese statesman
who lately ranged himself under the flag of re-
form and had, as a result, to hastily board a
British war-ship, wants to travel through Aus-
tralia. All the provinces are willing except Tas-
mania, which stipulates that Kang Yew Wai can
only come “on producing certain credentials from
either the Government of China or the Govern-
ment of Great Britain.” The original Van-
demonians, it will be remembered, nearly all pos-
sessed certain credentials from Great Britain.
N.S.W. Agents-General since a London
resident was fixed upon, in 1863: Edward
Hamilton, Mayne, Cowper, Forster, Alex. Stuart,
Cooper, Saul Samuel, Salomons and Copeland.
Five of these are dead. All of them except
Hamilton have been more or less active politicians.
Three—Cowper, Forster and Stuart —had been ex-
Premiers when appointed. Mayne represented
the Donaldson Ministry in the Upper House.
Cowper was Speaker, and Samuel, Salomons and
Copeland have held various Ministerial offices.
There died in Grafton (N.S.W.) recently
one of the links which bind the Scotch clergyman
of to-day with the fighters who stuck by their
Church in 1843. Rev. J. Mackay was not one of
the ministers who at the time of the disruption
left their parishes because the richer classes
wanted to dominate, but he belonged to the same
school. Ordinarily the most peaceable of men,
when aroused he exhibited a fine old Scotch tem-
perament which brooked no interference. During
a disturbance at the old gentleman’s church in the
eighties, a section of the trustees locked them-
selves in the kirk overnight, and on Sunday
morning when the minister sought admission they
refused it. Nothing daunted, the old gentleman,
then well in the sixties, procured an axe, burst in
the door, and, with the assistance of his wife and
a buxom serving lass, literally threw the trustees
out into the churchyard. And when he had done
this, not without some personal injury, he quietly
walked to the pulpit and, opening the massive
Bible, uttered the usual formula with which the
Scotch service begins.
Dr. O’Hara, over whom the council of Vic.
Medical Society has just resigned in a body, is
a stalwart fellow with a devotion to sport,
especially shooting. He began practice at the
Melb. Brighton suburb about 20 years ago. His
surgery would perhaps have risen to fame more
slowly but for the awful railway accident at Prah-
ran, where a lot of Brighton people were smashed.
O’Hara attended most of them with a prospect of
fat fees paid by Government. His skill was sup-
plemented by nous in the Supreme Court witness-
box over the cases—he is regarded by the barris-
ters as an unrivalled witness. The consequence
was a prodigious advt. O’Hara took the late
surgeon Beaney’s Cromwell House, Collins-street.
There he has got on for a series of years as Fitz-
gerald’s rival. He has a good baritone voice,
and sang the solo, “Ave Maria,” at the
opening of the new church of the Sacred Heart,
Carlton, three months ago, on a Sunday morning.
His name was advertised on the placards. Most
inexplicably, Archbishop Carr did not insist on
his withdrawing from the programme. After
O’Hara’s “Ave Maria,”Rev. Dr. Reville preached.
Archbishop Carr then mounted the pulpit, and
made his attack on Dr. O’Hara, not mentioning
him by name. The Archbishop said that ‘‘ a well-
known Collins-street surgeon ” was concerned in
a syndicate to promote foeticide. It quickly trans-
pired that O’Hara was the man. The modus
operandi was of his invention or adaptation.
The syndicate was burst-up by the Arch-
bishop’s action. The Medical Association dis-
cussed the matter the other night. The council
unanimously recommended O’Hara being struck
off the roll. The association members did not
carry itJby a sufficient majority, consequently the
council has resigned, which means an appeal to
London.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
1
SddVWIDS
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
THE LITTLE MATCH-GIRL.
A Sydney street character.
“ 0.P.” : Alby is a grazing cockey of the
always-too-late-to-mend order that seems to get
along in this great baked land of futility about as
well as the other variety. Alby goes out every
morning with a pocket of lunch and bag of
“ Dead woods,” and sticks the old horse in the
whim, and lies down where the water leaks
through the receiving-tank and reads the Dead-
woods aloud. And the old horse goes so slowly
that you can hardly tell whether he is moving or
not. When they’ve “ got him ”in the book, and
Alby is describing the exciting capture to himself
in a loud voice, to preclude any unfortunate mis-
understanding with himself, the old horse stop 3
altogether and listens intently. And after the
“ Prairie Rose ” has rescued “ Cactus Joe ” from
imminent destruction, and is a galloping speck on
the horizon, with her golden hair streaming into
Joe’s mouth, Alby unhooks the old horse and they
part in a happy, ruminative frame of mind. What
Alby and the old horse don’t know about water-
drawing and the terrors of Nuggetty Gulch isn’t
of much account.
* • * •
Extract from the British Post-office maga-
zine, St. Martin’s lk Grand :
SHIPPINGS FROM OFFICIAL PAPERS.
White Cliff New South Wales
March 24th, 1895
To the Post Master Jeneril
Dear Sir I have sent a Parsell in the care of you if you
will be so kind to deliver it with your own Hands to my
cousin he has not Herd from me for years he used to Live
at white chappie Newgate His Name is David Hirons. I
forget his Number of the street will you kindly deliver
this Parsell to him it detains 3 Bottles of opel chips I
have told my cousin to give you one Bottle for your kind-
ness. one thing dear Sir the distinchin Between the
letters in the name I forget whether his name was spelt
Hirones or Hirons Please give either of those names,
my cousin has Large Business Places of different sorts I
)>elieve I dont know what the business is I expect dear
Sir you will Know without my trying to explain them to
you I hope you will like the Bottle of opel chips When
I hear from my cousin I will forward some vaulible
Bottles and will not for get you Dear Sir four your Kind-
ness.
I remain Dear
Sir yours truely, R M .
No doubt the Duke of Norfolk, K.G. Earl Mar-
shal and Hereditary Grand Washer-up of the
United Kingdom, &0., &c., duly rushed round
London with three bottles of “ opel chips ” in ono
hand and a Directory in the other.
• • *
“ Wayback ” : I have watched a 4ft. 6in.
snake swallow a hen’s egg. It takes a long time.
The jaws are distended to the point of dislocation.
When the egg has got about Gin. into the gullet,
the inner end is pierced by a muscular contraction
and the contents having been sucked out the shell
is rejected. A brown snake once went for a dish
of eggs in a cupboard of my back kitchen. To
reach the dish on the top shelf it had to pass 18in.
of its body through the handle of a cream-jug.
With the jaws closed over the egg, the reptile was
too big to get back the way it went, and all the
crockery came down witli a smash. When I
arrived on the scene the snake was wriggling on
the floor witli the circular handle of the cream-jug
(detached) round it. It was his last wriggle.
• • * *
“ E.D,” : The Bulletin might start a
“ bad-turn ” series with this. It is the experience
of an old settler, and in the veteran’s own language.
“ Worst turn I ever had in my life was when I
shot a man, over 45 years ago, an’ it happened in
what’s now called the Lilydale district. I was out
shootin’ with a new-chum party from my house,
an’ got separated from the rest, who were in charge
o’ my brother, a better bushman than me. I’d
started a fat wallaby, an’ saw him jump from some
scrub, but, as I hadn’t seen him get away, I w’as
expectin’ a pop at him, an’ lookin’ lively for my
chance. Suddenly my dog began barkin’ at some-
thin’, movin’ round in a circle in a wary way, as
if he was afraid o’ the thing. I could see a brown
object propped against a clump o’ scrub, so I took
aim, an’ let him nave a half-ounce slug. Then I
ran up, an’ I saw what I had taken for a wallaby
was a man in a brown coat, sittin’ leanin’ back
against the scrub, an’ buoyed up by it. He hadn’t
moved, an’ I didn’t move for some time. I tood
paralysed—rooted with horror an’ f eelin’ You
never shot a man, did you ? Don’t. It’s the dead-
liest sickest feelin’ when you understand what’3
happened—like mortal terror an’ seasickness com-
bined an’ condensed. Presently I crept up to the
man, an’ put my hand on him to bring him over on
his back, so’s to get a look at him. He was hard
to move, an’ when I did turn him his legs went
up in the air, stiff as poles. He’d been dead about
two days.”
* * * *
“Jimmie P.”: N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment has had a futile “ loyalty’’-hunt. Driver
Peppery, with a very heavy load of perishable
goods, found himself signal-blocked at Fivetents
Platform. A boy was in command. The officer
in charge had put the signal up before going to
dinner. He expected to be absent the usual 20
minutes ; but was detained 70 min., and when he
did return Driver P. was “ ropable.” A silly,
solemn, stupendous investigation revealed that
Driver P. had asked the boy to go for his father.
Boy refused to budge. Driver begged, cajoled,
threatened to no purpose, and then used the
following disloyal and seditious language: “Ya
bloomin’ fathers 40 minutes late. He oughta go
an’ make Boer bait. I wish th’ blanky Boers ud
come and tear down his blanky block signal and
let me gitton. I’ll be blocked all along the line
now. Th’ Boers shud blow ’im and ’iz blocks ta ’ell,
bust ’im|!” Severely reprimanded for inciting a
foreign enemy to invade the country and up-end
the constitution, but the charge of being in
treasonable communication with Kruger held to
be not proved.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin. —ln New Guinea when a
miner “pegs out” (an occurrence not infrequent)
his mate —or at least those of them not too im-
mediately qualified for interment themselves—
dig a hole—depth dependent upon nature of
ground—and then carefully prospect same before
depositing deceased. I have often heard dialogue re
prospects between these amateur sextons. “ Say,
Bill, I got three weights to the dish in that
paddock we planted Tom in.” Bill: “That’s
nothin’! Why, I got a 2oz. slug in Bairbank’s
mosoleem” (mausoleum). —C.M.
* * * •
Bishop Stone-Wigg tells of the New
Guinea custom of burying children with the dead
mother. On one occasion the missionaries saved
twin infants who were being buried beside their
dead parent. The Papuans prophesied all sorts
of trouble, climatic and otherwise. Sure enough,
terrible hurricanes came shortly afterwards—to
the joy of local vaticinators. A clergyman of
Bishop Stone-Wigg’s persuasion recently rejoiced
aloud in his pulpit that British successes in
S’Africa had followed the fervent prayers of him-
self and fellow Anglicans. Papua is a terrible
land for superstition.
* * * *
A certain hard-driving Riverina squatter
was once asked by a traveller for a “ lift ” to a town
towards which both were bound. The swaggie
was accordingly ensconced in the back of the
vehicle, and away they went. Having done the
five miles into town in about a-quarter of an hour,
the squatter pulled up at the first pub., and
handed his turn-out over to the groom. Presently
the latter, who had been instructed to bring the
luggage inside, approached the squatter in the
bar, and asked what about the swag in the buggy.
“ Swag ? ” —the squatter reflected a moment. “By
heavens ! there ought to be a man there, too ! ”
» * 9 9
“ M.Sfc.J.” : Re difference between ’roo
and wallaby (B. 10/3/’00). The wallaroo is easily
distinguishable by color: male, dark-blue or
black ; female, grey. The kangaroo can be told
at once by its long, stately hops without any
apparent exertion, the body being held erect;
whereas the wallaby moves by short, quick hops
and leans over more than ’roo. Wallabies have
certain tracks to run on, and there are often
obstacles on these tracks which, by practice, the
wallabies get over with ease at full speed but
which would hinder a pursuing dog or dingo. The
dingoes know this and a few will lie in wait on the
track, while the others stir the wallabies up in the
scrub. The ambushed dingoes almost always
score a catch, which they divide with those that
hunt.
• • • *
Dear Bulletin. In 8., 17/3/’OO. “H. E.
Mac ” wonders why frogs sometimes jump into a
NOT ABOVE THE BREATH OF SCANDAL.
BUSH MISSIONARY : "So, Mary, you are going to
leave me? What is the reason? Have I not
given you a good home? ”
M ARY: “ Well, boss, you see I bin long time with
you now, and my ’usban’ he say if you don’t
marry me every fella begin too much talk.”
camp fire at night time. The occurrence is not
uncommon, and not confined to frogs alone. Wild
ducks frequently dart at, and sometimes right
into, a camp fire, which they, like frogs, evidently
mistake for a water-hole, in which the moon or
some bright star is reflected.—H. J. Mac.
9 * * *
“R.C.”: On the Castlereagh (N.S.W.)
the iguana is used to test the working powers of
sheep-dogs. Have seen a clever dog work a
veteran “goanner” till, for want of better refuge,
the exasperated saurian ran up the leg of a horse.
HIS INTENTIONS.
THE COCKY (to one of his hands): “Do you ever
think of going to the 'old sod, ’ Pat? ”
PAT: “ Well , sir, if I live till I die, which I don’t
think I will, I'll see ould Ireland before I lave
Australia !”
“0.P.”: Have heard it stated that a
roan horse will carry whip-marks three or four
times as long as any other horse. Any corrob-
borators ?
• * * *
“Mutton Bird”: Re crow-poisoning, I
once shot a ’roo inside of which I found a mass of
congealed blood. This gore I poisoned, and two
days afterwards I found 27 dead crows in the
vicinity. Poison easily-digested matter and you’ll
“get” the black rascal every time.
“ G.B.” : I don’t
agree with “ W.
Layton” (B.
3/3*00) in re-
pudiating “ Ba-
thurst’s ” state-
ment about 90
per cent, of
nine-treeslean-
ing toward
the sun. In
fact I will go
one bette-r
and say that
90 per cent,
of all trees
lean to the
sun. If their
trunks do not
their branch-
es do, and if
neither trunk
or branches
then their
foliage does.
The further
south you go
the more
marked the
leaning, the
furthernorth,
until you
reach the
equator, the
less marked,
at which
place, pro-
bably, the
trees would
lean upright,
which is al-
most as funny
as “W.L.’s ”
trees that
lean both
ways. By
closely ex-
amining trees
it is easy to
find the
points of the
compass, the
general trend
oemgtoN.E.
Have pointed
this out to
several bush-
men who had not previously noted, and they
were surprised that it was not more generally
known. Further,- the “twist” or “-wind” of a
tree is (in the Southern Hemisphere) from E. to
N., or in a course that follows the sun In the
northern the reverse would be the case.
* * * V
“ Ken ” : Harlock was a typical new-chuin
getting “colonial experience.” Tree-felling was
his forte, he said. He had taken many a fall out
of the sturdy oak on “Pa’s estates in Staffordshah”
he explained—not for the beastly low purpose of
obtaining firewood (as we irreverently hinted) but
“ faw exahcise.” So Bill and I, after consultation,
introduced him to a bee-tree. “ Splendid ideah,”
said Harlock, “ Ai, myself, will fell the twee and
forwahd a sample of Austwalian wild bees and
honey to Pa by next mail.” “ Right oh, mate,”
said Bill, “cut in.” Chummy clumsily hacked
away, now and again taking a spell to admire the
“busy little creachaws” as they flew in and out
of a hollow limb, and when at last the tree came
down, he advanced gloved, veiled, and billy in
hand, to secure the hard-earned spoil. Suddenly
he began to back, call us ‘ 1 cads, ” and talk
about “escaped conwicts.” The “honey” con-
sisted of three very dead rabbits and the “busy
little creechaws” were, of course, blow-flies.
“ Pa ” has not yet received those samples.
* * * -9
Poor Mildura, though just at the conflu-
ence of Australia’s two best waterways, has now
to send away its fruits and bring its bottled beer
(it is a Prohibition settlement still) by bullock-
dray; and if things get much droughtier,
the camel will have a call. The river
there is Ift. sin. below summer level;
previous record was Ift. 3in., which has
been registered three times since 1860.
Irrigation is now out of the question;
what little can be pumped occasionally
is reserved for the citrus trees, which
want water badly.
* * *
South Africa, even in war-time,
is a paradise compared with some parts
of our own Bakblox. Says a West Q.
paper: —“Our new-married couple from
Winton got as far as Boulia together, and
there the man died from heat-apoplexy
and exhaustion. The Winton track is
enough to kill any man. I knocked up 14
buggy-horses going there and back. As
a passenger from Winton to Boulia I
paid £6 10s. for the privilege of walking
a great part of the distance and belting
the horses until I was prostrate.” No
wonder the Western worker rushes to join a con-
tingent !
# * * »
One unconsidered effect of the drought is
the immense destruction of fish in the rivers of
the West. In these rivers, fish has in any case
been getting scarcer every year, owing to the
numbers of derelicts and nomads who eke out an
existence by fishing with nets, traps and cross-
lines (despite the law); but the present drought
will make cod and bream-hooking a sport of the
good old time.
9 * * *
“R.N.”: Re wild-fowl catching. In
Riverina I have known men who called them-
selves ‘ ‘ sports ” string overnight across a dam a
strong line to which were attached a couple of
dozen fishhooks, baited with frogs. Daylight
would find a dozen or so black duck safely hooked.
Many a good haul was thus brought home after
an hour or so’s “ shooting ” in the morning.
THE IMPROVED JUMBUOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you heard of Peter Olinger’s great invention?
It is bound to be the wonder of the day.
To wipe out the shearing men is Pete’s intention,
And the thing’s as good as done, so get away.
Get away, you tar-boys, rouseabouts and ringers,
Pack your traps, and take a billet in a store.
There’s no clip about this dandy scheme of Olinger’s,
And the “ woolly ” won’t be wanted any more.
Pete Clinger is a scientist, a wonder,
And terrific is the fortune he will reap.
’Tain’t a mere reform in shearing—no, by thunder!
What he aims at’s an improvement in the sheep !
So the day is not far distant when the wether,
And the haughty ram, and ewe of manner meek
Will give up their usual season’s crop together,
With a ready acquiescence, so to speak.
Pete got notions of the methods that he sighed for
From some scurvy ewes on Hittamitta run.
As his patent in the city is applied for,
I may as well explain just how it’s done.
]You vaccinate your flock with his invention—
Which invention is to Clinger only known—
And each year, upon a day that Pete can mention
All the jumbucks shed their fleeces on their own.
Each sheep will be wound up and regulated
To shed, upon a certain day, its crop.
Each one on its hind-quarters will be dated,
You round them up and watch the produce drop.
And Peter says the thud will be appalling,
And this continent will totter in its sleep
Through several million tons of wool all falling
Simultaneously from regulated sheep.
SILAS SKILL.


THE
DEMAND
lias been so .phenomenal, both here and in
England, that we have again and again run
out of the world-famed Zeiss Field Glass.
We are, however, just opening a new ship-
ment, the largest we have yet had.
These Glasses are the best the world has yet
produced.
m
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS ,
London Cash
Prices.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Heard on the Maoriland steamboat.
Haughty swell scans bill-of-fare and notes “saddle
of mutton and R.C. (red-currant) jelly,” yells:
“ Steward, gimme mutton and Roman Catholic
jelly.”
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
This aboriginal legend tells the genesis o»
that unique mammal known as the Australian
porcupine (Echidna aculQlta), the aboriginal
name of which is Gwinula, or thief, interpit e
also as “ lazy thief ” :
Hundreds and hundreds of moons before the white man
came to Australia walla walla (rain) didn t full foi moj ‘
than 30 moons. The earth was parched and cmcked ,
and out-back, water there was none. The lords dial in
thousands, likewise the kangaroos ; the famished and| njfoes,
which eat only that which they themselves kill (the
blackfellow is correct for once), came howling, around tne
camps, an<l attacked the starving piecamnies. and even
the adult blacks, many being bitten and same few killed.
Desolation reigned, and horrible death front thirst and
hunger stared the tribe in the face. A ghastly attempt
at a corrobboree was made ; and on the following morn-
ing a stampede took place through barren, rugged, water-
less country to the nearest part of the Murrum ndgee, 300
miles or more away, a land abounding in fish and possum.
Many died on the road, and their putrid carcases, as
is the custom, were carried on to the land of promise
swathed in gum-leaves, to preserve them, and encased in
sheets of bark wrapped tightly around with strong vines.
Their retreat was dismal, and their soul-piercing funeral
dirge rang through the sun-parched forest from break of
day till fall of night. , .
Nut a few died through over-eating after the land of
promise was reached. Arrived at their destination, more
trouble met them ; a hostile tribe had "jumped their
land of promise. Attacked and harried on all sides, sick
and weary, cowed, famished, and broken-hearted, they
collected their dead and retreated up the river,
was scarce, and all the men were obliged to hunt and fish
from daybreak until dark. Even the aged, tottering women
(an unusual thing) cheerfully took part in the hunting
and fishing. But one young man, who was short and
plump and fat, would neither hunt nor fish. He stopped
in the camp, stole the juicy ’possum and the rich cod-fish,
cooked and ate them, slept and fed and grew daily fatter.
lie was, in fact, a gwinula —a “lazy thief-.” One night,
however, retribution came. The whole of the tribe
returned empty-handed and mad with hunger. The
larder was empty ; but the gwinula was not. He was
full. He had cooked and eaten all the ’possum and fish in
the camp, and was asleep in his mia mia, gorged, snoring
and happy. Enraged at the gwinula’s heartless gluttony,
each warrior drove his war-spear right through his body,
pinning him to the earth. In every part of the “lazy
thief ” where a spear could be stuck, it was driven. His
whole body 7 —but not his head or limbs —was pierced by
their weapons. He was killed, and for the night they
left him, bristling with spears. He was gone next morn-
ing, spears and all! But soon they found him ;he was
now a porcupine ! He still had the war-spears stuck
everywhere in his body. They had got smaller ; so had
he ; but he was still plump and fat 1 He had repented of
his gluttony. He came to the camp to be eaten —and they
ate him ! They still eat him ; he is still plump and fat .
They love him !
* ♦ • »
Much nonsense is being written on both
sides rc that wonderful “bushman.” Fact is, the
bushman is a first-class horseman, but only a tenth-
class rifle-shot. The bushman who sleeps all the
year round with saddle for pillow and rifle for bed-
mate is a myth nowadays. With the exception of
a few cattle-men, boundary-riders, and kangaroo-
shooters, bushmen seldom take up a rifle, simply
because, in this great land of pre-mortem mum-
mification, there is nothing interesting enough to
shoot at, and not enough available energy to go
and look for it if there was. The man who does
practise with any consistency is the young town-
ship man of the G-or’-bless-yer-berruther order
whose thirst runs to the blood of small harmless
game and sixpences. He’s the man with the
“religious” shave who can tell you all about
calibre, elevation, and make, and knock match-
boxes at 100yds. Queer fact that nearly all these
accomplished young marksmen bear a family
resemblance.
The late H. N. (“NAT') DOUGLAS , an old
Australian actor.
Photo., Charlemont.
Lake George (N.S.W.) had, a week or two
since, almost ceased to exist. Five years ago it
was a splendid sheet of water 17 miles long, 8
miles wide, and from six to 14ft. deep. At a very
recent date a pool 4 miles long, 1$ miles wide, and
2ft. deep was all that remained.
* « * *
There has been no more news of the
great goat-station, lately talked of in connection
with Centralia; but, in consequence of the very
big rise in the price of mohair, Yankee thoughts
now incline towards the gay Angora. The first
difficulty has arisen through the extreme socia-
bility of the goat; so a cry has come over from
the Pacific Slope to South Australia for something
pure to start with. But, alas ! the goat is a
sociable creature this side too; so South Australia
can’t.
• • » *
“Momba”: Peter Waite would not get
all the kudos he does as an able dry-country
station-manager unless he had such splendid men
as Mr. Hogarth, long manager of Momba (the
RACING ABBREVIATION.
AUCTIONEER : “ There you are, buyers! And she's got any amount of pace ; the galloped a mile
in 'forty seven.”
VERY OLD SCOTCH (who had a notion of purchasing): “ Good heaveens! mon, shae mus'a be
ove' fifty years auld ! You mus'a mean shae galloped the mael in eighteen NINETY-
SEVEN”
largest station in Australia). All the scooping-
out of tanks and the water-conservation on Momba
were entirely Mr. Hogarth’s own planning. He
has stuck to Momba through good and bad
seasons, while such able station-masters as F.
Vandeleur (a scion of the famous fighting Irish
Vandeleur family, akin to the BVtyes), of Aloe-
marie, near Momba, gave the drought best; as (ba
many others about Wilcannia.
* * * *
“ Pasty ” : I have discovered another in-
teresting result of linked beers long drawu out.
The subject is a lank alluvial miner in whom
“ D.T.” takes the form of an inordinate desire to
wash his dog. The dog is a plain white-and-tan
fox-terrier without frills or peculiarities, but as
soon as Ben’s drink begins to get back at him he
becomes strangely troubled about that tyke. He
watches its pranks with haggard eyes and
puckered, worried brow for sometime. At last he
takes Pippo in hand and begins to wash him.
During the first few rounds Ben washes the dog
in a casual sort of way. Then he becomes anxious
and distressed at the apparent uselessness of his
efforts to remove the tan part of him, _ and
begins to wash with fury and bad judg-
ment, using great quantities of soap and
soda, till he and his terrier are nearly
smothered in suds. At length, however, he begins
to breathe freely .again, and Pippo issues from a
cataract of suds, clean and in his right dog, and
Ben’s peace of mind is restored. For a few hours
happiness reigns in the sufferer s humpy, but by-
and-bye the old misgivings take possession of him
again, and he washes the dog once more. I have
known him to wash that same dog 18 times in two
days. Ben’s neighbors leave him to. wipe out his
sins in his own way, and the intimation that he is
washing his dog is accepted as an indication that
a protracted and dramatic orgy is nearing con-
clusion.
* • * *
“Shaker” : Life on an outside mining
camp has its compensations after all. The writer
has never yet heard “The Absent-minded Beggar
or “ Soldiers of the Queen.”
* • * *
“Black T.” : Swagging it recently back of
the Darling, I called at a boundary-rider’s hut 30
miles from the nearest water. In the course of
talk I discovered that the man’s freshest item of
news was the Melbourne boot-trunk tragedy, and
as he did not look strong I thought a sudden shock
like the news of the war might break him up, so I
left him in blissful ignorance of absent-minded
beggars and patriotic funds and things. Per-
haps in the course of a year or so he will learn
that he has been sleeping on top of an active vol-
cano, so to speak, This recluse had been there
for 14 years—getting his rations every three
months. What an existe ice !
It had to leak out. A candidate for Vic.’s
next lot of Bushmen wrote when applying, “ I can
ride and shout well.”
A certain N.S.W. backblocks Milesian
medico says that the treatment for bubonic
plague consists principally in not catching it. He
or a fellow-countryman sent in his bill to a, widow:
“ To curing your husband tiU he died, £7.”
The Victorian Treasury benefitted to the
extent of £3342 18s. 6d. probate duty under the
will of Mrs. Ann Nicholas, who left nearly £250,000.
Included in the property is Toorak House so long
the residence of Victorian governors from Barkly
to Canterbury.
A RECORD.
“Any performances?”
“'Performances! Lo r', yes — HU a book
with ’em. Broke Bill’s lea twice
and ’is bank six times; then ’is
heart; crippled old Mick , killed
two boys in trainin’ , ruined me—
and now goes and breaks her own
bloomin’ neck!”
If the alleged Benjamin Bridge, now on
his way back from W.A. in custody, is the man he
is supposed to be, the authorities have re-captured
a very fierce and slippery Benjamin. Eight years
ago that youngest son of Jacob was sentenced to a
long term for horse-stealing, but he got out of
Murrurundi gaol the same afternoon and skipped
like a light-hearted child for parts unknown. He
was re-captured in Farthest-North Queensland
and, pending developments, he was put into a
commodious wooden gaol they have up there.
He promptly set fire to the premises, or else they
accidentally took fire while he was in them. The
despairing policeman removed him with great
difficulty, and after a fierce struggle chained his
wild-cat prisoner to the fence while he went to
look for a bucket wherewith to extinguish Her
Majesty’s property. When lie had poured some
water on it a id returned to look at the offender,
the latter was gone; he had taken the fetters with
him and a portion of Her Majesty’s two-rail fence.
The best thing the law can do with Benjamin
now is to drop the old disagreements and send
him away in the Bush Contingent with the office
of Special Cow-Shaker to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment.
The methods of two men who attempted
suicide in Melb. last week were very ““Vf*
a nice attention to detail landed one of them in
Eternity, while the want of it only brought the
other to the lock-up. The successful experimenter
fastened a 91b. stone round his neck, tied his right
arm to his body with a bootlace, stuffed the other
in his waistbelt, and jumped 10ft. into the bay ana
the Hereafter. The other tied a heavy stone
round his neck with a rope, and dived 70ft. into
the Yarra. On the voyage down, the rope broke,
and the disgusted plunger swam ashore, re-
mounted the hill, climbed the bridge parapet, and
again jumped. He landed in the soup all right,
but he couldn’t sink for want of the lost boulder,
and some interfering persons on the bank baulea
him ashore. Astonishing the number of people
who screw themselves up to jumpmg-pomt
and then find that the rope isn t sound, or the
water is too thick, or the razor is too blunt,
something.
The golden head of Mrs. Fraser, the lady
who shot her husband in the head six months ago
at St. Kilda, glinted in the sunlight last week
above the dock of a Melbourne Court. Appar-
ently that golden head dazzled the jurymen from
the first, for the 12 men tottered a good deal on
their mental foundations all through the case.
Mrs. Eraser challenged nine jurors, all elderly
and more or less bald. As a rule, a golden-haired
lady in trouble likes elderly, bald, fatherly gentle-
men to consider her case, but Mrs. Fraser didn t.
The shot-and-paralysed husband was carried into
Court. Just after the original friction, when Hr.
Fraser got that unfortunate foreign substance
embedded in him, there was understood to ha,ve
been a beautiful reconciliation, but the family
promptly burst up again, and it was evidently
still in a burst state. The perforated husband
said that his wife was a hysterical and shnekv
female, whose incessant breaking-out m a fresh
place had made his life a misery. She was the
sort of person who always went about, metaphori-
cally speaking, with a new idea, and a sens®
of injury, and her bonnet tipped frantically
over one ear. The lady in the dock averred,
on the other hand, that she was a bruised
and pounded woman, and that there were many
stripes on her white skin through the doctors
ill-usage. Then she put down her head and
sobbed. The jury probably believed that if it
sent her to prison all that beautiful hair would be
cut off short, and it hesitated at bringing in a
verdict that would lead to such a disfigurement.
The shortest way out seemed to be by finding
that she was insane, but that would mean con-
signing her to an asylum, and the jury wasn t
sure that her hair wouldn’t be cut off short there
also. So it solved the problem with a rush by
finding her not guilty. Judge a’Beckett asked,
with a glassy sneer in his eye, if it meant that
there was no shooting at all, but it replied that it
didn’t—it had merely decided that the shooting
was accidental. Possibly Mrs. Fraser’s acquittal
was partly owing to her wild offer to go to the
Transvaal in boy s clothes as a British spy. _ The
jury was probably so busy thinking how nice she
would look in boy's clothes that its attention was
distracted. And her despairing sob from the
dock that “she didn’t know how to express
her sorrow, because, after all, she was
only a woman, ”| moved the twelve men to
a big lump in the throat at the right moment.
Of course they knew all along that she was a
woman ; but when a woman says that she is
a woman, and says it the right way, it counts for a
lot. As for the doctor, he came in coldly like a
graven image, and went out the same way. He
has posed all through as a cold, impassive, metho-
dical kind of man. If it was true that he pounded
the golden -haired lady, he seemed the sort of man
who wouldn’t do it off-hand just when the trouble
arose, but would make an appointment to wallop
her on the 10th proximo at 1.31$ precisely if she
had no previous engagement, and enter the
appointment in his diary, and take a receipt for
the spanking when it was over. Melbourne can t
quite decide whether the hysterical lady didn’t
really spank herself and imagine that her husband
did it. But it has decided that there is excellent
grazing for a grass-widow in the dock if she is a
nice-looking grass-widow and weeps at the right
moment.


(2-) "tjfev dA joun?"toWfe Qa.eevs Ar»?s
4fe %i?d!y Teatof?\sWls_
10170 bier2> Iwo Ve Ifi^Kio'
mein veit? > ”
J* c^.
(of H-M-S.Horrible) C^- °f & rn /^\
Sif iKe Ub &n 07
Tort" rlelboanje pier'.
(V
Jl
T —j)
y-j \ frAyer for
wfeerkvi b\\ lovaL ovy, iirtKK tiboy b^iiyo,
'ffirtyoifrei' b'Vtrof feJfy'foije £c'\£\u
\vAiVey yi^clA'y
1 - r
jjer K^‘S er *
I>ejbre .
( %; *
'yey sl^ope
• 'fe,
'ty&r yew Co»V^ e
is btayKy (food s°d^
TTfa Qaecy! lless.cr
o1<) c^rj’AcV.'-H-i^cl.r
'jo ity
* j>r<rtfyfs
'tfaVS,
r
(?) JsCsJls|r
more. biers
W r cJyMuwp
& ]yod. v/ 0
drirjK Queep f" ,
yelh JavcK . *
-ffos *5
H-
spy okas — ***!!! rrW —x* )r
(or Words 'to'pf effect - *) -
00
f* w
- ApA. up cotyes j K^er.
w
*•*•*« ?? II y. } !!l ***„. 'JI ,«*yy . !!,,
“LOYALTY AND BEER”—AN UP-TO-DATE YARN.


*
//
/#
•i? °s
4? *
V,
iy
♦s? C’
.v
.a *
f s?
/*
/J
f/
//
S *
**<§>
A.-'-Sy
.#
/
SAVE US FROM OUR FRIENDS!
“ What! you been inoculated 1 ”
“By Jove ! congratulate
you 1 ” (Catches him by the'
arm and swings him about-
all over the place.)
jud yet Tm Financial Editor tried to negotiate a loan
<of haUcrcroan, the other day, and tailed stgna y.
Be not puffed up with vam pride. ; It *as
the lord's P work ;He hath done this thing)
through you. His anointed instrument.
By-the-bye, Bishop Smith has com-
posed “ a special prayer,” to be used
in the present plague crisis.
No doubt a judicious use of this prayer (con-,
jointly with the usual precautions) will be found
very' efficacious.
LYNE’S HARD LUCK*
LYNE’S HARD LUCK, AND FOLLY—AND OTHER MATTERS.


ANOTHER GREAT VICTORY!
COMPETITION SILENCED.
COMPLETE DEFEAT OF ALL FURNISHING CUIDES
BY THE
Furnishing {Dade Easy guide
Just Published by
A. HALL & COMPANY.
SEVENTY-TWO PAGES.
FIVE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS.
POSTED FREE to PARTIES FURNISHING
IN TOWN OR COUNTRY.
The Most Useful and Complete Guide
ever published in Australasia.
Clear and Descriptive. Every Requisite for
Complete or Part Furnishing.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
533} George-st., Sydney, {iff
Country Orders Packed Free. Close 1 p.m. Saturdays
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insuflciently
Stamped. Name ami address must appear on MM.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in mi case will MS', be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
V.K.: That writer alleges that the saving habit is
a' sure portent of race-destruction, and then (joes on to
quote China. He apparently mixes up a mere political
issue with a racial one. The Mongol is by no means
threatened with destruction as a race, hut given a fair
chance, promises to wipe the floor with the Caucasian in-
an industrial war under a Freetrade flag. Also, the two.
best-known exponents of Thrift, Ikey and M’Bawbee,,
don’t look as if anything were radically wrong with their
innards. “ 8.5.” generalises ; and truth never lies wholly
on one side of any question. In fact a great fundamen-
tal truth is about the most awesome rail-straddler ever in-
vented M.C.W. : Tiik Bulletin never, in all its life, did
what you aver. Head the whole article. The heading was.
the text for a sermon ; not the motto for a policy.
....Makoro: The Bulletin never said, or even thought,,
that the Transvaal would not on the whole be a better
country for the average man to live in if brought under
the British flag instead of left under the domination of
Kruger and Co. But that’s not the point. The situation
is, as it were, that Rhodes, Wernher, Beit, Eckstein
and Co. covet a very fine married woman ; and say
to themselves that they can manage that fine married
woman a lot better than her ignorant husband can.
The married woman is unwilling to be managed by
Rhodes and Co., but they say that’s no matter ; it is
necessary for them to take and manage her in the in-
terests of morality, liberty, and so on M. (White
Cliffs) : It would run to two columns. Wants to be put
in one-tenth the space. This is a paper—not a parish
P.T.F. : Poetic, but too impossibly vague and yearnful
and full of lose flapping dreams and long hair.. . .O.P. :
Two truly horrible yarns returned with cold shudder....
F.G.B. : “Our hair’s begun to go” is too painful.
Writer’s own forehead is spreading down his back, and
will reach his feet shortly (Queensland : As far as we
Can make out, 75 per cent, of the Australian journalists
who are supplying furiously-Jingo leaders in the daily
papers don't believe a word of what they write. Tap them
privately and prove it Jun : You say that F. T.
Bullen, in his last book, “The Log of a Sea-Waif,” de-
clares that, in the course of his seafaring experiences 25
years ago he found Sydney to be the most immoral port
of all. But it must be remembered that he refers to the
ports at which sailing-ships call. The worst port under
the sky is probably Suez, and the second worst, Panama.
Peoro : “ How does the canting Bulletin justify this
action of its friend, the traitor Schreiner" (in prohibiting
jubilant demonstrations over the British victories unless
specially authorised by Govt.). Well, as there are more
Dutch than English at the Cape, and as Dutch
and English have to live together after the war,
don’t you think it is better, in the Imperial in-
terests, to suppress any public demonstrations calcu-
lated to intensify bitterness of racial feeling? Schreiner’s
conduct has the approval, probably, of a majority of white
British subjects at the Cape. And the British subject at
the Cape has as much right to his own opinion as
the ditto in London, though people who cant like
you don’t see it Misan : The Court did not decide
Gibson’s case “on its merits”; the Court held
that Gibson, simply because he was a prisoner, could not
possibly be allowed right of action against either the
Crown or the person or persons whose negligence might
be directly responsible for the fact that, while in gaol, he
lost an eye through the explosion of the defective gauge-
glass of a steam-boiler near which he was compelled to
work. The Court, in fact, decided that because Gibson
was under sentence of imprisonment for a certain term he
for that term practically lost all his civil rights—in a
word, that a man within the meshes of the law is an out-
law. Truly a Gilbertian paradox. The Court argued on
convenience, expediency, and so o ;-and yet plainly
enough indicated that Gibson ought to be given some
kind of recompense, so long as he did not re-
cover it by law and thus establish a precedent 1....
C.P. : Thanks ; but bilby subject quite exhausted
Tommy (C.C.) : Description dull; try something crisp....
Count B. : An incredible yam Domino: Nothing suit-
able Thor. (Melb.) : Writing almost illegible ; perfectly
agonising to read... Muriwai (M.L.): One will serve as
suggestion A.O.E. : An open sewer is bubonic and an
“ Open Letter ”is nortonic. You will see the difference
with a powerful microscope C. : Half-moon Bay is a
young district, anyhow. There are several hill moon
settlements with prior claims to official notice.... F. :
Viewing the cabled details of gory war from the calm
security of its arm-chair. Tub Bulletin can’t get excited
over your treatise on the Great Unknown. Mankind
appears to have been created for the purposes of slaughter
and history-making, history being mostly lies. ..F.W. :
The farcicalness of the self-importance with which “ we ’’
regard our own little share in the business is focussed in
the fact that a Sydney weekly published the pictures of
all the members of the recently-despatched N.S.W. Bush-
men’s Contingent! Imagine having the individual por-
trait taken of every man in an “ army ” —and our third
“army” at that! War on the grand scale, truly 1
Ell. : You often send old yarns as new—that pumpkin
story, for instance Ecneret: Thanks; always glad to
be informed D.B. : Couldn’t open the interminable
weather-sign question.. ..Jerry: Rather labored and
artificial... .Cupid: Vague and remote; theme needs
greater emphasis of treatment E. H. Mac. : Mildly
pretty—that’s all M. Junior : not a bad motif, but
capable of much greater expansion Franklyn H. :
Too slight—and sequel too fore - evident Luck:
None any good Fiebros : Funny, but unsuitable
O. : Want no imitations. Reminds one a good deal
of Sydney Smith’s Apothecary, who sat up whole nights
watching over the British Constitution... .A.E.O. : Can’t
stand “the days of Siverliasion.” Sylvia Searle:
Clever, but that alleged aspect of human nature has been
done to death. And was it ever more than an alleged
aspect?... .Lorna Doone : Apparently written to advertise
the dirty parts of the book of Jooteronomy Fos-
sicker : You say there are 6520 Macs in Maoriland, in-
cluding 560 M‘Donalds, 380 M’Kenzies, 160 M’Gregors and
M’Phersons, 1 M’Ginty and 1 M’Sorley. Do you mean to
imply that the other 5718 are all M’Dougall’s and
M’Tavishes then? Lyl. S.: “Question of K.” reads
like a rather meaningless fragment. To make anything
new out of that kind of subject demands genius
J.G.D. : Don’t care for heavy ballast in rhyme....
F.W.H. : The “ eight bob ” sounds real enough, but have
doubts about the £1 9s. 2jd Dagmar : Well enough
written in its way. Sorry not our way Frances S. :
Statement contains nothing definite enough to go upon.
Personal item libellous... .F.H.W. : Had hopes of it at
first; but too long, and too many blunders F.B. :
Bilby done with Towrang : Thanks G.W. : A
clumsy document, but no sign of any sinister meaning in
it J. M‘P. : Doesn’t matter much. Let the patriots
fight it out among themselves....P.H.O. : Declined for
many reasons S.O. : “ Flint ” only a dull lump of hard
fact dropped where it will do least good V.R. : When
there is a very difficult thing to be done there is generally
somebody who tackles it as best he can (that is the Vic.
Govt., which, with its Factories Act, made at leasta begin-
ning). Also, somebody else does nothing, but jeers at
those who did something for not doing it better (that’s
you) T.A. :We know a man who when similarly
situated did not borrow any friend’s name (the friend
would probably have swindled him) but put the name of
John Jones over his door and said he was a friend.... B.
Bluey : Nearly good enough. Try again E. C. Kenning :
For that reason The Bulletin itself used to believe the
stories told of Boer brutality to outsiders—it read no much
about the matter in the subsidised press... .Jack F. : But
please send no slush.... Plymouth S. : Fairly well written,
but ends in nothing... .Scribbler : Smart, as a whole, but
unsatisfactory in detail. Will consider Alan: monu-
mentally dull and feeble.. Maxim : All been said before
and better Eller: And have you only just found out
that? the horse has a horror of the camel Tortoise :
No use for it Gotta Rock : Yes, it ts crude ; but not
altogether unpromising Mountaineer : “ He heard the
bringwhyginboola, but heeded not that threatening cry.”
Well, it scared us off, anyhow P.G. : Seems, primd
facie, a hard case; but, if Mr. B. held the senti-
ments he acknowledges, why did he volunteer?....
Ben Gene : Too loose and sloppy Archie : Too
crude and juvenile; but you have the observative
faculty, and will doubtless do much better in time... :
P. : Let that old sleeping dog lie just now... .M.P.W. :
Thanks ; but we have heani many horrifying accounts of
the filth of certain portions of Liverpool, IYS.W O.T.
(M.L.) : Thanks John O. : “ Preference ” won’t d 0....
D.E.D. : Can’t use W.J. : Leaden lines.. ..W.H.E. :
No hope for A.M.B. parodies....V.M.W. : Not up....
6xB: True, but unprintable.... John R. : Yarn very
flabby... .Artistic Harry M.: Is it original?....F.J.H.:
Alleged Slattery story a shocking chestnut. It was
originally told of Larry Bourke, of Kilmore, Vic
A.P.0.: Summed up: those who have gone to the
war have escaped the plague.... Von 0.: Accepted.
Verax : You calmly ask us to set it down in print
that the sports secretary was disgracefully drunk. You
say he wants “rousing up.” But we don’t lI.K.VV. J
Thanks ; but we omit the red-hot libels L.A.S. I
Several of the caricatures alluded to by you were re-
printed not long ago in cheap English printed thief-
papers, largely circulated in Australia. Those English
papers professed to be horrified at the drawings in
question, and only to reproduce them in order that the
British public might see for themselves the malignancy of
the French : as a matter of fact, of course, they re-printed
them because, though brutal, they were clever
and calculated to sell the paper in which they appeared.
....Pakeha: (Melb.) Apparently malicious, and an
oblique advt. for somebody Robbie: The Davey case
has indeed brought forth some astoundingly artless Jingo
assertions. You are the 39th man who has written to us
stating that if the Imperial Government were to prevent
bachelor fathers-elect from deserting their future “ille-
gitimates ” there would be no unmarried troops available
for export. Also, you are the 39th man who appears to
glory, in the alleged moral irresponsibility of Tommy
Atkins T.D. : You say there was a “ visible hush ”
when the comic songster “ hinted by word and gesture at
the place where the wasp stung him.” There wasn’t even
a visible blush. The public by this time are too familiar
with the locality of the place where the wasp stings comic
songmen. ..Ex.: The Vic. Bushmen Corps as they appeared
in procession through Melbourne the other Satur-
day were a fine body of “ typical Australians ”
anvhow. They looked to be well selected geemen
E.W. (Melb.) : The Bulletin doesn’t in any way sym-
pathise with any person who joins a syndicate promoted
to make money in so shameless a way C.V. (Ad.) : Too
high-falutin’. Why not give us the solid facts, names and
a 11?... .H.G. : Bulletin does not propose to give an
ex-parte history of the gentleman ; it means to let him
vindicate his character by means of libel-actions....
J.T. B. : Your yarn is unlikely on the face of it. So bigoted
a firm would not be likely to advertise in an obscure
rag running in opposition to its particular Mumbo-Jumbo.
What’s the name of the firm, anyhow? Caga : Verses
rocky as Spion Kop, moreover subject very stale....
David G. : The Davey case was a political job from first
to last. A “large landholder” and a constituent of a
Vic. politician wanted his daughter to marry Davey,
whereas Davey didn't want to be made happy by the 1.1.’s
daughter. So he was detained in Melbourne by official
order. The yam as to his being wrongly suspected of
“medical unfitness” was palpably thin. Hat! he been
unfit the landowner would not have pursued him so per-
sistently.
A Jingo Wants to Know.
“An Old Sydney Resident” with a German-
Hebraic cognomon sends us the following pro-
foundly silly letter from London :
Whether the attitude you take up about the war from
an Australian standpoint be right or wrong, you appear
to overlook one important fact, viz., that the Boers started
this war by the invasion of British territory. What would
you hare us do ? Clear out of our own country without
the show of a fight ? There were only two alternatives—
either fight or funk ; and if we had chosen the latter,
would that policy have received The Bulletin's approba-
tion T If it is possible for Bulletin to give a straight-
forward answer to this question, it would enlighten a good
many of its readers on a subject which has hitherto been
concealed in its editorial bosom.
What could Britain do? Well, the only thing
Britain could do, as The Bulletin has said over
and over again, was what she did— fight. If a
big country has bullied, robbed, and insulted a
small one, has snatched its territory in time
of peace and only given it back under
extreme pressure, has tried to snatch it again,
has picked a quarrel with it by demanding that
the small country will grant conditions to aliens
that the big country never dreams of granting
itself, and the end of all this shabby insult and
injury is that the small country at last rises up and
hits with all its might—well, the big country can
only hit back. If a big man robs a small one,
slanders him, insults him and runs away with bis
wife, and in the end the small man plugs him in
the eye, there is nothing for the big man to do but
plug in return. When Garibaldi rose against
the old oppressors of Italy, and the Greeks
rebelled against the Turks, and the Poles against
Russia, and the Hollanders against Spain, the
old tyrants, however righteously they were biffed,
could only biff back again. There was no other
alternative. But the necessity didn’t make their
previous conduct one whit less sinful and objec-
tionable. The necessity of killing a man because
you have injured him arises very often, but, how-
ever much other people may admit the necessity
of the execution, they aren’t called upon to admire
the executioner.
The Bulletin has reason to know that the fol-
lowing letter (recently in Sydney Evening News)
is strictly in accordance with the brutal and dis-
graceful facts: —
Last night I went to see if I could find my dog at the
Belmore Police Barracks, and to my horror met with a
sight that even now haunts me. Packed in two small
sheds, about 6ft. square, were over a hundred dogs of
every size and breed, from the low-bred mongrel to the
valuable St. Bernard, wedged together—disease-laden
mongrels side by side with dogs that had been
better cared for than some human beings. There
were so many dogs, and the space so limited,
that the large ones were trampling on the small ones,
several of whom—principally little terriers—were lying
apparently unconscious. The choked breathing of the
poor wretches could be heard a hundred yards away,
and the steam was worse than any furnace. Identi-
cation was almost impossible. I mentioned the kind
of dog I had lost, and a man sought for it in a
hopeless sort of way. He did not find it, but
offered me one somewhat resembling mine, which,
after a careful scrutiny under a lamp-post, I could
see was a well-bred animal, too good for there, and
whose owner was probably anxiously looking out for
him. Out of sheer pity I let him go, in hopes that
he might find his way home again, from which he had
probably been enticed. As I was going away, hearing
some horrible howls, I rushed back to see what was the
matter. Three or four large dogs were strung up
together by their necks by means of pulleys—a sort of
hanging process without the drop—and were fighting
death in a most-horrible manner. I was not allowed,
however, much observation, for as soon as I was
discovered looking on I was ordered off in no uncertain
manner. “ You’ve got your dog ; now go ! So I went.
God forbid that my dog should ever fall among
that lot. I always thought till now that there existed
in Sydney a society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals. If a man punishes too severely
a refractory horse, he is promptly brought to court for it,
but this wholesale dispatch of dogs goes on night after
night unnoticed. It is in . the hope that some more
humane method of housing and destroying these poor
dogs will be found that I have been tempted to write.
Surely an animal so noted for his fidelity and usefulness,
and to whom many persons owe even their lives, should
be worthy of a little humane consideration. So long as
men are paid so much for each dog destroyed, will the
temptation to decoy any and every dog—good and bad,
and conceal it as much as possible from the owner—exist.
Trusting something will be done. J.M.
The foregoing is presumably supposed to be an
improvement on the old Sydney system of destroy-
ing, which was to knock the poor animals on the
skilly with an iron bar! That such horrors as the
E. News’ correspondent describes should be pos-
sible is a ghastly satire on Sydney’s alleged civilisa-
tion, and is perfectly of a piece with all the other
hideousness now being laid bare by the plague-
time sanitary inspectors of the pestilence-stricken
city. An ex-policeman who was formerly chief
dog-butqher, by the way, evolved naturally and
appropriately into assistant-hangman. The curri-
culum of cruelty!
TABLE D’HOTE .
COCKY (to inspector of selections, who does not eat
“pig” in any shape or form): “Have some
pork?”
I. OF S.: “No, thanks.”
C.: “ Have some damper and lard? ”
I. OF S.: “ No, thanks.”
C.: “ Then help yourself to the blanky mustard.”
Vic. Premier M‘Lean (writes the Argus),
whose position as a poet was established long ere
he entered political life, has been moved to song
by the events of the war. On Sunday, having a
few hours’ leisure, he gave play to his fancy, with
this result :
The will of a lady who had lost the power
to speak or write was duly proved at London Pro-
bate Court last month. Testimony as to the
virtue of this interesting document was given by
the doctor who attended testatrix and devised a
means of ascertaining her wishes. At his sugges-
tion two packs of cards were printed for the
patient, one bearing the names of her individual
relatives, one name on each card, and the other
pack showing the various items of property at her
disposal. The sick woman intimated by signs to
her solicitor which name was to inherit a particu-
lar lot of property, the name cards being shuffled
and dealt out afresh as each “lot ” was “ put up.”
Finally she picked an executor from the pack, and
as it didn’t happen to include the name of some
other person whom she would have also chosen,
the lawyer wrote the word “Sole?” before the
name of the selected party and she nodded assent.
Then the will was carefullv read over to the
speechless, paralysed testatrix, after which she
put her mark in the right place, and the doctor
and solicitor witnessed her hand and deed.
Murdock,
lately sen-
tenced t o
death at
Perth, W.A.,
for attempted
murder, if not
a n absolute
crank, must
be a most
cold - blooded
m i sc reant.
When Clarke,
his working-
mate and co-
proprietor on
a mining -
lease, was
coming up the
ladder in the
underlay-
shaft, M u r-
dock bashed
him heavily
over the head
with a piece
of wood.
Clarke then
tried to climb
the rope,
which Mur -
dock there -
upon let go,
and the other
only escaped
by getting
hold o f the
ladder. Murdock next sent down a bucket con-
taining a dynamite plug and lighted fuse, but
once more Clarke miraculously evaded destruc-
tion. He was kept down the shaft for three
days, and when he escaped Murdock tried to
throw himself down the shaft.
Inspiring item from the seat of war : “A
soldier in the Berks regiment got ‘ spreadeagled,’
that is, strapped to a wheel, four hours a day for
a month, for going to sleep at his post after doing
36 hours’ duty.
Writes H. W. Massingham, the ex-editor
of London Daily Chronicle :
The colonies were swept into the net by the cunning
hands who made this war in order to put money in their
purse. The Outlanders’ agitation was started simulta-
neously at an immense expenditure in Capetown, London,
Australia, and English Canada. The same lies were told
to the colonies as to us. The same fabrication of Boer
atrocities went on there as here, emanating from papers
in the hands of the two or three South African syndicates
who manipulated the war-boom. By-and-by "they will
find out the truth as we are finding it out.
And how the syndicates did pay their hired liars !
One man who edited a Johannesburg paper for the
Gang got £3OOO • a year, besides large fees for
London correspondence.
THE OLD IKTNO BLOOD.
“Say, Johnnie, you jest, take my advice and act
’ome quick, ’cos Billy Buck's round the back
’ere playin’ Bushman’s Contingent—and beer’s
their game every time.”
A Sydneyite lias got a letter from an
American friend who states that a rubber-adul-
terant has been invented there which can be sold
at G cents per lb., and that 40 per cent can be
added to crude rubber without impairing its value.
The American rights have already been sold for
half-a-million sterling, and the British for £150,000.
Re the basket “ lice ” of which Sydney lias
lately heard so much, a Bulletin correspondent
writes:
I once asked a Sydney cane-furniture manufacturer why
he fumigated all his newly-imported material with sul-
phur. Was informed that the cane was full of small
insects which came with it from its place of growth. The
cane-worker did not object to these on hygienic grounds,
hut because they devoured the cane as white ants do
timber. He showed me canes which had been eaten to
'mere shells containing a dry dus . I know a number of
such cane-furniture workers, but never heard of any
personal ill effects caused by these insects.
The empire slumbers peacefully,
Unsullied by the rod
Of despot rule ; servility
Ne’er thrives on British sod—
That glorious realm of liberty,
Whose rule is just, where all are free,
Where, fearless, each may bend the knee
Before his father’s God.
But lo ! what means yon thunder-cloud
Which gathers from afar,
And spreads its dark, portentous shroud,
The nation’s peace to mar ?
The murmur of each sullen crowd
Swells slowly into menace loud,
To lower the British ensign proud,
Or plunge her realms in war.
On Afric’s soil the crafty Boer,
His gage of battle flings ;
And, thundering, to the empire’s core
His stem defiance rings.
Ye Gods ! she wakes ! she sleeps no more ;
At length the baited lion’s roar,
From sea to sea, from shore to shore,
Is borne on lightning wings.
No Briton brooks to be a slave,
They march from England’s plains ;
Bold Erin’s soldiers cross the wave
To rend the tyrant’s chains ;
Stern Scotia’s sons for vengeance crave
A life for each Majuba grave ;
And, ever foremost of the brave,
They join the tartan trains.
From every State a warrior band,
All loyal to the core ;
From Canada, from Maoriland,
From India’s torrid shore ;
Each swears upon his trusty brand
On kopje, donga, veldt, or rand,
To quell the tyrant, hand to hand,
Or see his home no more.
O’er Austral lands the bugles blow,
And rolls the martial drum ;
Their warlike strains like magic flow,
They reach the Bushman’s home.
From hills where snow-fed rivers flow,
From forests deep, from mountain’s brow,
From out each darksome vale below,
The hardy Bushmen come.
With iron thews, the tracker’s eye,
Though somewhat slouching mien,
Those horsemen bold, ’neath southern sky,
Have sun and weather seen.
They heard their cherished country’s cry,
With eager rush to arms they fly,
With stern resolve to do or die,
For Empire and their liueen 1
Whereupon a Bulletin bard :
On Sunday last excited Mac
Found time to tune a lay
Re Britain and those clouds so black
Which quickly pass away.
When, roaring like a winter gale,
The Lion shakes his awful tail—
A signal for the foeman pale
To tremble with dismay.
Mac sang about the Bushmen Oorp3
Who, clad in kharki suit,
Have “ slouched ” away to track the Boer
And teach him how to shoot.
To them the task will seem but soft;
They’ve gazed upon the weather oft,
And by the Flag that floats aloft
They’ve sworn to “ pot the brute.”
O ! Mac, beware of thoughts sublime 1
Restrain the giddy muse
Who tempts you to express in rhyme
Your patriotic views.
In Parliament your Jingo skite
Has proved you fit to be a knight.
No further need of you to fight
The battle of the Jews.


The Kanaka question in Bundaberg (Q.) is
reaching an acute stage. Sudden deaths, chronic
immorality, furious rioting, are the principal
phases of the trouble. T’other day Govt, was
interviewed re the “walkabout” boy grievance
and it was alleged that hundreds of “ free ” boys
loafed about the town making things hideous.
Well —every town (like every man) has the vermin
it deserves.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Absoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
Tarantulas are being raised in Australia
for the sake of their webs, the filaments of which
are made into thread for balloons. They are lighter
than silk, and, when woven, lighter than canvas.
Each tarantula yields from twenty to forty yards
of filament, of which eight twisted together form
a single thread. —American Paper.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A ship in the shape of a corkscrew is the
latest Yankee idea. The idea is a cigar-shaped
craft, whose outer skin shall be furnished with
two flanges running in spirals from the bow to the
stern, the entire outer shell revolving by power
supplied from an inner shell which shall retain its
equipoise. Small models are said to have given
remarkable results of speed. The larger model,
now to be built, is expected to show a speed of
fifty miles an hour.
%
/
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25s : Silver, £2 2s : Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, ±3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, 5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Boi k.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Oharm, Penny-
Stamp, IQs ; Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERB.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d j
150., 255. Silver, 3s 64.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 16c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, ss.
Links, 9c. Gold, 21s. ; 15c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6d.
90. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 153. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS,
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
SJ "jpK^
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 268.
n
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 160. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rill fTB.
16c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 208, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 358, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£l6, £2O.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 15s.
O-o
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword " and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 16c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDKKs (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s Od j
16c. Gold, 23s ; Silver, 4s tid.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12a 0d; Ivy Leal, XOs.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s»
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethysl
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
mn
THY
US.
. ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 265, 30s, £2,
jL'2 ins, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, A‘4, £5.
Superior Quality, £fi, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c, Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong- and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Ci
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
m
Gold Good Luck Bel'*.
4i 6cL 3i 6d. 2a'ocl.
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGH-CLASS LBA.DIMG JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH,
.DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS
815 G-eorge-atreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYO3NTEY,
A bill has been introduced into the United
States Congress providing that every company starting
business must have visible assets to represent the whole
amount of its paid-up capital. This means the total
abolition of the “ goodwill ” item which figures in so
many balance-sheets. The idea would knock on tiie
head a stupendous amount of coinpariy-mongering, float-
ing, stock-watering, inflation, first robbery, and other
swindles. It would also prevent the flotation of a good
many honest concerns, but it would abolish so much
fraud that it is an idea well worthy of imitation. Inci-
dentally it would prevent “ preliminary expenses ” being
put in among assets, which wouldn’t he a bad thing by
any means. If shareholders were willing to pay £IOO,OOO
for a concern, £50,000 being for goodwill, they would
simply have to put up the £50,000 for goodwill and
straightway write it off, and start their co. with £50,000
paid-up capital and £50,000 assets.
Melbourne Table Talk remarks of the Sydney
Harbor Colleries that “it is only in N.S.W. that an Aus-
tralian co. can be found to plank down £150,000 on the
chance of making a good thing.” Alas! even in N.S.W.
they don’t plank. The office and directorate of the Har-
bor Collieries is in London, and most of the planking was
done there. The shares held locally are mostly those
which the vendors got in payment for their “concession.”
The “Joint-Stock Companies’ Year-Book” mentions 21
companies that are coal-mining in N.S.W., and of these 12
are N.S.W. companies, one is Victorian, and eight are
British. N.S.W. has a better hold on its coal-industry
than on most of its local industries, but even there the
hold is none too good.
* * • •
A Victorian law court has arrived at a strange
conclusion. A man received a payment of £3 ss. on
account and gave a stamped receipt. Later on he sent a
statement showing the amountjoriginally due, the £3 ss.
paid, and the balance still due. And as the statement
acknowledged that the £3 ss. had been paid the law held
that it was also a receipt, and fined the trader for not
stamping it. At this rate it might be necessary, with a
long-winded customer, to give a dozen stamps for one
small payment, which would seriously damage the profits.
And if the new reading of the law holds good there are
about £7,000,000 or £20,000,000 in fines to be collected in
Victoria for old unstamped monthly statements.
* * • *
A provision in Vic. Income Tax regulations
renders a taxpayer who fails to notify his change of
address within a month liable to the same penalty as if he
neglected to furnish a return. Consequently many people
have been fined £2. Also notices sent to people from
whom special returns are required are apparently intended
to hopelessly muddle the taxpayer’s mind, and it would
almost seem upon the whole that the only way to escape
fining on one hand or another is to send in returns early
and often.
* * * *
Thanks to the practical stoppage of the Rand
mines during the latter part of the year owing to the war,
Australia is the world’s biggest gold-producer for 1899
-3,777,5590 z. South Africa follows with 3,533,9450 z.,
and the U.S. with 3,506,6790 z. Canada produced 872,227
oz., Russia 1,164,6030 z., British India 411,1060 z., China
321,2930 z., Guiana 185,5110 z., Mexico 448,7830 z., Brazil
122,4810 z., and Columbia 179,0030 z.
• • * *
Cripple Creek, Colorado, U.S., it is claimed, is
the greatest gold-producing district in the world, area
and age considered. It is probably the richest section of
ground of its size in the known world, looking at
actual accomplishments and results. Production figures
—ln 1891 the district produced only £40,000 worth of gold,
in ’92 £120,000, in ’93 £480,000, in ’94 £720,000, in ’95
£1,450,000, in ’96 £1,600,000, in ’97, £2,500,000, in ’9B
£3,000,000, and in 1899 £4,000,000.
• • • *
Melb. Argus is quite shocked at the Westralian
slump, and says that if the mines are not differently con-
ducted the public will refuse to have anything to do with
them, and only deal with shares on an investment basis,
such as was the case after the Mysore and other mining
booms. It alludes to the working of the mines in the
Interests of the stock-market, to the picking out the eyes
of rich shoots, thereby bringing about very large yields
one month and comparatively small ones tiie next, anil to
the concealment of tiie truth generally ; hut says not a
word os to the important part the A rocs itself played in
bringing about the boom. Probably it is not aware it lias
done anything wrong, and would he very much shocked
to find it out. Weil, without the Arous and other such
papers to play upon, there would have been no market-
Doom, ana hence no slump. It was by means of news-
papers like the Arhus that the public were gradually led
to believe not only that the mines were greater than they
are, but that the yields when at their highest would con-
■tinue to increase ; so, too, divs. and share-prices. If it
turns up its own file, it will be seen that it declared these
Kalgoorlie mines to be richer than ever when the market
was on the very edge of the slump.
• • » *
M‘ Arthur, one of the inventors of the cyanide
process, also one of the English directors of North Mt.
Lyell, has examined that mine and been so impressed that
he declares there are more like 270,090 tons of high grade
ore in the mine than 180,000 tons as previously estimated
by somebody, sometime, somewhere. No details are given
as to how this estimate of M'Arthur’s is made up. Sent
from the North mine to the Mt. Lyell smelters to date
upwards of 4000 tons, said to have averaged over 15 per
cent., but no details as to mining and smelting costs are
given.
• • * •
“G.H.H.” : I speak from a personal knowledge
of the field, and without any biaß in favor of North
Lyell. I admit that, as an example of commercial enter-
prise, the Mt. Lyell M. and R. Cos. deserves all the reward
possible. That “the North has no definite lode or de-
posit anywhere,” is indeed news to those who have seen
their main ore body, which, for 80ft. wide, 140 long, and
320 deep, is as solid, rich and consistent an ore-body as
could he met with. It assayed from 25 to 30 per cent,
near surface, and the same at 80ft., 220 ft. and 320 ft.
respectively. This certainly is a large bunch of “ high-
grade ore.” I think it altogether refutes the statement
of “no defined lode anywhere.” It is officially stated
that this lode amounts to 338,000 tons of ore, which will
show a profit of £lO per ton. Treating 200 tons per day
the lode, even at present depths, shows 4} years’ work
and a profit of £730,000 yearly, or about three times the
amount being earned by the parent Lyell Cos. According
to the general manager’s report issued 18 months ago,
Mt. Lyell M. and R. Cos. had onty about 5} years’ work in
sight. Since then anew development has taken place
which may add another six months’ life to it; so the N.
Lyell compares well with the parent co. in longevity on
its main ore body only. Besides this it has a large lode
west of this body which has been cross-cut for about
70ft. and assays 10 per cent. Then it has portions of the
Lyell Tharsis lode, and another 10 per cent, ore body on
the north end, and it is certain to get the Lyell Blocks
lode. Besides all these, it has many thousands of tons of
low grade ore as a casing on the main ore body. As to
the Crown Lyell, it is not deep enough to expect to get
the North Lyell main ore body. The N. Lyell can get
plenty of flux in the Jukes district. It is a magnificent
idea to say “ the parent Lyell holds the key of the posi-
tion,” when in point of fact it is the N. Lyell which, by
virtue of its position and railway, will get the ore from
surrounding mines. It is indeed interesting fiction to
say the only “ salvation for the North is amalgamation ” ;
it is news indeed to suggest that the North wants any
salvation whatever. The alleged “octopus grip” does
not extend to the North, at all events, and when the
North has its own smelters, the “ octupus grip ” will
change ownership, and place the parent mine in a
secondary position in point of revenue produced.
* * • •
The M t. Lyell amalgamati on project latel y reach ed
the hopeless stage and developed into a quarrel between
the founder of the scheme, W. R. Wilson, and the chair-
man of the N. and S. Mt. Lyell, Lonergan. Wilson says
that the other agreed to the idea of amalgamation; not only
was the subject discussed hut the basis on which th e
North and other mines were to come in was tacitly agreed
on. Lonergan says “ nothing of the kind,” that the
hatchet was never buried, that he can never forget the
cruel treatment received by the North at the hands of the
parent co., that the word amalgamation was never men-
tioned, and that the meeting was all on account of Wilson
wanting the North-mine manager to report on the Lyell
Blocks. Wilson is amazed at Lonergan’s denial, and
Lonergan admits that one or other of them is lying.
Miner to The Bulletin from Charters
lowers : A few facts as to how mining law is administered
in British Papua. Warden Campbell, sitting with two
assessors at Woodlark Island, decided that Webster and
another were entitled to he registered for a 10-actc lease
on the I van hoe (or Kulamadan) line of reef. The Wood-
lark Island G.M. Cos. appealed against the decldon.
Warden Campbell, after consulting both parties, fixed the
date of appeal for the third week in January at Samarai
(the principal settlement in East New Guinea). A certified
copy of tiie Warden’s Court depositions was obtained and
placed before the best mining lawyers in N., with the
result that Mr. Jamieson, barrister, of Townsville, and
Crown Prosecutor for N.Q., was retained at a heavy fee to
uphold tiie Warden’s decision in the Appeal Court of
Samarai. The party witli Mr. Jamieson left Townsville
for Samarai Jan. 10th.* Two days later news reached Cook-
town that Judge Winter, of British New Guinea, had
landed at Woodlark Island on Dec. 13th and had heard
and decided the case, upsetting the Warden’s decision
within an hour. When appealed to, the Judge stated
that the decision was final, and declined to re-open the
case, also that the Warden had no power to fix the date
of appeal. The gross injustice of hearing and de-
ciding the case six weeks prior to the date
fixed upon without giving the parties any notice whatever
seemed to be beyond the Judge’s comprehension (at least
that is the only charitable view that can be taken of the
Judge’s conduct). Another case of equal hardship lias
cropped up in connection with dredging areas. An agent
representing a Sydney syndicate interviewed Gov. Le
Hunte as to whether he would entertain applications for
dredging-areas. The answer was such that the co. ex-
pended over £IOOO to test the Mambare River, and ascer-
tain if it would pay for dredging. They found that it
would, and subsequently made applications for several
areas. When the hearing of the applications came on the
Governor stated that he would not entertain applications
for six months until he had framed regulations governing
dredging ; advts. would be put in Southern papers
invitmg the applications of speculators, and if there
were more than one application for any area, it should be
decided by lot. When the agent of the syndicators inquired
if they would be given a prior right to the areas they had
applied for and tested, in consideration of the money they
had expended in experimental work, they were informed
that no preference would be shown them, but that they
would have to take their chance like the rest.
• * • *
The recent British New Guinea ordinance
authorising the issue of miners’ rights to, and representa-
tion of shares by, Papuans is a step towards making
N.G. mining a syndicate-cum-black-labour monopoly.
No objection could justly be made to the Papuan fossick-
ing or mining for wages in his own country, pro-
vided he was paid the current rate of mining wages, but
with white miners’ wages at £4 per week, and “ boys ” at
10s. a month, the latter will he invaluable for “ shepherd-
ing.” Already, it is stated, some owners of sluicing
claims on Woodlark Island, who hold more ground than
they can personally represent, have discharged their
white employes and put on the required number of
“ boys” to hold the ground.
* * « •
The Perth Mint has proved a stupendous white
elephant. Westralia produced 143,8190 z. gold last
January, and only 28,7550 z. went to the elephant to be
coined into sovereigns.
» * * *
Solemnly asserted that the “ English Syndicate ”
got a gorgeous report on Mount Deddick from a dark
English investigator, who charged a £3OOO fee for his
trouble. A copper lode of great length, depth, and thick-
ness was one of the things discovered by this mysterious
agent, and on the strength of the copper alone the syndi-
cate is said to be prepared to build a Deddick railway and
create another Great Mining District on land-grant terms.
Present claim-holders, who have created nothing save a
brief boom in “ cats,” will be somehow included in the
bargain, if the Vic. Govt, decides to make it.
* * * *
Of the 200,000 shares in the B.H. South 109,000
are now held in S.A.
• • • •
Printed that water is so scarce at Chillagoe that
people have to wash in whisky and water, and an attenu-
ated potentate was publicly thanked by the Chillagoe
geople because he is a genius as to the divining-rod, and
e snowed the management a place to sink a well—whica
struck water at 40ft. Now, it is a fact that several of the
0. R. and M. Co.’s mines liad to lie idle for montlis await-
ing a pumping' plant.
• • * •
Or eat Mb. Lyell : “ Blue mineralised schist,
dark chlorite carrying a nice amount of copper, also grey
schist, carrying a little copper." Mt. Lyell Anaconda :
“ Grey schist, showing a little copper pyrites.” Mt. Lyell
Comstock : Heavy quartz seems carrying galena iron and
copper pyrites, also barium sulphate. How interesting it
mast be to shareholders to read this sort of stuff, week in
ftud out, all the year round 1 The names of the mines
alone ante enough to kill them. Asa rule, ft is quite safe
a wide berth to any copper-mine that attaches
to its name and to any silver-mine that calls
itself “ Comstock."
* • * •
Mr. W. Wkistm. Walsh, the well-known mining
orator, 18 leaving Syj ney f or a tour in Europe. Mr.
Walsh has long been in health, but for all that he
i Ve fnt? een the gatnqst sf Sydney mining “sports."
What a’Change Sydney voula have if there was elbow-
room in it for a dozen or two of Whiston Walsh and,
Bcarup order I *•
* * * *
Spite of the scarcity of feed and w.,ter and the
knock-out of Worturpa, there are still 1000 ~o n m j n i n w
or prospecting in Far North S.A. Of these Leigw, Creek
has more than any other district; and an there are . t ,iy
150 there it shows how much the men are scattered
Nine-tenths of them are after copper.
* * • *
Tas. talks up in tons. Mining returns for
February: Blister copper, 706} tons ; gold, 4031}0z. ;
silver ore, 901} tons ; silver-lead ore, 110} tons ; metallic
tin, 153} tons ; iron ore, 760 tons. Total value, £113,864.


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, (Hand
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGES
...0n...
fir. Fraok ScQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
The Enormous Success of Khakis !
THE NEW IMPERIAL WAR LOAN
Oversubscribed twenty times is nothing- to the success of
KHAKI BLEND TEA
AND TUB
CONTINGENT CANTEENS.
These are oversold in every town in N.S.W. Orders are
waiting on every hand. We are working overtime to keep
pace with the UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND, and ask
the indulgence of customers for slight delays.
Granuma and Billy Tea
Still to the front, like true Australians.
JAMES INCLIS~& GO. LIMITED,
MERCHANTS, MILLERS, AND MANUFACTURERS,
Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
JSST* Sales Held at the Auction Hooms .
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
c
end
SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
Field and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, Rain Ganges, Wind
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE.
Geo. C. Pen boss, 119 Pitt-street
(between Hkrat.d \
and G.P.O. /|
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Lyne’s that he has billed
to get more than *«> experts to investi-
gate the N.S.W/ratsury dispute between himself
and ex-Prernh 1 ' Reid is mightily jeered in Oppo-
rition if the matter rests where it is
till Parcmient meets, Reid will claim and obtain
sympathy of a majority of members. Lyne
Aad better find a third man at once.
A fierce and ludicrous faction fight is
raging in the heart of the Brisbane Byrnes-statue
committee re the advisability of representing the
deceased politician as attired in a frock-coat or
dressed in an academical gown. Glassey heads
the frock-coat faction and the academical-gown
party is having a bad time. From The Bulletin
point of view it would be a crime to represent
Byrnes in academical gown, seeing how much he
did for the Queensland frock-coat gang.
IN AT THE DEATH.
NEWSBOY: “ War news, sir?”
MR. ISAACSTEIN : “ Not dis evening,
my poy; take no inderest in the war.”
NEWSBOY : No; but I suppose you’ll take de
indrest on de war-soon, my poy!”
The patriot hie politicians are
still unrepresented by _ pounds, shil-
lings, or pence on either fund-list.
Be the petition of certain N.S.W. banks
that the final Australian Court of Appeal shall
still be in England, instead of having a Federal
Court of Appeal close at hand in Australia.
When justice is so far off it is all the more
expensive, therefore the rich litigant often wins
by starving the poor litigant out. And when it is
a fight between a bank with, perhaps, a million
capital and ten million deposits, and a private
person who has no deposits
From what one reads in the latest foreign
papers it would appear that the Boer game, on
final disaster looming, is to shut up a sufficiently
big garrison in Pretoria and defend it, if possible,
for a year or so in the hope of a more-or-less-
gt-neral foreign war. A late cable says that Pre-
toria is preparing for “a two years’ siege.”
Q. Ministry, in view of probable accidents
during next session, is filling the Civil Service
with its poor relations and party parasites. An
amiable doctor recently secured a comfortable
billet at ±SIOOO a-year to inspect asylums, and a
Minister’s brother-in-law will, it seems, be gazetted
as (post not yet created), salary not less than
£BOO.
The legislative consolidation of the Empire
has become an attractive topic of conversation
among the higher “ law ” society of Sydney.
The very difficulties of the subject add to its attrac-
tion. University professor promises to produce the
nucleus of a workable scheme by an early date.
Almost all are convinced that the day of ruling
through mere figurehead Governors nears the end.
S.A. Leg. Council elections take place
May 19, and the Liberal party is hard at work to
defeat such pronounced Tories as Stirling, Ward,
and Basedow. In S.A. one third of the council
retires, periodically, and unless the coming contests
result in at least five out of the eight members
being progressionists the existing Tory majority
will remain supreme. Kingston will be nominated
to oppose Stirling, the Conservative leader, but he
will not be back in time to address the constituency,
and his defeat looks certain. Another probable
difficulty is the clashing of Liberal and Direct-
Labor candidates.
Some dogmatic definitions laid down in
the R.C. catechism published with
Cardinal Moran’s imprimatur.
“ Question : Who is my neigh-
bor ? Answer : My neighbor is
all mankind of every des-
GrmfiAn tvnworvn atta« 4-V» ama
cnption of person, even those
who injure us or differ from
us in religion. Question:
How am I to love my neigh-
bor ? Answer: I am to
love my neighbor as my-
self; ‘ Do good to them
that hate you,’ says
Christ, ‘ bless them
that curse you and
pray for them that
persecute and calum-
niate you.’ ” Card.
Moran doubtless had
this Catechism i n
mind when he told
an interviewer that
England was right
to wipe out the
Boer Republics
—because they
tabooed the R.C.
religion.
S t rahan
Marine Board
(T a s.) r e-
cently decid-
ed to spend
£50 for legal
advice as to
wh eth e r
effective
proceed -
1 n g s of
any kind
could be
taken
a g ainst
late Board
chairman
and e x-
Lands Min-
ister Miles.
It is alleged
that the
Q.C.’s reply
was one
word —
“No.” The
pushing cap-
t ain has
bought the Ho-
bart evening
paper, and there-
in hurls defiance
at all and sundry
of his detractors.
Since his re-
election to
Parli ament,
several meet-
ings o f
highly
indig -
n a n t
e 1 ec -
tors in
outside
constitu-
e n c i e s
have in-
structed the
local members to avoid all intercourse with Miles
in the House.
The new N.S W. Agent-General, Copeland,
should take with him two clerks thoroughly ac-
quainted with the province he represents. At
present there is not (as is pointed out by Agent-
General Salomons) an official in the London office
who has ever even been in Australia !
“ OUT OF THE MOUTHSAc," &c.
FACETIOUS BARBER: “ Well, sonny, will you have
your hair cut curly? ”
YOUNG SHAVER : “ Oh, no; I'll have it like fathers.
He leaves a big mat all round under his chin,
and he cuts his ear and says ‘damn!’ and
then he says ‘ blast the razor !'”
In Westralia, the other day, a prisoner
gave evidence on her own behalf for the first time
in that province. And W.A. made a wise pre-
cedent by making the prisoner the first witness.
Witnesses are ordered out of court till they give
their evidence so that they can’t alter their testi-
mony to fit in with the statements of previous
testifiers on the same side, but the prisoner can’t
be ordered out of court.
M.L. Premier Seddon’s latest dodge for
raising revenue is juggling with the postage-
stamps. . The idea is the simple, inexpensive one
of changing the colors; only in two cases is the
design altered. No Australian province descended
to these, tricks before the famous misspelling
“ Wakitipu.” This brings M.L. in one respect to
the level of such states as Liberia and the third-
rate republics of S. America, who use this juggling
regularly as a source of revenue.
S.A. Labor party was badly beaten in
the contest for W. Adelaide—Kingston’s seat,
which resolved itself into a conflict between
Labor and Denominationalism. Denny, the
successful candidate, is the youthful editor
of the local R.C. paper; he is a fluent spouter,
and claims to be an advanced Liberal. The
Tories refrained from courting certain defeat;
as W. Adelaide is solidly Radical, they did not
nominate a candidate.
In a N.S.W. court the other day the legal
sharks wept on each other’s bosoms and wiped
their eyes with each other’s tails, because lawyers
who. are also members of the Assembly are not
allowed to do Government legal business for hire.
The obvious reason is that it is undesirable to
place it in the power of an unscrupulous Govern-
ment to buy support with legal jobs; but the
sharks were quite grieved at the injury done to
the country because so many dazzling intellects
were thus unable to lend the State a band for a
consideration.
The most admirable thing about the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association is the hugeness of its
cheek in claiming to be the one powerful factor in
the making of Australian Federation. Really the
A.N.A. has done nothing towards federation
beyond making occasional audacious assertions
about its splendid success in promoting the cause.
Deakin and Quick are A.N.A. members, but they
would have been good apostles of union had the
Society never been heard of. The A.N.A. is com-
posed mainly of self-advertising political quacks,
and its chief idea is a terror of ever being suspected
of doing anything or thinking anything that would
not be acceptable to the Mother Grundies of piety-
politics.
Apropos a singularly manly and
outspoken sermon upon the South
African question, recently delivered by
Presbyterian Rev. John Erwin, at
Cambridge (M.L.), it is worthy of note
that oidy among the Presbyterian clergy
have there been found, so far, men
with backbone enough to publicly stand
up for what they believe to be the
truth of the matter. Some of the R.C.
clergy are doubtless privately of similar
opinion to that of these hard-headed
Scotsmen ; though, in view of the official
attitude of the local Head of their
Church and of the probability that their
motives would be misrepresented and
their utterances misconstrued, they
have not, thus far, given much voice
to their convictions. But this hard,
silent thinking always represents what
comes, in the long run, to be the
opinion of the cooled-down majority.
“ Will the Boers blow up and
flood the Johannesburg mines?” is the
question which now most deeply
agitates the plutocrats who brought
about the war. Kruger and Co.
have been cautioned that for any
wanton damage to property they
will be held personally responsible ; it
remains to be seen whether they will or
will not succumb to the tremendous
temptation of wreaking vengeance not
upon the British nation, which has during
the war fought them fairly, and has all
along been deceived as to the merits of
the South African quarrel, but upon the
gang which for years has been in-
dustriously organising the present grab. If the
desperate Republicans reduce the mines to ruins
and leave not one stone upon another in
Johannesburg, the loss will fall, not upon
England, but upon the Gang ; the dynamite
will explode, not in the British Treasury,
but in the pockets of Messrs. Wemher,
Beit, Eckstein, Rhodes and Co.
The most rabidly and foolishly jingo
prints in Bananaland are Brisbane Tele-
graph and Drake’s Progress —both on the
other side up to a couple of months ago.
The new Victorian Crimes Act is going
to furnish a lot of excitement. One clause dealing
with indecent advertisements prohibits any advt.
treating “of any complaint or condition peculiar
to females.” The statute didn’t exactly mean all
that, but being a shocked old maid in a poke
bonnet it didn’t like to say exactly what it did
mean, so it decided that woman was an indecent
subject all round. In which respect it was some-
what like the curate who fried in his own blushes
as he remarked that Jonah was three days in the
whale’s society.
Apropos the Sydney colliery Occident, cost-
ing five lives : the miner is one of the men whose
oones civilisation grinds to make its bread. His
risks of life and limb are greater than those of
workmen in almost any other trade. In 60 years
in Great Britain, 60,000 miners have been killed,
and over 5,000,000 injured or disabled. The
average death-and-accident rate is 16 per cent,
per annum of miners employed. The collier is
the greatest sufferer. Of all miners he is the one
whose work is most dangerous, and for whom
fewest precautions are taken.
Auckland Observer (M.L.) publishes,
under the heading, “ A Colonial Menace,” a wild
shriek against the danger of allowing a few
Dutchmen to do lumping work on the wharves.
These Outlanders are denied a vote, and it is de-
manded that they be denied a chance to earn a
living as well. Curious how the desire to throw
out our own Outlander on his ear goes along with
such tremendous indignation because some other
fellow doesn’t take his Outlander to his bosom,
and give him all his possessions, and the right to
boss the country and run the whole show.
Apropos of Private Davey’s threatened
action against the Crown for illegal ejection from
the Vic. Bush Contingent, a Melbourne paper
disinters the Chief Justice’s ruling in a somewhat
similar ease four years ago :
Anything- that Her Majesty appears to promise to a
soldier is merely a matter of her bounty to give or with-
hold, as she thinks fit. Her Majesty, being naturally
disposed to do what is right, and to refrain scrupulously
from doing what is wrong, the anticipation is that Her
Majesty will keep her word ; but she cannot be compelled
to do so But a soldier cannot resign of his own motion.
He is bound absolutely ; but Her Majesty is not bound
for a moment. Her Majesty is not compellable to observe
any contract between herself and her soldiers.
Which seems a very pleasant situation for Her
Majesty, anyhow.
The gory speech of Henry Copeland,
N.S.W.’s new Agent-General, in which he im-
plored England to “blood her pups”—tha,t was
before a shot was fired, and when it was still un-
certain whether any would be fired—was not the
hysterical old battler’s first appearance in that
character. It was Copeland who raged loudest
and longest during the Soudan madness; and
when Parkes wrote his “ letter of dissent ” and re-
signed his seat on account of the awful howl with
which it was greeted, it was Copeland who led the
party from Sydney that pumped beer and pat-
riotism into the electors of Argyle, in opposition
to the old man. Also it was Copeland who, even
after Parkes’ re-election, tabled a motion that
Parkes was unfit to sit in Parliament oh account
of his “disloyalty.” But by that time the tide
was turning—the tide always does turn—and
poor Copeland, could get only an undistinguished
person named Coonan to vote with him.


The
LEGION of
HONOUR
is the Highest distinction that can he conferred on a Pianoforte
Manufacturer. This great honour has been awarded to the old and
progressive English firm of
JOHN
BR l NSWEADL&JSS§
ESTABLISHED IN THE REIQN OP
KINO WILLIAM THE FOURTH.
BRINSMEAD PIANOS for grand tone quality
BRINSMEAD PIANOS for best construction
BRINSMEAD PIANOS for great durability
PALING’S
AGENTS
PIANOS MANDOLINS
ORGANS VIOLINS CORNETS BANJOS * GUITARS * ACCORDEONS
MUSIC CONCERTINAS
And every other known Musical Instrument.
ALL GOODS AT
LOWEST PRICES
mn
m
nm
n
CALL OR WRITE
EOR CATALOGUES
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George Street, SYDNEY. Brisbane and Newcastle.
YOU CAN SLEEP^^
AND THEY CANNOT CHEAT YOU !
The national (ash Register
IS
AN EVER WIDE AWAKE PARTNER.
It eats nothing, costs no wages, yet works perfectly.
The 92 Check Printer.
No Human Eye
Could so thoroughly watch
and check your money,
No Human Honesty
Could be such a guarantee
to customers.
It’s a PARTNER.
It’s a BANK.
It’s a SAFEGUARD.
It’s a FORTRESS.
_ IT ADDS MONEY, CHECKS MONEY,
SAVES MONEY, MAKES MONEY.
Head Australasian Office
393 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Our 12 Months’ Guarantee
on all Australian-made
Roadster
H
is
worth
20s. in the
Beware
of
Imitations.
t* /
t - ■
'< bn i: >l»Hk
V J (Toil 1 A
[•ld
are only
genuine when the cover and
tube are embossed with this
mn
Trade
m
Mark.
m
EXCEL ALL OTHERS FOR
Durability $ Ease of Detachment
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney:
LND AT ' ’
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
n
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.A7V.
P)ont deplete DJi|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
/ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City mutual Cite
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( fac ' ,n K Brid K est) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M*Millan, M.P., A. W. Mbf.ks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
TPrite for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting gompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doo & Laoca&b<re
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
NeW ßr° a u nc h hT ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.;P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
P€RCy PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
..0F...
Opals, Pearls * Sappl)irsS
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
/ f LL VALUE GIVEN.
A. BCDJAmTn aijd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., March 31,1 p.ra.
Leura, Sat., April 7, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
POUT PlltlE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., March 31, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 3, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., April 7, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., March 31, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., April 7, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carf/o
booked thromrh.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TN TrGstccs, €*€c(itorS,
AND
CotDpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,SOO,(MM» 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/’991 £3,163,938 10 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Einbling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. M. M'Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. O. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jli.sh opsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 27,‘i GEOItG IS STIIIOKT.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager-: J. It. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
llayniarket, Gosford with airency at VVyong), New-
castle; wilh Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, L 2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
Hank, of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Read Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. ~ .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Bennie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Utiier, Esq.
London Office -Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London .
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICR
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N. D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY' AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
FOR
Duck Shootmg*
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
+.
JRackham’s Dog mid Cattle
Medicines,
SOLE AGENTS-
MBIBMS.«BIBB. tu.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE !
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY, !
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’at Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports,
TJT> IC'D A ATT* .
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
March 30.
S.S. Wollowra,Sat.,March3l.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
March 30.
For BRISBANE SS.S. Adelaide. Safc., March 31.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and 0.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best, a- Cheapest lioute to Goldfields .
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., Ltd, , Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackayj
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker § (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHIKTA anti JA.PA.INr.
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin
Steamer.
GUTHRIE
AUSTRALIAN
EASTERN
Tns Commander. Leave Sydney.
2500 W. G. M‘Arthur ... April
3000 P. T. Helms ... April
3600 W. Ellis June
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(||‘|luiraith, chains (Jo..
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Propr.etaiy Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6‘oo tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the jJassengeis for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


A new semi-sacred song, entitled “ king,
O Ye Angels,” words by H. 0. Ooglilan ; music,
with organ obligato, by Roland Athan, has just
been published by Allan & Co., Melb. Sung re-
cently in Melb. Town Hall by Mrs. Palmer, and
at Ballarat by Miss Kitty Grrindlay, it was warmly
encored.
A distilled novel:
She was a nice girl, and sang in the local choir.
He was a nice fellow, with a tenor voice, who did not
go to church.
They met at a gipsy-tea.
Ultimately she got him to come to her church and Bing
in the choir. That was 12 months ago.
He’s going to marry the girl that plays the organ next
week, and the-other girl doesn’t sing in that choir now.
A distinguished American being inter-
viewed in Wellington, M.L.: “Do I think Wel-
lington windy ? Waal, yes, it’s windy, but it’s
valuable wind if you only had live people_here.
Why if we had this wind in New York city' we’d
generate it by windmills into electricity and light
the earth. Yes, sir, you have a lot of good wind
going to waste.”
An English paper says it is well known
that about a dozen ne’er-do-well English baronets
are knocking about Australia picking up a pre-
carious livelihood as bark-strippers, gum-diggers,
and station rouseabouts. Might also have further
mentioned restaurant waiters, potato peelers,
rabbit trappers, cooks, and cardsharpers. As
a matter of fact some politicians long ago
contemplated imposing a heavy poll-tax on
dead-beat baronets and other stumped sections of
the old nobility.
New York World gives a pen picture of
Joseph Chamberlain: —
He looks unhealthy, and ages rapidly. His temper is
becoming uncontrollable. In addition he has suffered
heavy financial losses through unfortunate speculations
into which he put his sons. Chamberlain has always been
pitilessly selfish in the pursuit of his own personal
ambitions, so his fall evokes no sympathy. He is not
known to have a solitary personal friend on earth outside
his own family.
Yic. Deputy Postmaster-General says he
will severely fine any departmental officer found
resorting to political influence for personal ends.
But since in no other department has more offen-
sive sweating been practised, or have legitimate
claims been more persistently ignored, it is small
wonder that the sufferers should seek redress
through outside channels. Of course the regula-
tions forbid this, but the regulations are practically
dead and buried in all departments long ago, and
if there is to be a resurrection it should be general,
not special. The Postal Department has always
been singled out for sacrificial purposes.
DAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
ith Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round d with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s our Huger on tli inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can reeuver, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps y ur knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may* be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURL YOU. I don’t say j erhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Bri a in, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
A 1 BKRT, 73, Farringdon-striet, London, Ei gland.
Agents - ELLaOTT BltOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
ook loi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper oil a
green lake! on «.ach box. (Regd. copyright).
£fio/ier,
MIGHTY
( REGISTERED )
Freshly prepared from rfje Famous KOLA NUTS
C. COLA ACUMINATA )
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIC
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The. Greatest Pick-me-up & Appetiser known.
It makes you, eat and makes gou strong
*-■» —» ft cures Indigestion. —»
WHEf) Cltr Of SORTS T^adn^rfAlOK'
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
• all Hotels & refreshment rooms WaterGV^-
ALL CHEMISTS 2/& *no •4-'s Bottle-
TjpcKrtrqcicy 337 George Si Neorty opp O Post 01/u •
** aipk" .Bjtreß on. %cro\ arreß.
There is war in the Olympus of the Mur-
kan Money Kings. It was at a banquet, and one
elegant gold-bug reared up his gilded length and,
among other remarks, said that Mr. Carnegie’s
fortune was the largest ever legitimately made.
Carnegie bounded up and remarked in silvery
tones that Rockefeller’s shekel heap was the largest
in the world. And now they don’t speak, and R.
is said to have sworn to ruin C., and C. is still
chuckling over the fact that his little remark
pierced the great hide of the other saurian.
mn
m
nm
n
“If I could only get
a little rest.” How
many tired women
say this ! They
are exhausted,
depressed, dis-
couraged. Even after
sleeping they find them-
selves just as tired as before.
Not a part of the body escapes
from the hard aches and pains. You
should have all impurities removed
from your blood and your nerves
greatly strengthened.
Asrcra
sanaMiu
brings rest and refreshing sleep. Your
nervousness disappears and your great
unrest passes away.
Of course you know this is so, for
you have heard all about Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. ~ Ask your doctor if it isn’t the
best Sarsaparilla in the world. Even
your druggist will tell you “It’s the
oldest and the best.”
If you are constipated, take Ayer’s Pills.
They greatly aid the Sarsaparilla.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
mmM
Ctired
TT T IIEN we say 1
’ ’ we mean it
‘RUPTURE CURED”
, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished hy Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work ! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it. .
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Cs.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Hector MacDonald, one of the few
officers of the British Army raised from the
ranks, was introduced to the Prince of Wales
when he returned from Omdurman. “I don’t think
we have ever met before ” said Tummy, who
reckons he never forgets a face. “Oh, yes,” said
Fighting Mac, “ I was corporal of the guard when
your Highness landed at Bombay.”
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins Street E.,
ear Superior Boarding E p tablishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. VV’iihin three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘OI,ELLAND
(nee IiOEGER).
TUBERCULOSIS
CURED BY
/
THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY !
7th March, 1900.
S ’ A glr —Tfi’s from real gratitude that I pen you these few lines. My daughter, aged 15, has had
a wonderful experience with ‘ ‘ Yitadatio.” The following will suffice as a brief outline of her :
For some nine or ten months she suffered from TUBERCULOSIS ON IHE SPINE. At fis
an ABCESS FORMED ON THE BACK OF HER NECK ;it grew very large and painful We
consulted a leading local doctor, who advised her to attend the Homceopathic Hospital, which she
did. There THE DOCTORS OPERATED, gave her some medicine and sent her home Some
little time after the wound began to discharge, and A LARGE BLADDER-LIKE '
formed across her shoulders. We consulted another eminent doctor, SAVmf
VERY BAD CASE OF TUBERCULOSIS, and said THE 02s LY CHANCE O-b SAVIJNU
TTER T JFF WAS BY AN OPERATION, and the removal of some of the bone; but on his second
eighth ten dayslfter, told us there was NO POSSIBLE HOPE of saving her hfe,
as her lungs were seriously affected, and an incessant cough was now troubling her. I may
mention SHE HAD NEARLY LOST THE USE OF HER LEFT ARM and it seemed to
be wasting away. In about 14 days she had fallen away to a mere skeleton. When she drew her
breath or moved her shoulders a little a gurgling sound like water could be distinctly heard. My
neighbor urged me to give “ Yitadatio ” a trial. I said I would try anything rather than risk an
operation. We commenced on the “ Vitadatio,” and, strange as it may seem, in about 8 or 10
days the discharge had nearly ceased ; the severe pain and also the cough were nearly gone. You
may be sure we ituck to “ Vitadatio.” After a week or two more the bladder-like growth seemed
ir, cilrrinV awnv and drv UD. Save from the mark of the first operation, II HAS NOW
ENTIRELY DISAPPEARED. SHE HAS REGAINED THE PERFECT USE OF HER
ARM AND HAS PUT ON FLESH AT A WONDERFUL RATE. She says she has
ABSOLUTELY NO PAIN, and certainly looks as well as, OR BETTER than ever she did.
Her aDoetite is good, and'she can sleep well. She has seen both the doctors who PRE VIOUSLx
pronounced her case “HOPELESS.” One was GREATLY ASTONISHED, and remarked:
“You ARE A LIVING WONDER.” The other pronounced her cure as SIMPLY MAR-
VELLOUS.” My neighbors and many others can vouch for the genuineness of her case.
We cannot express how truly thankful we are at her marvellous cure, and you are at liberty to
use this as you pS I give the above of MY OWN FREE WILL, and IT IS STRICTLY
TRUE.
Yours very gratefully,
(Signed) JOSEPH EVANS.
Witness: JOHN GRANT GORDON, _
The price of this wondeiful Medicine is ss. 6d. and 3s. bd. per bottle.
Medicine Vendors in Australasia.
S. A. PALMER, Sole Distributor for Australasia, India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Institute: 47 Bourke-st, Melbourne;
And at 184 Pitt-st, Sydney; 116 Queen-st., Brisbane;
238 Rundle-st., Adelaide; 481 Hay-st., Perth; and
39 Manners-st., Wellington, N.Z.
JUlenbury s* Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food no. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
The “ Allenburys”
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
-""" r '[
.r v:i ■ 'T \«v> V-^.-
Sm
•->•-■
MSIiS
m '*mw»4
'-i
.:. .-
'
: ;
*
■(
St?
M
~*
mt
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, -from a Photograph.
Australia.
Wines
Lightest
n
J. A. WILKINSON
Offices :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)


mn
MASSEY-H ARRIS
GOVERNMENT STANDARD BICYCLES
Have been adopted by the Governments of Victoria and Queensland for their Postal Services.
Whv *> T *? e y experimented with many other kinds and found It better to buy a Bicycle
” ’■Jr " with a good reputation than a repair bill. 3
What do You Think?
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
IfyfkieQza Qofigl).
it-x it me it ±lie
m
Why Red Birds Exoei.
Found oqly on
1900 Model Red Birds.
Our Catalogue for tlje asking.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by
This cut; illustrates the construction of a Bed Bird flush joint. Notice
trLte r o ft? f ° rCement ’ a J?i the three thicknesses of metal where the
outbid c f omes - Other makers use weldless steel tubing and
outside joints in frame construction. We don’t' We use nickel steel
mto°^Jd ore ; butit the bept ; but then, cost Isn’t token
mto consideration in building Ked Birds.
Tljis is only one ol tlje many Red Bird Features.
Che 6oold Bicycle Co*, Ctd.
i Factories:—
: Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Telephone Step
Australasian Branches: 64 King-st., Sydney. Head O. <-,ce in
261 Collins-st, Melbourne. Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Vicxoria-st., Wellington, N.Z,
“ Second-hand Cycles taken in Part Payment.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.Sydney paper states that clever Jack Brewer,
rhe.Graftet and other Australian nags
P* * campaign in England, has “ taken a great
rancy to English racing stewards, because they see less
\y e gods .) than Australian stewards do as a general rule,
and, consequently, are not very inquisitive.” If Brewer
talked in that strain it was possibly his vanity that prompted
. °” er what looks very like an explanation of the
unkind remarks which have been passed upon his jocfyey-
? .JP English horse-reporters. They have credited him
fa m sln £ two or three races through his apparent lack
of skill and judgment. As a rtew-chum he is judged by
his first performances. The stewards and the public have
seen Brewer beaten where they thought a better rider
could have done the trick. Should they presently
discover any improvement in his style they will thence-
forth be quite prepared to “ cop the Brewer,” no doubt.
* * * *
“Filbert ” : Saturday will see Rosehill Cup run
over 6£ furlongs, but, at time of writing, it is hard to
decide what will start for this or be reserved for Rand-
wick. Old Whakawatea won it last year with 9.3, so that
Sequence, who is undoubtedly the best . sprinter now
racing in N.S.W., should hold a big mortgage on this
year’s Oup with 9.5 (which includes 71b. penalty), being
only 51b. more than he successfully carried in Rosehill
Shorts Handicap, 6 furlongs, last Saturday. This fine son
of imported Far Niente may, however, decline the en-
gagement in order to escape a penalty for Doncaster
Handicap, in which his weight is only 8.5. Despite her
defeat in Rosehill High weight Handicap, 6 k fur., Alice
Mostyn, who carried 9st., no doubt benefited by that
gallop, as it was her first appearance in public since a two-
year-old. She is doing great track-work, and will be
better suited in the Cup with the light impost of 7st.
than in a welter. In the absence of Sequence, however,
writer inclines to the chance of that smart filly, Sweet-
heart, who has to her credit ’99 Moonee Valley Cup, 7 fur.,
when she downed the mile record-breaker, Djin-Djin.
Sweetheart is sprinting well at Randwick just now, and a
further recommendation is the fact that she is in the re-
doubtable Kelso stable, which is frequently successful at
Rosehill.
* * • *
Rosehill (Sydney) form was more closely
watched than usual by the public in view of many of the
performers being engaged in the important events at
A. J.C. Autumn meeting. People were just beginning to
think that Sequence, who is engaged in Doncaster Han-
dicap and Sydney Cup, was not the don he was “ cracked
up to be,” but he set all doubts at rest in the Shorts,
when he started a warm favorite and cantered home from
a good field. Idle Boy, another Doncaster horse, won the
Stewards’ Mile, beating several Doncaster and Sydney Cup
candidates. Hi-Hi, the mare which used to run for J.
M‘Sweeney under the name of Nuka, won Rosehill March
Handicap, when she beat some eight Sydney Cup horses,
a performance which immediately shortened her price for
that event.
• • • *
At a recent race-meeting 61b. over-weight was
inadvertently written by one of the officials on the black-
board opposite a competitor’s name, when, as a matter of
fact, there was no over-weight. This little “ up-to-date-
ism ” was the means of causing Ikey Mo to stretch the
price of this well-performed pony, with the result that it
won easily.
* * * *
“Ancient : Saw a most amusing' piece of by-
play at a Sydney suburban course. A well-known “ com-
missioner,” after a mysterious parley with a “ book,”
took 100 to 10 about a certain horse. Bookie immediately
passed it on in two lots to two other books, who passed it
along ad infinitum. Public took the cue, and quite a
respectable sum was put on in half-so vs. and so vs., in the
way of “ savers.” Had an enquiry been held on the
horse’s running, the books would have shown quite a
respectable backing by the horse’s people, but writer
would like to wager there was not a penny on in a bona
fide bet. And so the game goes on.
* * » »
The latest horror in sire’s-name-reversed horse-
nomenclature is Rotagivan, now running on the Sydney
courses. Rotagivan is an aged mare by Navigator from
Hope, and will probably win a race before long.
• * » *
At a M.L. sports’ meeting-place, one morning
recently, a dog that had evidently lost its master took up
quarters and refused to budge for anybody. Among those
who tried and failed to shift it was a well-known bookie.
The more he thought about the dog, the more certain he
felt that its conduct had some meaning, and suddenly it
dawned on him. The day was Newmarket Saturday, and
there was the straightest of straight tips—Watch-dog.
He took a wager on his own account on Watch-dog, and
fielded heavily against the others—and now he is looking
for that dog to apologise.
• * • «
Noble Lady, winner of Granville Stakes at
Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday, is the first of imported
Nobleman’s stock to win a race. The filly is very much
on the small side, and looked a veritable pony as she
walked away from a good field at her back coming up the
straight.
• • • «
South Australian jumping record was beaten
at Mt. Pleasant show this month, when Brooklass, leaving
the other competitors at sft. llin., was put to a 6ft. jump,
and left a clear couple of inches of daylight between hoof
and hurdle.
• • • •
The Bulletin forgot to mention that Yol. 9 of
Miller’s Australian Racing Chronicle was published a few
weeks back. Vol. 9, covering the space between Aug. Ist,
1899, and Jan. 31st, 1900, provides much study of the
awful foolishness of backing “ form,” or putting faith in
favorites during that period. The price of Miller’s biennial
moral lesson is only five “ bob,” and no horsey home
should be without it.
* * • *
The impregnable Collingwood tote still merrily
defies the local d’s. and pays prices which should bring
the blush of shame even to the boiler-plated cheek of
Ikey Mo. Owing to its having been the scene of several
savage battles the tote is now known in Collingwood by
the name of “ Wrensburgh.”
♦ * * *
At a north-western N.S.W. town recently, when
a selection of horses for South Africa was being made, a
noted “fly” cocky offered an 8-year-old, which was ap-
parently fit enough, but was rejected as “ too old.” The
horse was then taken away, had his tail and mane docked,
and had a new rider “ put up,” with orders to canter
round town and make him lively. After the spurt the
horse was again offered, and bought for 17 guineas.
• * * *
In Sydney premier cricket on Saturday Central
Cumberland kept its place at the head of the competition,
beating E. Sydney by 190 runs. Pye made top score
of the day—l 33. Farquhar’s score of 70 was a gallery per-
formance, as he hit 9 tourers, 2 fives, and 1 sixer. Cricket
kept up its glorious uncertainty by the easy defeat of
Paddington by S. Sydney—Marsh and Mcßeath simply
mowed down the strong Paddington bats. Central Cum-
berland now holds the lead with 10 points. Waverley is
next with S, and then N. Sydney and S. Sydney with 6
points each.
* » • «
The present manner of placing the teams in
N.S.W. electorate cricket is : a win counts two points, a
draw one point, while two points are deducted for each
match lost. The unsatisfactory results of this method
are plainly shown in the fact that Central Cumberland
must now win the Premiership, bar accidents, although
Paddington inflicted on them their only defeat, and are
themselves undefeated. Present method does not en-
courage what the public want to see—free cricket. One
side goes in and makes a big score for a few wickets and
“ declares,” the other, hopeless of victory, plays a stone-
wall game to rob the other side of the extra point, unless
they happen, as has occurred, to want that particular
team to pass some other in the averages. The only fair
method of calculation is by averages—W2., the number of
runs made and wickets lost for and against each club.
* * * *
Clem Hill was 23 on March 18. He has now
been playing in flrat-class oricket for six years. His first
great score (160, not out, against Stoddart’s team in
[arch, ’96) was made when he was a schoolboy of 17.
* * * *
Major Poore, the great batsman who would
have been one of the M.C.O. team in the trip now aban-
doned, is with Buller in S’Africa. The Major is 30, and
was unheard-of before his sudden jump to the top of last
year’s batting averages. He made 1551 runs, averaging
91 per innings. He is nearly as tall as the giant Bonnor,
and is one of the finest swordsmen in the British army.
* * * *
Old-Timer ”: Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney)
billed and boomed Paddy Harden (“ of Balmain ”) and
Jimmy Dempsey (“of Waterloo”) as if they were cham-
pions, and a packed house resulted on Saturday night.
Before half the first round had expired Dempsey got a
comparatively light punch on the eye (the first blow that
landed), and sat down till counted out. He walked out
of the ring with his hand over the wrong optic (he had
apparently forgotten which was hit) like a milksop school-
boy, while the crowd vented its disgust in jeers. Manage-
ment tried to make amends by matching Harden against
a pick-up, but the extra became very uncertain on his
feet, and had to be led outside the ropes inside 30sec.
1 was marvellous that the crowd behaved so well in the
circumstances, for never was such a frost seen in a boxing-
hall. Writer tips that the present pug. boom will collapse
inside a few months if these greed-prompted affairs are
persisted in. Promoters have a notion that anything will
go down, hence the prevalence of cheap and nasty novice
tournaments j but there should be no draw in these now
as most of the dirty-legged, beer-sodden, broken-limbed’
foul-mouthed competitors come up from the city’s filthiest
areas, and people take a big plague risk in getting within
coo-ee of them.
* ♦ * *
Very nearly a record house for Sydney rolled up
to see Vic. Tot Higgins and Maorilander Otto Cribb fight
the best of 20 rounds at Metropolitan A.C. (Sydney) on
Monday night. Some were there before 6, and by 8 the
doors had to be closed ; then there was not a nian less
than 2300 in the hall, and as each of these paid 10s., ss.
or 2s. 6d. for admission the pugs, must have netted a big
sum, which they whacked at the rate of 60 and 40 per
cent, to winner and loser respectively. It was a clawing
scrambling, clinching fight, as a rule, with Cribb very
much in evidence the whole time. Tot displayed unusual
sprinting abilities, and had Cribb chasing him round the
square frequently. Higgins often operated well with both
hands, and once or twice had Cribb swaying in his tracks,
but the hard-headed, tough-hided, huge-fisted Maori-
lander could have endured twice as much and lived. Tot’s
comparative cleverness stood out, but Cribb’s crude
methods—many of which proved more effective than
. n the case with the most skilful—sorely
tried the Victorian at times. Tot laughed and so did the
onlookers at Otto’s efforts to catch his man when Higgins
took it into his head to “do a Botany.” They would get
together and bang away right and left vimfully and
viciously, and the crowd would get up on its feet and yell
again with a mighty yell that must have been heard a
mile off. Both were in good trim, but Cribb’s condition
was much the better. They went palpably weak several
tunes and came again, though in the last few rounds
of the 13 fought it could be plainly seen that Higgins had
shot Ins bolt, and it was only a matter of time when he
would reach the end of his tether. Clean knock-down
blows were conspicuous by their absence. Higgins scored
one in the first term, and, though he himself was on the
floor at least eight times afterwards, it was never through
a fair punch ; there was more push or shove in the cause
that produced the effect. In one round, Tot tripped him-
self and went sprawling, and twice, as the gong clanged
for corners, he walked over to his opponent’s chair. The
roughing and the pace told on Higgins, also his hands,
particularly the left, went back on him. After the tenth
round, which was one of the most willing, Tot got weaker
and Cribb became correspondingly stronger. While in
his corner resting, before the 14th round, Higgins’seconds
threw up the sponge, thus terminating a most exciting
though not too clever struggle.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Watched Cribb and Higgins at
it on Monday night, and got badly excited often. Never
saw two men put ’em up in such good physical trim
especially Cribb, who could have stayed there a week.
The way he improves every fight is surprising ; his leg-
work occasionally would have brought credit to the
cleverest. No veteran was ever cooler. Both were
exceptionally plucky and resourceful. Neither shirked
his work a moment. Higgins occasionally gave us a dis-
play which recalled the Tom Lees—Peter Jackson fl«-ht
for the Australasian Championship when old Joe Harper
coming away disgusted, told the crowd outside that Lees
was four laps ahead and he was afraid Jackson hadn’t foot
enough to catch him. Cribb dodged and ducked wonder-
fully well in his own peculiar fashion, and frequently
brought those ham-like hands into violent contact with
Higgins’ head, neck, or ribs. Otto used the left really well
now and again, and amply demonstrated that if he knew
as much about the game as Tot he’d be champion of the
world. There’s more of the real, right-down fighting
instinct in him than in any man we’ve seen since Joe God-
dard- The hitting didn’t look too stiff, and neither
showed much punishment about the face, but these two
can stand it better than most others. That Cribb can
Eunch, and punch hard, there’s no doubt; he and cyclist
arry Corbett had a quiet turn-up at Seale’s gymnasium
before Corbett met Wylie last Monday week, and Larry
caught one that left him in doubt for three davs as to
whether his ribs were broken or not. Otto has engage-
ments with heavyweights Broughton and M'Coll coming
off, and more to follow—bald-patch Jim Barron being
among the number; meanwhile other pugs are growling
at Cribb’s monopoly of the game. He’s a popular idol on
a very high pedestal just now, and writer tips him to
stay there a long time if he is judiciously' managed and
doesn’t get big head.
* • * *
Much-boomed pug-match between “the Poet”
( p ete McCoy), of Sydney, and Melb. McAuliffe at Metrop.
A.C. (Sydney) last week turned out a fiasco. McAuliffe
as far as appearances went, hadn’t trained an hour ■ he
was hog-fat. Four rounds of make-believe on the Cabbage
Garden man’s part, and real right-down serious but not
too effective graft by the whilom owner of the flowing
tresses, saw McAuliffe find the floor somehow —certainly
not in the orthodox fashion, per medium of a punch—and
stay there on his haunches, looking round complacently,
until the referee counted 10. Then he got up in a hurry
but was disqualified for being a palpable non-trier. The
inevitable barney followed—Mac’s seconds and a section
of the push taking a hand. ‘ 1 Fight on ! ” said the referee
ghe win, tie or wrangle mob had bested him). “ The
Poet made things hot in the next 3min. and once sent
the chicken-hearted Victorian through the ropes whence
his seconds carried him to his chair as the gong sounded
corners. That settled Mac, he wasn’t taking any more.
The loser’s whack (less £4 paid for ex.’s) went into the
club coffers. McAuliffe is now labelled “ not wanted ”bv
boxing promoters.
* * * *
Australian lovers of the noble art will be pleased
to hear that good old Peter Jackson indignantly denies
that he is starving in the States, as was stated in a
Yankee par. which went the rounds of the local press.
Jackson says he foolishly allowed the many thousands
which he handled in his palmy days to slip through his
fingers, but he is not so bad in either health or pocket as
the paragraphist would make out.
* * * *
At Philadelphia (U.S.A.), Feb. 13, that whilom
terror, Australian Joe Goddard, now a physical wreck
stood up against Sailor Sharkey, a man who would have
supplied a tough task for Barrier champion Joe in his
very prime. Goddard stood a fearful bashing and was in
sorry plight when his seconds skied the rag about the
middle of the fourth round. But Joe, as big a man-eater
as ever at heart, insisted upon continuing and made a
direful-looking dig at Sharkey. They mixed things
fiercely. Thousands of onlookers fell over each other with
excitement and created a pandemonium—yelling, arguing
and roughing. The fighters went to the floor together
and rolled about punching like men possessed the whole
time. The referee could do nothing. Eventually they
were separated. Joe is said to be as full of lire as of yore,
but his years and badly-broken-up physique rendered him
a cinch for the young, strong, agile sailor.
News from the States tells that Maorilander
Fitzsimmons is very much on the job : tie has posted
£lOOO and offers to fight the present world’s champion,
Jeffries, and, tailing him, sailor Sharkey, Gus. Ruhlin, or
Kid M‘Ooy in that order. “ 1 don’t care when the fight
takes place, and I don’t care who faces me,” says the
business-like man from these parts, “and if none of those
heavyweights care for the job, then the rest of the middle-
weights may come along and I’ll undertake to toe the
mark at middleweight limit.” This is as straight as that
auburn-haired freak’s disaster-bringing left.
* * * *
EkPremier N.S.W. middleweight Mick Dunn and
Vic. heavyweight Fred Preston, who has been yearning
for a cut at alleged champion Felix, are to meet at
Metrop. A.C. (Sydney) April 17—catch weights. Burly
Fred is no wonder in his division, while Mick occupies
the top rung of the 11.4 class—hence, Dunn should very
nearly come out a-top.
• * • *
Re Bulletin pars (24/3/’00) anent Australian
Mr. Mackintosh’s performance at Monte Carlo last
month. We have another here at least as good, if not
better, in Mr. A. E. Smith (“ Oashmore.”) lie beat
Mackintosh and others for the interprovincial champion-
ship two years ago, and still owns the honor.
Recently at N. Brighton (Vic.) he put up a performance
that will probably stand the assaults of years to come.
Shooting from the outside distance of 34yds. “Cashmore”
triumphed over 25 other competitors with three noms.
each and gathered in first money having 28 kills in front
of his name. Losing his third nom. early he survived 6
rounds on the second and carried the first right through,
grassing 38 birds of a possible 40. Mr. Snuth is a Vic.
native. As a wing shot he’s head and shoulders above
any other man in the provinces now, and might be
reckoned a “ cert.” to beat Mr. Mackintosh any time.
* » * *
Plunging champion of Bananaland, W. H.
Beattie, stayed under water lm. 6sec. after winning that
title. Later, aQ. sport wagered that the same man
couldn’t remain submerged 2jmins. Beattie won. ’Tis
said that he can do 31 mins. Senior-sergt. Parkinson, of
Ashfield (Sydney), put up a performance of 4mins. once ;
but was very rocky on his pins and dazed when he came
out.
* • * *
As it has been for years past, Balmain Swimming
Club’s two teams (A and B) fought out the final of N.S.W.
Amateur Swimming Association Water Polo Competition
on Saturday. “A ” team won (it invariably does) by 6
goals to 2. Other clubs take little or no interest in the
game; they never practise, and forfeits are plentiful.
The standard of play is much below that of 15 years back,
which suggests the question—why is this fixture tolerated
by the ruling bodj r ? The public won’t stand water-polo
as served up now, and all swimmers, bar Balmain men,
are full to the brim of it.
• » • •
Two out-of-the-way sprint performances were
put up at Sydney Cleveland-street Public School Swim-
ming Carnival on Saturday. “Mud” Bishop covered
90yds. in 55|sec., and got a special prize for the feat,
while Otto Kong Sing, erst schoolboy champion of the
province, easily threw same distance behind in 61, and
looked as if he could have squelched Mud’s time had it
been called for.
* • • •
‘‘ Q.” : Re the Marquis of Queensberry’s death
and the doubt expressed about him being the author of
the famous boxing-rules bearing his name. The recently
deceased Marquis knew very little about the game, but
his father, Lord Drumlanrig, was the best amateur of his
time. The late Mr. John Chambers, well - known as a
sculler, amateur boxer, editor of Land and Water (he
was the journalist who accompanied the late Capt. Webb
m his famous ’cross the Channel swim), was the real
°f the M.Q. rules. Chambers submitted them to
the Marquis, and requested the privilege of naming the
code after his title. They were brought into existence in
connection with the Queensberry Cup Competition at
Lime Bridge running-grounds.
♦ * * *
Streak ”: Never had an exalted opinion of
flat-chested, spindle-shanked cross-country runners as far
as physique was concerned ; almost invariably found that
the more limited the lung-play and the greater the
length of limb possessed, the more successful these
athletic freaks were. English military authorities have
been rejecting them freely as volunteers for the front.
Fifeshire athlete Blues were declared unfit for service
with the Fife Light Infantry through “ unsoundness of
wind ! —and yet promptly turned out and got away with
the Knkaldy Hamers’ 10 miles C.C.O. Another (Harcus)
of like brand wasn’t eligible because of “ weakness of the
chest ” ; this in face of the fact that the C.C.C. of the
Eastern District belonged to him
* * * *
Inter-association bowling - match—Metrop. v.
Northern—at Newcastle (N.S.W.), proved a big take-down
for the Sydney section, who looked upon the task as easy.
Home trundlers had the surplus points in three out of
four links ; Hannigan’s Redfern quartet was the only
one on the visiting side to score a win, and it beat
Silcock s four by 30 to 16. A particularly strong rink
(Reeder’s) from Balmain finished up worse than any other
having 43 to 13 notched against it. Totals—Northern’
118 ; Metrop., 84. Such a genuine surprise has rarely
been sprung in N.S.W. bowling.
“Bias”: There’s trouble over the personnel of
N.S.W. team for Interprovincial bowling match against
' ictoria. Champion City players, though having one
more rep. than any other of 13 clubs in the 32 chosen
and three more than some, have kicked over the traces
and withdrawn all their men who would allow themselves
to be withdrawn (three out of four) from the combina-
tion. The grievance is that they have been improperly
placed in the teams, and their green should be one of the
three favored. Committee responsible doesn’t see this.
Other clubs have just as good men, individually—and
there are several better greens. Besides, City has had a
lot of the “ fat ’ hitherto. This uncalled-for action will
hurt bowling generally, and tend to still further widen
the breach existing between City and most of the other
13 bodies forming N.S.W. B.A.
* * * +
Sydney Metrop. A.C. owns a capital piece of
clock-work mechanism that does away altogether with
the time-keeper at fig’llts, and lets the crowd see the cor-
rectness of this important part of the biz. for itself A
big bell operated by electricity clangs noisily at the end
of each round (3min.) and at the close of th® minute’s
space, while a large hand on a plainly visible dial tells off
the number of secs, a man is down. Writer has an idea
that this is the famous old York-street Club’s timing
clock in a new dress.
* * * *
Kosehill (Sydney) Club gave the public an
unusual item on Saturday in the form of a steeplechase.
Lady Lygon baulked at the first obstacle, lonian fell, and
Crusado won comfortably from Mist. Crusado only
arrived from Maoriland a few weeks since, so was not lona
in paying his passage.
* • » •
Three more Australian horses shipped to India
last week—Stand Off, Henry, and Scorn.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
ql S ’ and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 247 George-street, Sydney/
The faithful dog again. An old man died
m a Vic. country district, the other day, and
when found, was being devoured by his pack of dogs!.
The non-quarantining of Colonial Secre-
tary See’s business office in Sussex-street, Sydney,
will form a troublesome bone of contention when
N.S.W. Parliament meets.
Adelaide’s best-known family of journa-
lists, the Hookings, lost one of their number in
Kalgoorlie the other day—Percy, the youngest of
them, who died of pneumonia. He with a brother
and J. W. Kirwan established the Kalgoorlie
Miner, which has for three or four years been the
most awkward pea in Bigjohn’s boots.
Apropos “Cecil de Thierry's” statement
in English Illustrated Magazine that “Aus-
tralian fathers and husbands are actually so far
behind the times, and so selfish as to regard their
wives and daughters in the light of possessions
and to expect numerous duties which distinctly
are old fashioned,” “ Scotty the Wrinkler” writes:
“Cecil de Thierry ” must have seen my Melbourne land-
lord ; weight, 16st. ; weight of wife, Bst. The latter cuts
his tobacco, fills and lights his pipe. Wonder he does not
make her smoke it for him. He can’t put on a shirt with-
out the wife to button it. She ties his necktie, fetches
his stick and opens the door for him. She also scrub* him
in his bath.
Extract from letter from the Hielands :
Macpherson’s two sons and Sandy Chisholm’s son are
going with Lovat’s scouts to South Africa. They have
been at Beauly for the last fortnight learning to ride and
shoot. Alec. M. is aide to his father the merchant, and
his experience ranges from tracking the red herring to
its lair to wrestling with the wild pen’orth of goodies.
His brother Tonal has had actual experience of cauld
steel, being the legally-bound apprentice of Sandy Beg
the tailor, while Chisholm’s son has for years past been
professionally engaged in punching the murderous 21b.
loaf.
Be these the “ trained deer-stalkers and gillies,
unerring shots, and accustomed from infancy to
the hardy little ponies of their native hills ” of
which we read in the Jingo press ?
The most cheeky feature of Vic. postal
service is the 2d. letter-card, which is about
equal for purposes of correspondence to a
quarter of a sheet of note paper. The letter
card has a limited sale among citizens who can’t
find time for putting a sheet of paper into an
envelope, but inasmuch as it needs more licking
than an envelope it saves very little trouble. It
weighs about the sixth of an oz., and states in red
tape—“lf anything be enclosed in this letter-
card it will be treated as an insufficiently paid
letter” which is to say that being twice the
area and only half the thickness of an ordinary
penny post card the Postal Dept, charges the extra
penny for gumming and perforating it at the
edges.
London Daily News war-item :
Cooper, of the 19th Hussars, was on outpost duty, and
was wounded in the arm while shooting at the enemy
from behind a large rock. He remained at his post until
dark, and then rose with the intention of walking into
the camp, but in the darkness he mistook the road, and,
walking down the wrong side of the hill, was taken
prisoner. He was detained until the morning. His
wound was dressed and he was well looked after, and he
was sent back with a tin of jam and a box of chocolate.
The Australian papers print dozens of items like
this—in fact, the evidence supplied by British
soldiers in the field is practically all like this. And
then in the next paragraph the papers generally
get back to the old blood and butchery lie, and
say that the brutish inhumanity of the Boers puts
them outside the pale of civilised races.
“ Snarleyow ” : Premier Lyne and his col-
leagues, in quarantining several blocks of more-or-
less-plague-infected Sydney city buildings and
employing 1000 men to clean them up, made the
proviso that the 1000 were to be at once inoculated
with plague prophylactic, thus ensuring the men
being unable to do anything for one, or two, or
more, days after the operation. The 1000, too,
were to be lodged and fed in one of the
“ clean ” wharf-sheds in the dirty, infected
area, pigging together on the floor amidst
the mephitic vapors of,filthy Darling Harbor, ayid
with the foulness of the loathsome places they
have to clean clinging about their’ nevermhanged
clothes. It will be a miracle if an epidemic of
some sort does not break out among that 1000 men
selected, it is said, from the unemployed attending
the local Labor Bureau—men who are ill-nourished
and therefore ready to fall victims to any disease
that comes their way.
Elsewhere in this issue appears a portrait
of Mandarin Kong Yew Wai, formerly Minister
for Labor in the Imperial Chinese Executive but
who was expatriated by the all-powerful Dowager
Empress when she discovered that he was urging
(Tv p PPR et Emperor to favor state reforms on the
barbarian ” plan. Kong Yew Wai was, in fact,
marked down for punishment with boiling cal in
it, but managed to escape per medium of a British
man-o-war, and the enraged Empress “took it
his relatives, decapitating a number
of them. Since his banishment Kong Yew
Wai has devoted his time to the fomenting of
ail j a^ a * lon a ™°. n S s t bis compatriots in America
and Australasia in favor of reforms in the Flowery
Land, including the propping-iip of the tottering
ireacock throne with a mild introduction of
European methods of government, and in further-
ance of the propaganda he will arrive in Sydney in
a few weeks and deliver a series of addresses. He
will probably be accompanied by another re-
forming mandarin, Leung Kai Chew, who, before
. “° O E U P with thedangerous “forward movement”
m China had a nice “stiddy job” in the State
office, euphoniously called “ The Department of
Politeness to Foreign Nations.” Mr. L. K. Chew
apparently wanted to be altogether too polite to
foreign nations, and he left Pekin with his pigtail
streaming in the wind.


POINTS TO REMEMBER
for SMOKERS.
iLmii
KEEP YOUR PIPE CLEAN;
ROLL YOUR TOBACCO UP
CAREFULLY; LIGHT IT
WELL, AND SEE THAT
IT BURNS PROPERLY
FROM THE START. . ♦
THEN ALWAYS GET
DERBY
Tobacco.
This is the finest, both in flavor and manufacture,
in the universe. Nothing could possibly be better.
Smoke nothing but “ DERBY,” and you will always
get the maximum amount of pleasure out of your pipe
s
The modern j)rt Jewellery Co.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
ROTHERHAM WATCHES
COLD & SILVER ENCLISH lEVERS
We draw special attention to this line of Watches, which have been
Expressly Manufactured for US by the
Celebrated Firm of ROTHERHAM & SONS, London
We have also a great variety of other makes in American and English
Lever Watches in stock.
m~ jSk_ BOON FOR BOYS.
Our Cun Metal Boy’s " Collegian ” Lever, with Cun Metal Chain, 255.
BRITISH PIPES FOR THE
BRITISH EMPIRE.
luttuuimiui
l
■
V'
I
I «
X
Obtainable at ail
HI6H-CLASS TOBACCONISTS
J\
p
TS
re
”>
THU
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sole DistribOtiog AgeO*
for AGStralaSia . . •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney.
««Curryface ” : The percentage of deaths
from bubonic plague in India appears to be all
against the total-abstainer. The pnestly and
sacred Brahmins, non-alcoholic and vegetarians,
had a larger percentage of deaths among them
than the low-caste chuckler or mochee bootmaker,
who boozed and ate carrion; and the Mahomme-
dan who esohewed alcohol in favor of coffee and
water, went under more quickly than the Parsee
who tippled.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Two Maoriland School of Mines' ex-
students drop almost simultaneously into impor-
tant mainland billets —J. M. M‘Laren, as suc-
cessor to Q. Govt, geologist Jack, now of China;
and Alex. Purdie, as organiser of a Westralian
school of mines on the Adelaide model. M’Laren
is from the Thames school, Purdie from Otago.
The rapid progress made by Acetylene
Gas during the past year in the colonies speaks
volumes for the future of the industry. The
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., Sydney,
are prepared to give estimates for any kind of in-
door or outdoor lighting. The recent night-
cycling carnival was carried on by Acetylene
installed by this Co.*
“ David G.” on certain decaying substances :
John Norton’s recent indictment of Sydney Corporation
tip and the tip-fed cows is an old story well-known to all
who live near the Sydney common. It’s a pity John, who
has been an alderman for over a year, never before found
out the abomination. Better late than never, however,
though the denunciation would have been more effective
had it come from someone else —say from that medical
Alderman and M.L.A. who interjected that the hospital
poultices are “ supposed to be burned,” and then made a
rambling speech for the defence. Nothing could better
show the imbecility and helplessness of the whole
aldermanic gang than the way it went about trying
to find a substitute for its beloved dirt-heap,
and at last hit on the idea of lightering the
rubbish to sea, if it could find a lighterman to take the
job. The aldermen have had the whole question before
them for years, during which they have been coquetting
with various “destructors." They had no difficulty in
making up their minds about buying an organ, hiring an
organist with whom they can’t agree, and building
£600,000 worth of markets. All these things are
luxuries with which Sydney could very well dispense for
years to come; but the crying need for a furnace or
furnaces in which the rubbish of Sydney could be burned in
a civilised fashion is ignored. The truth is that though
Sydney wears clothes it isn’t civilised. Itdoesn’t put an un-
duly high value on beads and brass wire, but it loves the
gaudy and meretricious in art and architecture. It will run
miles after a brass band, not caring a straw whether it is
playing in tune or not. It went mad over the distinction of
having the biggest organ, and now its people are just as
wild as a tribe of Solomon Island head-hunters at the idea
of sending out their braves to fight for laurels, and
bring back dead Boers’ teeth as trophies. Now we see in
this affair of the corporation tip what a very thin veneer
(or is it varnish T) of civilisation has been laid over the
corporation, which is supposed to represent the wealth,
intelligence, and science of Sydney—dirty, diseased, ill-
built, and ill-paved Sydney.
A CLEVER GIRL
Will always speak with enthusiasm of “D.C.L.”
Whisky after her “boy” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. A nip of “D.G. L. ” causes him to sparkle. *
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
YOU CAN ’ T PUT THE OCEAN INTO A tea-cup
neither can we record all the novel points of the
“IMPERIAL BICYCLE”
in this advt. Full lines for 1900 now open.
Agents wanted where not represented already in Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand. Before buying a new wheel,
drop us a post-card for catalogue and factory prices.
Machines soiled, all of well-known makes, fitted new
Dunlop tyres, selling for a song ; have a list of them, too.
Repairs, Sundries, Dunlop Tyres.
THE “DUCK” BRAKE FITS ANY BICYCLE.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole General Agents in Australasia for “ IMPERIAL ”
Bicycles.,
P
iifiiiiiir'iiiininiri
in-nji-rTTir-i
t7\OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
At Poverty Point.
At a recent Australian first-night, somebody looked so
long on the wine when it was red that he left out a
whole 9cene, and the audience woke up in the middle of
the night to wonder what had become of So-and-So in the
play.
“ Sidelight ” : Clay Clements should dress his hair dif-
ferently if he wishes to impress Sydney audiences. The
geometrical precision of that scalp-line up the centre of his
head recalls the hidden-away portraits of our mothers’
school-friends. Clay’s hair is always in the way. Thus
in his denunciation of Leah—his great chance—one’s
attention, which should be riveted upon the actor’s words,
is really centred on his painful efforts to keep that hair
out of his eyes. Clay should “ git ’is 'air cut f”
A once-pretty and popular Sydney actress is now living
with a Chinese market-gardener up North.
One of the alleged “ bushmen ” volunteering for the
Vic. Imperial detachment was, last week, caught in the
act of shoving his horse’s ears through the rings of the
bit. Also, every other bushman in the contingent yells
“ Over 1 ” loudly to his prad as he rides up to the hurdles,
in the jumping test. Many of them seepi to have
derived their knowledge of bush Ufe from G. Darrell’s
or Bland Holt’s dramas, to say nothing of the wild fast-
nesses of Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Charles Arnold is advertising ahead on the Patriotic
racket. His advt. is one of the most conspicuous on the
Throne from the Australian outlook. Manager Lohr is
carefully strewing the country with pars, about Arnold’s
fruit luncheons for the Australians in Africa. Oast your
fruit upon the waters !
Dear Bulletin. —That talented Australian citizen, late
G. B. Allen, did not die “ neglected and unknown ”
(B. “ Red Page," 10/2/’OO). His reputation as a composer
was made before the Gilbert and Sullivan operas were
heard of. His “Castle Grim,” book by R. Reece, is, in
fact, the archetype of modern comic opera —nonsense
without burlesque. Another composition of his was “The
Galway Rose,” a rollieking, Irish domestic opera, first
staged, I believe, in Manchester. In his younger days,
Allen organised and ran an opera co. of his own through
Australia and the East. Loveday, Irving’s well-known stage-
manager, was his first violin, and “Private Secretary”
Thornton first faced the footlights in a thinking part in the
co. ■ Allen’s last work for the stage was an operetta in con-
junction with a Queensland writer. This was promptly
accepted by a backblock co., whieh repaired to its native
fastnesses without leaving its address, and its doings
the press recordeth not. Allen’s songs have often been
sung by Sims Reeves, and other leading singers, and an
anthem of his is rendered weekly in St. Paul’s. His
“ Little Bird so sweetly Singing ” is a favorite with Amy
Sherwin ; and when the prima-donna was last in Bris-
bane the composer and singer appeared, hand in hand,
on the platform in response to a vociferous call. Allen
used to say that for musical purposes a song depended on
the first two lines, and that without touching words it
was impossible to compose touching music. An exception
he made in the case of Balfe, “ to whom it was indifferent
whether he worked upon the Newgate Calendar or the
Psalms of David.” I have known Allen decline to hear his
own songs sung, with the remark, “ I don’t want to hear
the things murdered.”— Ciiaput.
According to Amy Castles’ mother, just returned from
Paris, Marchesi describes Amy Castles’ voice as “ magnifi-
cent and perfect.”
“ Skull ” : The passing of “ Widow O’Brien ” at Melb.
Royal was a welcome event, for the reason that the latter
end of the show was about the least ingeniously-devised
variety-entertainment yet dished up to Melbourne. There
was absolutely no fun. on the Bristol, the humor of the
comedy-farce being exhausted in Mrs. O’Brien’s villa, and
the whole thing contracting n fearful sickness imme-
diately it touched ship-board. But stay, that after-part
was fiendishly comical in vagrant spots whilst Sheridan
in a hermaphroditic disguise recited serious poetry at a
series of living pictures. Since haggard man with un-
clipt talons first began to comb rhymes out of his long
jj a j r never has worse poetry been made than the patriotic
s | o ps with which Sheridan introduced those unfortunate
scen es. The poetry was longer than the pictures, and
sounded like the desolate maunderings of lunacy induced
by over-indulgence in “ Absent-Minded Beggar ” and
squalid patter-rotic songs of local origin.
Melb. Princess’s Bio-Tableau (yet another alias tor the
cinematograph) is a big patriotic success for the reason
that it enlarges Tommy Atkins to about three times his
natural size, and an army of pants comes pounding across
tri SZnl It
SDOtj B>HU HlftliGS fcllG lltuGF RUCI Giirly UGStniCtlOH 01 LllG
Boers inevitable. When the Scotchmen-several of whom
are 18ft high _ Bwagger by, each with the stride of a
o o i OSS us of Rhodes, the people gasp and say, “ Oh 1 ” and
« Ae j» and won der the Gordons did not pound the Boers
into sausage material with their own kopjes.
“ Youth ’’ serves to show up its old and moth-eaten
morality as even a more rugged and dilapidated affair
than before. When “ Youth ” was first staged the good
girl, who is gently led to the door to escape the contami-
S*f» %' «»' -»o want, to rant a ho««,
SStoSyEESI. ElXt
able of marrying a poor girl instead of merely seducing
her. Whether from this cause or from the effect of Edith
Crane’s terrible machine-made laugh, Thomas Kingston
s i o wly stiffens from ardent wooer to wooden soldier, ad-
vancing towards his sweetheart with a South African
march, and asking her love in the tone of one requiring
the garrison to surrender. The Relief of Kimberley is
really the best thing in the show, or would be if the man
who sings the two songs of 100 verses each could be blown
up at about the 13th verse.
Mrs. Brown-Potter, a vision in kharki and scarlet, recited
Kinlimr’q Hnpqnmp “ Rpfrcrar ” one pvpnino* rpppnflv at
Ba^h (Eng.), and received the usual shower of coin. Then
she P ut the little tambourine up to auction, and the price
ran up to £l7 and stuck fast, whereupon Cora Urquhart
announced that if £2O were bid she would kiss the bidder.
For a tirae there were no takers > but at last a sadd,e-
colored geminan, called Jhamsetji Something, stepped
forward with a toothy smile and the necessary £2O, and
w r, 1 • in u n ir»?rm, x „
P ’ « av « b,m a fnn helpmg of tender endearment,
The caretaker of Fuller s Waxworks (Christchurch,
M.L.) was listening to two strangers in 1 His Lordship’s
Larder” having a heated argument re Kruger. Suddenly
to their astonishment he broke in with : “ I can’t stand
that old beast. I hate him so much that I haven’t dusted
him for three weeks.” There is an effigy of Oom in
Fuller’s collection—an undusted effigy at present,
Henry Burton, the old circus showman and onetime
capitalist, who died at Melbourne Dramatic Home t’other
day, left at least one bit of property behind him. Dan
Fitzgerald, the last time he was in Melbourne, presented
the poor old fellow with a capital arm-chair,
Promoters and managers of benefit shows are advised
to study the balance-sheet of the Police Carnival given at
Melbourne Exhibition Building in aid of the Down with
Kruger and the Boers fund. Receipts from sale of tickets,
£2092. Expenses, £123 3s. 3d.
“ F.R.”: The Sunday-school catechism is a necessary
text-book for the creed problemists of the stage. In
“ ihe Jewess,” at Sydney Royal, a portion of the Lord’s
Prayer is dragged into the Angelus. The Angelus was
instituted 30 years before the Lord’s Prayer was ever
heard of. That was when Jerusalem was golden. It
might interest the Royal stage-manager to know that the
Angelus is tolled in nine strokes with pauses after every
three, and then fifteen strokes continuously. All of this
has its significance, whereas the irregular ding-dong that
goes on at the Royal savors strongly of the ludicrous.
Cold sarcasm in Dan Barry’s advt. of the “ Kelly Gang
when that horror was recently produced at Ipswich (Q.) j
“ The drama of the ‘Kelly Gang’ to be staged to-mght
has not the slightest resemblance to any piece of the
same name which may have been played here in a tent.
The Saturday-night gods at Melbourne Alexandra are
probably the most youthful lot of 500 playgoers to be
found in any theatre-gallery in the wide world. The
average age of their cheerful laughter doesn’t sound a day
older than 14. And they do laugh. When Hamlet affects
to mistake Polonius for a fishmonger those boys simply
roar. Heaven knows what would happen if the gloomy
Prince were to accuse the old weariness of keeping a tripe-
shop.
Extract re the madness of Hamlet from Dampier’s
theatre-programme: “Shakespeare was too great an
artist and too earnest a teacher to express his loftiest
thoughts and his subtlest speculations through the mouth
of an irresponsible being.” Nonsense ! Thoughts as
lofty and speculations as subtle have been given to the
world by avowed madmen. Shakespeare knew of, and
noted, the near alliance of genius and insanity, a.n
alliance so near that it is often difficult to say which is
which. Hamlet-may have been a deliberate artistic ex-
emplification of a condition so common that Lombroso
has almost established it as a law.
“ T.D.”: Like so many others, Johnny Sheridan had
aspirations towards tragedy, and, unlike most, he would
have been a success, if his forceful recitation of “ Eugene
Aram ” goes for anything.
An ex-N.S.W. rabbit-inspector asks why
the rabbit-specific—bisulphate of carbon —-has not
been tried on the rats. He asserts that it would
effectually destroy them —fleas and all.
Lord Roberts is getting a sweet collection
of cablegrams. After his entry into Bloemfontein
he was rewarded with this:
Australian girls heartily congratulate you. God bless
you and your brave soldiers. (Signed) Methodist Ladies*
College, Hawthorn, Melbourne, Victoria.
The Bulletin is glad to be able to
announce that Mr. S. T. Whidden, M.L.A. for
Cook Division, Sydney city, is now out of danger.
Mr. Whiddon was suffering from bleeding of the
retina, and after 13 weeks of exquisite agony the
affected optic had to be removed to save the sight
of the other and obviate the imminent risk of fatal
results.
Richard Thomas Hooker, of Singleton
(N.S.W.), celebrated his 100th birthday bjr a
gatliering in the local church, the other day. Five
generations were present, and the ancient “ re-
cited a set of verses he had learnt in his twelfth
year.” When a man nears the century he remem-
bers much more clearly the things that happened
in his childhood than those which occurred the
month before last.
Curious that that ghastly story of the
Queensland woman who wanted to get rid of her
newly-born infant, and persuaded her 13-year-old
daughter to burn it alive, should have made hardly
a noticeable ripple on the mental surface of the
community. Australia is profoundly shocked at
very , much smaller atrocities some thousands of
miles away.
The shooting at Harrismith of the Scotch-
man, M‘Lachlan, for refusing to serve against
Britain when commandeered, has been made the
theme of Jingo diatribes innumerable, and several
Australian bards have written stirring poems
thereon. And now it turns out that Chamberlain
publicly stated in the Commons that he could
find no foundation for the story. And he ought
to know.
Henry Dodds, director of Broken Hill
Block 10, B.H. North, Silverton Tram, and other
gilded co.’s, who died lately in Melb., had just
such a fatal illness as scores of miners have. It
dated from Gov. Beauchamp’s visit to 8.H., when
Dodds was among the banqueters. Coming out
of the hot room at midnight he struck the same
dry, cold, piercing air which cuts into the miner
every night as he comes out of the shaft from hot
and often hot-and-wet workings. For every miner
killed by lead at Broken Hill, at least half -a-dozen
go under before pneumonia and other rapid lung-
diseases.
Benalla (Vic.) Shire Councillors put up a
record for honesty by deciding to apply the shire
funds only to those purposes for which the rates
are collected, and resolved that any Absent-
minded Beggarism must be done by private
subscription. But the relief of Ladysmith came
about, and Brownjones hoisted the only flag in
the place, and Smithjones, not to be outdone, hung
out nis wife’s gaudiest petticoat, and the fire-bell
clanked and the church-bell clanged, and to keep
up the “dignity” of the town the twelve wise
men broke their good resolve, and sent Roberts a
£5 congratulatory cable. It would be interesting
to know what a dog-tired general said about
Benalla when he got the message.
H. C. Lingham, of Melbourne, who dedi-
cated a rather awful “Threnody” to Lord
Kitchener, has been made happy by the receipt of
an autograph letter from that square-jawed war-
rior. Also the Queen has, by deputy, graciously
returned thanks for a copy of the little volume.
Mr. Lingliam’s Threnody relates to the “ Last
Hours of General Gordon’s Lion Heart at Khar-
toum,” of f& Kitchener gets the dedication for being
the Resurrector of British Supremacy thereabouts.
All things considered, The Bulletin would
advise Lingham to lay a poem re the Australian
Contingents upon the altar of Joe Chamberlain,
and apply by letter for a C.M.G.-ship.


NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
A RECORD. —We sold
5003 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. COLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Pavment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED; FULL-
e!
as
\
Ya
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money jis
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
LADIES !
"“""T Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales
Barbers’ Supply
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
't'
c=>
OLD
RNS
ac
SUNBU,
FIMg
tS>
HA
le. C
vT
2^Vr
Y
p *o
_^'ETORS
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering g|jgß^sY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY ;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
La Grippe’s Antics.
VIOLENT PALPITATION.
Two Days’ Treatment Effects
A PERFECT CURE.
The Case of
Mrs. C. CARTER and FAMILY,
(by our special.)
Every springtime, for several year past,
when the parks are yellow with dandelions,
large numbers of Adelaide residents are
attacked with a distressing malady known
locally by the varied terms, “influenza,”
“ dandelion fever,” and “hay fever.” With
the utmost impartiality it attacks both high
and low, emptying both the factory and the
halls of Parliament. Medical science strug-
gles vainly with the disease ; in fact, the
doctor and his family are often amongst the
first victims. We were, therefore, very
pleased to hear that Mrs. Arthur Carter, of
Pulsford-road, Prospect, Adelaide, had found
a successful remedy for this dire complaint.
On being interviewed by a reporter, this lady
very kindly related her experience :
“ It was last spring, just about this time ;
the fields were all yellow with flowers, when
I had my four children all laid up at the
same time with influenza.”
“Can you tell me their symptoms, Mrs.
Carter ? ”
“ They were very bilious, with that sort
of feeling as though they wanted to be
sick and retch up, and yet could not do so.
They had no appetite at all —I could not
tempt them to eat with any dish I set before
them. Their mouths were nasty, with a
white coat over the tongues. There was a
croupy cough from the chest, and phlegm
always coming up. A drawing-in pain in
the stomach, like a fainting coming over
you. Round under their jaws their necks
were all swollen up as though they had the
mumps. Of course, I had them all in bed,
and the youngest, my little girl, was in such
a state of fever that she became quite de-
lirious. And I noticed 'hat they all turned
yellow in the face —quite a greenish yellow.”
“Did you send for a doctor, Mrs. Carter ?”
“ No. I have always tried to avoid doc-
tors ; and besides, I had been strongly ad-
vised by a friend of mine to try a remedy
she had the utmost faith in : and that, I
may tell you, was Clements Tonic. I gave
all my children a course of that remedy.”
“ What was its effect ? ”
“ First, it sent the children off into a good,
sound sleep ; and when they awoke, it was
with a good appetite and a much-improved
appearance. After that their cure was so
rapid that in two days they were quite well.
There was no sign of biliousness, white-
coated tongues, croupy cough, or swollen
necks ; the skin was the natural colour-, and
the feverishness had quite gone. You can
imagine my feeling of joy, and my thankful-
ness to Clements 'I onic.”
“ But I hear, Mrs. Carter, that you have
personally derived signal benefit from Cle-
ments Tonic. Will you kindly tell me about
that ? ”
“ That is true ; but I wished to tell you
about the children first. My own trouble
was chiefly a violent palpitation of the heart.
I made sure I was gelting heart disease ; it
would thump, thump, thump, like a wheel
in an engine with a missing cog. The pain
of it would seize my chest, and almost choke
me for want of breath.”
“ What were your other symptoms ? ”
“Indigestion, with a heavy pain above
the stomach. I have often thought this
arose from my drinking so much tea, and
for that reason I now make my tea much
weaker in strength, and drink less. I had
a sharp, piercing pain between the shoulders.
There were times when this pain came to me
Buddenly, without warning, like a dagger
being driven into my back It would cause
me to scream out, and be for the time quite
helpless. Another trouble was my chest;
there a pain like bronchitis racked and tore
me with a burning soreness all over my
lungs. I would cough and cough as though
striving to bring up all the flesh and blood
in my inside. As you may have guessed,
proper rest was quite out of the question.
No position would give me comfort —it was
move and turn all the time, and I was fright-
fully irritable and nervous. My mind was
in a constant fear of some trouble happening,
and restless with a dread that could not be
allayed. As nearly as I can describe it, I
felt as I think a criminal would feel who
was in momentary expectation of being ar-
rested by the police, knowing at the same
time all escape was impossible.”
As the reporter listened to Mrs. Carter’s
vivid description of one of the severest symp-
toms of nervous disorder, and noted her
present ample and matronly figure, hearty
with vigour and good health, her experience
appeared even more extraordinary than it
does when set out in cold type.
“D d you consult a medical man on your
own behalf, Mrs. Carter 1 ” enquired the
reporter.
“ Luckily, I did not,” replied Mrs. Carter;
“my troubl s, though severe, were of short
duration ; for, knowing the virtues of
Clements Tonic, I was quick to try that
remedy, and, as in the case of my children,
the effect on my sy s em was rapid and magical.
My heart ceased to trouble me by throbbing,
my indigestion gave place to good appetite, I
slept well, losing the fearful mind worry ;
and my chest and lungs, that had been sore
to suffocation with the r morseless cough, be-
came eased and quiet; and the stabbing
pain in the back between the shoulders never
came again.”
“ And how long was Clements Tonic in
effecting this great change ?"
“ Only a few days. You will remember
I took it very quickly after my trouble
began, and no doubt this hastened my cure,
saving me much pain and expense.”
“ There is a great moral lesson to be
drawn from what you have told me, Mrs.
Carter—a lesson that should go to the heart
of every mother and suffering woman in
the land. May I tell them ?”
“ If you really think so, and wish to pub-
lish what I have said,” replied Mrs. Carter,
“ you are quite welcome to do so, and in
any way you may deem best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Carolink Cartkr. of Pulsford lload, Prospect,
Adelaide, in the Province of South Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
rend the annexed document, consisting- of four tolios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any manner
my statements—which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the sixth year of the reiyn of his late
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled, “ An Act
to repeal an Act of this present Session of Parliament,
intituled, “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the State, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more entire
B „ U J^ reH ! lon of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and
Affidavits, and to imke other provisions for the
abolition of unnecessary Oaths.”’
Declared and subscribed at Prospro", in the Pro
vince of South Australia, this 2(Hh <i.«y of October,one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
HENRY D. BRIDLE, J.P,
IMTPORTjfVMX -A-3XT3XrC3XTJ\rCJE!HfI:3E33Xr*r !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1846.
All Articles of Good Quality-
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., 8s roll; Mixed Paints,
from 3d lb. ; Copper Hollers, 25 gallons, weighing
361 b., Is lb. ; Iron Sinks, ss; Earthenware Sinks,
suitable for poultry feeding, from 5s ; Winnowers,
20s ea. ; Seed Sowers, 2s Gd and 255; Fruit Col-
lectors, 10ft. handles, ss; Soft Soap, in lcwt.
packages, 10s cwt. ; Terra Cotta Color, in lcwt.
packages, 9s cwt. ; Beater Plates for Threshing
Machines, 3s Gd pair; 500 tons Bolts and Nuts,
up to 30in. long, Coach Screws, 4x §, 9s cwt. ;
Bolts and Nuts, 0 to 18 x 13-8, 9s cwt. ; Dynamite,
case lots, Is lb; Fuze, per case of 500 coils, 4£d
coil; Buggy Poles, 2s Gd ea. ; Hobbles, Is pair;
Cruppers, Is ea. ; Galvanised Gutter and Ridge
Cap, slightly touched, 8d per 6ft. length ; Horse
Shoes, 20s cwt. ; Horse Shoe Iron, Hx g,
Ix 7-16, 9s cwt. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, 9s cwt. ;
Globe Nails, slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Sewing
Twine, taking lcwt., Gd lb. ; Bullock Bows, Id lb.;
Snaring Wire, 3d lb. ; slightly damaged Mattress
Wire, 10s cwt. ; Mould Boards, Is Gd ea. ; Plough
Shares, 10s doz.; Chaff Knives, 12s doz. ; a line
of Light, Strong, Wrought-Iron Piping, 3i to Bin.,
about 13 lengths of each size and fittings, £l2O the
lot; Ingersoll’s Rock Drills, hand-power, £9 ea. ;
Plough, Bullock, Trace Chains, 2d lb. ; Varnish
in 4-gallon tins, good quality, 20s per tin ; a few
coils Steel Wire Rope and Steel Truck Wheels,
up to 30in. ; Galvanised Signal Wire and Galva-
nised Rigging Wire, 22s cwt. ; Rifles, 7s Gd and
10s ; Pin-fire Revolvers, 6s ; Single-barrel Guns,
15s; Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, 30s ;
Weighing Machines, 4cwt., £4; Wood and Coal
Scales, £2 10s.
Importers of all descriptions of Builders’, Contrac-
tors’, Engineers’, Blacksmiths’, Plumbers’, Casfitters’,
Cabinetmakers’ and Painters’ Material—CH H t PEST
PRICES.
John Macintosh&Sons
WHOLESALE & RETAIL IRONMONGERS,
307,321, 276, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
D.S .MAI R
S p
WATCH REPAIRS BY ST.
Cleaning, Regulating, and Guaranteed One Year, 2/6.
Rest New Mainspring, 2/6. D. S. MAIR having fitted his
centrally-situated workshop with the Latest Modern Tools
and Appliances, and having made it an inviolable rule to
employ only first-class workmen, respectfully solicits the
patronage of all people residing in the country. Pack
your watch securely in a small cardboardbo'C, and enclose
3/- The watch will then be cleaned, t med in two posi-
tions, and returned per registered post without delay.
No over charges. One trial solicited.
D. S. MAIR, 684 George Street, Sydney.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
| of the blood,and ena-
blingtlii' constitution
to resist climatic
influences. *
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
I Highly recommended
, for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- I */* fca* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blachen the teeth.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS ALL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia. '
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
/ '
ill
m
fA.
m
%
<3»
4^<
Kgi
vv-
“MONTSERRAT w LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholejome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents *
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co. ;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
Fishin’.
(Beino the true story of a valued Bulletin bard
at present laid up.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T am writing this in bed,
With a bandage round my head,
A leg in splints, a dislocated toe ;
And my face together tacked,
1 11 a style not too exact—
And all because a-fishin 5 1 would go.
I am living in Balmain,
Where they blast out street and lane,
And houses roost on ledges where they wish ;
And I thought it would be fine
To go forth and throw a line,
And show the local anglers how to fish.
I was standing on the edge
Of an old, brown sandstone ledge,
And flung the line with such enthusiasm
That I flung myself also
From the ledge—a mile or so
I think it was in depth, that awful chasm.
That’s why I write in bed,
With a bandage round my h ad,
A leg in splints, a dislocated toe;
And my face together tacked,
In a style not too exact —
And all because a-fishin’ I would go.
I’ve had warning, I must own,
Just to let this sport alone :
It’s often brought me close to Kingdom Come.
Once I went with Pat Magee ;
We inverted in the sea
And nearly drowned—and lost a jar of rum.
I was wrecked at George’s Head,
And they gave me up for dead,
Until they poured some whisky down my t’ roat.
Then, of course, I woke and swore
I would ne’er go fishin’ more—
And next day I was fishin’ from a boat!
I have choked beneath the wave—
Where I thought to find a grave—
And felt the ocean seething in my brain.
I have seen the bubbles rise,
Many-hued like shining eyes—
And after all have come to life again.
I have lost a fortune, too,
For the lady loved me true,
And said she’d make me rich when we were wed;
And I promised I would meet
Her one evening fair and sweet,
But joined a fishin’ company instead.
I suppose it’s in the blood ;
For I used to grope in mud
For worms, and get most shockingly defiler l ,
And my father, so ’tis said,
Used to take his bait to bed
When he, too, was a young and guileless child.
There are men who charge their Fall,
And their going to the wall,
To drink, or cards, or evil company—
But I’ve no such fine excuse
For my journey to the deuce :
’Twas fishin’—simply fishin’—ruined me.
CREEVE ROE.


Hi" RaSSnjCiSSco’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
, _ , Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
i Great Cure at the ivanhoe H to ol)taill “Alfaline Guide to Health ’’-Free.
Mine. 1 I
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Hkkß RABBJ4TTBSRN.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
1 suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for aome of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and 1 am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and It has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. 1 have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as 1 know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as mj photo.
Yours truly, O. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rabsmussbn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that sinep using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and 1 will do the same to all whom I hear
oomplaining oi rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
176 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. 1 was thug in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit- as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify. —Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Hbrr Rabsmussrn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfalir Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
' TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
3tn. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Hbrr Rassmussbn, Sydney.—Dear Sir,— Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, TilOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribkrt.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
647 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
m
i
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Alfaune VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete OtareforaU
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Unt
no matter how or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 12s. posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d„ posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s od.
fl IF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin BOXES, Double
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powertul
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BbOOl) and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patron .« of Herr Ra**-
mussen’s A Ifaline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised !_
agents which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
Herr Kassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent AI edicine
dealers for the genuine
All aline Remedies.
7 A REWARD
will he given for in-
"formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSTOUSSeiL
whether you send to liis Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
APVK€ FREE.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIkAN,
’'tie well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street Sydney, states, on ot.th, how his
shattered nervous system wan completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
nm
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
gtreet, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas 1 suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all if no avail
Whereas 1, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass
mussrn’s Pcrslt Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 20th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS. Justice of the Peaoe.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not onl) in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, os. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil- Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder
ful Remedy for t oughs. Colds, > onsumption, Hron.-hitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure aud
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any-
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed'
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and>
Freckles, and wo"derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual;
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidnev Affections; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Read Office - 547 GEORGE ST.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
sysnsy,
n
91 Lamb ton Quay
M.Z.. WELLINGTON
PERTH, W.A. jJay-streat (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGAEDIE Bailey-st. (naact Freamaaon Hotel)
ZALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindelTs, Jewellev)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite F O.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street}


Miss Jessie B. Campbell writes from
Bega, N.S.W.
In your issue (10 3 ’00) you say in-
corro ‘tly that the late YV. T. Campbell, of the Bega Free
1 rkss, died in Bega, Hospital. Mr. Campbell died at the
r .f ,<l ‘ nce °* bis son-in-law, near Bega. During his long
illness he was nursed by his daughters, and was never at
any time in hospital.— Jessie B. Campbell.
A revolting tale from Liverpool, N.S.W. :
Editor Bulletin.— Re the rapid increase in cancer and
other horrors. Up here we have emptying into George’s
iuver the drainage from the woolwash, from the Sydney
paper-mills, and from the railway station latrines; and
from the Benevolent Asylum wash-house, where are
washed the clothes from the consumptive ward, and were
was.led, until a few weeks back, the clothes from the can-
cer ward. Also, there are at present floating about a
couple of dead pigs, and some time back there was taken
u , r ' ver wpse of a suicided cancer patient,
whi h had been for days in the water. No wonder that
the sand has 6in. of black slime on it, and that the water
would almost pass for ink. Yet right from this part of
the river they are every day carting away the alleged
sand for use, I ani informed, upon or adjacent to the
works of the Sydney water-supply ? As for the Benevo-
' en f' Asylum itself, there is no urinal for the cancer-ward,
and the water from the baths flows into a tank, and is
thence pumped over ground accessible to cattle—a dairy
being close by. The nightsoil also is thrown into a pit
and left uncovered, and the cotton-lint used by cancer
patients is left lying around for the sparrows to use for
nesting purposes. That they do so use it, I have had
ocular demonstration.—Locus.
“0.P.” discourseth of public liars :
No sensible nation ever expected itself to think to any
great extent, because a thinking animal can’t possibly be
a working animal, and vice versa , and it takes so much
work to hunt up the necessary food and rent and things
that most people have no time left for anything else. To
meet the case was invented the thing called dailv-journal-
lsni, which undertook to do the most of the public’s
thinking and supply the result on paper at a low figure.
But it soon started ham-shops, importing-houses, and
other things and began to tell the poor old public that
ham-pies were good for indigestion, and an open port
good for the country, and that the old public himself was
the backbone of the country—all because the poor old
chap was soft, and it wanted him to buy its things at a
high figure and look pleasant. And the fool-public
believed it and did what it told him, and it got
fatter and wealthier and he got thinner and poorer,
an i- . wenfc on for 80 many years telling lies and
getting fatter and wealthier and developing a dislike for
poor thin persons, that untruthfulness and fat and a dis-
like for p.t. persons became constitutional with it. So
the small splinter of conscience that had pricked it occa-
sionally in the older and thinner days vanished so utterly
* P?°l' le now believe it ever had such a thing.
And the things that daily journalism has got to telling
poor thin persons now are so false, and mean, and mis-
leading, and the cause of so much poverty and ignorance
a.nd crime, that d has become necessary to suppress the
said daily journalism if only for the sake of the children.
1 consequently propose that any person making in print
or in a public place a statement of any kind which is sub-
sequently proven to be' false shall be imprisoned for not
less than six months. This would apply also to the plat-
™™ ancator ’ e “ guinea-pig and his prospectus,
lb® Madame Palnuste ” (alias Murphy, of Surry Hills)
the our reporter” who procures the “ Remarkable
Kouser testimonial from the woman in the “picturesque”
house, the huckster whose goods are “ absolutely below
cost, and other frauds too numerous to mention. But
worst of all is the affluent “great daily” that urges the
toiler to vote for the wrong man, misrepresents and libels
tne toflers best friends, and persuades him to desert the
missus and kids and lay down his life for his worst enemies.
TRY
ELLIS’S
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOB TAPE
MEASUBE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
•VV.'..
c
\yITH an ordinary tape measure determine the width
' y round the joints AA. round the instep 88, round heel
00, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price*
mn
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
JO MEASURE
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS & CO., 686 George St.,
Sydney , , BRICKFIELD HILL.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
l?^. l d ar , a , ntecd t 0 Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT
Can be Riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co '
38 Elizabe* h si r et, SYDNEY. ’’
“A.X”: Re “Eller’s” par. (B. 3/2/’00)
on ant paths. Ants don’t wear those tracks—
they make them. They pick the easiest route, and
cut down grass, and clear off all sticks, leaves, &c.,
and keeping the road is an easy matter afterwards.
|t/| 188 . NATHAN, Clairvoyante Palmist.
Scientific Studio, Otis Chambers, 82 Kino Street,
SYDNEY. JSf” Charaotcr Revealed from handwriting.
Delineations sent by post to country and other colonies.
Send letter, with fee, 2s. 6d., to above address.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
PJ G. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
N.S. W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony. Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’ssuitsof Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes (with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 425. are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 60s. Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 5/s. 6d, and 055.; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 455., and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 665. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 35., made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
Amusements.
DALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of ihe Sydney Lledertafel.
SATURDAY (81st MARCH) SATURDAY
And Following Week,
LADY DOLLY
An entirely New and Original Romantic Opera.
By ALFRED HILL and MARGORY BROWNE.
PRICES—Ss., 38., 25., Is. v Plan at PALING’S.
JOHN LAURE, Hon. Business Manager.
"THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
" Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
A Magnificent Reception. An Enthusiastic Audience.
EVERY EVENING!
11 When the Lamps are Lighted.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MOLLY SULLIVAN.
GRACIE WHITEFORD as TILLY RAFFERTY.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson
Business Manager .. Mr. Gbo. Tallis.
Treasurer Mr. R. Stewart.
Curtain Rises 7.45 Sharp.
GREAT : ANNUAL : SPECTACULAR : PANTOMIME,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Written by Bernard Espinasse. Music by Leon Caron
and F. W. Wen ter.
Realistic Battle Scenes and Tableaux. Grand Ballet, etc.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
—To obtain a True Reading of your
. uharacter > Ben< i Specimen of your Writing, with 6
twopenny stomps, also a stamped envelope, addressed
for reply. Address Graphology, Box 1168, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
H E ?, I '? AJEBTY ’ B THEATRE, BYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Youth -/ZiyZL: Youth
The Famous Military Drama, revised and brought
up to date by Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. tar PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
" „ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Sfewart, Senior.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE NANCE O’NEIL
SEASON.
l nigh£sT &g Woffington.
Miss O’NEIL as PEG WOFFINGTON.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
MONDAY NEXT, 2nd APRIL,
Return to Sydney, for NINE WEEKS only, of the
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
FIRST PRODUCTION HERE OF
‘ TZETIE ULIIF’IE].”
An Original Comedy, by Louis N. Parker.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Every Evening:! Every Evening:!
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in an Entirely New, Original, Sensational, Patriotic,
Romantic Drama, entitled
DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
In 4 Acts and 9 Tableaux, by Charles Darrell.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, 3YDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS of THE MINTONS.
Farewell appearances of SPRY and AUSTIN.
LUDWIG AMANN & THE MACARTE SISTERS.
Francie Adler, Chas. W. Cogill, Tod Calloway, Fanny
Powers, Phil Goer, and all our Great Tivoli Attractions.
SAME TIVOLI PRICES. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enormous Success in Melbourne of
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquante Comedienne.
CHAS. SEEL, Leading: English Comedian,
Mia* MAUD NEEDHAM. 8 NEWSKY FAMILY 8
PROF. DAVY’S MARIONETTES. TOM BROWNE.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, POPE and SAYLES, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
H, NEWMAN’S Novelties in Jewellery.
No. 170. —Pearl and
Amethyst Pendant, 15ct.
Gold, £2 15s.
ff:
No. 171. —Heart Pendant,
1 Pearl or Opal,
9ct., 12s 6d.
15ct., 17s 6d.
No. 174. —Heart Pendant,
Ruby or Sapphire, £1 10s-
Diamond, £2 10s.
m
No. 3.—2 Diamonds, 1 Ruby
or Sapphire, 18ct., £llos.
Ko. 8.—5 Opals, 18cfc.,
£2 10s.
The Latest London Novelty
The Absent-Minded Beggar Brooch,
9ct., Hall-marked, 15s.
9ct Hall-marked Brooch.
Pearls and Rubies or Sapphires, £1 Is.
REGS
No. 13. — Love Bird Brooch with safety nhaSn
9ct., 17s 6d. 15ct., 255.
No. 2. —2 Diamonds, 1 Ruby
or Sapphire, 18ct., £1 ss.
No. 20.—3 Opals,
4 Diamonds, 18ct., £7 10a.
169. Opal and Pearl
Brooch, 15ct., £5 ss.
No. 172. —Heart Pendant.
9ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
15ct. „ 15s.
No. 175. —Heart Pendant.
Amethyst and Pearls,
9ct., £1 ss.
15ct., £llss.
H. NEWMAN
nm
No. 7.—Handsome Opal Necklet, 18 Opals, 15cfc., £10.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue,
Post Free to any address.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
175 and 177 ELIZABETH-ST., MELBOURNE.
K€MP’S
Patent Sbecp-Braodiog LiqCid.
Manufacturers
Felton, Crimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RJCH & CO. LTD.
Grantee* to M lk , a Coat, Laatin* Kain and =£*, Hot Injur* the Woo 1; to Scon, Out;
’ “** Blvie 3 “ 6Cl er &al1 - iML 3MCellfc> Sy1*xoy; 38 Oca TPO*. to Bri Bb ane.


Mortloal.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., tire
Prince oi Wales Botanist,
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Sot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4"6 ; post, 4/lib
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONI4I, rbprksentativk for the proprietors,
Fred.J.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. Ail you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 38, Endsleigli Gdns., LON DO ftl
n
mn
m
nm
H H WARNER & C 9 L T i>
MELgQURNE, AUST.
“ pood for Thought.”
A NYTHING which causes a drain on the nerves helps to
ft- make a SUSPENSORY necessary. Excessive mental
effort, prolonged and exhaustive physical exercise, over-
indulgence in any way, dissipation, irregularity of diet,
loss of sleep, anything which produces fatigue has its
first effect on the vital organs. A sick man, or a tired
man, has not much vita! vigor, the strain tells on the
most delicate nerves first, fatigue there produces fatigue
everywhere. Fatigue of the vital organs leaves a man
with little energy, with little strength to work or think.
The connection between the brain and the vital organs
is most direct. Excessive mental work affects the vital
power, and abuse of the vital power affects the brain —a
strain on one is a strain on both. A SUSPENSORY stops
one strain on one. It is not a big strain, but it is there
all the time : it is. one little strain multiplied by the
number of seconds in the day. It is a continual drag,
which empties the store of vitality just as a reservoir may
be emptied drop by drop.
We have been saying “A ” SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD f
P POINT
Q COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
OWJIR iBIPiCK
ChicaJ
fy
TAKE THE 0.P.0.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2 —0,P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands
No. 3 „ Silk „ >, ••
No. 4 „ „ Silk „
No. 5 „ Fancy ~ ~ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
fPT" Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
5/-
71-
9/-
12/6
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.B.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HEALTH AND STRENGTH
■ 1 may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day today. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss bf memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject) to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated i
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 101- and 20/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many casesbydietalone.posted
sin stamps. Address i-HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
limn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM ADLT & CO 3
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
n
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
A
ONE OF THE
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Eilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Lceciicine for Infants,
Ohil ircn, Drlicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
- "S'
Av 1
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’3 MAGNESIA,
m
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared w th fhisi
Pure and Wliolesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JEI.LIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. 81 G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Ageins: BLAKt i He l Me.l, 23 Camden Buildings, vIB George Street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN
mn
miwil SNOS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
REGISTERED
RfJSE’Sj
ii n Hi—
iEffectiveCi
JUCHThnAWDBfESiIIM
Weak Eyes Dimness ET?
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ——^
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids,Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c„
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CUEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
C h'
■4
Miunnm
f
. gf
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING i,
and disappointment, send for one _of_ Stephenson's
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
, Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortabje, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. |
8 3 0
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
. , Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
ICnee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
1710 R WHAT YOU ARE ABOUT lO Kiv
J CEIYE, MAY THE LORO MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another tiling they might have wished him was a
cool head, to he obtained by using F RUlUtAij
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station)
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Heady-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21'-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25 Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
nr
i j
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9- The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing; in Australia. '. e ‘
Kant Tennis Shirts from 2 6. Undressed White shirts.
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, ‘i -, 2 11, 3 3. Warm T™'el ing
Rugs, 13 6. Gent s splendid Balmoral Boots, 6 b, » o.
Soft Alpine Hats. 4 6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4,6. J’ 11 ?'*'
Hats, 2,6. Indian Pith Helmets, 6 6. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Halt Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. Anri an
classes of Gent's Mercery. ... .
We like to write letters, so,please don t be afraid to asa
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy oJLX'ess,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
j posted Free. Write for them.
“ I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
t o any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. lid.
Sole Agents:
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 George- st„ Sydney
Publications.
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
•£ Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each- All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streec, Sjdnev.
SEND FOlt A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, curious,
and laughable books.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILLXJSX R A TED
m
"ITtitH numerous anatomical
’’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE,' Box'462, G.P.O.,“ SYDNEY.
nm
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
n
FRENCH •
• • NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1 3, 2'-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO.. Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing-
Medical,
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.


ne s Bronchitis Gnre.
TII£3 FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
TTAfI rnTTiTi T ADAMT G ATP r\Ta a attt «-r . * t-r * '
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence.
CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
a . ~ Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing. Hoarseness Pain nr
Soreness m the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is molt com-
-1,1 <l . a U n £ “ n a , lon I J I the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
au d a certa'i" 6 ou £ iß iave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
B€WAR€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAI' EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BV ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
.... TT “Orange, N.S.W.
•‘Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for jonr own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs.
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully,.
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
. “Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other * remedies,’ without, avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
doses
I used your Bronchitis .Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
i.—P. I. MULLINS, Cowie’B Creek, Victoria.”
lour Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
Quirindi NS W ' Ut lam sendln ” for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
•
. " ife is ■'. ears oId * ant !. 1 , am 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria ” de - rfU deU ° f g °° d ’ 11 haVlnff Ulck, - V cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
pi,,;;/ iftsr&s; john tssLS^,SR' ! Z& *•*•** to - ,he »“
“ 1 have found y° ur Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
1 have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
cu.ty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.” •
disappeared after two doses.-O. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
, “ T . > atel >: administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with Splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
valuabf^nmdidnr-CMrsOL 6 SLATER o ,' CUre With ° Ut dday ’ “ 1 find “ tobe a
G. SEYTER, er ßourkT d New h South “ ° Ure ’ T * r6SUIt WaS marvellous - Tt eaBed *W»t ° ff a *
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
STEELE^^ankcf^iding^New^South^Waies 0 ’’ 8 * *** had * lam recoramendin ? to everybody.-S.
but T As ‘ !, ". a a " d Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried vour medicine
River? N^w'” freedom ’ “ & direCt r6Sult ° f n, - v hriet JOHN C '
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, a* the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
Bro<ddand° o< Avoca-stree^Sou < Yarrai°Melbourne.” 6 ' tW ° b ° ttleS ° f * quite Wel, '- H - HOOD >
Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.-A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria ”
•
tnrjV ,3, < rii r r BronCh K t ' iS Cure r as done m ~ n ? ucb S’ oo * l - This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
d t i ° h ",°.) Se ' 1 a,n . satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.-HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
„. ‘‘ Th . e £ ot tj e of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Jroint, via Victoria.
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMTSTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
r> HEAENE, Chemist, Greelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ DOW RIIXxE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
ROYAL
WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO
the QUEEN.”
Ask for
WbiSky aijd
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &o
Ask for
BraQdy a&d
‘ScbW€pp€’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
ILali©
(1,1 M I TEH),
Illawarra),
near SYOJXTEY.
(SMELTERS.
REFINERS
3PRODUCBRS
OF
FINE SILVER.
• 1
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
rchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, XiEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASS \YS
loi-all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia Ltd
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
nm
n
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food 1 has, oy •
its excellence, established a
reputation oi its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


THE OWL
OUT RATH
Consulting and
yc
DRUG CO
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Prioe, £1 i Cut Price, 18* Id.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
Vs the acme of perfeotton. It is the best nerve, j
blood and brain tonic that medicalscience oan pro-
duce, and >s specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital foroe,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, <fcc., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epnepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and Anally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life- What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to And yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and proliAc.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delav brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering' people as Dr. Clarkson's
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady.
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidnev
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, icc., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. All this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that i hev did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7sfid ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST i'KEE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electrio
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be- without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influents, sciatica, pains In
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life ami vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors. —By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current- is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess arid wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
tiHini li«8 been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
ourrent on the liver and stomach is one of the great
'charmsof the Elcotro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in tneir praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Keinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ 1 would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured."
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belts.— Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life 1
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. ECugliea’a Fltsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of
So successful has it proved in these oases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
the age.
effects—
Pyramid Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific lor CUIMNU II EMOKK IK >1 DS. The most chronic
INW A It 1 > or OTTTVV A It I) I'ILKS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price ds. fid. per box, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADA ICE to ALL OUR PAIRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Oountry Ov*cl4»r r »olloi*»<a..
Getting Directions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Directions, as given by the average bushman, so
befog the traveller generally that he has rnoie
trouble in keeping the road by their aid than he
would have bad without them. Bushy describes
the road as he last saw it, which might bo last
week or last year, giving a rigmarole of details
concerning the turns and hollows, the big tree, the
dog-leg fence, and the black stump; and while
he’3 telling all this he’s sketching out the map of
it in the dust with a stick. Loaded with this infor-
mation you start, and perhaps you’ll sight some-
thing that he missed, and that uncomfortable lost
feeling of the lost one comes over you at once. If
you don’t see the bogged cow, or the dead tree
(which has probably fallen down), the feeling
increases. Presently all the little details get
mixed up till you don’t know anything, and you’re
in perpetual misery till you get to the end of those
directions —and get a fresh batch to lie on your
mind like a soddened doughboy.
A bushman forgets that nothing should be
mentioned that is not absolutely necessary
for the traveller to know, such as well-traversed
branch roads and striking land marks. Bogged
cows and dead horses are not land-marks, except
for the time being. Bushy often overlooks the
fact that many objects that most impress him
change with the effluxion of time. Old Micky, of
Crowland, was one of these. He was working on
a road when an acquaintance happened along.
“Good day, Peter,” said he, “an’ where are ye
goin’ ? ”
“Well, Micky, I want to go to Bindelby, but I
don’t quite know the way.”
“Nuthin’ easier. Keep straight along the road
and yer won’t miss it.”
“ Is there only one road, Micky ? ”
“ Ye’ll find one enough to take ye to Bindelby.
Maybe ye’ll want another to bring yer back, seein’
as how it takes some people a mint o’ time to go to
even a little place. They wear the road out goin’
there.”
“But, Micky, I’m in a hurry. There’s no turn-
offs?”
“Well, yes, a few. But you stick to this road,
till ye see it run into a gate. Go through that—
you’d better open it first, though. It swings to
yer right when ye’re pullin’ it to yer. Shut it.
Then turn yer horse round an’ keep after the road
agin. It wriggles a lot, but you stick to it, an’
yer’ll find it’s a road to be depended on. I’ve
known it a good many years now, an’ I’ve never
seen it take anybody anywhere yet but to Bindelby
an’ away from it. Nevermind the branch roads—
keep off ’em, or they’ll take yer astray.”
Well, are there any particular landmarks ? ”
“ Lemme see. Ye’ll cross a gully runnin’ like a
stranded eel. There’s a spotted bullock feedin’
alongside it. I'hat’s fiije mile. Next, ye’ll see a
kangaroo sittin’ bolt upright on yer left. That’s
eiyht mile. Then ye’ll see a big hole on yer right.
But don’t give yer horse a drink there. There’s
no water in it. . . . That’s halfway. Next, ye’ll
come to a lot of trees on a hill. There’s some
parrots on the outside one.”
“ When were you along there, Micky ?”
“Three years ago.” Micky spoke quite seri-
ously. “Byan’bye, ye’ll strike a big flat, with a
dead dog on it. Three miles from that, there’s a
house with two chimneys, an’ smoke cornin’ out of
’em. That’s Bindelby .
* * • •
The mileage of some unpegged roads varies in a
perplexing manner. Tell a traveller the distance
to Busters pub., for instance, and he’ll ask if
they’re horse-miles or foot-miles. I asked a
how far it was to Xainhounno. Oil a
station-horse, five miles; on a traveller s horse,
seven miles ; on foot, it’s 10 miles ; and, if you re
hungry and tired, it’ll be about 15. I’ve known it
to be about 17, but that doesn’t happen often.’ ”
* • * *
One day I was going to McSweeney’s, and
asked a inintenance-man where I must turn off
the road to reach it.
“D’yer know that track that turns off t other
side o’ the tea-tree swamp ? ”
“ Yes.”
“ That’s not it. There’s a red hill bit further
along with a stump on it. The stump’s got a
piece knocked off the side where a waggon hit it.
I think it was Dooley’s waggon. 1 did hear
there used to be a stone just beyond it, but I
b’lieve Dooley picked that up last time he was
along to shy at Finnegan’s bull. He’s an ugly
brute, is Finnegan’s bull, an’ he’s nearly always
about that red hill. I remember ”
“ Yes ; but about the road to McSweeney’s.”
“ There’s a track turns off just over the red hill.
That goes to Denehy’s selection.”
“ And where does McSweeney’s turn off ? ”
“Two miles past Denehy’s road you’ll see
where Nolan was bogged with a load of timber
last week. Nolan keeps a pub in Coraki. I’ve
seen the time when Nolan ”
“ Oh, never mind Nolan! McSweeney’s, man! ”
“ I’m cornin’ to McSweeney’s. When you pass
the mud-hole you’ll see a road runnin’ like this.”
He squatted down and commenced to perplex
me with the bushman’s inevitable mud-map,
drawing a line with his finger to represent the
main road, others to represent branch roads,
parallel and intersecting lines for fences, dots for
trees and houses—some three or four miles off the
road, and all hopelessly out of sight. Then he
told me to turn off at an ironbark tree that had a
limb sticking out like this (another map), and pass
a log lying like this (another map), when the road
takes a turn and runs like that (more map).
“You’ll have all straight sailin’ then.”
I rode off. It was 27 miles. I found the place
and delivered my message to the “missus,” as
“ Mac. was away workin’ on the roads.” I re-
turned next day, and as I passed the maintenance-
man he asked, “ Did ye find McSweeney’s ? ”
“I did. Mac. wasn’t at home, though.”
“ Did ye want to see him ? ”
“I did. I had an important letter for him.
Left it with the missus.”
“ Damn it,” said he. “Tm McSv/eeney ! ”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Raskin’s kindness and simple honesty are
. ~ , . . , ,
shown in a letter he wrote long ago to his coach-
man, who, by the way, states that all the old ser-
V ants of the family have been amply provided for :
“Dear David,—Here is your cheque at last. I never
g- e t half my day’s letters answered, and they get pushed
into drawers and lost. I can’t help it. The wet weather
has come at last, and I begin to get through my business.
Ever Y our affectionate master, J. Buskin.”
Treating his servant as a friend and a brother, the
unflinching apostle of Truth felt no compunction
about calling himself David’s “master. ’
Elsewhere!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“So you’ve come to take my place,” said the old
man, shaking off a Sunday afternoon doze. “ Well,
my time ain’t up till the end of the month, but
you’re welcome to the job, and I hope you’ll like
it.”
“Anything is better than the road,” said the
stranger, dropping his swag on the spare bunk.
“ I’m sick and tired of that. I want rest.”
“ And because you wanted a rest you accepted a
job from a cockatoo ; you might as well jump into
a river to avoid a shower of rain,” said the old
man. “ These cockatoos are just budding into
landed aristocrats. They are self-made men, and
have felt what graft is ; get a man like that, and
he’s the hardest boss on the face of God’s earth.”
The stranger swore wearily, and brushed away
some road dust.
“ Now, take this place; I’ve tried a few, and
it’s a fair sample. I won’t go through the whole
programme —I haven’t time, but you start work
with lighting the fire for the slavey in the morn-
ing. They send you out fencing and mustering
during the day, and the country about here has
been set on edge so that cockatoos could count
their acres on both sides of it. I suppose when
you heard about shepherding you thought you
were going to ride about and whistle to a dog. If
I know anything about it you’ll be going on all-
fours yourself, and doing most of your own bark-
ing. If you doubt it look at that hill.”
The stranger paused in unbuckling his swag,
rose, and went to the door. The hill was steep—
so steep that in places the earth and stones had
slipped away and left nothing but bare rock.
“ And the boss, he is as self-opinionated as the
rest of his kind. He thinks you can’t set a post in
straight, or put a mob of sheep through a gate
without him. If he’s seen a dead sheep or lost a
cow it will start him off; if you can’t see through
a hill he’ll call you blind ; if you can’t hear a mile
against the wind you’re deaf ; he’ll sit in the shade
and watch you struggle up hill with an eight-foot
strainer and call you short-winded, and tell you of
the bigger loads he’s carried. And like the rest of
them he’s a schemer, he is. He’ll have a boundary
fence down at knock-off time and keep you till
dark to finish it. He’s never satisfied; if you
shifted that hill in a day, he’d want to know why
you hadn’t shifted the other one.”
“ They’re all the same way,” said the stranger.
“ All cockatoos are,” answered the old man,
“ but it’s different among the stations. There the
boss gives you the orders in the morning, perhaps
to mend a fence or shift sheep, and you’re done by
three o’clock. Then it’s too late to go for other
orders, so you camp around until five and go home.
I’d sooner fifteen bob from a station than thirty
from a cockatoo. I wonder now you didn’t try
down there, and this is just the time. A young
fellow like you is sure of a job. And there’s a
home for life.”
“Think so?” said the stranger. His face was
turned down the valley now, and he was looking
at the last, distant windings of the road.
“ Think so ! ” answered the old man. “ Why,
ain’t it just where I’m going; but come on, it’s
cow-time. I’ll show you round.” ;
“ You needn’t trouble,” said the stranger,
coming back from the door and buckling-uphis
swag-straps. “You can tell your boss I’ve
changed my mind. Solong ! ”
» * * *
“No, there’s not much chance for an outsider,”
said the station-hand sympathetically. “ You’ve
got to be known, or have a friend who is known,
or is second cousin by marriage to the owners in
town before you can get on here, and there’s not
much in it anyway. Fifteen shillings a week and
find your own horses and dogs isn’t much fori
shepherding, and the tucker they give you is star-
vation—no milk, no butter, only bread, mutton,
potatoes and tea, and, if you’re lucky, a dead
weight duff on Sundays, mostly stale fat, raisin-
stones, and grit. No, it’s up among the cockatoos
you’ll strike the good things now. A mate of
mine is up there. He says he has cows to milk,
but he knocks off early for that, and he gets after-
noon tea and cake when he’s in the sheep-yards.
He’s never expected to work on a holiday, if he
does he’s thanked for it. And the missus is very
good to liim, too, he says—does his washing, gets
up his white shirts and all, and at the end of the
year the boss gives him a five-pound bonus over
his regular wages. I’d try up there if I were
you.”
But the stranger didn’t. He had been there
already.
J. WEST.
A Railway Episode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Picture a railway yard at the top of a steep slope,
a siding crammed with trucks, an engine shunting.
An extra-heavy bump, and an unbraked truck at
the far end flies out the end of the siding and off
down hill. A fall of 10 miles, the passenger train
coming up and no means of warning it. The truck
must be caught. The shunter j umps on the engine-
buffers, lengthens the screw-coupling and sits ready
while the driver throws the valve open and with a
rush they are after the runaway. The engine
catches up and the shunter reaches out to drop the
coupling over the hook as the buffers touch. The
buffers press together, then the engine seems to
stop, while with added force and speed the truck
flies on. He has missed and now with white scared
face is holding to the couplings with energy bom
of fear.
In dropping the coupling he has overbalanced
and has only been saved from a fearful death by a
blind, instinctive clutch. A moment he watches
the sleepers that seem to grin at him as they fly
under, then a rousing curse from the driver brings
him to himself. Again he is ready and the engine,
with every pound of steam on, is at top speed.
The passenger-train cannot now be far away, and
this time there must be no mistake. Again they
draw near the truck, the shunter holds out the
coupling, and with careful eye watches his time.
The buffers touch and down goes the coupling.
This time there has been no mistake. “ All
right! ”he yells. On go the brakes with a screech
and as they pull up, the shunter lifts himself and
looks ahead. There, rounding the curve a quarter
of a mile away is the “ passenger.”
CENTRALIAN.


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
KTMPimIUBITIM
' ' ' ' :
llth to 21st APRIL, 1900.
£4OOO 5 £4OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES,
FARM AND DAIRY PRODUCE.
£l5O Prize £l5O Prize
£25 Corn-Husking Contests £25
£5O Wood-Chopping Contest £5O
Entries close WEDNESDAY, 14th MARCH.
Prize Schedules and particulars from
F- WEBSTER, secretary,
TATTERSALL’S CHAMBERS.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
Prom Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
P.1.C., P.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years —during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LIi.D., P.1.C., P.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Fk.D., &c.,
Ueoturer on Chemistry, Surgeons’ Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
The Game of Hoodman Blind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For them no blatant brasses swell,
Their deeds no sculptures show ;
Their stirring stories none oan tell,
Their names no singers know;
The men who fought the wars and foil.
And never struck a blow.
Three tiers of oars, with steady stroke
They swept through Salamis ;
They shortened sail through cannons’ croak
And biting bullets’ hiss ;
Black, blistered, blind, to-day they stoke
Through battle as it is.
They shared the pride of Grecian days,
The laurels Caesar wore,
The brilliance of the Viking frays—
The boast of British lore—
Who paved the widest water-ways
And battled with the oar.
With straightened backs and bended knees—
Fierce force in every form—
They learned to flout the Arctic breeze,
The sand-blast whirling warm ;
To slip the ship through silky seas
And drag her through the storm.
They heard the stamping overhead,
The shrieks of those who fell ;
They felt the bumping of the dead
Upon the rythmic swell;
But •> -ked in silence that she sped
Alon 0 the water well.
Though decks had slimy grown with gore,
And frenzied blows fell wide ;
Though gleaming beaks through timbers tore,
And bleeding blades were plied ;
They swung their oar and pulled their oar.
And cleared their oar—and died 1
They manned the yards in Nelson’s fleet
To furl the flapping sail;
They scorned the shell-burst ’neath their feet,
The spinning chain-shot’s wail;
Their thoughts to make the reef-points meet
And fight throughout the gale.
They looked not on the tops ablaze
With volleys from the foe ;
They stirred not from their task to gaze
Where blood bsgan to flow ;
Nor paused when through the smoky haze
Their comrades dropped below.
To-day in grime and grease they bide,
Bereft of sound and sight;
The flush of victory denied,
The tremor of the flight,
Until the green sea bursts th e side
To whelm them in its might.
They know not how the battles go
Within their steel recess.
Their post and power they may not know ;
Their fate they may not guess;
Their duty but to wait below
Anear the battle’s stress.
No pomp and panoply have they,
No cheering crowds they find;
But, fixed as targets through the fray,
Their ordered work they mind
Salute the hearts unseen that play
The Game of Hoodman Blind !
BONDINGIE.
Only Five!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the raw and sullen light of dawn he stood at
last outside the portal of the Lion and the Key at
Darlinghurst. Was it indeed but five years since
he had entered there t —or was it fifty ? No ! —her
words—the last he had heard from her —came
clear and fresh to him again from the phonograph
of a devoted memory.
“Five years, Jim —only five! And when you
come out I’ll marry you ! So, keep up your heart
and remember .”
The rest of the sentence had not been for official
ears, but Maitland had been at no loss to supply
it for himself. “ Remember it was to shield
her ! ” he muttered, as he waved aside a Prison-
Gate Salvationist. “Brother!” the man had
called him, but he had now no brotherhood,
he told himself, with men ungaoled and unde-
graded. Still, it was for her sake ; and, though he
called himself no martyr, he could not help feel-
ing, by the hungry relish with which he plunged
into the already fast-pulsing life of Oxford-street,
that he had bitterly earned the promised reward.
The vile racket of the trams, even, made melody
to his prison-starved ear; to his stone-surfeited
eye came with delightful easement she small, far
glimpse of the Park’s verdure that closed the vista
of the bustling morning street; his own very voice,
as he hailed a cab, rang strangely—thus raised—
upon his silence-sated hearing. Well, once more,
it had been ail for her sake ; and, though she had
never come to see him, she had, of course, her
relatives to consider. That was what she would
be telling him in another ten minutes, for was he
not speeding towards her now !
• • * *
“Miss Brackenbury?” The crustaceous old
lady took off her glasses, the more narrowly to
inspect this unduly impatient young man. “ It is
nearly three years since Miss Brackenbury left
here. She did not, I am sorry to say, conduct
herself towards me with that—er—consideration
which—”
“Three years! Where did she go? Where’s
she now f Pardon me, madam ’’—noting the
dowager’s astonished glare—“ but, you see, I am
so very anxious ! ”
“ So I should be disposed to imagine. And, as
to where the young person —sniff ! —is at present,
I should say—sniff, sniff !—she is, mo3t likely,
wherever her husband is ! ”
For a moment, Maitland’s pale face took on an
additional whiteness ; but then came a flush, and
ne laughed. “ Husband ?—Nellie Braokenbury’s
husband ! Oh, that don’t ‘go ’! Exouse mo—but
surely ”
In his nervous eagerness he forgot to choose his
words ; for,' though he assured himself mentally
that the thing was perfectly ridiculous, the mere
possibility had closed like a cold hand upon his
heart.
“An acquaintance with vulgar slang is not
amongst my accomplishments”—the exasperated
ancient pointed to the door —“ but if, as I surmise,
you intend to convey that I am in error, let me
recommend you to make a call at 53, Denmark-
street, Darlinghurst! ”
. “ Darlinghurst ? ” repeated Maitland, after a
vicious door-slam had nearly shot him down the
steps. “Then she was closer at hand than I
thought. She wanted to be as near me as she
could—God bless her ! ” and he laughed so hys-
terically, as he got into his vehicle again, that the
cabman, who had himself “done time,” took a
curious survey of him through the trap.
“Bit balmy, I reckon ! —an’ no wonder, if lie’s
just out o’ chokey. Seen him cornin’ across from
the Jug. It’s a ’ell of a thing, is ‘solitry,’ for
shovin’ a bloke off his bloomin’ chump ! ”
* * * *
“ Miss Brackenbury ? No ; she don’t live ’ere,”
the pert little serving-wench piped up at Mait-
land. “But there’s a lydy of that nyme comes
’ere sometimes ; Mrs. Manderson’s sister, she is.
Kin you see Mrs. Manderson ? Gome inside, an’
I’ll ask ’er.”
A couple of minutes’ wait, and then, at the
rustle of a dress, Maitland turned.
“ I beg your—why, Nellie, it’s you ! The girl
said you were not here. I’ve only just this morn-
ing got ”
With a warning hand she stopped both his
speech and the glad advance he was making
towards where she stood, with something in her
face that struck him now like a blow.
She was a plump young woman ; blonde and
creamy, after the sweetly lymphatic type. But
there’s nothing like lymph for an awkward situa-
tion, and her voice was musically equable as she
said that she had expected him, one of these days
—and wouldn’t he sit down ? In a half-stunned
kind of way the man took a chair, and waited
while the canary at the window executed a short
ear-piercing mockery of jubilation.
“ Five years, Jim, is a long time.”
“Isit ? ” He looked stupidly up at her. “Five
years ago you didn’t think so. ‘ only five, Jim ! ’
was what you said.”
“ Five years ago I was a fool! ”
Her left hand went up to her cheek, and Mait-
land’s eye, as she intended, caught the gleam of
gold upon the fourth finger. He drew himself
together as one who had received a bullet ; then
got up and stood gripping the chair-back till it
creaked. But his voice was quiet.
“ The Miss Brackenbury the girl spoke of ? ”
“ Is my sister.”
“ I see. And you are ”
“ Mrs. Manderson.” She looked him steadily
in the face. “ Reproaches will be useless, Jim ! ”
“Oh, yes,” he assented in a lifeless kind of way.
“Of course ; quite useless. Mrs. Tom Mander-
son, may I ask.”
“ Yes ; you know my—husband ? ”
“ I know your husband —yes ! And he knows
me. But the question is ”—his voice recovered its
tone as suddenly as from the releasing of a spring
—does he know you ? Does he know, to begin
with, that you had promised to be my wife as soon
as I came out of—that place ? ”
“ Yes ! ” She was deadly pale, but her mouth
was set like steel and her eyes were narrowed
almost to slits as she fronted him unflinchingly.
“He knows all about that; but he knows also, of
course, that such promises are often broken.”
“Under such conditions? ”
She settled herself as for a final effort. “To
what conditions do you allude ? ” she said.
Maitland’s jaw actually dropped with the
extremity of his amaze. Then, with the reaction,
it snapp 'd sharply up again. “ I see !” he said—
“l see! Well —good morning to you, Mrs.
Manderson ! ”
She passed suddenly between him and the door.
“Wait!” she said. “Wait, Mr. Maitland—
Jim ! —what are you going to do ? ”
“ Mr. Maitland is going to do nothing but get
as far away from such a woman as possible. And
there isn’t any ‘ Jim ! ” There was a Jim, once; ”
he stared as if at a picture of the past in the
crown of his hat—“a miserable, God-forgotten
idiot of a Jim, who confessed to a theft he had
never committed, because the thief was—the girl
he loved. The girl who said she loved him / The
girl who was to wait ” —he broke into a hoarsely
horrible shout of laughter that made the woman
start back and set the canary wildly dashing round
its cage—“the girl who was to wait till he had
got through with her punishment! ‘ Only five
years, Jim ! —only five years ! ’ ” —and he laughed
again till the chandelier trembled above him.
Shaken at last out of her bowelless stedfastness,
the woman laid a hasty hand upon his arm
“ Hush ! Take care ! People will think you arc
mad ! ” Mad ! —the word gave her a suggestion.
“You are mad, to say such things! Ah !”
forcing back her equanimity as the door opened—
“ here is my husband. You know Mr. Maitland
Tom, don’t you ? ”
The big, rough-bearded man in the doorway was
in no hurry to acknowledge the acquaintance.
“Hum—yes!—l did know him a little; but 1
scarcely expected the honor of a call. And, ii
that was his laughing I heard as I came down
stairs, why, all I can say is that he is in astonish-
ingly good spirits, considering ”
“That he’s just come out of gaol! ” Maitland pul
in. “ Yes, Tom Manderson, you needn’t remind
me ! I’m a pariah now, I know—and there’s not
much danger of my being allowed to forget it—in
a Christian community ! That’s why L was laugh-
ing at myself—for being such a drivelling imbecile
as to have expected the former Nellie Bracken
bury, here, to keep a certain promise about whic
she says she has told you.”
“Oh, yes ! ” Manderson sat down and put two
magisterial thumbs into the arm-holes of his waist
coat. “ I don’t wish to be hard on you, of course ;
but, as you very properly admit, the idea wa
simply preposterous. And—though, to be sure,
it’s never too late to mend— ”
“ Don’t!—for God’s sake ! ” Maitland winced
at the platitude, which seemed to seal his thence
forth social status. “Anything but that sort o
stuff! I’ll have no pious slobbering over Jim
Maitland, yet! ”
Manderson’s scanty and mechanical human!
tarianism gave out. His face reddened furiously
as he jumped up and flung open the door. “Oh .
—if that’s the way you talk ! ” —a wave of hi.-
hand said the rest.
Into Maitland’s pallid face came the intense
whiteness of sudden rage. “Fool!” he began,
struggling desperately with the words. “ Self-
righteous ass ! —if you only knew ”
Mrs. Manderson, with a swift meeting of the
apprehended situation, got quickly behind her hus-
band. “Don’t take any notice of what he may
say, Tom ! I see what’s the matter now ; the
poor fellow’s head’s affected 1 He’s perfectly
crazy ! ”
She thought she was lying—but she wasn’t! for,
when Maitland had stopped speaking, something
had seemed to give way in his brain. In a dazed
kind of way, now, he quietly took his chair again,
put his hand to the top of his head, and sat there,
quietly smiling, until a constable was brought to
take him away.
* • * •
To furnish for this yam a regulation ending,
there ought to have been in Callan Park or
Gladesville a much-demented person who should
for years have oonfined his utterances to the
mysterious observation “ Only five ! ” and should,
upon his death-bed, have regained his reason and
told his tale. Maitland, however, as a matter of
cold fact, recovered his sanity inside twelve
mouths, and now relates, as here set forth, a story
which it is only fair to say no man of the world
believes. But this, it is equally fair to say, is
probably because no man of the world could him-
self have been such a fool—or such a hero !
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
. And they are as bad in Maoriland. V\ el-
lmgton G.P.O. hoisted some of its flag-assortment
on receipt of the Ladysmith news. To a nautical
Inan read: “Disease on board; doctor
wanted.”
A Northern Territory trooper heard the
other day that a certain “ wanted ” nigger was at
a Chinese camp about 13 miles away, so he
despatched two of his own blackboys to catch the
darkey aforesaid. Next morning accordingly they
trotted up to tho station with a Chinaman in tow.
“ What’s this?” asked the trooper,_ “where’s the
darkie ? ” “ Oh,” said the boys, “ him no more sit
down alonga that one place; so we bin bringum
this one Chinaman.” _ “But what did you bring
him for?” “Oh, him bin sellum opium longa
blackfellow.” “ Did you see him sell the opium ?”
asked the trooper. “No; no bin see_ um, but
mine plenty savee him all day sellum opium longa
blackfellow.” The trooper had his doubts and let
the Chow go. John didn’t even growl, but con-
tcmtedly walked the 13 miles home again. The
Chinaman is the only practical philosopher.


It Keeps the Blood Pure
Gives Nerve-power, Prevents Nervous Exhaustion,
Keeps up the Physical Strength.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
to
&
“I am a Professional Cyclist.”
««I am anxious to obtain all the prizes and honors possible. To do this I
know I must keep my blood and system in good order. For this purpose I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the results have always been satisfactory.
“Training and racing make an excessive nervous strain and loss ot nerve
force and physical strength. To quickly restore this loss of nerve energy an
power I have never found anything equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. 1 ®
parilla keeps my blood pure and this tones up and strengthens my whole body.
“Today I have the honor to be the champion cyclist of Forbes, thanks to
your wonderful medicine. I send you my portrait on my good steed that has
carried me with waving colors over the track.” .. TT „ T ..
This is the testimony and portrait of the well-known cyclist, H. ±i. J
son, of South Forbes, New South Wales. .... ,« ~ , T . „-u QTICT - c
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out all impurities from the blood. It changes
thin blood into rich, red blood, such blood as healthy nerves and muscles must
have. “Ayer’s” and only Ayer’s is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
All who are thin and pale need it. All who are weak and easily tired need
it. All who are nervously depressed from a warm climate need it.
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
That'Cures.
It Invigorates the Whole System.
Ayer’s Pills Cure Biliousness and Sick Headache.
mn
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KM BRACING
MEDICAL coiviivroisr SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imforniation em-
braced in its covers;
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cToth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts i. mly-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest:). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and I o versions with Cards, illus.
Is; post, is 3d.
Beatty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
3ow to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, Bft posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Acst. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Danck, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Anciknt and Modkrn SI agio. Is 6d post free.
Art ok Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Whiter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, I 6 Park Street, SYPNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OUIi'Y COMPETITION.
"WINES Be *‘ Br^ uk My ' SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
ITIOR BilioiiH and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick I lead ache,
X Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, r lash-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos r iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FlKbl DUolfi
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be W0R4.11 A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge or appe 1 »
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Enkkgy of the human frame,
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best gxHrranteestoi in
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale oj any Patent Me
he world . Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in. Boxes, 91d, Is and 2s 9d each.
m
Sk*.
»■
ft
NOONCTC
w HoaDNwavi
D)N3g'N3g
INVALUABLE TO
. SINGERS & SPEAKERS
nmn
m
H
‘ftf
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
nm
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blaekwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
s
Agents: Messrs. YIKGOE, SON, dt CHATMAN : an I DAVID
COHKX&
Co.,
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
"W C- IBIIjX3IRXX)C3-IE &c GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORlt STRKI'IT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from alt the colonies promptly
attended to.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these 1:1 and medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of suilerers. In all the ordinary
ailments of 'humanity their beneficent action is atones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 7S Nrw Oxforu-st., London. &?" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OP
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr T G BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


n
mn
fringes.
Iftt'irU Curl*, from a M nab,
f'LAITS *,„l TAILS,
*nin. lone, ft/tj, all real hair.
CLTtikos a comb mao
<»Ortseri up, q/tpcroz.
Wa are the cliriipeatln Aa»
Walla fw oil Uair Work.
Send Color ol Uair.
W. N. Wigz«U;
110 Wiu.uk BTBBBT, "
corner of Palmer -aUoet,
r SVUNBV.
Calila Traill will stop at Door.
■■•l aaa ifinjf.
scnd fftaifjp* (or full Price
given to Country Order*
m
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . . .......
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Qneen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
HOTEL
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
Mammatt’s
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
®Q@@©
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
■OBB
<s>HE
or
J ' & J ' MAX FIELD, Phoprs., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
.. , SYDNEY.
Also at
“the bx,ock:,»»
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
MIKTBR 5
GREAT WAKTT
__ ? NOW SUPPLIED BT THE
Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
WlilV*h rpnrlpv tbo .. * .1 _ i ,
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
nim to realise on lus gold from day to day.
Thi s is a very superior macjimc, capable of being worked by hand horse or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any or reduce to the hnesj
powder. Two men can put throurrh lfUol9n,„t a•? • , to tne nnest
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine ’writs' Icwt® buTclTte hken
apart, and .8 then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5 No 3 with
a capacity of two to three tons per day price £6O. 5 h
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON, sole AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
nm
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher. Price £3O.
*
FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
to know that these are getting o in priiTitwee^P^teuri^d o 'beauttMlv^ oo6BB rth 'is satisfactory
«*•"&■£; %& aSuS BStSwsris •* -J~*4
rp»“£t=^asias3^^
H. PATESON,
Harbor-fc
Manager,
treet, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
Sydney:
n
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery—
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
All kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
mn
m
Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping purpose.
Estimates given for Complete Pump-
ing Plants, including Boilers,
Piping, &c.
Blake Duple, Pump. Sole Agents for Australasia
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers end General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOINT BROTHERS
Solo Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Engine Co.
WORTH INtiTON.
nm
trade mark.
n
BOILER FEED
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
