

MeEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
BEAVER STOUT.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“Tli© Standard
of
The Lancet.
B. Gr. WATKINS & oo„
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOR—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXriOSIVES, BUILD EE S’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
A™
S «*t
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOIT.R’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
m
-85 Pit. Street, SYDNEY.
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
'AM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
Those machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wo;.', Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
iestimomals and full particulars. ,
That’s All!
Established 1831.
ISKY.
SANDEHAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS
I
HOBART.
“
Hadley’s Orient gote
D.S .MAI R
Sp
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2 6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
13EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. B3T" Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
-tL'
to
I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarms !
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s, 6d.
Sole Aoents :
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st., Sydney
PERPETiIIt IITER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and. trouble. It is Bapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
■ -
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading iSeit ox Australia.
■Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 "ST ork S&ares'otii
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. per Post Is. 3d.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
v°F RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
How Do! May I send yon
my
Extra Special
Eook Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
TEACHER’S
HIGHLAND
CREAM
WHISKY
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE
" " ——.—______
ST., SYDNEY.
THE GTRIEYAT . . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEEE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
Joshua’s . .
SECOND TO NONE.
The Most Wholesome Spirit produced. ffflßfßnaum—, RRJ\|M D Y ■
Used the War Office and Leading British and Golonial Hospitals.
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, tlie
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED,' FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colpny) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
\
H. POTIER & CO
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
V^SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. GENNCRT,
89c F aubourg, St. Martin, Paris, France
The Bulletin
Vol 21.—IN’o. 1065 ;
f Saturday, July 14, 1900.
Pey’stared at the Genera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a bTewsisner.


fhe Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty:
Australian. Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d.; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Austral Tropics, By
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Roderio Quinn.
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out oe Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters;
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles:
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood. *** “The jolliest book yet
printed in Australia.”
iJgfSupplied direct fronp The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Hudson’s
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS ol the
THROAT and
LUNGS,
(REGISTERED).
■
IN TINS, Is. 6a
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G, HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
“Poor Bibi!"
“Tj B~E will have-a to leave his organ—Pauvre
i | Bibi!—(dat is me / —Auguste Wiegand)
J—— Poo-00-r-r Bibi !
“ It is de organ dat I regret de most.
What shall become of it? No; you have-a no
players here—none ! In de church —ver’ good ;
but for concert—non ! Oh-a yes ! Mistairr Massey,
Mistairr Wood—fine ! But not 1 eannot-a say
it in Ingleesh—not du premier rang—of de first
watter.
“You see, de Masters of de organ—dere are
not many. Dere is Guilmant, of de church of La
Trinite, in Paris. Dere is Widor, at Saint Sul-
pice. Dere is Gigout, at Saint Augustin. Dere
is Dubois —who is Directeur de la Conserva-
toire Nationals of Musique—all at Paris. In
Amerique dere is one—Clarence Eddy, of Chi-
cago. Dat is dis hand—five. On dis hand dere
is one more—Wiegand—poo-00-r-r Bibi ! Dere
are some persons who say dat Wiegand should be
at de top of delist —mais non ! we will put-a him
at de bottom. He is ver’ modeste—poor Bibi!
Ha, ha, ha !
“De Australians lam sorry to leave too; but
most de organ. And you-a know—de Council —it
was too much. Penny de butchairr and John
Nortonn —what-a can you expect ? Penny de
butchairr, he say to me, ‘I did not say dat’—about-
a de musique making him to vomit.’ ‘ Well,’ I
say, * I do not know : but de reportaifr would not
put it in if you do not say it.’ ‘Well,’ he say,
‘ I did not say it, anyway.’ And I say ‘ Ex-a-cuse
me, Mistairr Penny, I must catch-a de tram. ’ And
I fly ! Ho, ho !
“What do you tink? Is it not ver’ fine treat-
ment for de artiste? You know dey just-a make
me Chevalier de l’Ordre de Leopold. W ell, 1 tell
you, I have des idees—ideas. W hen I get to Paris
I will have made a medaille and a ribbon for de
Sydney Council—why not ? line medaille en cuir
—in leather—avec un cochon (what you call a
liog-g) on-a one side and FH6tel-de-Ville sur
l’autre. Coehon de la Premiere Classe— John
Nortonn ! Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha ! Ho, ho, ho, ho,
ho, ho, ho ! Ho, ho !
“ You know, it is all ver’ good for me. U irst, I
go to play at de Paris Exposition. Den I give-a
twenty concert in Amerique —in tree moiit’s ; and
I get for dose twenty concert in tree input's five-
hund’-forty pound—more dan I get from Sydney
Council for whole year. Den —
we shall see. But I have already
two positions offert —bot’ better
dan Sydney organist’s position. I
shall not be sorry to leave de
Council. But my poor organe. de
best in de wor-r-ld —what-a will be-
come of it ?
“ Look ! I will tell you some-
thing amuse-a you. For my con-
certs Americains they offer me
first so-much—and de expenses.
Den de managairr write again,
‘ No, I will not pay de expenses.’
He have heard I am un Beige—
a Belgian. Ha, ha, ha! ou
know Ysaye, le premier violinisee
du monde, he is Belgian; and
when he go to Amerique he nearly
ruin the managairr—ho, ho, ho, ho,
ho ! Dey give him once a nioe duck
—’m, ’m !—and he eat it all to de
bones. Den he say, ‘Have you
a/noder little bird like dat t ’
Ysaye’s expenses nearly ruin de
managairr. So when he know je
suis Beige, he say, ‘No expenses ! ’
Ha, ha, ha, ha ! Ho, ho, ho, ho !
Ho, ho, ho, lio, ho ! Yet Ido not
eat so much ; I do not know why I
get fat.
“Non; de Australians will not
make organistes—dey do not perse-
vere. When I was six years old, I
play de organe in a church. Den
play, play, play ! —every day six
hours, eight hours —practise, pram
tise ! For ten, fifteen years —every
day six hours. But les Australiens
dey practise two-three years; den
dey say, * Oh, we know enough ;
no more \ ’ Nevair persevere 1
“Do you know, it is strange thing—l can
always tell Ingleesh and Australian organiste from
Continental organiste —just by .hear-a dem play.
Continental organiste—ta, ta, ta, ta! like dat
every note clear. Ingleesh organiste—tararararar .
—so! —like stirring thick soup. Poor Best . lie
was good Ingleesh organist—fine technique ; but
no emotion, no soul —too cold. It did what-a you
call ‘ break-him-up ’ to play on de Melbourne
Town Hall organe—so hard of touch ! After de
concert he faint; and a young lady, ver nice
young lady, pour-a water on his face, She
‘ Are you-a better ? Are you-a better? • And he
open his eyes and say, ‘ No, lam Best! Ha, ha,
ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho ! Ho, ho !
“ Let me give you pinch of snuff —de Princess
mixture. Ah—ha! Is it not good? It is w
church I like to snuff. You cannot smoke pipe or
cigar—people will stare. But leetle pinch—so .
So good ! Father le Rennetel say, ‘ You are not
good Catholique ! Poor Bibi! he does not go to
confession. But I say to atlier le
such a good man —‘We are both bons Catholiques
—you your way, Imy way.’ Ido like de
Catholique musique—so fine, so in-a-spirmg ; And
lam ver’ sorry to leave-a St. Patrice. Suchcare-a
they took of me ! But
“ They ask-a me at de Council whether I leave
all my musique dat I have written and scored for
organe in nine years. Such kind gentlemen in de
Council ! But I say, ‘No ; I have played for
you—and not once was I late ail de long time ,
and we are-a square.’ So I take-a my musique—
I take-a de 1 Storm ’—how they would like-a to
pat de ‘ Storm,’ ho, ho!—apd good-bye, Australie .
“Oh I have been-a amused ! De Town Clerk,
ne come to me, and he say, ‘ Mistairr Wiegand,
de public are discontent of your programmes.
‘Well’ Isay, ‘Mistairr Town Clerk, I cannot
help dat. I give de best musique—l play Bach,
Beethoven, Handel-all who are famous.
(And you know dere are some people in
Sydney who have not missed cme recital,
J I think, in nine years.) Oh,, he say;
‘ Bach he is not populaire ; play ( Soldiers of de
Queen ” and “ Sons of de Sea. Soldiers of de
Queen ’-bah ! Wait, I will take a snuff. Ah-
ha 1 That is good. ‘ Bach is not populaire ; play
“De Soldiers of de Queen”! Ho, ho, ho, ho,
ho ! Ho, ho !
$ “So you see, it is time for poor Bibi to go. He
* not populaire, poo-oou-r Bibi! That u> why I
play—you notice ?—at my cmicert de oder day a
piece from classique—‘lt is enough. After
dat, I play ‘ Home, Sweet Home. Next concert,
I play anoder classique, ‘Le temps est venu
‘De moment has come.’ Den ‘ Home, Sweet
Home ’ again. You see ? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha !
Ho, ho, ho !
“Australie is still too of de province dans les
choses artistiques ; and it is too far away
from Europe for that your taste be cultivated by
de best artistes. Dat is what Guilmant say
always when I ask him to com'e. ‘Yes ; I would
like ; but it is too far—too far.’ To Amerique it
is pleasant holiday—you can go everywhere in six
week; but Australie ! Three mont’s to go and
come home. No, it is too far.
“ I would like-a to say how I am grateful to de
peoples of Australie. Dey are not de City Coun-
cil. So many persons come to shake-a my hand,
and say ‘ Chevalier! so sorry you go! ’ I am
sorry too—and my poor organe ! But one cannot
stay always away from Europe—dere is everyting
dere dat is good, and de best musique. So poor
Bibi must go. Adieu, l’Australie ! Vive le gai
Paris ! ”
The Voice and the Woman.
The Woman thought it was she who was writing
the letter. She sat at a table, bent over a sheet of
paper. There was a pen in her hand, and it was
her hand writing “My Dearest, are you sur-
prised ...”
The Angel smiled. He Was leaning out from
the gold bar of Heaven. ...
And the Woman went on. . . “that I have
broken the long silence ? 'For weeks I have been
trying not to write. But to-night I give up the
struggle. How gladly ...”
* * » *
The Angel smiled again, and with the same
glance that watched the Woman he surveyed the
Man, hopeless, abandoned by his kind, not; God-
forgotten only because of his love for the Woman.
His face was hidden in his arm. He was so when
the sunset burned away into grey, then black,
ashes. So would he stay through the night—save
when he raised his head to look at the hour. After
to-night the hour and the sunset would be no more
for him unless ...
His thoughts always came to within a heart-beat
of a woman's name, then jangled into silence.
* * . *
“ I know,” went on the Woman, “ that you are
in trouble—many troubles. How do I know ? I
cannot tell. 1 only know that all through the
dumb .vear my heart has known always of your
She paused,, gave a little moan, mo&d irreso-
POSSIBLY “DE SOLDIERS OF DE QUEEN.”
—From a woodcut by Felix Vallotton.
lutely in her chair and murmured, “If I could
only say the right thing. ...”
“The right thing,” said the inward Voice,
“ would be to say nothing. Faith that urges him
to live, Hope that would spur him to rise—from
you it would be only words, words, words. A
man would rather be sent to perdition by the
woman he loves than saved from it by one he
despises.” - *
The Angel was frowning.
The Woman shrank. “No one has ever been
given the right to despise me,” she whispered,
“least of all he.”
“ Well, the woman to whom he is indifferent,
then. But when a woman loves a man who does
not love her the margin between contempt or in-
difference is so thih that he scarcely knows it is
there.”
“Be silent! ” commanded the Woman.
“If I could only make you understand,” the
Woman wrote, “the kind my love has grown to
be, you would come to me and take as tributes all
I could give (and I would give much) then pass
out of my life, for ever if you wished, but hap-
pier.”
“If you could only make him understand,”
echoed the Voice, “that you are offering to pay
his debts, he would endure the threatened sym-
pathy and judicious advice and come. . .
The Woman made a hasty, repelling gesture,
and continued to write.
The Angel was smiling.
“Dearest,” the Woman wenton, “if I were not
quite certain that Jmu remember as I do, love still
as I do, I would feel, in writing this, as one who
goes into a battle unarmed . . . but if I had any
dodbt I should not write at all. Yet how few ap-
parent reasons I have (I can see you smile at
apparent—as if a great, love were a visible
thing). Am 1 not magnificent ? . . .
“ Your vanity is,” murmured the Voice, “ to run
against the cold steel of that man’s nature, to
think that, because you are constant, his memory
is steadfast.”
“Always faithful to me,” murmured the
Woman.
“ Yet he turned from you . . . How often . . .
and to what husks he made his vows . . . Ah,
your cheeks burn ...”
“ With pride at the memory of his kisses.”
“ So he kissed the husks ...”
“No, no ! ”
The Woman dropped the pen; her head fell
forward on her arm. “ I know whose Voice you
are,” she moaned; “but ah, God ! let me be deaf
for a little while.”
“ These poor mortals,” the Angel mused; out
of vanity and convention they conjure a whine
and call it the Voice of God.”
The Woman’s pen was racihg over the paper
again. Her left hand screened what the other
wrote.
“ You are ashamed of it,” the Voice persisted.
She only smiled and wrote faster.
“ Rake, spendthrift, idler ! ” spoke the Voice.
“ Gay, kind and fearless ! ” retorted the Woman.
“ Unfaithful husband, faithless lover.”
“ Never faithless to me. . . I am the one he
will love to death, my soul his soul will seek after
death.” . „ „
“You remember that autumn two years ago.
She was silent, writing, and the Voice went on,
“You recollect the girl— ‘ empty shell was your
Ph-afreconect. The ‘ shell ’ was prettily
marked. . .”
“Your rival. . .” ,
“No rivalry possible between me and such as
she. If the woman had been another Me. . .
The Angel was siftiling.
“If you and he were free, urged^the Voice,
“do you think he would turn to you?”
“ As gladly as dawn turns to sunrise.
“ His long silences ...”
“ I am glad he did not weaken them by letters
. . . did I not*' know . . . does God write
letters, or need them . . . God is Love. . .’
“ Can I urge nothing that ...”
“ Nothing. Even the greatest crime would only
. . . did I not say I was magnificent ? . .”
She was still writing, unmindful of the chill
night. Her lips and cheeks were red.
The Voice was silent a space, then murmured:
“In love such as yours—and his—every trifle
“In love like ours there are no trifles. Scanty
incidents become events. Every meeting begins
and closes an epoch.” . ,
“ Good. And in such love there is no forgetiul-
“ None. Apparently cruel, seemingly faithless,
it often is—never forgetful.”
“ If you thought that he remembered you only
when he saw or heard from you would you send
that letter?”
“ No. It would be no more to him than waste
paper. It will save him because he loves me.”
“ When you came back from Europe . . . you
had told him the date of your return . . . and
met by chance weeks later ... do you recall his
look of surprise ? He 'said something about your
‘ unexpected ’ arrival ...”
The Woman stopped her pen in the middle
of a word. Her eyes were full of surprise and
fear. “Once,” the Voice went on, “once only
you asked him to do something for you—a mere
trifle. He forgot . . . you forgave him because
of the smile with which he told you he forgot.”
The Woman was looking blankly before her. _
“ It is but a trifle,” she said, weakly, “ proving
nothing ...” The Voice laughed, and she hastily
finished the broken word and sentence.
■ The Angel looked anxious.
* * * *
The Man was stirring uneasily. Once he moaned
rather than spoke the Woman’s name.
* * * *
“ And the dinner at his chambers . . the
Voice persisted.
“ I sat at his right,” argued the Woman ; “ his
eyes . . . his swift hand-clasp under the cloth
. . .” She was writing swiftly once more.
“ One of the guests found his autograph-book.
Names were signed . . . you wrote yours ...”
The. Woman was staring fixedly at the
unfinished letter ; her hands dropped by her sides.
“. . . and he looked over your shoulder,” the
Voice went on, “ and exclaimed, ‘ Felice ’—is that
one of your names ? What a beautiful one it is ! ’
. . . You had signed it occasionally in your letters
to him ... And in love such as yours there can be
no forgetfulness, no trifles ... all is significant—
and eventful.”
* * * •
The Woman had risen. She was shivering. Her
lips and oheeks were pale, and she was angry be-
cause her watch had run down. On the table were
the fragments of a letter.
No Angel leaned out from the gold bar of
Heaven.
The Man waited on until morning had nearly-
waned to noon, and then —and then he died.
N.S.W.
A. Conor-o’Brien.
“ Ignotus ” ■ comments on a recent vol. of the
Contemporary Science Series —
Starbuck’s “ Psychology of Religion ” is disappointing.
It does not deal with religion generally, but with a
religion ; and chiefly with the one phenomenon known as
“ conversion.” The book is long and diffuse. The author
seems really only to establish one thing ; that “ conver-
sion occurs chiefly at three periods. In males, at 12, 15J,
and 18. In girls, at 13, 16 and 19. Are we to conclude,
then, that it is only a pathological sex-disturbance ? Per-
sonally, all I have gained from the book is a suspicion that
the physical changes which occur at puberty are very
complex; that three great disturbances take place. From
what women have told me I should say there are cer-
tainly three well-marked stages of growth to maturity.
As to boys, you cannot cross-examine the “innocent,”
and the avowedly corrupt are very unreliable, besides
being often apparently abnormal. If doctors could work
the subject up and explain it in books accessible to
parents ; if said parents would read the books; if boys,
from 13 to 19, could have proper explanation and advice,
much might be gained. My own youthful experience was
that certain matters—facts both physical and psychical—
caused me great distress of mind, and though I sought
advice and guidance in absolutely the best quarter,
nothing was told me ; except, perhaps, that I was to fast
and pray. I had the current physiological text-books, but
somehow could not understand them. Had I been plainly
told exactly what it all meant, from what pitfalls should I
have been saved!
In Sydney’s Bohemia—the story of the Poet
and the Painter. They had a famous night,
a night of stars, a night of tears and whiskey, and
the Poet missed the last suburban boat. He was
bartonically “stranded” on the cold streets.
Then the Painter—an artist of the breezy open-air
school, whose pictures appear chiefly on hoardings,
rose to the heights of faithful Abdiel. He took
the homeless Poet home. . Up a flight of stairs,
many flights of stairs, ricketty, mouldy, incon-
ceivably crooked. (Maybe the beautiful night’s
exuberance accounted for some of the crookedness.)
And when they arrived, somewhere near the room
the Painter lit an end of candle and “ Enter ! ”
The neatest little garret you ever saw. A single
bed in one corner ; a huge roll 'of canvas in the
other. The Painter wished his guest to take the
bed. “ Never ! ” 'said the Poet. They argued,
, icy argued ; they were nearly frozen. The Poet
was adamant ;—it was a mere bed, not a drink.
Arid the desperate Painter dumped down the
huge roll of canvas and began to pay it out for a
'shake-down. “ Picture of the Mediterranean Sea,”
he explained. “ I painted it for a religious dior-
ama company that went broke and left it on my
hands. Look at the warmth of colour,' dear
boy! Observe the glowing tints of the sea
near Cyprus ! See how the heat shimmers and
shakes in the atmosphere around Malta!
Makes you feel hot to look at it, eh ? By Jove !
you have the best of the bargain, after all.” And
the guest went to sleep witli his ear on Jerusalem
arid his toes curled up in the Straits of Gibraltar.
When he gathered his shivering bones together in
the chill dawn and went away his ague was more
than balanced by the fever of his imagination.


W. JNO. BAKER, CUTLER,
S Hunter Street, Sydney.
W. JNO. BAKER’S
PRESENTATION
Cases of Carvers.
Artistic Design, fitted in Elegant,
Silk and, Velvet-lined Cases.
Containing Carver, Fork and Steel @ 21s, 255, 27s 6d,
355, and 37s 6d per case, post free.
Containing Meat Carver and Fork, Poultry
Carver, Fork and Steel @ 425, 47s 6d, 67s 6d,
and (as illustrated) 72s 6d per case post free.
ASTORAL r INANCE
SSOC’N | a TD
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HCCHEST RETURNS.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
j-**- —Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S YD KTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
1 New South Wales and Queensland.
Ihe Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DAIED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :—•
COMMISSION | per Cent .
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.’
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
galea °f Mjaraixpial Steins held Weekly.
‘THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.’
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF tire"*
&
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &e„ &e.Use
ENO S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT' is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.-See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. BNO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT..
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders —Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas.
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color—Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door; Duchesse Dressing Table to
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong—
-6 Padded-back Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free. -
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m, Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-street for Hall’s.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE
«■> GRAIN BROKERS^*.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Obtain Best Prices for WOOL and PRODUCE, and
Safeguard PROCEEDS by their Special TRUST
A/c SYSTEM.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
WM
m m m
mm
mm
m m u
gmj
■*»»
m
SPARKLING
% m
i
M&r
V,TTT7. —
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLA KEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
flsk for O.C.E
•*?*&***
»_ 'W; «
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES 3 CENTRAL. WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
m
Tlie Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physfcian’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatio
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Pro**
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
TORONTO.
CANADA,
I
35 BROADWAY. SYDNE
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNB
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN,
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
high-grade farm implements and machinery.
Patei)t Sb€ep-Brai)dii)g LiqOid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out*
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Blaclt, :e=L®«3., and Blue. 3a 8d per gall, in Melb. and. Sydney;
3s 9d per gall, in, Brisbane
Manufacturer*—
Felton, Crimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Silver City C. Jul > 25.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame ,
Address
Silver City C. (SPECIAL).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me——... shares in the above.
Name
Address
Adelaide G.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ? shares in the above.
Name
Address _
s *
Spring H. August 11.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address ;
£, : s
Sept. 11
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Bhares in the above.
N ame
Address
* « t
October 20,
Caulfield C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne 0. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address ,
*
x
Melbourne C.
November 6
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
. ..Ji . ,


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
m
\
\
v
BAND SAW MIULS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
to % u tes,
at\
*SlIOI)I2)IlXII
spioq pin? sqi
aano pire ‘uo
(jquig eiqvnißA
l!0 snjdXie
Mvaa
LO*fclV
nm
Just a Cough
This is its story:
At first, a slight cough.
At last, a hemorrhage.
At first, easy to cure.
At last, extremely difficult.
Arm
sherra
pectoral
quickly conquers your hack-
ing cough. There is no doubt
about the cure now.
For over half a century
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
been curing colds and coughs
and preventing consumption.
Put up in large and small bottles.
A cure is hastened by plac-
ing over the chest one of
Dr. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral Plasters.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €n)brocatioi)
for Cyits, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
. BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Ctybrocatiog.
AtiStraliai) tyOtftal ProyidcQt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any line.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
B «ggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, TO/- per Set.
&SB' Send for Price List. T£&
H. HILLIEB, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulltles
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
“ITAIfA”
IiVAV
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLIN6
PROMOTES 6ROWTH,
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
s
M
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO '
now since June
last, and I have
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD..
VeT BEVIS MARKS, LONDON,
ENGLAND.I
SMS®
■■
'
h
"//ever njind baby / Jt will soon grow now.”
‘MARLENE’
FOR
THE
HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions/or use in
20 languages supplied u/ith every bottle .
■*/-, 2/6, and (triple z/6 size) 4./S per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
* Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
Iff.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Mauxif-
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a (close to Redfern Railway Station).
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
108 Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Brice List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do eo, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUR SI’ECIAIi No. 2
£8 18/6
Dollrered at any Wharf Or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Brown Old River.
There’s a river to the nor’ard,
♦ And a breeze across a bay,
And the breeze is on my forehead,
Though I’m scores of leagues away.
There is mud there, black and clinging,
When the tide is half or low,
But I hear the river singing
River-songs I used to know;
And ’tis calling me, that river—
I can see the ripples shiver
On its breast, and see the quiver
Of the moon deep down below.
There’s a river, and I hear it
Telling stories to the breeze,
And I’m longing to go near it
O’er the weary, plunging seas.
When you swing around Cape Moreton,
Where the silver sandbanks are,
Where the rollers trip and shorten
Ere they sprawl across the bar ;
Then you’ll see the river streaming
As I see it now, day-dreaming,
And the Pile Light’s lazy gleaming,
Like an earth-attracted star.
There’s a river, and it’s muddy,
But its banks are always green,
And its dark-brown stream is ruddy
In the sunset’s bronzelike sheen.
And ’tis always softly singing
To fond favored ones like me,
As it takes its course a-swinging
To the bay that woos the sea,
With a greeting to the bridges
And the mud-banks’ rosy ridges
Where the rusty, ugly dredges
Clank and clatter noisily.
There’s a river, haunt of dreamers,
Black and silver ’neath the moon,
Where the yellow-lighted steamers
Throb and hum an ocean-tune.
I can hear the rollers sprawling
As they stumble o’er the bar,
And I hear the river calling,
Calling, calling, faint and far.
I can see the moonbeams shiver
On that muddy, brown old river,
And the Pile Light’s sleepy quiver
Like a tired and dozing star.
Vic.
QUILP N.
The Day’s Dream.
Young morning’s breath strays lightly through my
hair ;
The sun is hiding yet behind the trees.
And, drinking in big gulps the limpid air
And list’ning to the chatter of the breeze,
I feast my eyes upon the distance, where
A fleet of amber-tinted argosies
Are sailing through the ether ; and they bear
My thoughts away with them to nameless seas.
What, after all, is woman’s love, to ask
The whole, the undivided heart of man ?
A sickly puppet in a tinsel mask !
How mean she looks as in the dawn I scan
Her faded face. Oh ! for some giant’s task,
A wanderer’s life, a place among the van !
And now, the noonday scintillates on high !
The very breezes even are asleep ;
And one by one my fancies droop and die.
A languorous temptation seems to creep
About my heart and drowsily to sigh
Stay, build a cottage where the waters leap,
Where easily the days are floating by,
Strained through a wilderness of roses deep !
And I succumb. My ardent zeal is spent;
Why should I tramp the weary, endless road,
Encounter death a cripple, worn and bent,
To perish painfully beneath my load ?
No ! Happiness is peace and still content;
This tranquil Eden is her true abode !
But, lo ! the sun has vanished in the west.
Oh, tender sadness of the magic eve;
The misty glamour of enchanted rest
Is veiling nature. Softened colors weave
A fairy mantle for the withered breast
Of Mother Earth ; her pulses throb and heave,
A flush of youth returns and calls her blest;
And she remembers—and forgets to grieve.
Old melodies are crooning from the past;
A faint elixir is transfusing me ;
The snows bleak life around my heart has massed
Are melting into silent reverie.
Ah, for the happiness I found at last,
Sad smiling paradise of Memory !
But in the East a silver-flood has swept
The roses from the sky. Vast depths appear.
lam alone in space. The night has leapt
Upon me. Dread infinity is near.
Out of a cosy shelter I have stepped
Into the presence of the fates that steer
The Universe through Time. A chill has crept
Into my breast, and shakes my soul with fear.
Oh, give me love, a woman’s love, to hold
My lonely heart within her precious care !
What are they all to me, your fame and gold ?
I hunger for a gem beyond compare.
The world is pitiless, the world is cold ;
And only love can make it warm and fair !
And thus the cycle ends where it was born,
While days, and months, and years are gliding
by.
And with the throe of many passions torn,
Dazed by the ravishment of visions high,
I find myself with every flaunting morn,
With every fragrant eve that paints the sky,
Still questioning, still purposeless and lorn,
Still asking for an answer to a why.
And 10, the others enter, each his goal,
Where the awards of proud achievement gleam ;
And they inscribe their names upon the roll
Of living fame, of recompense supreme.
The icy hand of Death is on my soul —
The race is run—and still, I lie adream !
VON KOTZE.


THE
PLUM
Price SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 78. 6d. eaoh. This Razor is superior to anj r
m the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO fEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
& AITBZEJJ, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fend [ife Assurance Society [td.
mmc QoriFTv • jj... , Established 1871.
A whiXlir.rJ Q ln . , ~J 01 ? t. 0 transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
wmcn issues special Policies granting—
\ tV f™ of premium in the event of tenaporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
I A l am-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; ~
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000
Offices: 263
Write lot Special Prospectus.]
Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Annual Income exceeds £220,000
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
FEOERMt gi HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
ROOMS AND ACCOMMODATION—ALL
PRICES—Ss. to 12s. per DAY.
30s. to £3 10s. per week,
AND MEALS CAN BE
SEPARATELY.
OR ROOMS
PAID FOR
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE.
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
A
PROSPEROUS COMPANY
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
MEANS':—
John Bridges! Co’s ltd. Clients Cron Bid
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
The direct result of our’determined efforts on your behalf.
For past 30 years or every year since 1870.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
CUR
t&EFULLYATTHE BRAND:
$3
vS
q:
m
a.
s
%
e>
1
m
STieK T©
\
GAME© \
eiGARETTES
BLACK *• ™ SHIPS
which bring them over.
/
s
PAPER
AND
Water
Acid
Fume
Vermin
PROOF
PROOF
PROOF
PROOF
«
Un qu died the wide world- over for pbesebvative and
insulating purposes when used as we direct. Don't
try methods suggested by others, but use as we dibect.
Our
Special
Booklet
on each
FREE
FOR
THE
ASKING
ho nr
SD
fs
X
• • •
\
•.?
\v
V
V
BIRP
E. RICH AND COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1065.
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1900.
Prioh 6d.
ARRIVAL OF THE HEW BABY.
NURSE BARTON: " He arn't much to Look at now. But wait tilt he grows!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
*' Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales. .
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
■ publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ’’ column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copries of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1900.
The Case Against Westralian
Federation.
The Wesbralian Federal Referendum takes
place on the last day of this month, and in
view thereof the Parochialists of Groper
Land have girded up their intelligence for
the fray. In the main they are making a
poor show of argument. It would seem
that along with a great want of conscience
there is a still greater lack of coherent in-
vention among the leaders of the Little
Groper party, and that stupendous imagina-
tive capacity which made the Federal cam-
paign such a thrilling episode in the East is
wholly absent. There isn’t the material for
even a good snake story among the Little
Gropers. Their literature is tame ; their
inaccuracy, as compared to the glorious
mendacity of the Eastern Parochialists, is as
a cockroach to an Eiffel tower ; even their
inferences don’t show the amazing irrele-
vance of the inferences drawn by their
Eastern brethren, who, if a house blew down
in Sydney, or a d.t. patient slaughtered his
mother in Melbourne, or a ship sank off the
coast of Queensland, immediately rose and
proved that the near approach of Australian
union was the sole cause, and that houses,
however old, never blew down, and ships,
however old, always remained up in a suf-
ficiently disunited country.
* * * *
As a striking instance of the feebleness of
the Westralian Parochialist case, an official
manifesto of the Disunionist League—it calls
itself “National” by way of irony because
it wants to prevent the making of a nation
and preserve instead a series of spots—is
worth quoting in its beautiful entirety :
Intercolonial Freetrade will deprive the Commonwealth
of £1,000,000, which is at present collected from Customs
duties.
The proposed federating colonies now collect
£6,000,000 on British and foreign imports.
The Federal Government will require £7,170,000 to
enable the departments taken over to be kept going, to
provide for the “ new services,” and to enable the quota
of three-fourths of the net revenue to be returned to the
States. [Ffde Mr. Owen’s report.]
The people must therefore be further taxed to the ex-
tent of £1,170,000.
Besides the losses in respect to the departments taken
over, Federation means an additional Governor-General,
two extra Houses of Parliament with members paid at
£4OO a year each, an extra set of Ministers, a further civil
establishment, more courts of justice, an Inter-State
Commission, etc.
All these luxuries must be paid for, and paid for by the
people additional to their present taxation.
To raise £7,170,000 where £6,000,000 only is now raised
must mean increased duties.
The masses must contribute more than at present.
An increased tariff will afford oreater protection
AND LEAD TO EXTENDED PRODUCTION THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The masses will pay for Australian-manufactured goods
at prices which are within a fraction of the imported
articles.
_ If, owing to increased protection, Australian produc-
tion is greater the volume of imports will be less.
To enable the Commonwealth Treasurer to meet his
engagements, he must obtain his revenue of £7,170,000
regardless of the local production.
The Commonwealth Treasurer can only obtain his
revenue, with any degree of certainty, by taxing those
articles which cannot be manufactured or produced
within the Commonwealth, and which the people must
have for their daily use.
WHAT ARE THESE ARTICLES ?
(a) Arrowroot, sago, tapioca, cornflour, farinaceous
foods, coffee, cocoa, rice, sugar, tea, oatmeal, molasses,
kerosene, spirits, &c., tobacco.
With the exception of spirits and tobacco, which are
taxed everywhere, all the articles enumerated in the
above list are now free of duty in Western Australia.
It is obvious, therefore, that the cost of living must be
greater under Federation than now, not only to the ex-
tent of the duties, but also by the sellers’ profits on those
duties.
TO THE LADIES.
If you desire to compare your present grocer’s bill with
what it will be under Federation, add to the items the
duties thus Arrowroot, sago, tapioca, cornflour, and
farinaceous foods, Id. per lb. ; coffee, 3d. per lb. ; cocoa,
3d. per lb. ; rice, fd. per lb. ; sugar, Id. per lb. ; tea, 4d.
per lb.; oatmeal, Id. per lb. ; molasses, Jd. per lb. ; kero-
sene, 6d. per gallon.
Remember this —That the Government of Western
Australia has promised that next session the duties will
be taken off meats of all kinds, and a majority of mem-
bers is pledged to remove the duties on butter, eggs,
cheese, hams, bacon, &c.
Weigh these matters by July 31 and vote accordingly.
* » * *
Therefore, the beautifully mixed case of
the Provincialist party reads as follows :
(1) Federation is bad because it will lead to £1,000,000
of (interprovincial) customs taxation being taken off.
(2) In the same clause it is set forth that Federation is
equally bad because it will lead to £1,170,000 of customs
taxation being put on. The amount which the Parochial
party says will be taken off and the amount which it says
will be put on almost exactly balance, so according to the
Parochial party Federation will leave the Customs taxes
just about where they were. But the taking off, and the
putting on, and the leaving of things as they were, are all
quoted as being equally good evidence that Federation is
a curse.
(3) After pointing out that the cost of all the new
Federal services—Parliament, courts of justice, Governor.
General, &c. —are included in the iniquitous £1,170,000
of extra duties that are to be put on after the £1,000,000
has been iniquitously taken off, the manifesto quotes
these things all over again and puts them into the bill a
second time.
(4) Then it says that to raise £7,170,000 where only
£6,000,000 is raised now must mean increased duties and
greater taxation on the masses. Yet by its own showing
it is only a case of raising £7,170,000 where £7,000,000 is
now raised, so its allegations are £1,000,000 out, and on
its own figures there is no extra taxation worth mention-
ing to be provided for. At present, according to the
manifesto, the people pay £6,000,000 duties on British
and foreign imports and £1,000,000 on interprovincial
imports, making £7,000,000 in all. And under the new
system, it alleges, they are to pay £7,170,000 on British
and foreign imports and nothing on interprovincial im-
ports, making £7,170,000 in all.
(5) And the Parochial League of One-eyed Men alleges
as a reason against Federation that the increased protec-
tion it is to afford will lead to extended production
throughout Australia. More things will be made here,
and the people will therefore get more work and more
wages in the process of making them. And the Parochial
League implores them to avoid more work and more
wages.
* « • *
(6) And because there will be more production, and
greater abundance of goods, and more competition among
producers, the Parochial League says that prices will be
higher. The Parochialists’ doctrine is that greater abun-
dance makes prices go up ; therefore they are lower
where there is scarcity, and the place where they are
lowest is naturally the place where the supply is least.
In a besieged city which has got down to its last pound of
meat the price of meat would therefore be almost nil.
(7) And in order to raise revenue, according to the
awful League of Unintelligible Gropers, the Federal Trea-
surer must tax things which can’t be produced in Aus-
tralia, such as sugar, oatmeal, molasses, cornflour, rice,
coffee, arrowroot, spirits and tobacco. The League of
Unintelligible Gropers actually doesn’t know that Aus-
tralia supplies itself with great quantities of sugar,
molasses, oatmeal, cornflour, spirits and tobacco, and
that rice, coffee, and arrowroot are growing industries,
and that this continent is quite capable, not only of fully
supplying itself, but of becoming a large exporter. And
the men whose ignorance is so incredible that they don’t
know a little thng like that claim to instruct the people
about large things.
(8) And having set forth, in paragraph 1, that it is
wrong for the Federal Government to take off duties, it
finishes up by the promise that, if Federation is rejected
in Westralia, the Provincial Government will take off
duties. And having set forth that under Federation there
will be more Protection and increased production, and
therefore more work, it promises that, if the people will
only stand solidly by Provincialism, it will give less Pro-
tection, and therefore diminish production and make less
work. And it calls on the people to vote for Provin-
cialism, and less production, and less work.
* * » *
While the League of Uninformed Paro-
chialists declares, in the above manifesto,
that Federation is bad because, among other
things, it will lead, by means of Protection,
to increased production throughout Australia,
it publishes, on the same page of Perth
Morning Herald, another pathetic appeal
to the people to vote for continued Separa-
tism because Federation won’t lead to
extended production. It says Federation
Will hinder the development of town industries, proba-
bly strangling some now progressing.
It will seriously affect the cultivation of the soil, but
will cause much less injury to the squatter.
Also, the first manifesto offers, as a bribe to
the people to vote against Federation, that,
as sorn as that noxious thing is defeated,
the Provincial Government will reward the
people by taking off the duties which now
hinder the importation of meat and cattle
from the other provinces—it being evidently
implied that the people will gain some bene-
fit by the abolition. And the second mani-
festo urges them to vote against Federation
because, though it will necessarily abolish
the meat duties, the public will gain no
benefit thereby. First manifesto :
Remember this—That the Government of Western Aus-
tralia has promised next session the duties will be taken
off meats of all kinds, and a majority of members is
pledged to remove the duties on butter, eggs, cheese,
hams, bacon, etc. Weigh these matters by July 31 and
vote accordingly.
Second manifesto :
It (Federation and the consequent abolition of inter-
provincial duties) will not reduce the price of meat, be-
cause it is the local supply which must govern the price,
the freight from the Eastern colonies being under the
control of a ring of shipowners, and will be raised or
lowered in accordance with local consumption.
Thus it is claimed that the (certain) abolition
of the meat duties under Federation won’t
reduce the price of meat, and also
that their (only probable) abolition under
continued Provincialism will reduce the
price of meat and do the people a lot of
good. The first assertion, that taking off - a
duty under Federation won’t reduce prices,
doesn’t hang well together with the previous
assurance that putting on duties under
Federation will raise prices. If meat will
be the same price with or without duty,
why won’t a similar rule apply to sugar and
coffee ?
* * * *
Also, the first manifesto says that sugar
will be heavily taxed because it is an article
that can’t be produced in Australia. And the
second one goes on to say that Federation
“ will raise the price of sugar because a heavy
tax will be put on in the interests of that in-
dustry on the eastern coast.” So it is
claimed that the fact that sugar isn’t grown
in Australia and the fact that it is grown
there are equally dead-sure reasons why it
will be taxed—though why the growers of
sugar should discourage themselves by tax-
ing their own product passes understanding.
* * * »
The Perth Morning Herald is the loudest
and most rampant opponent of Federation
and the League’s principal ally. The
League’s first manifesto, as quoted above,
sets forth that it will be necessary under
Federation to increase Australia’s customs
duties from £7,000,000 to £7,170,000,
and that this will be bad because
the extra Protection will cause “ ex-
tended production throughout Australia ”
(“throughout,” be it observed—i.e., in all
parts of Australia) and thus create more
employment, which is evidently a bad thing
and one to be discouraged. In its second
manifesto it also sets forth that Federation
is bad because it will increase taxation :
It will, by impoverishing’ the State, and by increasing
taxation, render the consideration of public works impos-
sible, until the degree of financial losses can lie ascer-
tained and their effect upon the public credit of the State
realised.
And the anti - Federal Perth Morning
Herald publishes both these manifestoes
with a loud whoop. But it says (leading
article of 26th May) that there will be no
loss and no impoverishment to the Wes-
tralian State and thereby flatly contradicts
its party’s main argument :
. . . The Premier . . . stated that there could be “ no
doubt that for some years to come Westralia must be a
loser by Federation,” and that reduced to hard figures
that loss would be £300,000 a-year. No attempt has been
made to challenge the general accuracy of the details. . .
Now we do not pretend that the £300,000 which will be
lost to the State revenue will be lost to the country. Not
at all. It will still be in the pockets of the people.
And again in its leading article of 26th June:
We are on common ground with the thinking portion
of the Federalist party when we say that the loss which
federation will involve the State Treasurer in will amount
to about £300,000. This money will certainly be in the
pockets of the people.
So that one anti-Federal legend is that the
State will be impoverished and taxation
increased. And • the other is that the cus-
toms taxes will take £300,000 less annually
from the people, which is diminishing taxa-
tion—not increasing it; and that there will
be no counterbalancing loss, for the £300,000
will be in the people’s pockets It won’t be
lost, and as the money will still be in the
State the State can’t be impoverished.
* • * *
And while the League of Parochialists
objects to Federation because it will increase
customs taxation, its mouthpiece, the
Morning Herald, is against it quite as
bitterly on the ground that it will diminish
customs taxation—so far, at least, as Wes-
tralia is concerned :
Mr. Matheson’s figures are indeed the figures of a
financial phantasmagoria—a sort of fiscal and statistical
nightmare. They are all based upon assumption—and
that assumption the wrong one. Mr. Matheson assumes
that the Federal Government will collect the same duties
as we in Western Australia do now ; and upon this his
financial house of cards is erected. Obviously, it would
be quite impossible to inflict any such outrageous tariff as
ours throughout the length and breadth of Australia.
The tariffs of the eastern colonies range from £1 10s. per
head per annum to £2 11s. ; while our own gathers in the
shekels to the tune of £6 6s. per head. None of the
eastern provinces will ever consent to increasing its tariff
burdens to this enormous extent, so, the foundations
being destroyed,' Mr. Matheson’s lengthy tangle of figures
falls of its own weight.
Thus the Perth Morning Herald damns
Australian union which, it says, will reduce
Westralia’s “outrageous tariff” .and is in
favour of the separate system which created
and maintained, and still maintains, that
“ outrageous tariff.” But a few days later,
in its leading article of 26th June, the same
Morning Herald rose to state that, being
already against Federation because it would
make the customs tariff lighter, it was also
opposed to it because it would make the cus-
toms tariff heavier :
It is admitted that, whereas £6,000,000 is now collected
by the colonies, £8,000,000 must be collected under Feder-
ation.
(The Parochial party’s official manifesto,
appearing in the same issue, says that
£7,000,000 is now collected, and it must be
increased to £7,170,000 under Federation,
but that is a mere detail.)
Therefore the people must pay £2,000,000 more on
something, and the probabilities are that foodstuffs will
be the articles subjected to the additional taxation, and
for this reason :—Heavy duties on luxuries and articles
which are not absolutely necessary to the existence of
the people will not avail the Treasurer, because the people,
if they cannot afford to purchase, will be able to do with-
out them. Again, it will not avail the Treasurer to tax
articles which are produced within the Commonwealth,
for there will be no imports of them, and consequently no
revenue.
(This gives the lie straight to the statement
already quoted that sugar is going to be
taxed.)
Therefore, it follows that, in order to enable the
Treasurer to obtain the amount he requires, he must
frarhe a tariff which will tax those articles which the people
must have, and which cannot be produced within the Com-
monwealth. It is very easy, then, to discover what articles
must be taxed ; they are the articles which are necessary
to the existence of the people, and which are in everyday
use, i.e., foodstuffs, &c. As £8,000,000 must be collected
as against £6,000,000 on these particular articles, it seems
tolerably clear that living- must be dearer.
* » * *
This article stops here, not for want of
material, which is endless, but for want of
space. The case for Federation has been
set forth so often in The Bulletin that it
hardly requires repetition, so for a change
this paper sets forth the case, or part
of the case, against federation, as
it concerns Westralia, and as the
case is drawn up by the Westralian
anti-Federalists themselves. And the moral
of it is this : If Westralia votes against
Federation on 31st J uly it votes for leaving
its Government, its future, its hopes and
prospects in the hands of the crowd whose
silliness, incapacity, ignorance and want of
every intellectual quality which goes to make
even a decent alderman or an intelligent
dog-catcher glare forth in the extracts
above quoted. And if Westralia is capable
of forming an intelligent judgment it w'ill
decide that men like these are not fitted to
run a sawmill, let alone a State.
A Decayed Democrat.
The sensation of the day in Q. polities is the
definite defection of Thos. Glassey. A surprise
it certainly was not, for everyone expected it—but
its occurrence at this particular juncture and in this
particular fashion was hardly anticipated by the
Q. public. It is well-known that Gf asset’s Demo-
cratic convictions sustained a fatal shock when
that pompous politician was deposed from his
position as Leader of the Labor Party. His sub-
sequent adoption of a rampant Jingo attitude
alienated him still further from the genuine Labor-
men of Bananaland, and his present action in
resigning his seat with a view to contesting it as an
Independent candidate is merely the logical out-
come of a lengthy career of wobbling.
* * * *
The latest convert to the Philpocrats is a man
of very slender abilities, of considerable energy
and of enormous vanity. No man in Queensland
was ever more kindly treated by Fortune, and no
man ever proved so mournfully unequal to the
opportunities thrown in his way. Good men
stood aside to give him a chance ; a patient and
long-suffering Parliamentary Party endured his
ludicrous gyrations until Labour-in-Parliament
was become a laughing-stock and a by-word ; the
country tolerated him on account of a creditable
patch in his early public career.
* * * *
The last elections saw a determined effort on
the part of Glassey to form an independent party,
free from the accursed trammels of a signed
platform. The public showed its appreciation of
the effort by casting all the Glasseyite candidates
into the outer darkness, and Thomas himself only
saved his political bacon by meekly subscribing
to the Labor pledge he so bitterly anathematised.
The Jingo fever, however, gave him an opportun-
ity he was not slow to utilise. Noting that the
majority of his Labor colleagues were against the
war, and consequently reaping a temporary
political odium thereby, Glassey hoisted the flag
of Ultra-Jingoism, advocated the levying of a
subscription-tax on the Civil Servants, and in
every way proved himself a worthy comrade of
the Fat Jingoes he formerly abominated.
Unfortunately (for him) the general elections
were not to come off for a couple of
years or so, and, with the abating of Jingo fever,
the crafty politician saw that his prospect of reap-
ing a harvest in the shape of re-election was a
very small one. Inspired by a brilliant idea, he
accordingly resigned his seat suddenly, arranged
that the election should come off in less than a
fortnight, and posed as the statesman who would
be pinned to no platform. His speech to the elec-
tors contained scarcely an allusion to local politics
but bristled with the most ferocious Jingoism.
* * * *
Queensland has seen the old Independent mem-
bers one by one nobbled and noosed. Queensland
doesn’t believe much in the present Government,
and it may not be in accord with the Labor-party,
but it has certainly done for ever with the Poli-
tical Pendulum. This attempt to resuscitate a
mischievous medley of Government discontents
and insincere Oppositionist opportunists should
not be tolerated for a moment. Let the disaffected
Laborite come out as a straight Philpite (if straight
Philpism be a possibility); let him drop his Jingo
jabber; let him candidly avow his affection for
black labor, Seaforth Estate and Barron Falls
fakes, and then the Bananalanders will know
exactly where they stand and where he stands.
* * * *
Naturally the Govt, organs are filled with
admiration for Glassey’s heroism. Years ago that
decayed democrat used to say that their cheery
diatribes against himself were Glassey’s finest
testimonial. If this be so the converse holds good
and their present praise is his most bitter damna-
tion. Naturally Philp and party are filled with
admiration also and don’t intend to put forward a
Govt, candidate to oppose a pervert who comes
along so sweetly and unctuously. And people are
asking with a knowing grin, “ Well, what port-
folio is waiting for this one ? ”
* * * *
After all, it is just as well for the Q. party of
progress that the trouble has come to pass.
Hitherto the poison was working in the blood and
no one knew when and where the pustules would
appear. . . Glassey has taken his plunge, and
even a temporary triumph at the hustings won’t
save him very long from sinking to “ where he
belongs.’
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fallen Flat.
The cooling down of the military fury of the
Australasian press is a curious spectacle. Six
or eight months ago the rage to send con-
tingents to aid Britain in her alleged “hour of
need ” was deafening; now Britain has a worse
hour of need on hand and things are very,
very cold. Premier Seddon, of Maoriland,
suggested moving, and the local press —the Jingo
press —intimated that he was a swash buckler, and
described his offer as “playing to the gallery.”
A moustachioed person—who from a mere un-
trained civilian has risen to be a Colonel with
astounding velocity, and whom no one takes
seriously —offered to go from Sydney, and Premier
Lyne spoke feebly of a contingent. Promptly
the Australian Star said that war-fever is
a disease requiring to be “choked out,” and the
Evening News wet-blanketed the idea, and the
morning papers gave it no encouragement, and
Opposition-leader Reid sneered at it openly and
in a way which, three months ago, would have been
branded as disloyal; and even the maddest Jingo


among the country papers has suspended its
Jingoism for the present. And yet there are
20 times as good reasons for offering a Chinese
contingent as there were for offering the S’African
one. Consider the relative cases :
In the Transvaal the enemy numbered about 150,000 —
men, wmAen and infants in arms ; not enough to make a
third-rate English city.
The Chinese Boxers are reputed to number 11,000,000,
and apparently the Government, the army, and the
300,000,000 population of Chinkiedom are behind them.
In the Transvaal case Britain had no other war on hand.
She could roll the whole of her hundreds of millions down
on that handful of 150,000.
Now she has the Transvaal war and the Ashantee rebel-
lion and the Chinese trouble on hand all at once. If she
wanted aid with only the Boer States to deal with, how
much more does she want it now with them and two
extra contracts on hand !
It didn’t matter a straw, except for the prestige of the
empire, if Ladysmith, Kimberley and Mafeking fell. The
worst consequence would be that the garrisons would be
kindly treated and well fed at Pretoria.
The need for relieving the beseiged Britishers at Pekin
was the need to save men, women and children from an
enemy who practises torture, mutilation, the amputation
of the feet and the scalding of the stumps with boiling tar,
and other horrors unspeakable. And there may soon be
the same need to save other British settlements.
Ladysmith, Mafeking and Kimberley were prepared for
defence and the garrisons were not so very inferior in
point of numbers to the assailants. There was every sign
that they could hold out easily till Britain came to their
assistance. They didn’t need Australian aid.
In China aid from anywhere and everywhere has been
needed from the beginning with a desperate necessity.
There was no possible hurry to down the Boers. Long
before the Australians arrived Britain had enough troops
on the scene' to protect Britain’s territory from further
invasion. No other Power could intervene, for Britain
had control of the sea. She had years before her in which
to eat up her fly-speck enemy at her leisure, without the
least chance of him getting assistance.
In the present case, not only are British lives andproperty
being lost, but a British force has been defeated, and was
only rescued from destruction by foreign assistance, and
that, to a great extent, the assistance of uncertain friends
who will probably prove enemies later on. If the Dignity
of the Flag is not involved here, what is the Dignity of
the Flag ? And, even in its retreat, the scanty British
force is not held to be safe. As for adyance, that seems
out of the question.
Australia has interests of her own in China. She has
scattered girl-missionaries over that country, and, if any
of them have been captured, they are probably being
boiled alive by the Chinaman. Yet, somehow,
when the Chinese murder an Australian woman
with horrible tortures it only leads to a meeting of
pietists who say it is the Lord’s will. Yet when Paul
Kruger refused the suffrage to some British subjects this
country went mad.
And when Kruger made war on British subjects accord-
ing to the rules of modern campaigning, and treated his
prisoners kindly, this country went raving mad.
Yet when the Chinese made war on British subjects
and slaughtered prisoners indiscriminately, this country
hardlv turned a hair.
Australia rushed to help Britain when Britain had one
war on hand and its army was more numerous than the
enemy’s whole nation. It said the dear old mother
country needed assistance.
Now Britain has three wars on hand, and it is so
desperately short of men on the spot for the third one
that its commander and his force had to leave the British
subjects at Pekin to their fate. The abandonment of
Mafeking, Ladysmith and Kimberley all put together
would have been nothing to this. And the papers say the
dear old mother country doesn’t need any help.
Australian troops could get to China in three weeks,
in time to be of real assistance in upholding the Flag, and
to perish gloriously, or be fried alive if captured. British
reinforcements can hardly get there under two months.
In the Transvaal war Britain’s 100,000 new troops could
get on the spot quite as fast as Australia’s few hundreds,
so there was no urgent want for the latter to fill. Still,
their anxiety to fill it was tremendous.
Of course the Chinese row isn’t a pleasant thing
to meddle' with. It isn’t, like the Transvaal
affair, a case of going to join the side that has
odds of three to one in its favor already, nor is it
going to fight an enemy who gives you victuals
and tobacco and an overcoat when he takes you
prisoner, and sends you to the infirmary if you are
wounded. It would be a case of going to face
heavy odds, and if the Chinese enemy captures
you he probably saws your feet off, as he did with
a Times correspondent in a previous war ; or gives
you 500 lashes, or breaks your ankles to extract in-
formation. But still when Britain’s army on the
spot has got into such straits that it had to be rescued,
largely by foreigners ; and when British women
had to be left to probable torture or outrage, surely
all the Upholders of the Flag who did that noble
drunk last May should come forward. Has the
press that so lately vaunted itself Imperial become
wholly pro-Chow and taken bribes from Li Hung
Chang ? Has it thrown “ Rule Britannia ”
overboard ? Where is Purves, and where,
also, is Dampier’s Chinese-war drama ? What
has . become of the Bairnsdale paper and the
terrible Jingo of the Newcastle Herald? Why
don’t the Melbourne shareholders procesh, and
isn’t there material left for another Bushmen’s
Fund. And among all the people who went mad
when a white man shot at a male Briton in open
war, isn’t there one who seriously cares if a yellow
man butchers female Britons by treachery in time
of peace ?
Gillies’ Price.
Victoria’s two-headed Ministry retained its grasp
of office last week through the support of the
Tories, and defeated Turner’s want-of-confidence
motion by 11 votes. During the debate Gillies
angrily denied the charge that he had bargained
for three seats in the Ministry in return for his
support, and his denial was probably quite
correct, for it becomes increasingly apparent that
the old Parliamentary schemer looked much
further ahead than the life of the present Cabinet
when he gave his support. Canny old Scawtchman
M‘Lean has already stated that he sees no urgent
necessity for greatly reducing the number of mem-
bers of the State Parliament, and now he proposes,
in mapping out the electorates for the Federal
House of Representatives, to give the country
electorates more than their just share of represent-
ation. Also the Tories of the House of Fat have
of late been very busy and insistent with a simple
little scheme of proportional voting which is “to
secure the representation of minorities.” The
party is a great deal more anxious about
securing the representation of minorities
than . the. representation of majorities. The
new idea is sponsored by such men as Sargood,
Walter Madden, Moles worth Green, Murray
Smith, and the Freetectionist Bevan, which
throws a murky cloud of suspicion on its genesis.
These pseudo-Liberals, with charming inconsis-
tency, are urging their scheme on Premier
McLean for the Federal elections, declaring with
one voice that they want, not only one-man-one-
vote, but one-vote-one-value, while at the same
time they applaud the Premier’s decision not to
lay. out equal electorates. This intended out-
voting of the town elector by his less progressive
brother in the backblocks is evidenced by the fact
that the whole of the McLean Ministry’s sup-
porters are drawn from the country, barring this
handful—Minister Watt, Gillies (of Toorak),
Murray Smith, Hume Cook, and Frank
Madden. ; The Federal. Electorates Bill is
the next item on the Parliamentary programme,
and there are no lack of signs that a very
solid effort is going to be made by someone,
per medium of the proportional vote and other-
wise, to secure the representation of minorities so
successfully that the Tory minority will sometimes
get the seat that should go to the Democratic
majority. But in view of the one-man-one-vote
proviso in the Commonwealth Constitution it is
pretty safe to bet that the scheme will fail miser-
ably. The Gillies party has never run up against
absolute manhood suffrage yet.
*.
The Darling Harbour Resumptions.
Premier Lyne’s Bill for the resumption of some
of the dirtiest parts of Sydney has many good
points and a few weak ones. The best point is
that it now gives no power of re-sale, and makes
the resumed property a Government asset in per-
petuity. And among the bad ones it provides for
raising the necessary funds by selling £4,000,000
worth, or any less amount, of State securities, in
London or elsewhere, at interest not exceeding 4
per cent. The London is mentioned so pointedly,
and the elsewhere is so little alluded to that it
seems highly probable the awful blunder of last
February is to be deliberately repeated. And
yet there was an opportunity which even a blind
man might have recognised. The measure should
have said simply that, when the amount of com-
pensation is finally settled, it should be paid by
handing to each property-owner N.S.W. Govern-
ment securities equal to the amount due to him,
said securities to bear interest at 3jr or per cent. ;
interest payable in Sydney only, and securities to
be interminable except at the option of the
Government. This would prevent any more such
blunders as the recent sale of 4 per cent. Treasury
Bills in London ■ when the event showed that
the money could have been easily obtained at 3J
per cent, in Sydney. It would make sure that the
bulk of the new debt would be held locally, and
that N.S.W. would be some millions the less in
pawn to the absentee. It would make N.S.W.
so much the nearer to being financially self-
dependent. It would save exchange on the remit-
tance of interest, and save exchange on the remit-
tance of the principal when the debt is paid off.
And it surely can’t be said that N.S.W. State
securities aren’t safe enough or good enough value.
There is time yet to repair this grievous omission.
Moreover, there is still time to amend the Bill in
another important direction. All new public
works schemes of any size should have attached to
them a proviso that all profits which they may pro-
duce over ancLabove working expenses and interest
shall not go into the general revenue, but shall be
used to pay off the money borrowed for the
construction of these works. It would be better
still to enact that every new loan must have a
sinking fund attached, but even the other proviso
would be vastly better- than The idea
involves no hardship, no sacrifice, no extra exer-
tion, no violent sitting up of a tired community in
its sleep. It doesn’t take anything out of the
taxpayers’ pockets, or impose any new liability on
the Treasury. It merely amounts to the enact-
ment that if any extra net income should happen
to fall on N.S.W. from this particular investment
without any sacrifice or exertion on its part, it will
use the money first to pay its debts with, and only
start drinking the proceeds after the debts are
paid. And that isn’t a hard thing to do. A new
measure of three or four clauses would suffice to
apply the principle, not only to the harbor-side
resumptions but also to the electric trams and other
present and prospective works; and it could be
passed in an hour or two.
4.
Mt. Deddick Railway Syndicate.
When the Deddick private railway proposal comes
before Vic. Parliament, that body will do well to
look very carefully at the suggested agreement
with the Deddick railway syndicate. Apparently
a Mr. Sheddon, representing sundry benevolent
English investors, wants to be allowed to build
90 miles of railway, at a cost of £360,000, purely
out of love for this long-suffering country. At
least, all he asks in return is the lease of a paltry
1000 acres of alleged mineral country, high up on
some lone, bleak mountains in the wilds of
E. Gippsland, and the gift of the land on which
the line is to be built. The country round is poor
and thinly peopled, so there are few prospects of
agricultural traffic. The region where the wished-
for mineral lease is located has been reported on
by Govt. Geologist Stirling and Govt. Metal-
lurgist Jenkins, and both reports are damnatory.
They almost say it isn’t worth Having at a gift.
On the face of it the scheme looks the wildest of
wild cats, and it appears as if the promoters
merely want a concession—almost any kind of
concession —to float on the London market.
It is always possible to fill up a prospectus by
pointing out the success of the Mt. Lyell mines
and railway; the prospects of Chillagoe ; the
enormous dividends paid by the railway to Broken
Hill mineral field ; and then to state that the co.
has secured a concession to build a line to the new
mineral field of Deddick in Gippsland (staggering
statistics of the immense mineral wealth of Gipps-
land could be ; filled in here), and gets the land
gratis, &c., &c. The next probability would be
that the debenture-holders would camp on the
steps of Victoria’s Treasury, crying for relief, as
the Midland debenture-holders are in Maoriland.
There seem to be just these possibilities about
Deddick : If the Federal capital happens to be
fixed on the N.S.W. side close up to the grue-
some hill, then Victoria will have to buy the
Deddick line (if there is one, or the Deddick
concession) in order to make it part of its
railway to the Federal City, and probably it will
have to buy it at more than the price at which the
State could build a new and better line —either
that or build its own line which the Deddick
railway’s competition will make unprofitable. Or
if the Federal City doesn’t come in that direction
(which is more than probable) the Deddick line
will most likely never be built; or else it will be
built and then abandoned from the want of traffic.
In the former case nothing is gained. In the
latter case Victoria will be besieged on one side by
the few local inhabitants who have become used
to the convenience of a railway and want the State
to take oyer the line and work it at a great loss ;
and it will be bombarded on the other side by
English debenture-holders who will say: “You
gave this concession knowing that it must ruin who-
ever put his money in it. You deliberately and
cold-bloodedly supplied the means for our ruin ;
and you gave no warning when you saw us
falling in. Now, what are you going to do for
us ? ” Even the Gippsland Railway Extension
League appears hostile, and things are bad when
any district organisation protests against the offer
of a railway. Agent Sheddon is understood to
say that there is no intention at all of selling the
concession, and that his co. is already in existence
and ready to start work ; but, on the other hand,
it is also reported that several Deddick mining
co.’s have been invited by Sheddon to amalgam-
ate, with a view of making a big float of all the
properties on the English market. In case of a
flotation on the English market the chances are
that Victoria would get all the trouble and
no railway, or else all the trouble and a railway
that wdl promptly close for want of traffic, with
the cry of the ruined debenture-holder thrown in.
The liyne Government Takes the Bull
by the Horns.
After many years of waiting, N.S. Wales appears
to be actually in sight of a reasonably workable
measure providing for compulsory arbitration in
labor disputes. Once before an attempt was made
in the same direction, but it was never intended
seriously. The authors handled the Unclean
Thing (as they regarded it) so carefully that they
did nothing. In the first place, they could not
bring themselves to definitely encourage trades-
unionism and put both feet down on non-unionism,
and when the Court gives a decision against the
workers it is no good imposing a penalty for non-
observance of the decision unless there is some
fund which can be made responsible for the pay-
ment thereof. Secondly, they couldn’t bring
themselves to impose a legal minimum wage.
Probably 80 per cent, of trade disputes arise
because the masters want to cut the minimum
wage down or the men want to put it up, so the
best part of an Arbitration Court’s work
would consist in fixing a minimum wage. Then
they couldn’t bring themselves to interfere with
“ freedom of contract,” and the “law of demand
and supply ” and the “ liberty of the subject ” and
the right of every man to do as he pleased with
his own property. So in the end they fixed things
that when both parties were agreeable the court
might arbitrate, and the parties might accept its
decision if they felt so inclined. The old N.S.W.
arbitration law was a mockery and a joke and a
stuffed image from the beginning. This time the
Lyne Government is taking the question seriously.
It’s Bill encourages trades-unionism in the most
liberal manner, so that when a labor dispute is
brought before the Court there may be a palpable
plaintiff and defendant in every instance —some
one against whom a penalty can be awarded with
chance of collecting the money. The Bill is wide
enough to take in even the wretched Sydney ’bus-
driver, and give him a chance to live under civil-
ised conditions. It is almost, though not quite,
wide enough to take in the ’bus horse. It provides
that one party to a dispute can invoke the inter-
ference of the Court whether the other one is
willing or not —a most essential proviso, for the
other party never is willing. And it gives
extensive powers to fix a minimum wage in
any trade—another most essential matter,
seeing that that is what most industrial disputes
are about. Also it gives the Court authority to
enforce its awards, and to prevent either party
evading them. If the employer tries to avoid
compliance by a lock-out or the unions by a strike
the Court has power to fall on them heavily. Any
employer discharging men who have gained an
award against him is bound to satisfy the Court
that he did not discharge them as a punishment
for appealing to the Court against him. If either
party tries to coerce the other by a strike or a
lock-out while the case is before the Court, the
Act provides for a bulky penalty. These are the
only conditions upon which a workable Arbitra-
tion and Conciliation law can be framed, and the
Lyne Government has faced the problem in the
only business-like way, and seized the bull
of difficulty by both horns, so to speak. It
deserves the support of every democrat in
N.S.W. for its courage. If its scheme becomes
law no doubt holes will be found in it, as they
are in every new attempt at law-making, and
it will require amendment later on, and it will be
jeered at for its incompleteness by the people
who claim that no Legislature should make
any law unless it can make it perfect at the first
attempt, and nobody should be allowed to invent
anything unless the invention is flawless and in-
capable of improvement, and no one should learn
to read unless he can read words like “ inter-
nationalisation ” immediately. But things like
that are unavoidable, and people like that are
everywhere, and the electric tram doesn’t run over
them nearly so. often as it should do.
Minister Perry Washes His Hands.
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry rises, months
and months too late, to say this :
A statement had been made in a section of the press to
the effect that in connection with the recent patriotic
demonstrations pressure had been brought to bear on the
schoolteachers. He wished to give this a public denial.
Some teachers in the country had written to the depart-
ment, asking that subscriptions to the Patriotic Fund
should be kept out of their cheques. This, however, had
not been done, the teachers being left to act in precisely
the same way as the general public. He knew that some
of them ooal 1 hardly afford donations.
And The Bulletin replies flatly that most in-
decent pressure was brought to bear, and teachers
were not left to act in the same way as the general
public, and that Minister Perry’s late and lone
denial is mere waste of good oxygen. The teachers
were circularised by some official of Mr. Perry’s
department, on official notepaper, asking them
what they would give to the Boer Suppression
Funds, and suggesting a minimum of two guineas
(the general public wasn’t stuck-up by its boss or
deputy-boss with the question, “Shall I deduct
£1 or £2 from your wages for this movement ?”)
They took this to mean that the Department
wanted, and expected, them to subscribe, and
a great many of them subscribed because they
thought it was wise, in view of future pro-
motion, &c., to please the Department. Minister
Perry knew, as everybody else knew, that
somebody was using the departmental influence
and the (well or ill grounded) fear of possible de-
partmental displeasure to drag subscriptions from
an ill-paid class of men. He didn’t stop the use
of the departmental influence. He didn’t tell the
teachers plainly and publicly that subscribing or
not subscribing would make no difference in their
future prospects. He simply allowed his under-
lings to use the departmental influence for the
purpose of exacting large sums of money, and
after it was exacted with his full knowledge, and
with the full knowledge of everybody else, he has
the ghastly assurance to deny the whole business.
The Bulletin has reserved many letters —at least
40—from teachers complaining of this blackmail.
Unfortunately they can’t be produced, for every
individual writer requested that his name should
be kept secret lest the knowledge that he objected
to the more-or-less-compulsory levy on his scanty
earnings should damage his future prospects. The
Public Instruction Department subscribed about
one-twelfth of the entire N.S.W. Patriotic Fund.
It subscribed, in proportion to its numbers, about
20 or more times as Ynuch as the general public. It
subscribed enormously more, per head, than the
rest of the service. And the visible reason was
that large sums of money were piratically de-
manded off it by an officer of Mr. Perry’s depart-
ment whether it could afford them or not, that it
paid up because it was led to believe from the
nature of the demand that it would damage its
prospects in Mr. Perry’s department if it didn’t
pay, and that Mr. Perry (unless he was blind and
unable to read and buried in thought) knew then
and knows now that these things were being done.
South Australia has as yet no factory laws worth
the name, for when Kingston tried to introduce
legislation on Victorian lines, the measure was
wrecked through Tory obstruction. Labor-leaders
who mingle with the workers have long complained
that, as a result of legislative neglect, Adelaide is
the worst hotbed of sweating m Australia; in
fact, work is done in the holy city for Melbourne
and Sydney merchants. “Quite recently,” says
an official report, “a line of cheap material was
received in Adelaide from a Sydney firm to be
made up into garments and returned.” The Ade-
laide serf works so cheaply that, even where rail-
carriage has to be paid, she can undersell her
Sydney sister! The Adelaide worker makes
up tweed trousers at from fid. to Is. ; shirts,
lfd. to 3|d. ; nightdresses, 4d. ; men’s coats,
Is. 9d. each, &c., &c. In the case of putting
up goods for Assyrian and Chinese hawkers the
work is done more cheaply still! Premier Holder
last week introduced a comprehensive Bill on
Maoriland lines providing for regulation of prices,
registration of building's and provision of a mini-
mum wage. A majority of the large employers de-
clare that they are in favor of any legislation which
will improve matters but their representatives in
the Tory Leg. Council maintain a different attitude
and the chances of amending legislation being
obtained are far from favorable.
+
Brisbane Telegraph on the alleged slump of
Jingoism up North :
The treatment extended to Queensland volunteers, who
have just been invalided home, is a melancholy commen-
tary upon the fickleness of public favor. ... We sent
them away with mingled tears and pride ; we bade them
show the world the mettle of their pasture, and assured
them of the glory that awaited their return. They have
returned, only to find that, in very truth, the paths of
glory lead but to the grave—especially the grave of cold
neglect and national ingratitude. That each one comes
not back covered with dazzling distinctions is not his own
fault. . . . Had they done doughty deeds of which the
world rang, there is little question that their return
would have been the signal for a demonstra-
tion. But because they are simple, plain, gallant
soldiers, who have been so unfortunate as to have
been hidden amid the battle’s cloud, and to have
come out unfit for further service, they are
treated with the scant courtesy of mendicancy. . . .
How plaintively, in moments of national stress, is the
patriotism of our people appealed to, and how bitterly we
complain if the appeal be in vain. Is there any wonder
that men think twice before answering the call, with such
instances as this to remind them of the possible reward ?
There are hundreds, nay, thousands, of men whose high
intelligence, if it could be actively enlisted in the service
of the State, would be of inestimable service. But they
shrink from the work, knowing full well that ingratitude
is at the base of all popular frenzy. And if this same
feeling had restrained those who now come back to us
maimed and weary, they would have been spared a bitter
awakening.
Sydney Daily Telegraph rises at tbis very late
hour to draw attention to the fact that though the
Reid Govt, spent less loan-money on the whole
than some of its predecessors, it spent more than
they on unproductive works which should have
been charged to revenue. Also it publishes these
figures:—
On Productive On Non-Pro- _ , ,
Works. ductive Works. 10ta ‘
Parkes-Dibbs —
1891-1894.. ..£9,046,820 £1,963,206 £11,010,026
Reid—
-1895-’96 to 1898-’99 4,060,196 2,436,210 6,496,406
In other words, Parkes and Dibbs misspent 18
per cent, of the loan-money, while Reid misspent
about 38 per cent. The Bulletin has been
calling attention to this for four years. The
Telegraph kept a dead silence while all this poli-
tical fraud was going on, and only tells the story
when it is too late. And the fact, now revealed,
that it is quite capable of understanding how in-
famously the public funds were being misapplied
makes its previous silence look the result, not of
ignorance, but rather of a deliberate intention to
keep in office, at the country’s loss, the most
ruinous and disastrous financier it ever had, so long
as he served the Calico Jimmy interest.
A number of newspaper proprietors and pro-
prietors’ representatives—with here and there a
journalist—met in Sydney the other day to advo-
cate reform of N.S.W. libel law. The most prac-
tical speech was made by John Norton, who
urged that a newspaper commentator was entitled
to just as much privilege as a man in the street,
and no more; and said, in effect, that what was
wanted was to clear away the tangle of legal rules
and pleadings which prevent a libel case from
getting to a jury on a fair issue. Other speakers
wanted a Judge-in-Chambers to certify that a
libel-plaintiff has ground for action before he is
permitted to sue. The Bulletin fails to see the
utility of this. If a plaintiff has the merest shred
of a case, the Judge will be bound to give him
access to justice; and, permission once given,
defendant will come before the jury with the
Judge’s imprimatur against him, as if he had been
formally committed for trial. Besides, a little
man who thinks he has been libelled by a big
paper ought not to be estopped by any
Judge from testing his grievances before a
jury. What is most wanted is the absolute
protection of honest reports of public meetings,
and of honest comments on public men and public
affairs. In other cases, honest comment should
be protected from vindictive damages; but a
newspaper which injures a man’s character, even
inadvertently, is as much bound to pay some
damages as if its proprietor had inadvertently
knocked a man’s eye out. A defendant should be
allowed to put his case to the jury in his own way,
instead of being embarrassed by triangular
pleadings. And the Queensland Defamation Act,
drafted by S. W. Griffith, is on all these points a
model for imitation.
+
N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid (in the Catholic Press
of 7th July) :
I am not at all attracted by. the Premier’s last proposal
to send volunteers to China. I don’t want to see colonial
volunteers figuring in all the imperial wars. ... I have
no desire to see a military spirit in Australia except for
purposes of self-defence. . . . The difference between
sending troops to share the South African campaign and
despatching troops to China is, to me, simply the differ-
ence between the son coming to the assistance of his
parent in a time of difficulty, and a desire on the son’s
part to meddle in the old man’s affairs as a regular thing.
The latter excites nothing of the sort of chivalry that the
former does.
Curious how that pitiably thin excuse keep crop-
ping up. When Britain had only one war on
hand, with a nation whose whole population is
one-third that of Sydney, and her troops on the
spot already outnumbered the enemy two to one,
and there were enough on the way to outnumber
him six to one, and temporary defeat only meant
the capture of a few soldiers who received kind
treatment from a decent white enemy—then it was
a ease of helping the aged parent in a time of
difficulty. And when the ancient one has
three wars on hand at once, and the odds
at the seat of war are stupendously against
her, and it is a case of saving British
subjects from falling into the hands of an
enemy who butchers his prisoners in all manner of
horrible ways, and when most of the other Powers
who are bearing a hand in the war are more than
strongly suspected of an intention of taking ad-
vantage of Britain, Australia, shouldn’t make
itself ridiculous by meddling in the old ’un’s affairs.
The contrast is so sharp that outside people will
begin to say that Australian politicians and Aus-
tralia’s Jingo papers have much horse-sense;


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MOST, M.L.0.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
General Manager f or Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’AROY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
that they didn’t mind helping with a very small
enemy, who was practically down already, but
they knew a big one when they saw him. The
Jingo press is apparently going to prove the pro-
Chow press also. But, after all, there is a differ-
ence. Then it was a question of saving the
German Jews’ gold-mines at Jewhannesberg.
Now it is only a matter of saving life.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Old Guard.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Criterion “ Term of His Natural Life.”
Palace (12th July) “ Our Regiment.”
Lyceum L War Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Manoeuvres of Jane.”
Her Majesty’s “Camille.”
Theatre Royal “ Two Little Drummer Boys.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Donald Macdonald —Victorian Tour.
Sydney Lyceum, which has been shut up
a good deal of late, is suffering a temporary open-
ing under J. C. Williamson’s management. The
show is described as “ The Anglo-American Bio-
Tableau : with Roberts to Pretoria.” It consists
of the same kinematographe views which have
already been seen by instalments at Her Majesty’s,
and some new ones. It never gets to Pretoria —
in fact, a large percentage never gets anywhere
near there. A good part of the time and space is
occupied by the same old visit of the Queen
to Dublin; also the same much-respected
lady inspecting troops; also her stout and less-
respected son inspecting more troops; also more
troops marching down the street; also photo-
graphs of three cheers given by the troops when
they were inspected. The alleged pictures of
real war are excellent, but they don’t inspire
respect. The kinematographe of a body of
absent-minded British troops, making their final
stand against a horde of savages and being
killed to the last beggar, is too wild a joke.
The picture makes it evident that the expedition
carried its own photographer with it —evidently
knowing it was going to be wiped out ; and he
stood just where he would be shot at by both
parties, taking photographs like a Briton ; and
the British, though there was cover at hand,
fought it out in the open so as to make a good
group. The savages evidently rushed in swarms
right over the photographer when they closed
with their failing enemies, and then walked over
him as they returned from the scene of gore, unless
he fled in a cab in the interval. Apparently
the S’African trouble is the first war in which
4000 photographers accompanied the army,
at a cost of nearly £2,000,000 in wages and
£2,000,000 more in apparatus, so that one would
be always there when anything happened.
The view of General French’s cavalry skirmish
has only one drawback—there are no Boers in
sight to skirmish with, so it is probably a friendly
skurry at an autumn manoeuvre ; and though the
firing of the disappearing gun is real enough it is
fired at no visible Boer—probably it is. a dis-
appearing gun in England. Many of the pictures
are very beautiful and well worth seeing, but apart
from sundry views of troops marching through
Capetown (though it may just as easily be Bir-
mingham), there is nothing to connect them with
the war. The Bulletin, for one, refuses to accept
the theory that the photographer was spared when
all the other Britons were wiped out, especially
as the victorious savages come and prance round
the dead, and a man who was standing less than
a dozen yards off with a camera could hardly have
escaped observation. Even though he hung a
white flag above the negative it couldn’t save him
if he was there —the brutal savage would have
disembowelled his camera on the spot, and put
two large black feet through his film, and thrown
his dry plate over the Drakensberg, or else over
the public-house on to the Thames Embankment.
* ♦ * •
Even the departure of Colonel Plumer’s
irregulars (mostly on foot) to the relief of Mafe-
king, though a perfectly peaceful picture, would
be better if supported by affidavits. The idea that
a man with the necessary apparatus took the
trouble to dodge the lions in the far African
interior, and to defend himself from the sandfly
and the hippopotamus with his tripod, when he
could photo, the alleged departure quite as easily
with some supers on a country road anywhere,
and run no risk of crocodiles as he fled back to
civilisation with his life in one hand and his
undeveloped film in the other, looks just thin
enough to arouse suspicion. A certificate from
Plunder to the effect that he saw the instrument
on the roadside as he went by is much wanted.
The best part of the show is where it ceases to seek
its photo at the cannon’s month, and to kodak the
infuriated savage while he rushes at the defence-
less operator, and goes in for fun pure and simple.
In between times, also, Albert YVhelan, the
cleverest mimic in Australia, 'gives a pleasant
entertainment of his own, and W. B. Beattie lifts
up his voice in some more or less weather-beaten
patriotic melodies. The photo of Baden-Powell,
too, appears to be above suspicion. The well-
known and much-slept-in hat (evidently the hero’s
only hat) is there as a squashed and silent evidence
of good faith.
** * *
The “Rose of Persia” is definitely an-
nounced for the 21st at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
so presumably Lauri feels himself equal to making
“Old Guard ” a live opera till then. Miss Win-
ston-Weir has possibly improved a trifle further
since the. last time this paper did its little moan
over her efforts, but she hasn’t improved suffi-
ciently to lift any of the heat and burden of the
opera off Lauri’s shoulders. Lauri, by the way, is
something more than a mere operatic character ;
he is also a large moral lesson on the decay of
municipal institutions. Mayors were respected
once. Now the stage mayor
is always a clown and a joke,
and is either thin and ignor-
ant or fat and foolish. No
play-writer even professes to
take a mayor in a serious
spirit. And until the stage
becomes more respectful to
mayors, that class of men
will still call vainly on Al-
derman Norton to keep order
and not call Alderman Gra-
ham bad names and Billings-
gate.
* * *
No change is mentioned
in the Criterion bills, so it
seems probable that Dam-
pier finds “His Natural
Life ” profitable enough to
last another week, anyhow.
Also, “Merchant of Venice"
is to be repeated on Friday.
Shylock has already twice
sharpened his knife on his
boot in the damp, old Italian
city, and the Sydpey publio
evidently desires to see him
do it again.
* * *
“The Absent-Minded
Beggar,” still another Trans-
vaal war drama, will unfold
its vasty length at Sydney
Royal on Saturday. If Kru-
ger is in it The Bulletin’s
hired grumbler begs to ex-
press a hope that he will be
a larger Kruger than Ned
Holloway, who recently
labored in the massive coat
and big inky hat of the voor-
trekker at the Criterion.
Holloway was certainly a
good Kruger in all save his
inches, but a bigger op-
pressor would have advan-
tages. Whether Bland Holt
is doing well in putting on
this drama at a time when the
Beggar has become unsale-
able at the music-shops, is a matter to be settled
between him and the takings. There are strange
signs of forgetfulness in the air just now. On
Monday night, at the fateful hour of 8.40 p.m.,
the Lyceum orchestra played a bit of the National
Anthem, and not a soul stood up. They had for-
gotten the Anthem.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) the Lestonian Club
gives a performance of “Our Regiment”, at
Sydney Palace, in aid of the Indian
Famine Fund. As some 50,000,000 of our brown
fellow-creatures are now counting their ribs in a
far, dry land, it is to be feared that the
Palace, which is only about big enough to make
a convenient hat-box for Kruger’s big tile, will not
hold enough money to make much difference in
the mass. But it can at least hold enough to
make the ribs of 100 brown fellow-subjects less
apparent, so the public is urged to roll up. Even
to obscure the bones of one fellow-man with a thin
disguise of meat is a noble act which may not be
forgotten at the sounding of the last trump.
** * *
The new features of the House of the
Nasty Curtain, otherwise Sydney Tivoli, are
another infant performer named Baby Capel, and
three ’Murkan performers billed as Emmonds,
Emmerson and Emmonds. Which is which this
writer does not know, but there are two gentlemen
and one lady. The new baby is a flaxen-haired
little girl, who sings and dances in a blue
plush knicker suit, with a mixture of the en-
thusiasm of the child and the stage-ease of
the ancient of first nights. Emmonds, Em-
merson and Emmonds are, in some respects,
about the funniest trio that Rickards has put on.
A certain complicated dog joke which greatly
pleases the audience is not new, but the breezy
way the trinity work it off makes it as good as if
it was. For the rest. Jack Williams lifts up a
pleasant, black, split-turnip sort of face, and
Almond and Seel and.lrene Franklin and the long
M‘Clain make up a stronger company than usual.
** * *
On another page will be found a portrait
of Miss Kate Rooney, the N.S.W. Dubbo-born
contralto who is about to depart for Paris and
other places, where fame and great men’s praise
mean showers of gold. As Miss Rooney has in
the past given her melody freely at other people’s
benefits it is only right that the big Centennial
Hall should be full to the doors on the night of
Wednesday, July 18th., when the tuneful song-
stress’s own benefit comes off.
** * *
“ Camille,” the veteran Parisian love tale
—consumptive on one side, hysterical on the other,
and honestly improper all along the line—broke
out at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Saturday, and
will remain there for another week. In the long
rdle of Camille, the tired courtezan, Miss O’Neil
is much less pronouncedly Nance than in other
characters. Some points of her performance have
a fine surface, and none of it sounds loud. Pre-
sent writer would say that the chief merit of the
O’Neil Camille is in the large lady’s well-sustained
air of submission and ill-health. She is Magda
with a bruised spirit and a gentle cold in the
head which settles on the lungs and proves fatal.
The hardness and loudness of Magda caused some
irritation to people who couldn’t get persuaded
that Nance’s heart was beating within the charac-
ter. Now, the meekness and the sympathetic
snuffle of Camille will be less irritating, yet more
wearisome, to the same people. Dumas’ play was
not highly entertaining when Sarah Bernhardt
realised the name-part, or when Mrs. Potter de-
corated its sick sentimentality with pretty, fantas-
THE JANDASCHEWSKYS, Russian Pantomimists and
Dancers, in Fitzgerald Bros.' New European Company.
tic furbelows of art. The present production is
rather tiresome, outside of the gaudy salon
scenes, and the dullness—let there be no
mincing of the truth—is due to the stage
management. Somehow or other Miss Nance’s
face is kept much out of evidence. Here, as in
“Magda,” the broad back of the central figure is
turned towards the audience at times when her
countenance ought to be boldly mirroring her
emotions. Also her hand shades her eyes with a
distracting glitter of diamond rings. This is
called original genius by some of the newspapers.
* * * *
The second half of the third act was made
tedious by the dim lighting and the persistent con-
cealing of Nance’s face from view. Her death-
scene, supposed to happen on a bright morning, is
also rather unduly dim, but the device in this
instance is pardonable. All things considered,
the death of massive Miss Nance is an artistic
success. She attempts nothing that she can’t ac-
complish, and she contrives to look fully 4st.
thinner than the lady who had formed a black-
velvet heap on the floor of the previous act.
* * * *
Kingston’s Armand is a spirited creature
in the scene where he pelts Camille with money.
But every Armand is spirited at this stage of his
hysteria. The most spirited edition of him that
the present writer can remember was Bill Hollo-
way. To see William throw the tin sequins and
bogus bank-notes about was a Treat. Old Daniel
is too stagey and stilted, and some of the other
parts are poorly played, but the show as a whole
is improved by dressing the characters in old-time
finery. Sarah Bernhardt treated Camille as a
modern sinner, and her lover had to appear as an
ordinary, up-to-date young man, which was all
right for Sarah, but very rough on the young
man.
** * #
At Melb. Royal the two she-drummer
boys are putting up their dooks and giving one
another good ha,rd knocks as before. Also, the
villain is throwing the wrong drummer-boy off
the pier, and the innocence of Inman will be
proved until Friday night for certain, if it
isn’t proved for another week after that.
At the Bijou, the arrival of the Martinettis
happened too late for notice in this issue,
but, meanwhile, The Bulletin is glad to note
the departure of the lady who called herself a
Grecian dancer or something, and whose turn con-
sisted mostly of standing on a pedestal and having
cigarette-box pictures reflected upon her gown.
She was said to come from Paris, but the advt.
was probably a wicked libel on that gay city. At
the Town Hall the silvery voice of Charles Clark
spake good-bye to Melbourne for the positively last
time on Saturday night.
*# * *
Apologists for Nance O’Neil’s death scene
in “Elizabeth” will not be able to persuade old
stagers that the darkness which almost hides the
actress from view is an “artistic effect.” The
suggestion that the dramatist intended the heroine
to be a heap of mystery at the finish looks none
too reasonable. It is hard to believe that any
author would sacrifice the opportunity to give the
leading lady a great acting chance. Anyhow, the
author of “ Elizabeth ” was not such a fool. This
is a somewhat varied version of the Italian play
staged by the Majeronis years ago, and no Bulletin
reader who remembers Signora Majeroni’s picture of
the wrecky old Queen will need to be told that
she died with a strong light on her face.
Present writer never saw Ristori (for whom the
play is said to have been written), but will bet
that she didn’t die in darkness. Another apolo-
gist for Nance says “she can’t die, she is too
virile.” Truly an inane excuse to offer to a world
where Sarah Bernhardt has been the champion
death-scene actress for the last 30 years, or more.
Bernhardt’s virility islthe marvel of the dramatic
age. She takes food enough for five women, and
is ever on the go every day of her life, and at night
she gives up the ghost with awful realism. Nance
O’Neil too virile to die ! What, in the name of
Sarah, do the massive lady’s puffsters take us for?
** * *
The first week’s business at Rickards’ new
Tivoli (nee Bijou) Theatre, Adelaide, was very
promising. The City of Churches is a small place
to support an all-the-year-round variety show,
but probably supply will tend to increase de-
mand, and if the house does little more than pay
expenses it will serve Rickards’ purpose in Sydney
and Melbourne by enabling him to keep a larger
force of artists on hand. By the way, The Bul-
letin is sorry to hear that the energetic Harry is
at present very ill.
* # * SK-
“ Manoeuvres) of Jane,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, is the show that made a very successful
Sydney appearance during Plague-time, and as
there is no Plague to contend with in this case,
the new comedy will probably boom. It is a
comedy of things that might happen under the
circumstances. Author H. A. Jones seems to
have planted an interesting assortment of charac-
ters in good, light soil, where they took root
naturally and brought forth a crop of jokes. Ex-
cellent jokes some of them. The fiendish Pamela,
aged 15 or thereabouts, with her neck turned
awry by chronic listening at the keyhole, is an
appallingly comic truth. Brough’s Lord Bap-
child, a flabby lambkin of ancient lineage, en-
feebled by the moral training of an anxious
mother at a time when he ought to have been
plunged into sin and wickedness for his health’s
sake, is a nobleman who fills a long-felt want.
Ever since Lord Tween ways (of “ The Amazons”)
took a noble family-pride in his physical ailments
we have waited for Bapchild.
* * • *
Bapchild is such a spineless landowner
and pig-fancier that his friends decide to marry
him to Jane Nangle, the turbulent daughter of a
baldheaded capitalist. She seems a suitable tonic
for the Bapchild pedigree. So they bring the
fiery, unwilling Jane along to the manor-house,
and there she discovers her own best boy in Bap-
child’s new steward. And when Pamela, by the
way, discovers the happy pair locked in a long
embrace, Jane pounces on the horrid interloper
and shakes her till the audience roars aloud.
Subsequently Jane makes a mis-elopement with
the steward whilst her friend Constantia is
luring Bapchild to his doom in a rowing-boat.
Constantia contrives to throw her maiden Reputa-
tion on the mercy of that harmless creature. She
lets down her back hair in the back parlor where
they have come in out of the wet, and she hangs
around her victim’s neck so pointedly that he
talks of marriage and is immediately lost. The
relatives who had prescribed Jane for the Bap-
child complaint come to the conclusion that Con-
stantia will do nearly as well, after which the
comedy comes to a conclusion. It stops hurriedly.
• * * *
The company effects a considerable shine
all round in this cheerful four-act narrative.
Brough has done nothing better than Bapchild.
Now and then he may exaggerate the humor of the
sketch in the shading, but the outline is all right.
The creepy young Pamela that Miss Evelyn Mar-
theze has created is another excellent bit of
character work, likewise the little picture of an
elderly spinster by Miss Gillies Brown. Miss
Noble, as Jane, might have been specially imported
for the part, if she hadn’t been here already.
Miss Bessie Thompson is a convincing exponent
of the cold, steely, grey-eyed type of lady, and
Mrs. Brough is, as a matter of course, a satisfac-
tory Constantia. But she is not more than satis-
factory. W. T. Lovell, as a colorless lover, is
rather less than more, whilst Reginald Dartrey,
Mario Majeroni and other people are considerably
more than less. And the comedy is staged in the
best Broughian manner.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. MacPherson: When the National Mutual
and Mutual of Victoria amalgamated the N.M. took over
all the other concern’s responsibilities. The National
Mutual will pay your policy and bonuses with absolute
punctuality.
* * * *
All the mainland provinces reached the end of
their financial year on 30th June, while Tasmania is half-
way through. The revenues for the year are known with
reasonable certainty, though a few adjustments have yet
to be made, which will alter the totals in some small
degree. The expenditure won’t be definitely and Certainly
known for some weeks yet, but each province has issued
a more-or-less reliable guess at the result, and things are
somewhat as follows :
Increase as
Revenue to compared with
30th June, corresponding
1900. period to
30th June, 1899.
New South Wales (year) ..£10,203,897 £449,712
Queensland ( „ ) •• 4,588,207 414,121
Westralia ( „ ) .. 2,875,395 396,584
South Australia ( „ ) .. 2,763,164 97,687
Victoria ( „ ) ... 7,450,676 66,775
Tasmania (6 months) 505,736 43,787
In proportion to population the expansion is as follows :
Increase of Revenue per Inhabitant per annum.
Westralia ..£2 6 4 N.S. Wales ..£0 6 7
Queensland .. 0 17 2 S.A 0 5 3
Tasmania ..0 9 7 Victoria .. 012
Also, the following are the estimated surpluses (or other-
wise), pending more accurate information :
Westralia .. Surplus (about) .. £230,000
Victoria .. ~ (~).. 128,921
Queensland.. ~ (~).. 47,788
South Australia ~ ( ~ ) . . 26,000
N.S. Wales .. Deficit ( ;, ) .. 233,681
The New South Wales deficit is on the actual revenue and
expenditure of the year, plagues and contingents thrown
in. The accounts would have balanced but for the con-
tingents. But the Finance Committee, now sitting, has
been instructed to decide how the much faked and
garbled public ledger should be kept to put it on an
honest basis, and with a view to doing this it will pro-
bably be found necessary to charge the year just closed
with so much of the expenditure which George Reid
should have provided for, but didn’t, as. to raise the
shortage to something near a million. That extra short-
age, of course, is a thing for which Lyne isn’t responsible.
It is Reid’s responsibility and the country’s.
* * % l|c
The State Bank of South Australia—the con-
cern which raises money by the sale of bonds at 34 per
cent, interest, and lends the proceeds out at 44 per cent,
to the local agriculturist—has just issued its fifth balance-
sheet. Results so far are as follows :
Reckoning Notßeckon-
Premiums ing Prerni-
on b o n d s urns on
sold as Pro- bonds sold as
fit. Profit.
Doss. Loss.
80th June, 1896 (5 months). .£315 .. £986
Profit.
30th June, 1897 ( year )..1001 .. 2162
Profit.
31st March, 1898 (9 months).. 2184 .. 707
31st „ 1899 ( year )..1895 .. 1184
31st „ 1900 ( ).. 1271 .. 1196
The State Land Bank of S.A. has thus an accumulated
profit of £6036 after four years and two months work, but
as it received £6097 as premiums on the sale of its 3.j per
cent, bonds, the comparison of ordinary receipts with
ordinary expenditure shows a loss of £6i! But the loss
was all on the first .17 months of the undertaking -the last
three balance-sheets show that the State Bank is meeting
all expenses out of ordinary earnings, and is making a
steadily increasing profit. At the beginning of such a»
concern loss is inevitable, for the State Bank lias to pay


WE ARE NOT . . .
/ERATED WATER .
MANUFACTURERS^
Only Bottlers of thh . .
Pure Australian ....
Natural Mineral Water,
ZETZ-SPA
From the Ballimore Springs, N.S.W.
ZETZ-SPA PROPRIETARY,
LIMITED.
The North Silver Mine, at Broken Hill, has
just adopted the Wilfley concentrating tables in connec-
tion with their plant. The sole manufacturers, the
Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., South Melbourne,
inform us that the Wilfley tables have now been adopted
by all the Broken Hill co.’s except the British and Block
10 co.’s. The table is rapidly proving itself the most
efficient and easily-managed concentrator yet produced.*
* * * » .
Insurance Spectator, July Ist, 1899: The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society stands on a broad
and firm basis. Its interests are widely spread. It has
the confidence of the assuring public, a strong pro-
gramme, and energetie management.”
* * * *
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in The Bulletin. A disencrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge,” with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by W.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “Litofuge” compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
• • • a
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
• * * 9
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sortsof iron-work.*
• * * *
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Broken Hill S.M. Co.,
Broken Hill, N.S.W., September 2, 1899.
Mr. Taylor Horsfield.
Sir.—Judging with the short trial we had with your
improved Ingersoll and National Bock Drills, we are quite
satisfied that they are equal in workmanship and material
and boring power to any of the best American or English
make fitted with your improved Clip and regulating Feed
Nuts. We arß satisfied they will save much time In
-fixing, and will require less repairs than any machine we
have in use.
We are, yours, etc.,
(Signed) John Daw, Engineer.
Thomas Matters, Underground Manager.
Joel Phillips, Manager.
Bennie, Teare & Co., Agents for W.A.
Plummer, Love & Co., 249 George-street, Sydney, Sole
Agents for N.S.W.
® * * * m
British Westralian Mining Syndicate (chairman,
Sydney’s old friend, Frank Gardner, the husband of
Carrie Swain) : Last year’s profit, £154,698, all made from
the sale of shares in different concerns. Verily, the cows
aren’t among Frank’s corn yet. Transpired at meeting
that this crowd has a large interest in Cobar Gold Mines.
It is not likely to lose money by that. It has also a con-
trolling influence in a big area of coal-lands at Collie,
W. A., and the mine is preparing to turn out coal. It was
the founder of the Perseverance Mine, but not being able
to leave well alone, it handled Boulder Bonanza, Great
Boulder South, and other mines, of which the less said
the better.
Maeeea
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AHD WAR OFFICE.
ami urn—
wr
“ THE FINEST • -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’'
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Dope Bros, & 0o M Ltd., Liverpool Agents: M.lutty & Co., Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Garb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100*
Bone Ash, Zino Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81*/.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-street,
Melbourni;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Ourrie-st.,Adel; 87 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, WeXinqton, NS. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
SJ per oent. on its capital (otherwise the money raised on
its bonds) from the first day of its existence, and no
privately-owned bank is expected to pay a div. in its first
year. The difference between lending and borrowing
rates is £1 per cent, and the net profit equals ss. 3d. per
cent., so expenses are only 14s. 9d. percent, on capital.
As the concern grows larger they will probably diminish.
The S.A.. State Bank has now £454,552 on loan, and
arrears of interest on Ist April were only £245, out of an
annual income of over £20,000. Even the saddest Tory in
Sudden Solomon’s following has given up calling the S.A.
State Bank a failure now.
» • * *
In N.S.W. and in most of the other Australias
there is no law whatever to ensure the solvency of life-
assurance offices. Any concern from, or alleged to be
from, any place may hang out its shingle in these parts,
and promise anything, and scoop in premiums on the
strength of these promises. It isn’t required to show
that it is solvent before being allowed to start business, or
to give any kind of security whatever. Apropos of
which, tHh Independent Order of Foresters, of Toronto,
Canada, has commenced life business in Sydney. The
promises of this institution are pretty large. A man
aged 30 can get from the A.M.P. Society a policy for
£2OO payable at death, with profits, for a quarterly
premium of £1 4s. Bd. The 1.0. F. issues the printed
statement that it will insure a man, aged 30, for £2OO
payable at death, with profits, for a quarterly premium of
18s. and certain “ court-dues,” which make the total
about £1 Is. 9d. And in addition to this remarkable cheap-
ness, it promises to give, without extra charge, these
extra benefits: (1) No premiums payable after age 70;
(2) If the assured becomes totally and permanently dis-
abled at any age, his premiums cease, while the policy
remains in full force ; (3) The assured can draw one-half
the amount of the policy at any age should he become
totally and permanently disabled ; (4) He can draw the
whole amount of his policy by instalments when disabled
by old age.
And The Bulletin has a suspicion that this
wonderfully and gorgeously promising concern is in a
rocky state through promising too much. It is
difficult to say at this distance, but there are things
about it that look very rocky. It claims to have been
working in a large way of life assurance for 10 years, and
in a smaller way for years before that. Yet, in
1898, while the premiums received in its life department
were £357,088, the accumulated fund was only
£617,161, or much less than two years’ premiums.
A very young Australian office, the Oity Mutual,
has about five years’ premiums in hand, yet it
has far fewer liabilities to meet in proportion to the
amount it receives in premiums. It is about the same
age as the Independent Order of Foresters’ concern, but
there is a great discrepancy in their resources. A little
earlier the 1.0. F. had (according to the Insurance
Blue Book) insurances in force for over £32,000,000,
and only £518,724 assurance fund on hand, or
one-sixty-third. The Oity Mutual had £1,068,000 of
assurances in force and £165,000 assurance fund, or one-
seventh. The 1.0. F. claims to have had, at the end of ’9B, a
surplus of £654,734, but its accounts show no such sur-
plus. It certainly seems to have had total funds of about
that amount, but total funds are not surplus.
The 1.0. F. publishes some curious tables. It
estimates that its accumulated funds will yield 4 per
cent, interest, and it publishes a table showing that its
premiums (after deducting 5 per cent, for expenses), if
accumulated at 4 per cent, compound interest till death
or till age 70, will amount to enough to pay its policies,
with so small a margin that bonuses are almost impos-
sible. But it doesn’t average 4 per cent, interest; it earned
that amount in 1898 with a very small margin, but
over a term of years it only averaged £3 2s. 7d. This is
calculated to knock its solvency endways. All decent
offices estimate their interest earnings a good way below
the rate actually received—not above it or just at it. Its
solvency also depends on its expenses being only 5 per
cent, on premiums. In 1894 they were about 9 per cent.
In 1898 (the writer has only these two balance-sheets by
him) “ expenses ” were certainly only a shade over 5 per
cent., but “ contingencies ” were about 5J per cent., mak-
ing 10J per.cent, in all. This also knocks endways a
calculation whose solvency depends on the real expenses
being kept down to 5 per cent. In fact, the real expenses
maybe 20 or 30 or 40 per cent., but the balance comes
out of that levy on the members called “court dues.”
However, the present point is that the 1.0. F. shows that its
solvency depends on it averaging 4 per cent, interest
on its funds and spending only 5 per cent, of its
premiums in expenses—and it spends more than
double that in expenses and contingencies, and doesn't
earn 4 per cent, on an average. Then its tables
make, apparently, no allowance for the extra benefits it
promises ; they seem to merely show (or fail to show) that
it is solvent as an ordinary life office, the old-age pensions,
&c., not being mentioned. And finally it publishes a
table showing, on the evidence of eminent actuaries, the
lowest premium at which an assurance of £2OO can be
safely granted at various ages. The 1.0.F.’s rates are
lower than these alleged lowest safe rates.
There is no evidence in any publication that The
Bulletin has in hand that the 1.0. F. has ever paid any
bonuses. The Insurance Blue Book for 1900 doesn’t
credit it with any surplus—doesn’t even say that it has
enough assets to cover the present value of its liabilities.
Its policies are “ with profits,” but nothing can be dis-
covered about there ever having been any profits. It re-
serves the right to increase the premiums , if need be, so
the rates it mentions may grow quite suddenly and
alarmingly. The levy called “court dues” makes the
premiums really heavier than they look. If the 1.0. F.
increases the premiums too much and you drop out, you
get no surrender value whatever. Altogether The Bulletin
reckons that, allowing for that extra tax called “ court
dues” which are not mentioned in the premiums, and
considering the absence of surrender values, the apparent
absence of bonuses, the risk of having the premiums in-
creased indefinitely, the 5 per cent, expenses which seem
to be reallylOJ not reckoning the “dues” which make them
much more, the 4 per cent, assumed interest rate which
is so often not realised, and the joyful position of an
office with more than half as much life assurance in force
as the A.M.P. and one-twentieth the cash to pay
it with when the members die—considering these things,
it isn’t going to insure its life in the 1.0. F. But it is
going to barrack more loudly than ever for a rigid life
assurance law, State audit, and valuation of securities,
and State standard of solvency.
The 1.0. F. of Canada, by-the-way, issues com-
parisons between itself and the A.M.P. The Bulletin
has also been making comparisons. Allowing for “ con-
tingencies” and “court-dues” its expenses appear to be
vastly higher than the A.M.P.’s, which means less profit
for policy-holders. It earns a much smaller rate of
interest on its invested funds, which also means less
profit for policy-holders. It works mostly in countries
that are less healthy than Australasia. Therefore it is
certain that it can’t give as good value for every £ paid
to it as the A.M.P. does. If it doesn’t economise by
working in healthier countries (and there are none), or by
paying away less in expenses, or earning more in interest,
it can only cut its rates lower by giving less bonuses and
supplying less security.
Geelong (Vio.) follows the example of other
places by starting a Tontine Insurance scheme—the “ Gee-
long and Western District 00-operative Life Assurance
Trust.” The advt. doesn’t state the size of the Tontine,
but otherwise it is built on much the usual plan. Each
member is to insure himself (or, if he prefers it, somebody
else) on a 20-year limited payment plan with the National
Mutual office. Policies are to be made over to trustees.
If a member, or a member’s nominee, dies during the 20
years, the National Mutual pays the trustees of the Ton-
tine the face-value of his policy, and returns to the repre-
sentatives of the deceased all his premiums, with 3 per
cent, compound interest. Therefore, the deceased’s re-
presentatives lose nothing, while the Tontine Fund gains
considerably. At the end of 20 years each surviving
member receives back his own policy, then fully paid
up; also, his share in the Fund accumulated through
the deaths of his lamented fellow - members, and if
the latter are only reasonably diseased the survivors may
have a great time. In such a case there are only two
essentials ; the society which issues the policies should be
above suspicion as to its solvency and capacity for endur-
ance, and the trustees who hold the policies and the cash
should be ditto. In this case there is no objection to
make as regards the society, but the proposal that two
local citizens should act as trustees is most objectionable.
A good trustee co., with a huge capital as a guarantee
against loss, is the only fitting institution to hold the
cash when a transaction is to last 20 years. Personal
trustees often die, or make bad investments and can’t
make the loss good, or have a trusted clerk who absconds
with the money. If anyone would make out a list of
50 unimpeachably solvent and reliable nten in Sydney
or Melbourne 20 years ago, and then consider the awful
things that have happened to them since, he would be
simply astounded.
* * • *
Haymarket Permanent Land, Building, and
Investment 00. (Sydney), which is now fast recovering
from a severe illness, shows recent results as follows:
Profits. Dividend.
May, 1897 .. .. £292 Nil.
November, 1897 .. 160 Nil.
May, 1898 .. ..223 Nil.
November, 1898 .. 254 Nil.
May, 1899 .. ... 496 Nil.
November, 1899 .. 905 3 per cent, per annum, £lO9O
May, 1900 .. .. 1116 3 per cent, per annum, 1111
During the past six months deposits have been reduced
by £lB9O (from £54,827 to £52,937) ; “ other liabilities ”
have been reduced by £603 (from £41,553 to £40,950) ;
and the co.’s bank account has improved by £4333, the
old overdraft being completely wiped off. The co.
has £74,077 paid-up capital and £40,927 reserves (re-
serve fund £33,148; contingent fund, £1500; profit
balance, £6279), and if its assets are worth their full
paper value its position is very strong. As the gross
income, including commission, fines, and sundries, is only
£3 14s. Bd. per cent, per annum on the investments, it is
doubtful if they are worth their full paper value just at
present, and some doubt is cast on the beautiful
reserve ; still, the previous half-year only showed a
return of £3 4s. lid. per cent., so things are distinctly
improving. At the same time, the policy of paying away
all the profits except about £5 in dividends looks decidedly
premature.
* * » •
The New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Co.
(Sydney) publishes a rather good-looking interim report
for the half-year to 30th June, 1900. The balance-sheets
of this concern aren’t so luminous as they might be. For
instance, the 1898 balance-sheet showed that the profits
were £2603, but next one revealed that this didn’t pro-
vide for income-tax and some other expenses which were
charged in 1899, and this somewhat changed the appear-
ance of things. Still, going by the co.’s own method,
results are as follows
Profit. Dividend.
1898 (13 months) .. £2,603 10 per cent.—£l,62s
1899 (12 months) .. 1,401 10 per cent.— 1,500
1900 (6 months) .. 906 10 per cent. — 750
There is a balance of £1035 after paying the dividend.
The co. hopes at the end of the year to have £l2OO left
after paying dividend, and speaks of it as available
‘ either to write down certain assets or for reserve.” One
of the assets is “ Brands and goodwill, £2000,” and that
should be wholly written off before any attempt is made
at a reserve. A reserve which is only represented by
paper assets is not worth having, and “goodwill” is
always more or less papery-
* * * *
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co.
(head office in London):
Profits. Dividends.
1891 .. .. £104,412 20 per cent. = £104,000
1892 .. .. 90,469 17£ „ = 91,000
(£140,000 written off reserves)
1893 .. .. 94,177 15 per cent. = 78,000
(£lO,OOO added to reserves)
1894 .. .. 82,835 15 per cent. = 78,000
(£lO,OOO added to reserves)
1895 .. .. 64,376 per cent. = 65,000
1896 .. .. 47,255 10 „ = 52,000
(£135,000 written off reserves)
1897 .. .. 39,656 7£ per cent. = 39,000
1898 .. .. 46,648 ~ = 39,000
(£lO,OOO added to reserves)
1899 .. .. 61,586 7J per cent. = 39,000
(£20,000 added to reserves)
£631,414 £585,000
The total reserves of the Australian Mortgage, Land and
Finance Co. have thus decreased in nine years by £228,586
(£275,000 written off, less £46,414 surplus of profits above
dividends), and now stand at £333,884. Despite this
decline the co. has got through some very bad times
with better success than most of the large grass-and-
sheep institutions. But £20,000 of the 1899 earnings and
£15,000 of the 1898 earnings were profit on the sale of
property—the sort of windfall which only comes very
occasionally ; and the earnings of the ordinary business'
were only £31,648 in 1898 and £41,586 in 1899. This
doesn’t look as if the glorious 20 per cent, dividend days
were coming back just yet. And the co. is loaded with
£2,000,000 owing on debentures which it should have
paid off out of profits in the good days, but didn’t.
* * * *
The Maoriland dredging-boom still rages; the>
latest sensation being a one-week’s return for one dredge
of over 12300 z. But N.S.W. dredging is not making the
headway the public have been led to believe. More
sellers than buyers, and, in the majority of cases, no
buyers at any price. In several instances, forfeited shares,
are advertised—in one, even at the third call. The Fede-
ral Co. (Braidwood district) is still making calls, although,
the dredge has been running for months. It is a poor'
look-out if calls do not cease when the dredge is going.
The last return from the Turon was only 250 z.,.
and that of the previous week but an oz.
or two more-or-less. Shares 305., probably an-
other joke. The public are assured that, notwithstanding-
the severity of the floods, little or no harm has been done-
to the dredges. Araluen Proprietary announces a yield
of 540 z. for two weeks’ run. The fact remains that the-
successful N.S.W. dredges will be a very small number
compared to those at work. Some will fail from want of’
gold in the wash, more will fail from inability to get it om
account of bad bottoms and other disabilities. N.S.W.
will, for many obvious reasons, never have a dredging-
boom such as that in Maoriland.
• * • *
Cobar Gold-mines : N.S.W. shareholders have-
received news at last—a copy of an article appearing in
S.M. Herald last April giving a description of the mine
and plant in the colorless way so characteristic of that-
senile paper. This has gone to London, and havingbeenre-
Erinted, is now sent back to the shareholders, who have
eard nothing officially of the returns from the mine this
year, although the 100-head mill and cyanide plant have
been running continuously, crushing tens of thousands of
tons I Local shareholders have long grown tired of this
sort of business, and unless they receive the returns from
this mine at the same time as they are known in London,.
steps will probably be taken to enforce publicity. It
would be a very simple matter for the Govt, to make a
regulation insisting on the publication of returns, as is
done in Queensland, Victoria, and other places where
mining is conducted with some little regard to decency.
» * • *
If Woodlark Island isn’t flying high it’s not for
want of advertising. The statements concerning the per-
manency and value of this mine are as variable as |the
returns have been up to date.
* * • *
Croydon notes to June 23. Important find in
Golden Gate United, owned by local limited co. with
40,000 ss. shares ; 10,000 paid up. After lengthy pro-
specting good gold struck, supposed to be rich shoot
from which over £15,000 was paid in divs. in May, now
worked in G. Gate 3 and 4 S. tribute. United is con-
trolled by practical men who are now preparing mine
to raise crushings. G. Gate 4 and 5 S. Block now
working good stone. Viles’ Block crushing for about
2oz. per ton returns, proceeds to be spent in develop-
ment.-—Federation Co. going to make another start
under competent management, Bull shareholders having
resolved to try and get back some of their lost money.
-Morgan’s Block down about 420 ft., and supposed to
be nearing reef. G. Gate 3 and 4 S. with hundreds of
tons of rich ore to crush, at standstill for want of water.
Good prospecting and development work being done
on Gate and Banner Tine, but field badly needs rain.
* * • *
Q. mining items : Mt. Morgan, usual 7d. div.
for June. Mt. Usher,, near Rockhampton, crushed 412
tons for 6490z5., and got 188ozs. from cyanide—a vigorous
outside show.— Rockhampton District’s six months’ re-
turns, exclusive of Mt. Morgan, show marked increase.
Q. Menzies still cyaniding ; latest, 360 tons returned
2170z5. medium gold.— : —Ravenswood still getting good
results from Erin’s Hope P.O. Big litter of pups, some
born with blind staggers. Ch. Towers looking well on
the whole. Brilliant and St. George keeps up wonder-
fully ; latest, 1400 tons gave 15330z5. Kelly’s not too well
—6BO tons, 7060z5. Brilliant Extended : 522 tons for only
310ozs. Poor old Victoria : 170 tons for 2460z5. A Wood-
lark Island’co. named Kalamadam floated on Towers.
June,Towers returns show a big falling off : 15,005 tons
crushed for 15,9900z5. ; cyanide, 41,000 tons for 19,8040z5.
Calls, £7300. Divs., £21,200.
• • • •
Ivanhoe.—June production, 9i790z. Hitherto
part of the Ivanhoe’s gold production has come from
slimes and tailings which accumulated before it had a
cyaniding and filter-pressing plant. These are now almost
used up, and then the mine will have to depend on the
ore raising during the month. As this return is fully
IOOOoz. higher than foreshadowed by ex-manager Hewit-
son, no doubt it is considered “ very satisfactory,” and
that his sudden dismissal was “ quite warranted under
the circumstances.” What is likely to happen before the
end of the year—the certain result of this mine-gutting—
was sufficiently indicated in last week’s issue. So far
the cables (published) which brought about the manager’s,
dismissal only go to prove that he was discharged for
quite another reason. Remarkable, too, that Mackinnon,
who took over the mine from Hewitson, only remained a
month, leaving on the ground that he couldn’t
possibly manage it and Lake View as well. Writer
believes it was offered to another man on the
field who refused it because of the insult to Hewit-
son. It was then offered to Skews, formerly of Boulder
Main Reefs ; negotiations have fallen through, and the
manager from the Paddington Consols has gone there as a
stop-gap. ’Twould serve the London directors right if
they couldn’t get a man in Australia to manage the Ivan-
hoe"—which billet means being made a plaything with a
big salary.
• • * •
South Kalgurli, 1550 tons, for 15590 z. How
many people in Australia and elsewhere who bought
these shares at from £6 to over £7 each did so under the
impression that this mine would only average loz. to the
ton ? Probably not one. If newspaper pars, about it
were true, it should have gone at least 3oz. And there is
another phase. All the mines within the marvellous Mile
started with much higher average ore than that they are
now working. The Boulder, when it had a mill
of the capacity of the South Kalgurli’s, kept up
more than double its present average; so, too,
the Horseshoe, which started with 50z., and so also
the Perseverance, Lake View, Associated, Ivanhoe. Now
if the same thing happens to this mine—Lord help it!
Fortunately the sulphide zone, so far as proved, is
of much better grade than the oxidised ; the latter ores
are only worth from 10 to 12dwts. The sulphides will
average considerably over an oz., and it is because of the
large quantity of oxidised ore used in the mill that we get
this return. The mine has not enough roasting plant to
keep the mill running on the sulphide zone. The chief
ore bodies come in from the Perseverance and have not
been proved of any great length, nor are they as large as
in the other mine. At £5 55., the present price, the shares
are too high.
* * • •
Boulder Main Reef.—ll 77 tons for 1850ozs. All
sulphide ore. It gets at one end of the golden belt
what the South Kalgurli gets at the other— i.e., the tail
end of the lodes from the Great Boulder like the S.K. from
the Perseverance. It has 300 to 400 ft. of fairly good ground
—certainly not enough to warrant present price of shares,
345. It is running entirely on sulphides, and uses the Mt.
Morgan roasting furnace.
* * * *
Oroya.—At last the three Huntingdon mills,
■which have been running for two years, have closed down.
The average has been falling ever since the start, but with
■each return it was given out that the average was more
than payahle, until the impression reigned locally that
the lower the grade the greater the pride of the manager.
But when it got down to 3dwt. the mills had to shut up.
Attention is to be confined to “ the opening up of the
■sulphide zones on the lease.” The mine has one little
■streak of payable sulphide from which it has taken many
months to get less than 500 tons of ore worth about
2oz. to the ton, the value of which will be ab-
sorbed in mining, shipping and treatment charges.
■Of course—“ a new sulphide plant is to go up immediate-
ly ” —one would think that it could be erected in a day
Instead of nearly a year. Re the present sulphide ship-
ment Sydney D.T. says it will “probably be the last
parcel of ore that will ever leave the mine.” Which may be v
true in a double sense. Shares have slumped to 325.,
they were once over £4 and were never worth half present
price.
* « « *
Great Boulder: Last year’s report shows a net
revenue of £213,436 —4 divs. of 6d. each, represent 100 per
■cent, on the par value of the shares, leaving a balance of
£86,000. The manager succeeded in maintaining the
regularity of the output though the mine is passing
through a transition stage pending the installation
■of the sulphide plant. The oxidised ores are
almost depleted. A few thousand tons is neither
here nor there with such a mine as the G.B. Sulphide
reserves blocked out ready for stoping have been in-
creased by 77,348 tons, and there are already over 20,000
tons on surface awaiting the completion of the plant.
This plant should materially increase the gold produc-
tion ; it will need to, for four 6d.-divs. a year is not
■enough interest to get on a 335. share (present price).
But there is a much better outlook. Writer anticipates the
■success of the sulphide plant; if so, it should put through
■6OOO tons a month for a return of, say, 9000 oz. There are
20,000 odd tons to start on, and the mine seems ready to
maintain a 6000 tons monthly-production for years to
■come. There are upwards of 100,000 tons of tailings left-
worth, at any rate, half as many ozs. The Boulder may
be regarded as a safe 10 per cent, investment, and there
is always a chance of its being doubled by the duplication
of plant. Already the mine is not far off warranting it.
The anomaly of G.B. shares remaining in the region of
30s. when others like the Lake View and Ivanhoe went up
£3 each demonstrates that there is something wrong
somewhere.
Associated Gold Mines: .No returns yet an-
nounced for June. They ar» variously foreshadowed
between 3000 and 5000 oz. Chances are they will be under
3000. “ The shipping- of sulphide is to be resumed,” pro-
bably another lie. The mill is still running. The longer
it runs the longer it will be shut down ; it will shut itself
down when the ore is gone. This time last week the mine
had a market value of £2,000,000 ; to-day it is nearly
£400,000 less, and no newspaper seems to take any notice
of the difference. The only gleams of hope in the reports
of the three experts who examined the property have been
seized upon in London and Adelaide as showing that the
mine is not really so bad as was painted.
Victoria has just got a new goldfield. A big *
rush is now on to Mt. William, at the foot of the Gram-
pians, near Ararat; 1500 men are already on the field.
Sinking 2to 4ft. in very wet ground. Prospects good so
far, running from Ito 3dwt. to the dish. Provisions
already scarce, and every milk-dish has been bought in
Ararat stores. Trouble already arising with the local
landowners, some demanding as much as £lO a claim.
Ballarat and Melbourne speculators hastening thither.
Warden to be sent up this week.
• • • •
Broken Hill Prop, having come to terms with
the Water Co., and having therefore no use for the pro-
posed Umberumberka Creek scheme, Govt, has sent up
officers to report on the suitableness of the site for the
purposes of a supply for town and mines. And
though the big B.H. Prop, is for the present satisfied,
some of the other strong co.’s, notably the Sulphide Cor-
poration, are not. So between the two the Water Co. is
not out of all danger.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.—l call attention to the con-
duct of the Woodlark G.M. Co. Some time ago they sent
one of their directors, who has had some experience, on a
visit to the mine, located on distant Woodlark Island,
Papua. Said director received a good fee and his expenses
for his report, which was sent in about a month ago. Up
to now this report, which is said to be favorable, has not
been published. I would like to know what the board
mean by this, considering that the report was paid for by
the shareholders ? This is not the way to encourage con-
fidence in the mine —or the board. Is the Woodlark
going to be added to the list—already too long—of pro-
mising mines sent to perdition by N.S.W. dunderheaded
“wire-pulling” management? The board’s present
conduct is in nice contrast to the authorities’ wavs when
the show was floated. Then they interviewed all and
sundry who could speak a word in favor of it, and pub-
lished the “ reports,” “ yarns,” &c., in double-quick time.
—Disgusted.
(Continued on page SI.)


OVERGOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
62s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 60s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan y, cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OK
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Society
Premier Lyne’s proposal of a “ uniform
Australian medal ” for all Australians who have
been _ convicted of firing a gun with in-
tent in South Africa is just a petty provincial
proposal. A South African medal for “Our Boys ”
will come in an ordinary way from the Imperial
Govt., who provided the war for them. If Aus-
tralia particularly wishes to pay for a medal instead
of leaving the Imperial Govt, to supply the sou-
venir, all well and good. The cost would not be
alarming. But when it comes to a question of
two medals for the same campaign—why, the Eng-
lish, Scotch, and Irish regiments might as well
ask for a distinctive provincial bauble to hang on
their coats beside the one that is common to all.
* * * *
Military prisoners taken by the “Boxers”
will have a bad time, as the Chinese torture their
captives. When Sir Harry Parkes, Capt. (after-
IN SLUMP-TIME.
“ He owns several mines in Westralia.”
“Good heavens! I had no idea he was so poor as that."
wards Sir H. B. Loch), and Bowlby, Times cor-
respondent, fell into their hands in the war of ’6O,
the greatest fear of the friends of the prisoners
was that they would be mutilated. A favorite
practice of the Chows is to lop off the end of a
member with a sword, after fixing it on a block
and plunge the bleeding stump into boiling tar!
Parkes and Loch escaped this treatment, because
their captors were in fear of their official position:
but poor Bowlby was tortured and killed.
» * »
Vie P.-1 rli 1 mmi 1 i,ui„ t ,„ oco j „ i f
11 • Parliament lately passed a law for
««?™ t ” C i flon u° f ,P° p ® opl ® agamst
pressing landlord. Under this law the bailiff
put in for rent was compelled to leave goods to
the value of £2O m the house the idea being to
save the poor from the hardship of being com-
pletely stripped. That law is now “knocked
;! y ’ anc tbe impoverished tenant is as much at
the.mercy of a relentless landlord as ever, it having
been discovered that the officer can put auy
valuation he pleases on the goods he leaves behind
him. Houses are cleared out as before ; a crazy
bed, a knock-kneed table, and a picture or two—
the lot worth 3s. perhaps—are valued at £2O by
the bummer in a loud voice, and the tenant is left
lamenting amid the ruins of his home. The
remedy ? Well, when the bailiff has valued £2O
worth of furniture to leave behind him, how
would it be if the bailiffed one had the option of
saying, “ Well, give me the £2O and take the lot ? ”
* • « *
Apropos the spasmodic appearances of the
Plague, it might be mentioned that, in Bombay,
the disease seems to have utterly beaten the
doctors. In the epidemic of ’96 there were 28,737
deaths. Then it seemed to die out, with only
cases now and again. In ’97 it broke forth once
more, and before the end of the year had killed
another 61,220 persons. The epidemic of ’9B-’99
was the most deadly of all; 115,084 people are
known to have perished, while hundreds, if not
thousands, must have escaped observation owing
to the disorganisation resulting from the panic.
Men fell dead in the streets, were found dead in
by-ways, in public gardens—everywhere where a
man might go were to be found plague-corpses.
The medical staff reckoned that 70 per cent, of
the seizures were fatal, and has reported that, once
a district or quarter has become infected, the only
remedy is to utterly abandon it for some better
locality, and inoculate all healthy survivors with
the prophylactic.
• * • *
Up to 27th June there had been 54 cases
of plague in Queensland: —Rockhampton, 28;
Brisbane, 19; Townsville, 4 ; Cairns, 2 ; Ipswich,
1. Deaths at that date were 26 —Rockhampton,
16; Brisbane, 7; Townsville, 2; Cairns, 1.
The Plague demon-
strates some more the
strange fact that, not-
withstanding the mar-
vellous stamina and
powers of type-reproduc-
tion of the Mongol, hsi
individual vitality is low
and timid. Perhaps gene-
rations of fatalism, aided
by the sordid surround-
ings of a life that was not
worth living, that offered
scarcely a single attrac-
tion from birth to bier,
are responsible for this
want of resistance to
disease. The Chinaman,
especially of the lower
class, “gives in” on the
slightest provocation. He
will hang himself to
escape a flogging; he
will expire to escape the
struggle with an attack
of sickness. And yet, or
perhaps, therefore, he
flourishes —as a race.
Life, luck and woman
seem alike in that they
become the more fasti-
diously unmanageable
the more considerately
you treat them.
* * •
Sydney Stab reck-
in a large vague way that
the overcrowding of the
Sydney electric trams
arises through Parlia-
ment’s failure to grasp
the principles of modern
management. It doesn’t
say what these principles
of management are, pro-
bably because it doesn’t
know, but the expressson
is a large flapping gene-
rality that is comforting
to the soul. Yet, what
is really wanted is some
new streets. When Sus-
sex, Kent, Clarence,
York, Pitt and Castle-
reagh streets all crook
their way into George-
street and leave it
practically the only
thoroughfare that tra-
verses the city, nothing
can prevent congestion. All the ancient and
modern management on earth can’t get two quarts
of people comfortably into a one-pint street.
* * * *
A small, unpromising outbreak of social-
gimletism has lately happened in Melb. under the
style of the Christian Citizens’ League. The
C.C.L. proposes to hand politics to pure and holy
men—probably the sort who clear out with the
choir-girl and the Sunday School funds—and to
look closely into the morals of every legislator
who doesn’t attend church regularly. At their
inaugural meeting these gruesome reformers de-
cided upon a course of spying on the police to see
they carried out the laws relating to liquor, the
expulsion of golden-haired women from every-
where, and the abolition of gambling in every
form. One hoary-headed person was loudly
cheered for the suggestion that betting on race-
courses should be a criminal offence for layer and
backer alike.
The fares on the Sydney suburban railways
are kept-up by the “class” division, with which the
trams are not handicapped. Between 6 and
8 a.m. it is common to see two and three extra
2nd-class carriages attached to a train—and
numbers of passengers standing, at
that—while in the same train per-
haps three lst-class cars are
running utterly unprofitable
mileage. Writer has seen
one passenger travelling lst-
class in one of
said trains (
table sho
Ist anu
2nd-class
train-mile-
age run and
fares earned
would make in-
teresting reading, and
would, perhaps, explain
why 2d. by tram will
carry a passenger from
the Quay to Johnstone-
st., while by train he
pays 3d. to travel half
tiie distance —viz., Red-
fern to Stanmore. That
this class distinction is
an anomaly is evidenced
by the people who go
to work 2nd-class, but
on holidays travel
“Ist.”
Dear B ulletin .
The moist adroit sweating in N.S.
Wales Civil Service is that prac-
tised upon unclassified and 3rd-
class teachers. Probationers (at
£72 p.a.) are always appointed to
provisional schools averaging over
16 in attendance— i.e., worth £BB
a-year ; whereas many teachers of
some years’ service struggle along
on the ,£72 owing to inability
(rarely their fault) to maintain
said average. Again, a classified
teacher in a school above his
classification is paid “ according
to classification ”; in a school
below same, according to “class
of school.” By this despicable
dodge are injured—A, who in a
school above his class is doing
work for which he isn’t paid, and
B; entitled to A’s school, who is
drumming away in a school below
his class, and is paid “according.”
Also, influence is still a power to con-
jure with, despite the loud headquarters’
protestations to the contrary.— Ped.
• » * *
In a mining-accident case recently tried
before new Tas. West Coast Stipendiary Crosby
Gilmore, the mine-manager, to lus utter astonish-
ment, was fined heavily for negligence, said negli-
gence being the sole cause of the disaster. The
Commissioner’s ruling was so strictly and obvi-
ously legal that there is nothing to be said on
that ground. But it is so long since the law was
enforced, and since an employer in Tasmania has
been held legally accountable for a maimed or
murdered workman, that Gilmore is now being
held up to public execration as a monster of
iniquity bent upon “driving capital out of the
country.” How many crimes and illegalities are
winked at in Australia for fear of (to speak Hiber-
nianly) driving the oppressive absentee out of the
country !
* # * »
A correspondent :
Dear Bulletin.— -Accidentally burnt recently about 10
tons of timber stored on the reclamation works at Glebe
Island (Sydney) by the Health Board, after it had been
A FATEFUL MOMENT.
removed from a quarantined area at Darling Harbor. Is
this plague-prevention ? Huge quantities of possibly-in-
fected timber stacked close to the city ! Then when by
chance there starts that destruction of said timber which
the Health authorities should themselves have ordered,
a fire-brigade comes along and salves the great; bulk of it.
Query : How many tons of bubonic timber are still
stacked on Glebe Island—where the meat comes from ?
Dire was the consternation when a police-
man recently demanded admission to the rooms of
a much-gambling “ club ” in a N.S. W. country
town. One portly member, essaying retreat
through a window, landed one leg in and
the other out of an adjacent tank—with
disastrous results ; while
others rushed madly around,
trying to squeeze them-
selves into cup-
boards or un-
der sofas.
The only
one who
kept his
head was a
man who simply
cleared the table
of the cards and
“ tats,” thus
removing the
incriminating
evidence.
THE MORT-
GAGEE.
MOSES: “So you link
der Anglo-Zaxons vos goin' to
rule de eardt?”
AARON: “Veil, maybe dey mighd; but dot von't
brevent der Hebrews from owning id !”
Broken Hill, tired of eating ineffectively-
inspected cattle suffering from cancer and tuber-
culosis, moved lately for Parliamentary power to
erect municipal abattoirs (through a great over-
sight the N.S.W. Municipalities Act doesn’t give
towns power to have their own saleyards and kill-
ing places), and is promptly met with a demand
for compensation for the destruction of the value
of the private slaughter-houses !
• * * *
M. Wiegand, the departing Sydney City
organist, -takes with him for distribution in
Europe some hundreds of copies of Syd-
ney D.T., containing a verbatim report of
the extraordinary procedings of the Crty
Council meeting at which his application
for leave of absence was debated. Said
that the report is to be translated into
several European languages; and the
translations, together with copies of the
Wiegand’s diploma, testimonials, &c.,
alongside, will be printed in large type,
suitably framed, and exhibited in the
Belgian Court at Paris Exhibition, headed
by a card bearing, in flaming-red letters,
suitable remarks about the class of men
who may happen to an artist in Australia.
• « * •
How the rat-hordes of Sydney must
grin at the hysterical shrieks of the home-
made plague-expert re the “good work
being accomplished in the way of exter-
mination.” A few weeks ago in one of
the most popular Sydney resorts not far
from the G.P.O. the proprietor exhibited
to some clients of his, in two large wire
cages (known as basket traps), 43 rats he
had caught in one night. The traps were
set in a very small area, into which the
rodents were enticed by kitchen offal
temporarily stored in boxes. What a
harvest that place should yield to a “ pro-
fessional” catcher !
* * * *
The Petersham (Sydney) Nuisance
Inspector recently had a resident fined £5
for causing an interment in the local
cemetery. Curious that this is the only
cemetery in a populous Sydney area
where corpses are allowed to be buried
the relatives well knowing that a summons will
issue and a fine follow. Now—who gets that fine ?
* * * •
Melbourne police authorities showed their
immense respect for the law last week by sud-
denly and peremptorily prosecuting, for selling a
lottery ticket, a poor out-of-work laborer who had
tried to raisea few shillings by raffling a ’possum-
rug.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOK ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BUGS. Ltd., Sydney
HATS ■ AT S,
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Don’t be put off
with worthless
imitations of .
SUNLIGHT
SOAP.
Sydney Quarter Sessions humor. Solicitor
Moss puts in medical certif. that his client is
suffering from colic and unable to appear. Judge
Docker: “Colic! Is that all! .Why, colic is
easily cured with a dose of castor-oil.” Mr.
Moss, solemnly: “Is that your Honor’s
prescription ? When may we have the
privilege of seeing your Honor’s brass-
plate announcing that your Honor
has started as a medical practi-
tioner ! Your Honor would doubt-
less be quite as great a success in
thatlineasontheßench.” ’S’onah
looked dubious as if hardly know-
ing how to take
it, but he re-
plied “ ad-
j ournmen t
granted ” —>
and retired in
good order from
his kopje.
THE BREAD OF CHARITY.
SHE (to amorously-inclined
" johnny”): “My poor
man, you must he very
hungry, so I've bought you
a ban. But please don't
follow me about any more."
The fatuous indifference of the general
Eublic to the horrible diet-risks it habitually runs
as hitherto been reflected in the half-hearted
punishment meted out to vendors of diseased
meat, and the Maitland (N.S.W.) police-magis-
trate, therefore, has set a much-needed example
by inflicting upon the vendor of a diseased cow the
maximum fine of £2O. The law’s penalty, how-
ever, is after all an absurdly mild one. If the
vendor in question had killed a man, either wil-
fully or carelessly, while in the illegal pursuit of
gain, he could be cold-bloodedly hanged ; whereas,
as the law stands, he is able to sow the seeds of
loathsome and hopeless disease among 50 families
for a total expense of £3O or so. The man who
gives you a fatal dose of arsenic is a gentlemanly
benefactor compared with the villain who doses
you and your family with tuberculosis.
* * * *
Chief Justice Stout, of ■ Maoriland, has
ruled that a man is not drunk so long as he is
sober enough to ask for more drink; so that as
long as he can ask for more drink he should get it.
Plainly the teetotal Stout should be assisted by a
hard-drinking legal brother in dealing with liquor
cases. He means well, but he doesn’t know.
Among other things he forgot to define what is
asking for a drink. If a man stands straight up
at the bar and says, “Mine’s whisky* please,”
that is certainly asking. But if a man is lying on
the floor, and can’t get up, and moans with his
head under a table, “Gimme—hie—rumsh”—is
that a legal demand for refreshment ? Stout
doesn’t say. He is so strictly temperate himself
that he is probably quite unaware that plenty of
men ask for drink on the floor. There are even
cases when a man goes down with his half-emptied
pewter in his hand, and has still sense enough,
though speechless, to hold up the vessel at the end
of a loosely waving arm in a mute appeal to have
it refilled. He is too far gone to inquire for beer
coherently in speech or writing, but still he is
plainly inquiring for it. Does Chief Justice
Stout hold that the feeble uplifting of a pewter
by a horizontal customer is a legal and sufficient
demand for a further supply of alcohol? If it
isn’t, where is the line to be drawn ? If it is, does
he rule that the liquor should be supplied, and
poured over the customer if he is unable to find
his mouth ? Or what does he rule ?
* * • *
Amongst the Melb. banks exists an in-
exorable law that no officer shall marry unless his
yearly income amounts to a certain fixed sum.
Recently a youth, more daring than his fellows,
defied said law and espoused a charming young
music-teacher, although his salary fell about £2O
short of the allotted standard. At last the cat
got out of the bag, and the poor benedict was
carpeted by the directors, who at once dismissed
him with but a month’s salary as a solatium.
* * * *
It is stated that there have already been
75 accidents (11 fatal) on the rapid-running
George-street (Sydney) electric-tram line, which
has only been open, say, six months.
* * * *
The clerical inquisitors, sitting as a Bible-
in-State-Scbools’ Commission in Melb., gave them-
selves away neatly the other day. A witness told
them that, from inquiries, he had discovered that
93 per cent, of State scholars in his district at-
tended Sunday-schools. Whereupon the Com-
missioners, unanimously but most unwarily, re-
torted that they knew of whole districts without
any Sunday-schools. So these rev. gentlemen,
whose business it is to provide Sunday-schools,
admit that they neglect the work at their own
doors while they send their girl missionaries to
batter at the gates of Joss in far-off China.
* * * *
As an instance of how little we are really
removed from the dark ages, there is in Sydney a
prosperous palmist, who calls herself something
like —“Shusta Mollusc Gaska, the Egyptian
World Reader, Futurist, and Geologist .” She
evidently thinks geology lias something to do with
the atomic theory of syllogisms, and her clients
don’t know any better.
* * * *
“ Veteran ” to The Bulletin :
“A Volunteer” (B. 30/6/’00) misses the point about
those Lancer commissions. The public, who support the
whole concern, are more to be considered than the
Lancers themselves. The Lancers are armed, clothed,
and paid, as a possible fighting force for the defence of
Australia, and not as a pedestal on which a few amateur
officers may sport their figures, and the public is entitled
to its money’s-worth in the shape of an efficient cavalry
corps. According to the latest authority on the subject,
“the necessary aptitude for a cavalry-ieader is seldom
found in man, and is always capable of improvement by
study.” But it cannot be known whether or not a man
possesses the “ necessary aptitude ” till he has been tried;
and it is utter folly, therefore, to give commissions to
boys who may be found totally unfit for even common
routine duties. 001. Burns, in promising that his pro-
should pass “ a stiff examination,” shows he doesn’t
know the A B C of his amateur business. If he wants
officers, why doesn’t he examine his sergeants, who
already know something of the officers’ duty ? And, as
Col. Burns has been gazetted examiner, it will be well
that the public should know something of his qualifica-
tions for the post. Fact is, the public never take these
military squabbles seriously, and don’t believe in the
competence of any military potentate of them all. It
regards the whole thing as a mere excuse for wearing fine
clothes and marching behind brass bands.
* * * *
Remarkable passage from the pen of
Major Spencer Browne, perhaps the best known
Brisbane man at present in S’Africa (Brisbane
Courier, June 29):
I am sorry to say that our numbers in the Queensland
contingents continue at only SO out of UW men ! Some
are in hospital, twenty have joined the police force, but
where the bulk of the men really are no one seems to
know. This condition of things is by no means approved
of, and it is doing our reputation no good. Eighty men
in the field out of, say, 400 is rather too extreme a falling
off to be allowed to go without strong comment.
Four months ago had anyone ventured to predict
such a state of things as Major Browne sketches
he would have been almost stoned in the streets.
And this, too, in the face of fulsome cablegrams
containing glowing reports of Australian heroism,
daily narrations of wondrous feats of arms, staring
headlines in the newspapers concerning Australian
prowess, and general jam ad lib.
* * * *
Adelaide Corporation stands aloof from
other local bodies in the agitation for a Tramway
Trust and adheres to its agreement with one
Bingham to sell all municipal rights for 30 years
to a private co. Meanwhile the remaining
Councils are urging the Holder Govt, to legislate
for either municipal or State purchase of lines.
There will probably be trouble when the rival
schemes come before Parliament. Govt, control
of tramways was part of the Kingston policy, in
’9O, but it was forgotten in the agitation for
Council and other reforms.
* * * *
Holman’s notion to have prisoners tried in
open court for breaches of prison discipline in
N.S.W. gaols is unlikely to succeed. Prisoners,
it is contended, would commit slight or other
breaches for the sake of the opportunities of passing
backwards and forwards. Their ability to keep
touch with “pals” in the outside world has
already reached a fine degree of perfection.
Another way to gain the end Holman has in view
would be to make all serious breaches of discipline
—such breaches as are visited with flogging—
offences to be tried by a Judge with a jury com-
posed of freemen, the Judge and jury to go to the
gaol for the purpose.
* * » •
The Sydney “ Rocks ” are to be resumed
by Govt, within two years, at an estimate of
£BOO,OOO. Rookeries as they now are, 80 years ago
theßocks were the centre of the wealth and fashion
' -of Sydney. y/
* * * *
N.S.W. Board of Health is threatened
with an awkward demand for compensation. A
North Shore case of illness was reported sus-
picious and an official doctor sent over. He diag-
nosed it as true Plague, and consequently the
sufferer and his family were removed to North
Head. Further examination proved that the
patient was not suffering from plague. The
quarantined man was in business on his own
account, and has lost his whole connection through
the mistake.
» * * *
When it comes to numbers, Australia and
Canada are mere specks in “the Empire.” A
Melbourne business man received from his Bom-
bay agents last week this cable: “ Bubonic plague
decreasing, only 268 deaths for last fortnight;
total, 9523. Famine more acute, 5,730,380 persons
in receipt of whole or partial relief.”
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.— Re “judicial dignity”
(B. 29/6/’00). I was present at the trial to which
you refer. Defendant, in cross-examination, was
asked whether he still thought plaintiff had taken
the money, and he said “yes.” “What!” said
his Honor, turning round sharply to witness, “in
the face of this evidence do you still say that you
believe plaintiff took one penny of the money ? ”
“Yes, your Honor,” replied defendant, “although
I have been warned by my counsel against saying
so, and know the consequences, I still believe he
has taken it.” “That will do,” said the Judge,
And I saw by the look on his face that defendant
to catch it. And catch it he did.
* * * *
The softgoodsman, for all his loyalty and
military ardour, is very frugal—not to say
adjacent. Melbourne “Lane” employes were
among the most riotous of flag-wavers and trum-
pet-blowers on Mafeking Day, but their employers,
with great unanimity, carefully docked a day’s
pay as the price of their exuberant Jingoism.
* * * •
Extract, verbatim and litteratim, from
Wyalong (N.S.W.) Argus, published in the town
where the mining boss sacks men who don’t think
as he does about the war, and publicly and proudly
states his reason for doing it :
The Bulletin’s sympathy with the late Transvaal oli-
garchy, an autooracy more invidious than the Czar’s inxe-
plicable. Does its editors really believe that Oom Paul
would have tolerated adverse comments upon local affaars,
such as the Bulletins within his domains for fifteen years ?
Symhathy with the canting, bride-takiug Kruger regime
is wholly misplaced.
Now who or what is the “ bride-takiug ” Kruger ;
has that Dopper been getting married lately ?
And what is meant by “an autooracy more invidi-
ous than the Czar’s inxeplicable ” ? Samples of
the Czar’s inxeplicable are anxiously waited for—
if it is a thing that doesn’t burst on the premises.
THE ALTERNATIVE.
HE : " My folks wanted me to stay at home and
be a gentleman. Bat I didn't care about it.”
SHE: “ Well! and what then?”
HE : “Oh! The old man sent me out here to
grow fruit.”
Up to last advices, 12,000 British troops
had been invalided home from South Africa—
while the deaths from disease had been within a
couple of dozen of 4000 ! With this during the
healthiest portion of the S’African year, what kind
of holocaust will the sickly season bring ? The
Australian dailies are dropping their “scare-type”
headings to the Boer War news and even turning
out of the middle of the paper the cables relating
thereto—the slayings having become so compara-
tively insignificant—but it is to be feared the big
letters will yet be wanted to record the dreadful
doings of fever and dysentery.
* * * *
The London Mission gift to the troops ia
S’Africa, sized to fit the khaki jacket pocket, and
franked by Wolseley, was a Testament embossed
with the words, “My Peace I give unto you.”
Humor!
* * * *
Colonial-Secretary See find's that under
N.S.W. Public Vehicles Act cabmen have no
power to sue for fares. Nevertheless, they have
for years sued and succeeded under that Act!
» * • •
A suggested use for the Sydney steam-
motor trams displaced by the electric cars is
through the establishment of street-tram systems-
in country towns, beginning with Broken Hill.
And Broken Hill, having been promised an up-
to-date service, kicks.
At Tamworth (N.S.W.) police-court the
C.P.S. uses a typewriter. T’other day a witness,
in response to a query from the Bench, nodded
his head. _The,Beak: “You must speak out;
that machine does not take cinematographic
views ! ” -
**• V •
/'The Australian “stuff” barrister who
'desires to “take silk” does not go through the
ordeal that his English confrere has to submit to in
having to make a tour of the Courts in his new
wig and gown (plus silk stockings and knee-
breeches), and bow in each case, first to the Judge
and then-to the giggling juniors whose ranks he
has just left. The English barrister’s clerk has
also to appear, carrying the new top-hat and pair
of white kid gloves, which tradition obliges afore-
said Q.C. to present to him, the clerk.
* * * *
An alleged journalist, aged 22, got six
months “hard” last week, at Sydney W.P. Court,
for obtaining Is. from a tailor by false pretences—
the pretence being that a certain bit of paper was
a genuine order for admission to Her Majesty’s
Theatre. A man for jumping on the chest of his
wife is usually fined 40s. or a month.
* * * *
“ D.” tells of a hard way to get a living :
Do you know the most malodorous business to which a
workman is asked to put his hand ? Tanning, wool-
scouring, soap-boiling, candle-making, and the chemical
industries that smell like the reek of Gehenna—these are
comparatively pleasant to the senses beside the unholy
and inhuman odors raised by the work of unpacking pre-
served eggs. Wholesale confectioners and others who use
many eggs lay down hundreds of thousands of hen-fruit
when it is cheap and abundant. The eggs are stored in
lime in 400-gal. iron tanks—a layer of eggs, a layer of
lime, another of eggs, another of lime ; ditto-repeato till
you have filled the receptacle. Then water is poured in,
and the whole is left to generate a poignant effluvium till
the off-season, when the hens are on holiday and eggs are
away up. Now begins the work of digging for those
eggs. Men get 10s. a tank for the work, and it has to be
done with the bare hands, as the egg is very sensitive to
pressure at this stage. The wet lime eats the flesh from
the finger-tips and burns the arms red-raw, but the
greatest horror is the explosive egg—and about every
third specimen when washed free of lime shatters itself
with a wild cry, and fills the land with unutterable dread-
fulness. The ordinary decayed egg is an evil thing, but
the limed egg that may have been repressing its energies
for many months, hovrever small, holds smell enough to
desolate ten acres and taint the very heavens. When a
few hundreds of these erupted eggs are met and
assembled together—phew ! the very intellect totters,
and walls fall, and men turn grey and wither in the blast.
A hard-working and hardened sinner can earn about 255.
a week at this game.
* * * •
In Tarabo (W.Q.) the Divisional Board
bought the Govt, bore for the purpose of laying
the water on to the “ town.” A number of rate-
payers, however, objected, and formed a Progress
Association with the main object of protesting
against the water being laid on until things
improved. And this in a “ village of the plains,”
which for six months of the year is a little Hades
for heat and thirst. “Progress Association” is
good !
* * • *
Recent Melb. Age ad. :
~X\I ANTED a GOVERNESS. Must be able to cook
’ ' and wash. If a lady, will be treated as One of
the family.
What a splendid chance !
During the performance of a
wedding in a small Melbourne sub
urban church recently the spectators
witnessed a rather unusual display of
emotion on the part of the bride’s
papa. When the parson asked the
groom, a shrinking young man whose
expression implied that the whole
thing was a terrible mistake, if he
would take that woman to be his
wedded wife, there was a pause, and
an ugly old man with a forbidding
eye and a hard chin jumped up, and
ejaculated : “By , he will, an’
well he knows it! ” The astonished
parson spread an admonitory hand
in the atmosphere, and requested
his dear brother to refrain, but this
only irritated the bad old man,
and he snorted yet more fiercely :
“ Ask him again—ask him again !
an’ if he don’t answer this time, by
—- you can just leave me to deal
with him ! ” But the young man
hastily admitted his willingness to
take that woman, and the holy
ceremony hurried to its conclusion.
.« ,« *
One foi;in of the tangled ques-
tion of domicile in suits of divorce
was rationally settled by Justice
Owen in Sydney .recently. The
.respondent lived in Queensland and
.N.S.W. alternately, and possessed
a duly-married wife in each place.
He was tried for bigamy in Bris-
bane, was convicted, and sentenced
to imprisonment in St. Helena. On
his IN'. S. W. wife suing for divorce,
respondent set up the plea of domi-
cile, arguing that legally he was
outside N.S.W. jurisdiction, inas-
much as he was a prisoner in St.
Helena, Q. Justice Owen ruled that, as he was
not'voluntarily in St. Helena, he was still, for the
purposes of the suit, a N.S.W. resident.
♦ * * *
The comedy of clerical precedence at
N.S.W. Govt. House is to be carried farther.
Heads of minor sects now uprise and query
“Why not me?”
The British House of Commons has ap-
pointed a committee to enquire into the army con-
tract scandals, and the committee has dug out
some interesting facts. What the farmer who
grew the hay got never transpired, but the first
man who got it from the farmer sold it for 575. 6d.
per ton to Brown ; Brown sold it to Underwood
and Co. at 755. per ton ; while Underwood finally
sold it to the War Office, for use in S’Africa, at
85s. per-ton. Had the War Office bought direct
from even the first shark, it would have saved 275.
fid. per ton.


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming Variety
and , f ,t,... -
Profusion
Lace
Scarves, and
Ribbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
With representative feminine loveliness from all
parts of the world, the Paris Exposition is a carnival
of beauty and costumery. Not the least notable fea-
ture of the show is the wonderful improvement in
dressing- displayed by the modern woman. All the old
ugly and beauty-distorting dress elements having been
abandoned for artistic attire which displays the contour
of the female form divine ; the P.D. corset, of course,
being the most valuable and cherished factor in produc-
ing the delightful effect. Heaven smiles on the P.D.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
oninh^,
-GV.XHOII
m
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
,V ; !i ®
~r?
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOI6 TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Lawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
A/T-ir tv t» ir Sydney, July 10, 1900.
My Deak Myee,—-
The presiding goddess of this season is evi-
dently not Terpsichore. So far, dances have been
moat lugubrious; half enough men, and so few
women that the half-filled ballroom wears a con-
tinual air of waiting for the others to take off
their goloshes. A suburban hop—usually a
specially smart affair—eclipsed all recent eccen-
tricities. Two hundred people were expected;
fifty turned up. The handful of men
obligingly allowed their programmes to be filled,
but the odds were too strong against them. By
the middle of the evening, three black coats alone
flew round among the chiffons. The rest of the
men got up to the smoking-room, and stayed
there. And, strangely enough, the women didn’t
mind. They put on their wraps at 11, and mur-
mured meekly among themselves how nice it was
to get home early, and went away. By 11.30 the
lights were out, the door locked, and a ball that
usually kept on gaily till sunrise had fizzled weakly
out half-an-hour before midnight.
“ 1 don’t bother about anything this year,” says
a pretty society girl. “If I have no gloves, Igo
without, and as for getting a new wrap, why, I
would as soon think of going in for a new ball-
dress.”
The rechauffe gown is the correct caper. Fringe
on net will veil its past alluringly ; also chiffon is
used as much as ever this season. The fichu
draped round the corsage, and falling in long ends
to the hem of the skirt, assists in these transforma-
tions. Laoe, too, is swathed round the bodice
from the waist up. If you ask me “ how ?” I can
only say “anyhow.” You can either swathe, or
not swathe. Anyone who hasn’t the knack can’t
learn ; and the woman who has it can be taught
nothing. In flowers, the latest craze is for the
convolvulus, which threatens to overrun London
in palest mauves, blues and pinks, delicately
intermixed. As far as anyone remembers, this is
the first time the convolvulus has had a vogue. It
has generally been regarded as a wearisome little
weed, but Fashion crooked her eye over the back-
fence and transmogrified the humble creeper into
the wreathings for royalties’ best bonnets. And —
joyful news to the loyal woman who has wan-
dered far but ever remained true of heart to her
early affection —brocade is in again ! Brocade
that sticketh closer than a hundred nets, never
wears out, and will turn up again through endless
resurrections in the guise of an underskirt, and
finally a plain, unvarnished, highly-reliable petti-
coat.
Government House continues on its giddy
round of dissipations. The Bush Party came off
last Thursday. There were 200 country people—
delegates and wives—present. Just to show you
how carefully his Ex. thinks out his parties I must
tell you there was no classical music on this par-
ticular evening. No ; a cinematographe was. the
artless form of amusement considered more suit-
able for country cousins.
At Govt. House, on Monday night, there were
fifty, parsons and fifty parsons’ wives. Priests,
rabbis, ven. archdeacons, Wesleyan ministers,
Primitive Methodists, curates, all were there.
A sprinkling of artists, the- authoress of a
clever new novel, and half-a-dozen professors
represented the wicked world. It must have
cost His Ex. a grey hair or so to fix on
the form of entertainment for that party, for what
is sauce for the cloth is just plain stewed-apple to
the artist and the author. Even the harmless
cinematograph has its dangers. The swirl of
aecordeon-pleated draperies under limelight, that
goes so well on the picture-sheet, might have
created such a wild disturbance among ye gentle
shepherds that they might have all flown to the
Tivoli the night after. Who knows ? Finally, a
programme of music was considered—well, safest.
A liC/t.e pianoforte playing, and a little singing,
and all the songs in English save one—“ Car Mio
Ben.” Thus His Ex. landed himself out of a deli-
cate position, in which no Gov. has ever found
himself (or placed himself) before.
The artists are next on the list—artists of all
kinds, musicians, poets, painters. But his Ex.
has made a little slip—the first, perhaps, in art
matters. He has invited a well-known artist to
one party, and his (the artist’s) pretty, clever
young fiancee to another. For my part I don't
see why a governor should be expected to know
all this sort of thing; but what is a private
secretary for ? I can answer the question myself.
Judging by what we see, and what we hear, and
what we imagine, _ the present Draconic Major-
Domo spends all his time in shadowing His Ex.
Society gets a little amusement out of the other-
wise dolorous affairs by watching the anxious,
nurselike manner of the one aide who is always to
be found at His Ex.’s side. If the Gov. drops his
glove the secretary nearly drops too in his eager-
ness to pick it up.
Gov. Beauchamp will probably get a scare when
he reads the recently-published letters of the
Duchess of Devonshire—Gainsborough’s and Rey-
nolds’ beautiful duchess. There is one letter in
which the beauty’s mother, the Countess Spencer,
warns her daughter in regard to associating with
Mrs. Fitz Herbert. Slie says
As yet nobody but Lady Beauchamp and Lady Brough-
ton have been with her, and these cannot be examples to
follow.
The casual reader may be alarmed to read that a
Lady Beauchamp was ever so improper a character
that a respectable young duchess could not follow
her- lead; out, in fact, the present Beauchamp
title was-not then created, and the naughty lady
was an ancestress of our old dancing visitor, the
Gearl of Yarmouth. The Duchess’s reply to her :
mother was curious:—“Mrs. F., an unmarried
woman suffering ye visits of an unmarried man, is
no reason for not being civil to her.”
With your permission, and with humble apolo-
gies and a deep sense of the iniquity of - the pro-
ceeding, I am going to say a few words about the
weather. As a rule we taboo the subject. But
this week you really must allow me a little license.
I went round town on Thursday morning. The
wind blew, the rain pelted, and I wanted a pair
of goloshes. Do you think there was such a thing
to be had ? Shop after shop—first the big ones,
then the little ones—no goloshes anywhere.
Sometimes I was met with the query, “Can you
wear sevens ? ” And when I sorrowfully and
meekly replied that I could swim, or dive, or slip,
or lose myself in sevens, the shopkeepers assumed
the air, “No hope for you —no galoshes for you !”
I am told, by the way, that in the previous spell
of _wet weather one big firm got through over 3000
pairs within a fortnight.
Speaking of _ weather, we are going to have a
great Ski Carnival this month. The date has been
fixed for July 26 and 27. The Sydney Alpine
Club —sounds a little queer, but so it is—is work-
ing up this Carnival with great zeal, and many
townspeople are making arrangements to be
present. Kiandra will be the scene of the
novelty. Snow is falling conveniently hard all
over the ranges, and it looks as if the only addi-
tional incentive towards a great success is the suit
of blanket that every Carnivalite is advised to
take along.
A new activity in Sydney is cats. We now
have our Cat Show regularly. For picturesque-
ness, I give it the palm amongst all other animal-
exhibitions. Also, it is small, quiet, sleek, and
unodoriferous—as compared with dog and fowl-
shows, that is. Unfortunately, this year’s Show
opened on the wettest day of last week. All the
cats went to sleep. Their little brains turned
sluggish in the humid atmosphere, and you looked
in vain for waving tails and beautiful half-puss,
half-panther movements.
Mr. and Mrs. Keep, two ardent and faithful
cat-lovers, are responsible for the new vogue. For
years they have been quietly working up a cat-
tery. They live at Burwood, and devote half
their house and garden to cages full of special
breeds—Persian, Manx, silver tabbies —even the
common (or garden) black baritone —all are made
happy with the Keeps. Out of this cattery has
grown our Cat-show—-quite a National institution
now—opened by the Mayoress, and largely visited
by all classes and all ages.
Apropos, a cat-lover went to see a professional
cat-catcher, lately, in Bananaland. The two
women sat talking Persians in the drawing-room.
Suddenly, a long howl was heard. Up jumped
the hostess. “Excuse me! There’s that old
black cat on the wall again. I’ll hurry out and
catch him.” “But you’ve already got thirty-
three.” “Ah, yes; but Pll sell this one. You
see, people will buy any cat I like to offer ! ” Out
she went, caught the common yowler, labelled
him, caged him, and sold him for goodness knows
how much. It seems an easy way of making a
living—to say nothing of getting rid of the cat.
The Society of Artists is giving its annual ball
in Needs’ rooms on Wednesday, August 25. Mrs.
Paul and _ Mr. Goring-Thomas are secretaries;
Miss De Lissa and Mr. Dobbin, treasurers.
At the Artists’ ball—that is to say, the Art
Society’s ball—last Thursday, I hear that a hurri-
cane waltzer got let loose. A man’s description
of her runs thusly : “ She was a demon at it. We
whizzed round—everything was in a whirl—l
spied two chairs madly circling—l said let’s sit
down —we did. ‘ Excuse me,’ she said, ‘ but we’re
both on the same chair.’”
Miss Kate Rooney’s concert shows every sign
that it is going to be a bumper benefit. The
much-liked contralto is a native of Dubbo, whose
voice has been polished to its present attractive-
ness by Madame Christian at St. Vincent’s Col-
lege. Her big success was made at the Amy
Castles’ concerts, when contralto repeatedly
eclipsed soprano in popularity, and now there is
scarcely a concert in Sydney—particularly a benefit
concert—at which Miss Rooney does not appear.
The date of her concert is Wednesday, July 18,
at the Town Hall. After her benefit the con-
tralto leaves for Paris.
A Sydney girl was debuting lately at a big
concert. She frocked herself smartly in a
lovely new white satin, and stood quaking
in the green-room, looking tall and notice-
ably smart. Suddenly the star warble-i came
in, walked up to the white satin figure,
looked her up and down in dead silence, tossed her
head, and stalked out. Not a word was said, but
the debutante was made to understand so well
what a crime she had committed in out-dressing
the tired-blue-satin star, that her voice quavered
when she sang and her debut fell flatter than the
star’s top notes.
In a modern novel the hero, blase, wealthy, ex-
claims, “ I give to every charity for children, and
to nothing else.” Charity and children—surely
the two should go together, and surely as
long as they do go together, this isn’t such a
bad world after all. Great appeals are being
made for children’s hospitals, neglected a little
during the late pay-pay mania. The first move-
ment in aid of our own hospital—the Glebe —
comes from the ever-ready J. C. Williamson. It
will happen at Her Majesty’s on .Monday,
July 27th. What a matinee it ought to
be ! His Ex,, Lady Mary, and the full
V.R. suite will be there for the first
time since—but memory refuses to go back so far.
Lord Beauchamp at the theatre lias been the
rarest side-show of the year, but the Children’s
Hospital won presence and patronage, flanked
with an instantaneous cheque. For menu, the
whole of .The Rose of Persia,” and society girls
selling programmes. Surely, that must spell suc-
cess-.
The programmes in Her Majesty’s still only go
half-round. The veteran in charge hands tnem
out gingerly, and long ere the curtain goes up he
assumes an injured expression when asked for one
between two ; that is to say, half-a-one. Surely
“ Programmes is out ! ” is a strange cry to hear
in this well-patronised theatre, where big audi-
ences are always to be expected nowanights.
A new engagement that may interest you is that
of pretty Miss Clare Oxenham, daughter of the
well-known Humphrey, and Mr. Jem Toohey, of
Strathfield.
On dit that a presentation to a high dignitary
is not running on greased wheels. Subscriptions
come in slowly. Not half of the necessary amount
has been received up to date. If the full sum
is not subscribed, it looks as if the particularly
high official acting as secretary will have to make
it up himself.
A Woman’s Residential Club is evidently a
thing you run for pleasure—or experience. The
day for making money out of such an enterprise
seems still far distant, the end of all Syduey clubs
being an auction sale and an awful gap between
what the club owed the butcher and what Mrs. de
Jones owed the club. The lady who engineered
the last of these efforts found herself so woefully
out of pocket, health and spirits, that a number of
society women clubbed together last week, raised
£7O, and presented it to her, out of pure gracious-
ness, and not to prompt her to try another experi-
ment like the one that failed in Phillip-street.
The National .Council of Women is undergoing
a little revivifying. The other day, Lady Aber-
deen wrote Out for names of prominent Austra-
lian women who will send information about
woman’s work in their respective provinces—politi-
cal, social, intellectual—to the International
Bureau, whose head-quarters are in London. The
representative names sent her by the N.S,W.
Branch of the National Council were: Mrs.
Julian Ashton for woman writers, Lady Windeyer
for woman’s social work, Miss Rose Scott for
woman’s suffrage, Madame Rougier for the French
colonists, Mrs. Ellis for the Germans, and Mrs.
Armytage for women typewriters and clerks.
Mrs. Edward Harvey, the dashing golden-
haired lady who used to provide Sydney society
with an inexhaustible fund of gossip a few years
ago, figures in an English magazine among a
brilliant medley of duchesses and countesses. Her
photo shows her in a low-necked, square-cut, ball
dress, against a background of sables. With this
she wears a big black hat, heavily plumed, and
turned up at one side'over a lot of choux and
puffed-out coiffure. The photographed high-
borns are all stallholders at the great National
Bazaar, opened in May by the Princess of Wales,
and Mrs. Harvey has teen selling emu-eggs in the
Australian stall, along with Mrs. D’Arcy and
other Anglo-Australians.
Here is a little news from China that you won’t
find in the cables. Two pretty sisters from Sydney
went visiting to China a few months ago. The
sisters—you would know them anywhere by their
beautiful frocks have both found husbands,
gilded Englishmen; they are to be married
shortly, and go to live in London.
Here is a story which is going the rounds. A
well-connected Sydney young lady became sud-
denly ill. Prominent medicos called in, unhesi-
tatingly pronounced the trouble plague. An
official doctor came along in due course and
differed. Meantime the patient got worse and
died suddenly. So that the law might be con-
formed with and the body buried, the first doctor
was asked for a certificate of death and he as-
cribed the happening to plague. The official
doctor objected, insisting that there was no
plague. The first medico stuck to his diagnosis
but eventually gave way to the extent of making
it “ septic poisoning with bubonic developments.”
Subsequently a post-mortem revealed the presence
of plague beyond question. By-and-bye a letter
came from the authorities, requiring the giver
of the certificate to explain. Latter noticed that
the communication didn’t show a registered
number as should have been the case if it were
official—and straightway went down and told the'
-Dept, that if it’d register the paper in the usual
way a full and complete explanation would be
supplied. .The matter stopped there.
( Down at Quarantine Station there is a
1 otts Point ! ” They use the name per-
sistently, despite the horrible slur cast on the
clean and swagger houses of the elite. Did
1 say clean? Well, with reservations. The
maids' rooms in some of the big houses have put
the slums to the blush for malodorousness. But
wliat can you expect, when the grande dame can
complacently inform the inspector, as in one case
I heard of, “Ai have not looked into those rooms
for 14 years ! ” And, by the way, lam told that
the Health authorities are of opinion that Manly
beautiful Manly, is a very, very dirty place
indeed.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Madame Wiedermann (Mrs. Pinsehof), the
vocal chieftainess of the Conservatorium, did her
best to beg off Marshall-llall from the chastise-
ment of the Righteous. Besides extolling his
genius and enthusiasm, she pointed out, with
tears in her voice, that the Prodigal has been a
penitent since his ‘great trouble’ (‘Hymns
Ancient and Modern ’ ?) 18 months ago. ’
“Madame is a stout, dark, upstanding lady
used to public performances, and her speech was
really effective. Austrian by birth, this all-round
clever woman is a most accomplished cook ; refer-
ence to Madame’s chicken-salad is warranted to
bring tears of joy to the eyes of any of our Ger-
man Naicest. Same heroine’s long-ago wooingby
Consul Pinsehof is a pet chestnut with stout
Deutsclier-men hereabouts. ‘He nefersent one
lofe-letter mit-oudt a cookery-book for keebsalce ’
murmur these sentimentalists emotionally.
Tom Roberts has been showing a portrait
of Madame Wiederman and another of her two
daughters, ‘ Carmen and Elizabeth ’—blonde and
brunette, respectively. These vivacious damsels
are still in the schoolroom with a younger sister
and are only led forth .occasionally to concerts, in
frocks cut muoh lower than those usually worn ’ by
local spring-chickens.
“Talking of singers, and apropos of' Rev.
Charles Clark’s little show, the only fault which
Melbourne people find in Hetty Holroyd is her
aggressive self-assurance on the platform. A want
of tenderness in her fine, clear (and fairly-well
educated) voice would not be very noticeable if
her stylo didn’t suggest that she had oome all the
way from Sydney to show the locals what she can
do. The difference between Miss Holroyd and
Mrs. Howie as bidders for ‘ popular favor ’ is quite
out of accord with the difference in their res-
pective heights and avoirdupois. When the
interesting Te-Rangi-Pai starts to make rich
music she looks pleadingly across the hall as
though half afraid that exception will be taken to
the Maori half of her.
t “ Some people blame Arnold’s version of
Jones ’ because they say his commercial traveller,
disguised as a Dean, is so unclerically fond of
kissing. . But, after all, a parson with a weakness
for promiscuous rosy lips isn’t a desperate novelty.
Scribe was once on her knees at ‘ family prayers ’
conducted by a venerable prophet with snow-
white curls, ascetic lips, and gleaming artificial
teeth, when a shrill outcry was raised by the
serious though comely Scotch cook, also in the
attitude of devotion. A horrid thrill ran through
the assemblage when Janet blubbered out that just
as the ‘auld sinner’ was pleading on behalf of
‘ Thine handmaiden ! ’ he had ‘ creepit his wicked
auld neif round a body’s middle.’ Of course,
accused was believed when he explained that he
had merely extended his arm in the ardour of
petition, and Janet got a little sermon from her
mistress on. the text ‘honi soit,’ &c. When the
rev. pilgrim took the road again, he carried with
him letters of introduction to his late hostess’s
parental home, still cheered by a bevy of lively
daughters, not long imported from school in
Ireland. When their clerical visitor remarked
one day ‘Greet ye one another with a holy kiss,’
and proceeded to practise as he preached, the
careless colleens aforesaid only laughed and
scuffled and wrote to their married sister joking
her on her ‘ Kisserite.’ When she got their letters
she apologised to Janet, who responded dourly ‘Ah
shu’d have clawed the hoary reprobate.’
“ Melbourne has a small girl violinist (pupil of
Miss Summerhayes) who threatens to be a plat-
form prodigy in due course. The infant, hight
Olive Hutchison, is only a 5-year-old, but she
fiddles with skill, and has a remarkable capacity
for keeping in tune.
“Some members of Melb. University Council
are paralysed with what they call the splendid
audacity of Bishop Goe. On the first day the
Marshall-Hall business was mooted, the Bishop
moved an adverse motion, which was lost.
Subsequently the Council went into committee,
the press being excluded, and on hearing that
the Prof, had undertaken to sin no more,
Dr. Goe is said to have told the Coun-
cil that had he known that, he would have taken
no further action in the matter. Since the
Schools agitation, however, the Bishop wrote
to both morning papers emphatically con-
tradicting an ‘ erroneous rumor ’ to the effect that
he had ever said such a thing.
“Madden’s aides wear pale-blue coat-lappels.
Brassey’s wore yellow, Hopetoun’s pink; Beau-
champ’s wear white. There does not seem to be
any rule governing this kind of nonsense. Which
is strange, considering how smothered up with
silly regulations everything concerning guber-
natorial flummery is. Brown would be a most
serviceable colour, as it wouldn’t show the signs of
soup.
“The refined and delicate-looking Prof. Gre-
gory, Melbourne’s new geology man, goes ’Ome in
a few weeks to prepare for the Royal Geographi-
cal Society’s jaunt to the Antarctic. He is to be
the head of the scientific staff, for which his pre-
vious explorations in Spitzbergen and North
America make him especially fit. The Times,
commenting on his selection for the expedition,
says he is ‘ a man of imagination and enthusiasm
and scientific insight, who is sure to make the
most of his exceptional opportunity.’ Which
view his work,, since he has been in Melbourne,
confirms. He is probably the best scientific lec-
turer the ‘ shop ’ has ever had, and finds not only
‘ sermons in stones, ’ but positive romances.
“ Dion Boucicault’s complaint of the Australian
accent is seconded by Rev. Cheok Hong Cheong
the boss Anglican Chow of Melb. Cheok has a
son, who is growing up with such a pronounced
Australian accent that his fond father much fears
it may be permanent, and accordingly he recently
waited on Commissioner of Customs Salmon with
a request for the exemption from poll-tax of a
tutor who should keep undefiled the pure well of
Cheong, junior’s, Cantonese. Even this pathetic
appeal failed to touch the heart of Salmon, and
Rev. Cheong was told he would have to get the
tutor in under the tonnage regulations, or else
have the degenerating accent of his son corrected
m a bonded store.
ours affectionately,
GOULI-GODLL.


Hotel
Ancdvolio ~
Bates from 12/6 per'Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all."
11 . EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices. •
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
* Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART— 93 Macquarie Street.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not tor most. The Sydney Sate Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst .by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and Go’s.*
THE TEETH.
The only means of keeping the teeth in a proper
state of preservation is by using a scientifloally-
prepared, antiseptic tooth powder. Smokers especi-
ally suffer from discoloration of the teeth.
«3T Vegetable Tooth Powder, made by
NEWMAN, Chemist,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Meets every requirement. By Post, 2s. 3d.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Kruger’s wealth will prove to have been
mostly on paper—newspaper.
A daughter of Edmund Burton, late editor
of Sydney Mail, was, at latest accounts, in the
mission-field in Peking. She is the only N.S.W.
native known to be in that part of China.
The ground on which the Thomas Walker
Convalescent Hospital now stands, a short distance
from Sydney, was stumped and otherwise cleared
by a gang of laborers, of whom South Pole Borch-
grevink was one.
Apropos the Governor-Generalship. The
difference between Carrington and Jersey, said
a N.S. Wales M-P. the other day, was that when
here, a lot of people liked Carrington, but every-
one respected Jersey.
“ The Turner Govt, thought they had got
the ear of the constituencies and could therefore
throw dust in their eyes.”—Small bull-calf from
the speech of Kirton, M.P. for Ballarat, in the
Victorian Parliament.
Mrs. Lawson, mother of the author of
“While the Billy Boils,” the other day obtained
£450 damages from N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners for injuries received through an electric-
tram starting before she had alighted.
The level-headed and experienced Captain
Wallington’s resignation of the post of private-
secretary to Gov. Tennyson and prompt return to
England is taken to mean that, if he can, he will
seize the Gov.-General’s private-secretaryship.
“ Srniler ” Hales’ latest brilliant effort for
London Daily News was an account of an action
(facts stated to have been supplied by a Boer) in
which 20 Australians vanquished 40Q Transvaalers,
“ all picked men.” It was a gem. AndtheMelb.
dailies swallowed it without a word.
It is startling to read the allegations
printed in London Critic about the career of a
mining magnate who lately had that most clumsy
of speculators, the Governor of Westralia, nest-
ling under his wing, and feeding out of his milk-
bottle. A libel-writ will no doubt issue.
Melbourne’s Mayor, M'Eacharn, now on
his way to London, couldn’t refuse the invitation to
attend the International Conference of Mayors, to
be held in Paris before the Exhibition closes. He
has taken with him his sable-bordered robe and
that wonderful gold-chain, said to be worth £5OO.
Editor Bulletin.— Re par (B. 9/6/’00) as
to Duncan Gillies not having been a working
miner, your correspondent is wrong. I worked
with D.G. in the Great Republic Co.’s mine,
Ballarat, and helped him sink through 120 ft. of
basalt. Also, have never known him to sell sugar.
Ex-Gov. Carrington’s noisy denunciation
of Chamberlain for having dared to imperil the
74th Clause of the Commonwealth Bill is taken
sadly by some of the yawning Earl’s Sydney wor-
shippers. They deduce from it that Joseph has
already rejected Carrington’s overtures for the
Australian Governor-Generalship.
GRATI-
TUDE.
BOSZEY : “Yah!
Once I rescued a
young calf out o’ a
waterhole, and the cow wuz werry grateful—
she come up an’ licked me face. That’s wot
I call gratitude! ”
SMOKER : “ Well, I dunno—that cow must have
thor't she had twins.”
Dr. Leith-Napier, of Adelaide Hospital-
war celebrity, having made a remarkable re-
covery, has resumed work at the Hospital. His
skull was fractured through a fall from his horse,
and his medical attendants, without exception,
pronounced his chance of recovery hopeless.
“But I may operate on some of them yet,” says
Napier!
Captain Tim MTnerney, of Melb., ap-
Eointed Queen’s advocate at Pretoria, is a long-
eaded young man, and hasn’t wasted his time
while a prisoner in the Boers’ birdcage. Big
brother Dr. T. P. months ago sent him the tip to
study Roman-Dutch law, and he has since been
cramming the subject in the intervals of cursing
his luck.
Donald Cameron, after surviving three
fortunes, finally retired from this scene of finance
and infirmity at the Old Colonists’ House, Mel-
bourne, the other day, age 80. His Australian
experiences extended over 59 years, and he was
fond of boasting that he had shaken hands with
every Yic. Governor from Latrobe to his Wax-
excellency.
The gritty and workful Labor-member
Trenwith (Yic.) will be 53 on Monday next (July
16). He was born in Launceston (Tas.), being the
second of three sons of a Cornish bootmaker, and
he began work at the trade when 9 years old. At
21 he left for Melbourne, and in 1879 tried unsuc-
cessfully for Parliament; it was 10 years later
ere he won his seat at faithful Richmond.
On May 27, at Warwick Square, London,
died, aged 93, the widow of Rev. R. T.
Bolton, who came to N.S.W. in 1837, and was for
many years resident clergyman at Hexham,
Hunter River. Mrs. Bolton has six surviving
children, one of whom is the widow of the
late Justice Windeyer. Mr. Bolton returned
to England in 1864, and was appointed vicar of
Padbury, Buckinghamshire.
Maurice O’Rorke, lately re-elected Speaker
of Maoriland House of Representatives, almost
holds the Australasian record. He was Speaker
for 11 years (1879-90), and again for 6 years (1894-
1900), or 17 years in all. George Kingston was
Speaker in S. A. for 18 years, so he goes one better.
Robert Officer, of Tasmania, wore the honored
wig and the long rags of office for 16 years, and
Francis Murphy, of Victoria, was on deck for 14
years.
The recent Parliamentary congratulation
of the Prince of Wales on his fortunate escape
from the bullet of the cracked-brained youth
Sipido recalls the shock that Parkes once received
when the Prince of Wales was the subject of
similar allusions. Parkes sat in the condemned
cell in Darlinghurst Gaol with the doomed
O’Farrell before him and with a certain S.M.
Herald shorthander jotting faithfully behind
the door.
Parkes : I may be obtuse, shortsighted, but it seems to
me very wonderful that if these Feniaus wish to make an
attack on the Royal Family they do not make it on the
Prince of Wales.
O’Farrell : The Fenians are very fond of the Prince of
Wales.
Parkes : Fond of the Prince of Wales ?
O’Farrell :In this sense. They look upon him as
useful to their cause—because he disgraces Royalty.
Which wasn’t what Parkes had come to hear.
The late N.S.W. Chief-Justice Stephen,
is related, presided at a cattle-stealing trial
at Bathurst. Counsel for accused, in ad-
dressing the jury, was eloquently pathetic
over the fact that his client had suffered
the indignity of several trials for alleged
cattle-stealing, and had, of course, been
acquitted. He (counsel) tearfully feared
that if the present trial went against
him his unfortunate client would be
driven from the district. The jury
acquitted, and the Judge, address-
ing the lucky man, said: “Pri-
soner, you are discharged ; but,
before discharging you, permit me
to say, witli reference to the sug-
gestion your counsel has made
that you should leave the district,
that, as the business in which you
are engaged appears to be a hignly
profitable one, and (looking at, the
jury) it also appears to be one you
can safely carry on here, I would
advise you to remain just where
you are.” And remain he did.
Gov. Broome, who flourished in
Westralia 15 years ago, had “slung
ink.” He was for a period a con-
siderable contributor to the literary
columns of London Times. He at-
tended the marriage of the Duke of
Edinburgh to the Czar’s daughter at St.
Petersburg, and the aooount he wrote
in the Tory organ greatly pleased the
English Royal Family. When he married
Lady Barker, authoress and widow of a
general officer, his fortune was made. After
a brief experience of sheep-farming in Maoriland,
he was presented with an Australian Governor-
ship.
D. H. Deniehy’s “ Attorney-General of
New Barataria ” —Lyttleton Holyoake Bayley,
chief law officer of N.S.W. for eight months in
the Cowper Ministry, 1859, now a Judge in the
High Court of Justice, Bombay, India—on May 3,
celebrated the Jubilee of his call to the Bar at
Middle Temple. He tried Westminster, Victoria,
and N.S.W. without success, but ultimately suc-
ceeded in India. While returning from Mudgee
circuit the A.G. was a passenger by the coach
which was stuck up by Day, the bushranger, near
Hartley. At the trial of the ’ranger at Bathurst,
Bayley, as Attorney-General, prosecuted for the
Crown, and also gave evidence. Day was con-
victed, and got seven years.
Prof. Laurie, of Melb. University (about
the first to “discover” the value of Mrs. Mellon’s
“ spiritualistic ” doings) is a poet, and got his
inspiration at Edinburgh University, under
Prof. Aytoun, the “Scottish Cavaliers” man.
Laurie was years ago editor andproprietor of
Warrnambool Standard. He ought to
know something about logic, seeing he’s a
professor of it himself, married the daughter
of a professor of ditto, and has a son whom
he’s stuffing to the neck with the same
material.
WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS.
MRS. HENPECK (mournfully): “How sad to
think that, talk as I will, Polly cannot
understand a word I say.”
MR. H. : “Lucky birdl”
Speaker Mason has this session, for the
first time since his election to the chair of Vic.
Assembly, worn his wig during the debates. He
used only to wear it on State occasions, following
his predecessor, Graham Berry’s, example. Having
a fine head of hair and not wishing to go bald, he
left off the horsehair lumber ordinarily. But
members like to see the Speaker wigged; they
think it looks Dignified. So Mason has succumbed
—and will go bald in due course.
ARGL'S-editor Willoughby prides himself
on combining acumen with urbanity. “No one
can impose upon me; not even anti-Boers,” he
likes to assert. The other day, a colleague gave a
plausible beggar some cash, to get rid of him, and
was well laughed at by the editor afterwards.
“He brought the same tale to this room, but got
nothing out of me ! ” Then he arose, intending to
put on his tail silk hat—and found in its place only
the brimless boxer of the obvious impostor !
Dr. Edward o‘Doherty, who has died,
suddenly in Brisbane, is the last of the sons (four)
of Dr. Kevin Izod o‘Doherty and “Eva” of the
Dublin Nation. Both still live, the Doctor in his
76th year. Over fifty years ago the latter started
a newspaper, the Tribune, in Dublin. The
sheet reached its fifth issue when the Govt, sup-
pressed it. The deceased Dr. Edward married a
daughter of Major-General French, N.S.W.
Commandant. Some time ago there was talk of
an Australian issue of “ Eva’s ” book of patriotic
verse, but so far nothing has been done.
Chief Secretary Peacock was not too
popular in a small comer of his electorate on the
occasion of a certain Vic. general election, and
one night during the campaign he heard a man
calling to another who had a box under his arm,
“What have you there?” “Peacock’s eggs,”
yelled the other. “What rot!” was the reply.
“ All right,” said the man with the box; “just
you turn up at his meeting to-night and see.”
Peacock took an umbrella to that meeting. Which
recalls that Toby Barton keeps for electioneering
purposes an old surtout which he calls his “ ova-
coat.”
Apropos of something or other. It is re-
lated thatupnorth (Q.) about 16 years ago a certain
would-be Leg. Council nominee got an intimation
that so many Protestant aspirants were certainties
that his only hope of inclusion was as one of the
chosen belonging to the “ True Faith.” Then he
remembered that he had been a good R.C. 30 or
40 years before, and, to the amazement of the
Faithful, he began to attend Mass with regularity
and apparent devotion. But, alas, nobody let
the Govt, know, and as there was no room for him
as a Protestant, there was no thought for him as
an R. C. nominee.
Apropos the mutilation of London Times
correspondent Bowlby by the Chinese in the days
of long ago. When the account of his torture and
death reached England the Times published a full
account of it, but ere the paper was issued a
separate edition of about a dozen was" printed and
sent to his mother, who lived a little way out of
London and was such an invalid as to be confined
to the house. That special edition told how
Bowlby was captured after a desperate fight and
killed almost painlessly by a sudden sword-stroke.
They were gentlemen who ran the Times in those
days, at any rate !
When Vic. Chief Justice Madden was afc
the bar he used to have a system of
mnemonics of his own. While
arguing a difficult case before
the Supreme Court he would
work without notes, yet he
never forgot a point. The
interruptions of judges and
objections of other counsel
might take him from his
point, but he would always
get back and finish it be-
fore going on to something
else. He would have a
book —any book—in front
of him, and would turn
down the corners of a few
pages, one corner for every
point he wished to make.
As a point was finished he
would straighten a page
and go on to the next.
He also used to find it
necessary to have some-
thing to play with in his
fingers. At first he used
to tear up paper, and the
ground at his feet would
be half-an-inch thick with
pieces at the end of a day’s
argument. But one day a
court usher discovered that
a piece of tape would do
just as well. Then the
officials used to be careful
to provide Dr. Madden
with a piece of tape when
he was in a case, and the
floor was kept free from
litter.
Latest portraits of
Lord Rosebery show the
amiable widower to be al-
most as young-looking as
when he visited Australia with
his jolly wife, 17 years ago.
Lady Rosebery, by the way, used, when here, to
receive from England daily a cablegram as to the
health of her children, and every day or two
used to send them long messages.
Apropos the statement that Judge liar ley
will resign the N.S.W. Chief Justiceship on
attaining his 70tli year, Sept. 18 : the Chief will
then be 14 months short of the 15 years’ service
necessary to secure his retiring pension—£24so.
As it is pretty certain that his Honor will not long
retain office after completing his term, the ques-
tion arises—who will be his successor ? There is
no puisne Judge in the running ; some are too
aged, and others have not the needed qualifica-
tions. Then, as to the Bar, Salomons is, for
various reasons, an utterly unlikely aspirant;
Barton and O’Connor look for Federal positions;
Pilcher is too rich and too indolent to covet the
post; Want and Reid are quite improbable ; so
that B. R. Wise appears at present the only man
likely to fill the bill.
“ Dick ” Mooney, Customs officer at Went-
worth, who died suddenly a week or two ago, was
for nearly a generation out in the Far West of
N.S.W. Long before Broken Hill was found,
when the chief value of the Barrier Ranges was as
a retreat and hiding-place for horse-thieves and
cattle-duffers from all parts of inland Australia,
Mooney guarded the N.S.W.-S.A. border for re-
venue purposes, putting up mostly near what is
now Silverton. Long association with rough-’uns
had made him just about as little like a typical
civil servant as a city person can imagine, and the
polite visitor to the Custom House (when, by the
bye, polite visitors did come that way) was pretty
sure of a shock. But he was good iron, if weather-
marked a bit; and he did work for the State
which not a man in ten thousand could have done
so well, if at all.
Like a good many other Laborists in the
Parliaments, Cann, the mew Chairman of Com-
mittees in N.S.W. Assembly, is a cold-tea votary
(though not a “ bigoted ” one), and has done some
work as a Methodist “local-preacher.” He was
one of the first batch of Labor M’s.P. elected after
the big strike of ’9O. Of the 30 then returned,
only three are still Labor M’s.P. —Cann, M‘Gowen
and Edden. Cann, a miner, was on night-shift
when the Labor Executive at Broken Hill was
deciding upon its man ; and, with his “ crib ’’-tin
in his hand, was called in on his way home
from work to be practically appointed first M.P.
for the silver-town. Ferguson, who was years
afterwards elected for another constituency, ran
him closest for the nomination then. Until he went
to the House Cann had been a miner continuously
since he was 10 years of age.
Gordon Sprigg, now again Cape Premier,
is the elder brother of Melb. Tramways W. G.
Sprigg, and the second son of their mutual father,
who was a Baptist parson at Ipswich (Eng. ). Ill-
health sent Gordon Sprigg to South Africa. He
started life on the House of Commons reporting
staff (the reporting being at that time done under
Govt, contract by a private firm—the Gurneys),
and the long hours knocked him out. But the
Parliamentary experience that he had gained in
the gallery at St. Stephen’s made his fortune as a
politician in Cape Colony. Gordon Sprigg is a
five-times Premier, as wel 1 as an ex-Minister of
several departments, and th e fact of his leading
the Govt, in these troublous times shows him to
be a reasonable old campaign er, pro-British rather
than violently anti-Boer. Our Mr. Sprigg, the
Melb. Tramways potentate, explains that it was
his brother who offered, on behalf of Cape Colony,
to “ shout ” a warship for the British Govt. This
expensive outbreak of loyalty has been often put
down to Schreiner, who succeeded Sprigg, whereas
it was one of the reasons why the Afrikander
Bond Par ty put Schreiner into power


MAGONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NcrriogS
Kippered Herrings
HerriogS *0 Tonjato Sa6ce
WATSON’S WHISKY.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
A man crossing a N.S.W. river, recently,
was drowned in sight of several friends who failed
to render any assistance, though they made such a
noise that it brought the drowning man’s wife
from her camp near by to view the tragedy. She
saw it through to the end and when the last bubble
had floated down stream she turned away and up-
ended the spectators by remarking reflectively,
“ Well, well, my Bill’s drowned ! Anyhow, there
is no good crying over spilt milk ! ” Then she
went resolutely back to her tent and finished the
baking she had in hand. Hearing the news, the
storekeeper’s wife came down and tried to console
the bereaved woman. She was found weeping
softly and attending to the bread at the same time,
but at the first words of condolence she pulled
herself together and said : “Yes, Missus, it was
very sad. And he bought a new pair of boots
from your shop yesterday.” Probably she felt her
grief just as much as her more eloquent sister of
the city, but the wilderness is a silent, casual
place, and its sons and daughters grow silent and
casual also.
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re breeding of black
sheep, let me tell “Canip” (8., 23/6/’00), on
authority of M‘lvor’s “History of Sheep-farming,”
that as far back as 1850 a Scotch sheep-owner
started breeding from 20 black sheep, and had in
a few years raised a flock of 250 blacks. Also on
Darling Downs (Q.) a squatter named Allen bred
black sheep for 15 years, with only an occasional
light-spotted animal amongst the products; and
Mr. Bailey, of Narandera (N.S.W.), who has a
black merino flock, testifies that they breed true
to color, and are much hardier than white sheep.—
J. A.O.
* * * *
Fawk: Near Stuart Town (N.S.W.)
’tother day I met a typical fossicker on his way
to a bit of ground tnat he had “always been
going to try.” Went with him. But it was no
good. “Just a colour, the same as you can get
anywhere about here.” Then he talked. Had
been at it since ’53. Made money at Maryboro’
(Vic.), and lost it. Was one of the first at Wya-
long, and just missed one of the best things there.
His mate, on his way to pay the deposit, had made
a wager and lost, and others happened along. “ I
see in the News that they got 620 z. from the last
crushing, and I couldn’t sleep last night for
thinking of it.” It was the old story. His chil-
dren neglected him now that his money was gone,
though one son was doing well in Westralia, and
another in Sydney, where also a daughter kept an
hotel he had “ put her into.” But —of course!—
he knew of a spot. The gold was there, but he
had no money for sinking. He hadn’t averaged
3s. a week the past eight months. He knocked-
off early to go and sharpen his pick, as he was
“ going to look for the reef next day.” Hope
eternal!
* • * *
“Snell”: Know a quaint old Gippsland
settler who does well out of fruit and eggs, and
laments that he could largely augment his income
through bacon and pork by raising pigs were it not
for his extremely affectionate disposition. He
has tried the bacon-breeding branch but the three
pigs he has had up-to-date have all died of old
age, for the reason that when he has had an animal
a little while he lias grown too fond of the beast
either to slaughter it himself or part with it to
anybody else. “ It’s like this,” he explains, with
infantile ingenuousness, “ I get the pig when lie’s
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN AND MUSCLE REPORT INDUSTRY.
This is intended to represent the intelligent Australian going away to look after
China, and leaving the intelligent Chinaman to look after Australia.
little, an’ quaint, an’ interestin’, an’ I feed him
with my own hand, an’ he gets to know me an’
trust in me, an’ be rather good company, an’, blow
me, if I can kill him then any more than I could
kill the missus or my dog there.” The same old
fellow had two superannuated cows and a worn-out
horse in his paddock.
„ , m ,
_ T , ~ , , j ~ ,
Dear BULLETIN. He that absurd attack
made on Vic. P.M.G-. Watt with a toy whip by an
hysterical female. In the ’Bo’s I once saw an
inebriated lady dress a policeman down in such
style that, while some grinning blacks stood to
watoh the proceedings, their hungry mongrel dogs
greedily devoured the pieces of flesh that flew in
all directions from said bobby. This Amazon,
however, used a broken lemonade-bottle instead
of a whip.—W.J.C.
“Bushie” : Re “R.W.S.’s” statement
(8., 12/5/’00) that he “never knew a white man
to master the art of fire-making by wood-friction.”
I have thus made fire many times, and I know
other whites who can do so with any
kind of timber. Providing it
is dry or dead, you can pro-
duce fire inside 15min.
[Present writer lived
long in the bush, and
though he wit-
nessed many
experiments,
never saw
fire so
pr o -
duced.j
“ME AN' YOU'S W'ACKS,
NIPPER?"
“Helen
I.” : Heard
the other day,
from a grandson
of the patriarch con-
cerned, of a man who
had 10 children by each
of 3 successive wives. A
very peculiar feature of
the case was that each
wife died at the birth of
the tenth child, the child also dying.
♦ * * *
“Ben Sun”: Isn’t it time the phrase
“rabbit-pest” got a rest? Before bunny’s day,
when wheat was growing thinly the cocky looked
for sheep to eat it off to “thicken” it, and save
rolling, while his sons sat on the fence and said
“blanky” and wondered where the bailiff was.
Now bunny “thickens” the wheat—and gets
turned into cash while it’s growing; and the bailiff
is no more. Moreover, nomadic trappers buy
cocky’s produce, and leave the rest of tneir earn-
ings at the local pub. and store. And, again, how
many families are there that find a, few traps or a
good “tyke” a lot safer than “shaking” meat
or dodging the butcher ?
Gorgeous
p a ss a g e
from Ger-
ALD T o N
World :
Surely God
in his happi-
est moments
never made a
more glorious
spot than the
valley of the
Johnstone. If
the country
was thrown
open for selec-
tion there are
lots of saints
in heaven who
would throw
off their ha-
loes and climb
down to settle
on the land.
This refers
of course to
Geraldton
saints (if
such there
be) who
would drop
crown, harp
halo, and all
the other
celestial ap-
paratus for
one square
swig at their
ancient ter-
restrial tan-
glefoot.
* * * *
“ W.K.A.” : Re rabbit and ’possum skin-
ning (“ Petrus,” B. 2/6/’00). Writer has skinned
thousands of bunnies, and always found that the
quickest and best way is to slit down inside of a
hind leg to the tail; the skin may then be easily
peeled off to the head. Also, you thus don’t lose
the leg-skins; and bulk is everything to a seller.
Some trappers include the tail and head when sell-
ing by weight. In the case of ’possums, to follow
“P.’s” advice would be ruinous, because, by
cutting off legs and tail close to body, much fur-
space would be sacrificed. The tail is now com-
mercially valuable, and is stripped to the point
by careful hunters. Also, as a squarely-pegged
skin commands the highest price, one minus legs
and tail would be condemned by buyers as
“ damaged.” A ’possum should never be skinned
within 12 hours after death, and writer doesn’t
skin till 24 hours after. The man who skins a
’possum under Bmin. is no skinner he’s a
“spoiler.” A ’possum-pelt, properly pegged,
requires 40 nails, and should be stretched length-
ways, as the centre alone is saved for rugs, and,
by striving for breadth, you open the fur. When
exposing for sale, smooth down each skin from
head to tail, and comb out lightly the tangled fur.
In packing, place fur to fur and skin to skin —and
sell by auction.
“ H.G.” : In a thistle area on a farm out-
back, I found a wiry-looking old tom-cat dead,
with an equally defunct tiger-snake beside him.
Upon examination, I discovered that the cat had
missed his mark, and, by catching the
enemy half-an-inch too far from
the head, had given the snake
the chance of biting.
Learned afterwards
that said cat had pre-
viously succeeded,
unharmed, in
d e stroying
hundreds of
snakes.
“ Cal.” :
Travelling
in a slow goods
train one night
was roused by a
sudden stoppage,
and, discerning no sta-
tion, got out to see wliat
was wrong. Met guard, look-
ing bored. “ What’s up,
guard ? ” “ Oh, nuthin’ but a
cussed noosance ! Engin’ and six waggins run
over a bloke.”
* * * *
The “M'Cooey ’ :
Dear Bulletin. —“ Puyyaka” (8., 23/6/’00) ought not to
have brought Balaam’s ass into this snake-controversy.
I would scorn to seek assistance from any of my relatives.
In first confidently stating that the death adder is “ the
only viviparous Australian snake,” and then, when
jammed into a corner, reluctantly admitting that to
“ those who know better” this is not a fact, “ Puyyaka”
cuts a remarkable logical figure. This is the style of
reasoning he employs. lam quite certain that there is
only one vowel in the English alphabet: but “ those who
know better ” affirm that there are several others ! Not-
withstanding his “Notes on the Morphology of certain
Colubrine Snakes of Victoria,” the late Prof. McCoy him-
self acknowledged my discoveries in connection with the
offspring-swallowing habits of a certain venomous Aus-
tralian snake to be “ novel and, in the highest degree,
interesting.” Therefore, “Puyyaka’s” “flat contradic-
tion ” amounts to nothing.
There was a dead-meat dispute going
on before the Conciliation Board in the M.L.
capital. The poetical official ass. dropped
in as a listener, and, inspired by the gori-
ness of his surroundings, dashed off
the following in red ink. He calls
it an “All-Red Poem” :
Deftly he plies his blanky trade ;
His blanky hands disgust his dame.
That such a blanky man be paid
Low wages is a blanky shame.
They had lived long together and were
happy enough, but yielding to social pressure
they got “spliced.” Soon afterwards a neighbor
met him and he looked troubled. “ It’s this way,”
he said, “’s mornin 5 th’ ol’ gal says, ‘A married
woman shouldn’t be rabbit-trappin’, an’ I ain’t
goin’ any more.’ This was airs, seein’ she had
done it so long, so I gets mad, an’ says I, ‘ You’ve
got to, for I can’t keep yer inside.’ ‘Well,’said
she, flarin’ up, ‘I can keep you outside.’ Then
she collars the setter, an’ she’s keepin’ her word,
an’ I can’t set me traps. When yer passin’ yer
might tell her to chuck it out. O ! she won’t make
no mistake, ’cause she’s lookin’ through the crack
an’ ’ll see yer cornin’.”
* * * *
“ Hori ” : During 'Bl drought, writer was
Eoing down right bank of Barwon (N.S.W.), when
e struck a surveyors’ camp. Boss and four men
almost starving ; chainman away with packhorse
looking for tucker. Flour, 2s. 6d. per lb. in Wal-
gett then, and 31b. was the maximum sold to one
person “until the teams arrived.” If you gave
3s. 6d. per lb. you might get more. Was sharing
loaf of bread with them, when teamster came
along with a load for Barton, the Boorooma pub-
lican. Among other goods was a case of dried
apples —the only thing amongst his stock of imme-
diate use to the surveyor. The latter tried to buy
even portion of the apples, but the bull-urger
refused to be tempted with double value, as the
goods were ordered. Even an offer of £5 was
refused, though any man of sense, capable of
reading the expression in a surveyor’s eye, would
have known better. Then the camp (five strong)
commandeered the apples gratis, and the best
satisfaction the ox-propeller could get was an offer
that the five would fight him all at once. He
talked wildly of the police, but there wasn’t a live
bobby within 50 miles. Met the surveyor after-
wards in Dubbo. He told me he and his mates
lived four days on apples till the chainman got
back, bringing 251 b. flour —or rather 231 b. flour
and 21b. defunct insects. They ate apple-chips
for a meal, and then took a drink of mud and
dead frogs to make them swell up.
* ♦ • *
“Cuss”: Dingoes out about Tibooburra
and S.W. Queensland are simply wiping the
drought-spared sheep off the face of the earth. A
short time since the manager of Bransberry (S.W.
Q.) mustered only 1000 head out of 5000 put on
the country but 12 months previously ; 90 per
cent, of the loss being due to dogs. At Yan-
damma, near Tibooburra, the manager says he is
losing at least 450 head a-week from same cause ;
and at Ticalara in 4 months the dingo-loss was
4300 out of 9000. Other stations report equally
severe losses. Hundreds of blocks across the
S.A. line have been thrown up through continued
bad seasons, and, there being few rabbits left, the
dogs are “working in” towards settled country to
avoid starvation.
* * » •
From “ W.S.”—as showing the condition
of the N.W. country of the interior :
A teamster with 20 good horses, making in for Tiboo-
burra a few weeks since, got stuck on a long dry stage,
and every one of his horses died ! Then, after eating the
solitary goat he had remaining, he humped bluey in. At
one station, situated on a good water-hole on the Cooper,
they have to get in wood for household use in a boat, not
having a hoof of stock left on the place. The men on
the Govt, rabbit-proof fence inspection have to do some
awful stages without water, 50 and 60 miles being quite
common. Men going “ out ” for the coming shearing—
though Heaven knows what there will be to shear—are
passing through Tibooburra in shoals; the “ringers”
almost all on bikes, and the “ rousers” padding the hoof,
as usual, coatless and hungry. Never were seen passing
through so many men without even coats to their backs
or blankets to lie on.
* * * *
A N.Q. paper tells how 12,000 Sesbania
sheep “ are about to meet their doom in a paddock
adjoining the Ayrshire Downs boundary.” The
sheep were about 16 miles from the nearest bore
and had subsisted “five weeks without a drink.”
They were consequently too weak to be shifted,
and the journal above-mentioned gravely an-
nounces that “a falling off in numbers has just
set in.”
* * * *
At Back Creek, near Warren, N.S. W , re-
cently, a man—with a pleasing mixture of fat,
arsenic, and strychnine—poisoned, in one day 580
crows, equal to £9 in bonuses. A little gold mine,
if the Stock Board’s funds are strong enough.
* * * •
“C.P.” : “Alex. M.” (B„ 16/6/’00) re the
tendency in all plant-stems to turn in succession
to every point of the compass. It is curious that
the hop and scarlet-runner turn in opposite ways
round their supports, and you cannot train them
to do otherwise.
“Gil-Guy”: “ Broadaxe ” (B. 19/5/’00)
says, “as one who lives at the game,” that trees
wind mostly from W. to N., which would be to
the left. Now, in* what position could B. have
been when he calls a W. to N. wind a left hand
wind ? Probably on his head with his heels sup-
ported by the winding trunk.
* * * *
“ Domino ” : Was once chased by a pleuro-
mad bullock, and though the brute was in wretched
condition he made such pace that when I reached
a welcome tree there was no time to scramble up,
and I had to dodge the lunatic round the trunk—
he bellowing fearfully as he tried to nail me. I
was nearly done when I thought of the toreador’s
TEMPERATE CORDIALITY.
PLAIN MR. SMITH: “ I see that at Koolywurtie
they gave you a cordial welcome .”
THE EMINENT MR. BUNGEY (disgustedly): “ Yes,
sir, Cordials the word. Would you believe
me, there it as nothing to drink, at the blessed
place but lemon-syrup and raspberrf.-vinegar.”
trick, and, doffing my coat as he groggily charged,
sprang aside and threw it over his horns, thereby
temporarily blinclfolding him. Naturally —though
rashly—l then waited to whack the enemy several
times on the place where he used to keep his
best steaks, before I retreated to the nearest
fence to view therefrom my coat being tossed
about until the poor beast fell exhausted to the
ground. 2
CONTRADICTION.
The curlew came and told a tale
Of dreadful woe, and went at dawn ;
The jackass heard his parting wail,
And laughed the pessimist to scorn
And so between them both I find
A law that governs land and sea.
And why my lovely nevermind
Tells lies “ as well as me.”
OLD 'POSSUM.


When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
The
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are produced in every elegant design of case—i
both Gold and Silver and Gun Metal. They are
marvel of Reliability, Accuracy and Strength.
In Gent’s Oxydised Open-face Oases .. 25/6 each.
In Lady’s „ „ „ 40/- „
In Gent’s Silver Open-face ~ .. 42/- ~
In Lady's „ ~ „ 50/- „
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
VICE-RECAL JEWELLERS,
a cs
(S)
©
©
CD
©
0
23 Hunter Street (Only), SYDNEY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ Alia *’ - Re the speed of rabbits. I was
brought up in a M.L. district where rabbits
abounded, and have frequently run them down on
foot. Generally selected a peculiarly marked one
—white, black or yellow—and, having ascertained
his particular burrow by a preliminary run, would
block it up. Bunny always makes straight for his
hole, and, if kept going, on finding it stopped is
easily captured, if another hole is not handy. A
rabbit is too fast for an ordinary dog for about
500 yds., but has no staying power, and a dog
with a good nose will soon tire him out where
cover is not available. It is a curious fact that, if
you locate a rabbit in a tussock or bush, and walk
round and round same, gradually dosing in and
keeping your eye on him, when bunny tries to
break away he will fall oyer dazed for a few
seconds, so that if you are quick you can nab him.
* * * •
“Jay”: Refish s wallowing fish (8., 9/6/’00).
I have successfully used small Murray cod as live
bait for the big fellows. Apropos : I one. morning
hung a line up to dry on a stick, projecting from
the bank ; ana, going back in the evening to bait
it, found a big cod banging on, with a 31b. one
inside him —hooked by the tail. The wind had
blown the line down, and the little fish, in fooling
around the bare hooks, had got into trouble.
• * * *
He was a station-hand in from a 3-months
spell of work, during which he had tasted no other
meat than mutton. Also he stuttered badly. His
eyes fairly leapt at the stuffed-turkey on the hotel
dinner-table, though the boiled mutton made him
shiver. Said the host: “What will you try, Mr.
Straps ?’ ’ Eagerly : ‘ ‘ I’ll t-try ab-bit of t-t-t-
The word floored him. Again : “ G-give m-me a
li-littie t-t-t -” Then red-faced and disgusted :
“ Oh, d-damn it! G-give me some b-blooming
m-mutton! I li-hate it, but I can s-s-s-say it,
anvhow.”
. * * *
The first newspaper published in Van
Diemen’s Land in 1810 contained this announce-
ment : —“On Monday, 26th ultimo, R. C. Bur-
rows to Elizabeth Tucker, both late of Norfolk
Island. They had cohabited together for 14
years, verifying the old adage —better late than
never.”
*-* • *
“N. de W.” : Canftot understand the
soapy taste of “L.O.’s” boiled kid (B. 16/6/’00),
unless it was boiled in a soapy pot. (The boiler is
use 1 for queer purposes in the backblocks.) Also,
his “ bad quarter-of-an-hour ” must have been due
to his imagination. I infinitely prefer kid, when
in good condition (which it generally is), to poor
lam’). Nine men out of 10 could not tell kid from
lamb, in any case, and, on many . Queensland
selections, the former is eaten habitually as a
matter of course. Also, in many bush pubs, kid
(re-named) is the staple article of diet. There are
worse moves than running a big herd of goats in
the wayback.
“ Yarrum ” : Once
struck N- (N.S. W. bush
town) with a couple o
friends, and put up at lead
ing hotel. Missus showec
us to bedroom with one bee
—a “ three-quarter ” wood
en affair. Asked her hov
we were going to' manage
and were told to “slapq
two at the head, and one
at the fut.” Woman ex-
plained that “the gintle-
man at the fut could poke
his legs up betwixt other
two.” Then . she hoped
we’d be comfortable —and
took the candle away !
A few of South Melb.’s
larrikin-pushes: The Ivan-
hoe Push, the Red Rose
Push, the Flying Angels,
the Eastern Road Push,
the Montague Dingoes,
the Montague Flying
Squadron, the City Road
ditto, the City Road Bug
Hunters. Nearly every
suburb boasts a dozen or so
similar gatherings, from
the Bouveroo Push, of
Carlton, the most notorious
of late years, to the Fitz-
roy Murderers and the
Richmond Dirty Dozen.
And the J.P. trembles be-
fore them all.
* •
“It is sad to reflect
that the deceased met his
death at the hands of a
horse.” —Backblox paper.
“ Scotty ” : To “ Vril ” (B„ 9/6/’00). I
have only met one teetotal swaggie. Told him: “If
you, in those clothes, and with that swag, are a
specimen of total abstinence—thank God, I'm a
boozer ! ”
• ♦ * *
“ H.Gr.” : Up Cudal way I saw a colt,
after much buckjumping and pig-rooting, get rid
of rider, saddle and girth—said girth, remaining
buckled and unbroken. Can any of your readers
explain how this could occur ? (Through shrinkage
of colt, presumably.)
THE WHALER’S TEXT.
“ Ashes to ashes and dust to dust 1”
Said a prophet in one of his brilliant flashes,
But the text that the Lachlan travellers trust
Is “ Dust to damper, and damper to ashes 1 ”
N.S.W.
W.H.O.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
The H.H. doesn’t seem to have been heard of on Sydney
side, but Sydney has heard of the brave Brunswicker
who boasts of having cut off a dead Dopper’s whiskers
(since put into a frame and proudly exhibited from the
platform at a pleasant little social)... .Old Bus : But an
insurance office’s expense rate has no connection with the
interest earned on its investments. Every office esti-
mates in advance what interest its investments will
yield, and fixes its premiums so that they (or
rather what is expected to be left of them
after paying expenses) with that interest added
will accumulate sufficient to pay the policies. That office
obtained £1 9s. per cent, more interest than it estimated.
But it might do that and yet spend all that £1 9s.
and more in excessive expense and go insolvent
A. Munro: Britain is a limited monarchy, because the
Sovereign can’t make or unmake laws, or impose taxes, or
help herself out of the Treasury. Her chief power lies in
the fact that she can prevent laws being made, that she
can declare war at her own free will, and that she is sup-
posed to have command of the army. But the two last
don’t'amount to much when she hasn’t the money to carry
on the war or keep the army. The British Sovereign has
so little real power that there is hardly any reason to
complain of her ; the trouble is that she is the innocent
cause of sickening and unmanly grovel in others.
Kitchener didn’t shift the Mahdi’s tomb because
the tomb did any harm, but because it was
the shortest way to shift its worshippers. The
people who knock down images go on the same p1an. ....
F. Nawton : But no Treasurer is expected to include in
the year’s expenditure works authorised but not done. If
he pays for all work done to the end of the financial year
and all interest accrued up to then, his accounts are
correct E. Oollis: In other words, you _ hold that
because, say, the Major-General’s song in “ Pirates ” is a
very good thing in an opera it would be equally good if
put in the Bible... .A.M. : Still too thin. It isn’t re-
writing it wants, but a new p10t... .Kodaker: The fact
that'Murphy removed to a new. house isn’t absolutely
thrilling. Writer has done it himself... .O.P. : One of
your sentences has 315 words in it. Here endeth that
lesson K.H.M. : Well written, but the woman with a
Past who marries without telling her husband about her
Past is a very old theatrical prop L.B.H. : “A
Strawweight ” and the yarn only |weighs half a
straw A.J.B. : Good bagman's story. Published
in the ash-barrel... : Send your proxy to
Mr. W. Affleck, M.L.A., Parliament House, Sydney,
for use against the proposed A.M.P. extension....
C.P.Q. : Verse too dull and improving. Leave ns in our
original sin ; but be lively Aristippus: A variant of the
story, long ago here printed, about the rich man who,
when he was dying, sent for the two local lawyers—whom
he detested, and who were deadly enemies of each other
—and held out a hand to each, as if he wished for an all-
round reconciliation. “ I have sent for you, my friends,”
he said, between his last gasps, “ because—l—desire to
MISS KATE ROONEY, whose benefit concert at Sydney is fixed
for Wednesday, July, 18.
die—between—two impenitent thieves.”.... ..P.W.S. :
Don’t hp in. & burrv ftbout vour wtir-inGiiioriJils , W3dt till
a „ d then sft down and calmly look at the
thing . in perspective for a few months, or a year or two.
Then, if you are still proud of your doings, go ahead
Night-Shift: Wyalong Argus should stick to the point—
Poes it, or does it not, approve of the action of Tyler,
Esq., in sacking miners who dare to publicly disagree
with his political views ? Has Wyalong Argus a soul to
" lUts own? Up to date, The Bulletin has contrived to
ma i n t a in possession of its own soul. This paper holds
on to its soul with all its teeth and claws
Miner: A genuine spade’’-guinea (there are many
bogus) is worth about £2... .A.J.8.: The only good item
was brutally unprintable H.S. : If you cant use
these for fun, don’t use thena for spite.” How about not
ug . them at all? Bel Low: The par was intended
literally, but it said—not three M.L.A.’s—but “three
great men—Leander, Byron, and John Norton.” —H. :
Newspaper reporters seem to live mainly for the purpose
of giving undue credit to detec-
tives who make "discoveries” on
information received Wat T. .
That wasn’t a specially "mean
man ” ; he was only a common thief.
J.G. : “The greatest blusterer
is always the greatest coward.” The
probabilities are that way, but many
a man has “ fallen-in ” over one of
the numerous exceptions Out-
post : You don’t surely imagine
Tub Bulletin is going to discuss
the lucubrations of “ the Roman
poet.” It has trouble enough with
its own poets! A.W.S.: Even
further: In England, if, in a capital
case, two juries disagree and a third
find the accused guilty the rule is
not to execute, except the accused
confesses M. : Londoners don’t
say “I comes” or “gintleman.” A
mere olla podrida of vulgarisms
won’t pass for a dialect E. Mel-
lon : Tell us, why should not an
honest man who' has sixpence, but
cannot afford to belong to a club,
be able to buy a glass of beer and a
cigar on Sunday as well as on any
other day ?... .Will H. B. : You send
us (signed “Evangeline” (“The
Glass on the Bar ’’—perhaps the
most poetical lines that Henry Law-
son ever wrote—and ask us to “ en-
tertain it at a moderate figure.”
Why don’t you offer us Hamlet’s
Soliloquy as something new and
offer us copyright for two guineas ?
F.B. : If the A.M.P. business is
once extended to London, even
against the will of a majority of the
shareholders, the tendency will be
to let it stay there merely because
retreat would look like defeat. So
don’t trust to what can be done
next year. Send your proxy to
W. Affleck, M.L.A., at Parliament
House, Sydney, for use against the
extension F. : The demonstra-
tion at Marshall-Hall’s concert was
practically a protest against Bishop
Goe and co., and as such it didn’t
get a notice from the Arous and
Age musical critics The professor’s
feud with the Saints on the“moral-
character” ticket was not a matter for the consideration
of men who had come to report on the concert....
W.F.H. : You send far too much. If it were type-written
we could get through it, but there is a limit to the MSS.
which can be read by a given number of men Tom
Cat: Obviously .your own invention... .Henry R. : All
that for such a pointless ending !. .. Outpost: That habit
of bunny’s is well known.... Gobung: Suppressed, as
desired’.. .C.F.O. : Sydney Town-hall organ was the
largest, to date, when it was built, but is now surpassed
by one at either Manchester or Liverpool... .Cuss : Pray
try to be at least moderately legible—life is short!
Yar : L. and C. too strongly recalls something of yours
already printed... .Jas. Rus. : “Lancashire firm” story,
clipped from Answers, is a bald steal from Bulletin
James C. (Greymouth) ; Received with many thanks
Rooster : Not one of the localisms you cite is peculiar to
the bush, and most of them are in common use by the
Sydney “ pushes.”... .Frank : Cecil Fabbris, Box 551,
G.P.0., Sydney Coorie : Too much like too many
alleged incidents of the sort Oarisbrooke : Yes ; cer-
tainly. Always give date of pars referred t 0..... Ben
Sunßut there’s plenty of testimony, from different
quarters, that with a clue to the hare’s course an
active man will eventually wear her down S.L. (Punt-
hill) : Can’t read M. 5... .Shaw N. : The verse goes well,
but allegory isn’t in demand Zebra : Style as jagged as
broken bottles and meaning undiscoverable... .Billa-
bonger : You have a good, dry style, but the yarn is too
long for the interest Zip : Grimly graphic. May con-
dense for print... .Plymouth Sound: Capital idea, but
most ineffectively dealt with IV. J. (Dead Certain) :
Nothing useful in the collection... .C.S. : Most of what
you send is gossip interesting only to a private circle.
Some of it seems malicious, and nearly all looks libellous.
. ...J.L. : We never look twice at M.S. sent by anyone
who labels his envelope-for-retum so-and-so “Esq.”
Wagga : You aren’t a bushman ; you are only a bigot,
and if you are going to kick anyone, never talk about it.
. ...L.A.P. : But the Chinese are not “the filthiest
patients ” who reach the hospitals. On the contrary, they
are amongst the cleanest. Present scribe has admitted
lots of Chinese to hospital and knows what he is talking
about W.H.R. : Please read the memo, again and note
that it says “ When your matter appears.”... .Rookwood :
The plain fact of the matter being that the trouble is due
to the missionary business as a whole. The Chinese don’t
want any of ’em —either Catholic or Protestant.... W.K.:
As a matter of fact, when Wigram Allen was first elected
to N.S.W. Speakership he only beat his opponent—Wis-
dom—-by one vote.... A.M.O.E. : Your letter amounts to
a laborious statement that the “ society ”, Irish and the
“ official ” Irish see nothing to complain about in Lord
Salisbury’s Mansion House speech. Well, what then?—
“ Hogan’s Goat” not new and would give general offence.
C. J. Clay : Too many facts to the contrary. There
were half-a-dozen Sydney scaffolding accidents, some of
them very bad ones, during the last fortnight of June....
G.B. (Goul.) : Will print “ Ten.”.. . .Pelican : Always give
date and signature of pars, referred t 0.... Perry M. :To
hand ; will receive due consideration... E.B.H. : Both
uncommon. Will consider... .W.B. : “ Swaggie ” won’t
camp here... .lI.W. (Kalgoorlie): Only a dog-fight after
all, and not very much of a dog-fight... .Marco : Falls
rather flat Lionel C. : Clever, but we aren’t adding to
our stock of the morbid... .Pelican : Blacks’ duck-catch-
ing device described long ago R.C. : None up
Como : Not a bad ghost-story ; but ghost-yarns are so
common that they want uncommon handling... .W.M. :
“ Magpie ” too artificial; “Cat.” returned with annota-
tions W. Wattle: Not up W.B. : Buried 100
fathoms deep T.A.B. : Received Stroller: Verse
wants force and interest W.H.R. : No thanks
E.B.H. : Amiable incapacity... .Zadig 4 : Too uneven
W.M.F. : “Vindication” unusable Zinna : Not good
enough B.K. : More personal than forcible A.J.G. :
Not quite enough pith A.V.G.: Still flat.. ....
Kodak : Funny in places, but greatly lacks finish
Battie B. : Has some merits of style, but lacks vigor and
interest Lionel O.: Terse and spirited. May use
Milky W. : Gracefully fancied. Will consider... .Rough-
rider : Neither of the “Timmins” sketches quite “ gets
there.” Your command of English isn’t equal to the
mock-tragical and classically-allusive style you have
adopted Marie S. : “ Dissolution ” smart in a way, but
hardly worth while M‘Enok: Neither up, though
neither quite hopeless either W.H.R. : “Baphomet”
is a corruption of “Mahomet.” Don’t know what his
“baptism" was like O.H. : No g00d... .Will J. :
“ Wooing ” has traces of dramatic power, but is otherwise
most . .Norman : Have already had effigy-item.
For the rest, a British community is no better in that
respect than any other—and no worse R.O.Y. : You
should learn to spell before you go in for satire and
moralisation Quack-Quack : Donald Mac. is all right.
Likewise his business manager Nerves : Perhaps there
is a suggestion of satire in some of her references to the
Smartest People’s woes Jim Crow: Let R.M.’s virtue
be its own reward... .P.: But hasn’t she already made
one appearance in London ? Thought she starred at a
matinee 0.L.: Why these mysterious aliases ? If the
Australasian published a stupid par. re Speaker Mason
or somebody you can state the case in plain terms. Don’t
be afraid of hurting The Bulletin’s feelings.... Ilares-
foot: All these reminiscences of dead and gone “ School
for Scandal ” shows seem to assume that fine parts make
fine players. “ The School ”is a comparatively soft snap
for a capable co. The points are so easily made and the
dresses, wigs, &c., add so much to the acting effect.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Grant Her. : Too elaborate... .T.R.D.: Will use one..
Ohirg :Is it original ?... .N.R. : You give no name and
address....E.L.S. : Will illustrate Chinese item....
G.B.V. and Co. : May possibly do something with it....
J.P. : Sorry to say reply did not apply to your work
THEY GALL IT COMMANDEERING OVER THERE.
Ourly Vale : Regret it is too elaborate —and the humor
tails G-eo. Glei. : Send us something obviously original
or with a strong Australian twist. Most of the drawings
to hand might appear in any country at any time ; you
see them in every scrap picture-paper. The only topical
item is, as you should know if you read the papers, not
at all in Bulletin’s line, and the story allegedly told by
de Rougemont of himself—as to how he was saved by
grasping the neck of ah albatross —is an old yarn....
Sahluma :An effective story Unavailable : R.M.1.,
F.E.S., May, Riverina, E. E. Mac. (W.A.), W T 0.,
A.F.M., Kitchenkop, S.B. 2, M.H., Weel. H.C.
Cabled that when the allies captured some
Chinese forts, the Jap. commander, in leading his
men to the assault, was beheaded. The Chows
have many experts in the gentle art of beheading
—there is so much of it done in the Flowery Land.
The executioner has his victims kneeling before
bim in a row, and generally a very long row, and
their arms tied behind them. As each one’s turn
comes, the butcher’s assistant catches hold of the
subject’s pigtail and pulls forward his head,
whereupon the headsman severs-the neck with one
lazy-looking slash. The Chinese executioner
never cuts twice —that would be beneath his
dignity. In the rare cases when through some
accident the neck is not severed, another man
comes along and hacks through the rest of the
neck with a knife.
“ H. ” : The Boxers lead one to study the
Chinese insurrection, which lasted, more or less
violently, from 1850 to 1864, when Gordon put it
down. The Secret Societies gathered at first
round a certain Wung, who borrowed as much
Christianity as suited him, representing himself
to be another Christ. Li Hung Chang was em-
ployed to suppress, but not as general. Ward,
an American, acted in that oapacity. He said,
“I carry the sceptre of China in my trunk.”
This vaulting ambition was cut short by a mortal
wound. Burgevine, another Yankee, succeeded
Ward, and similarly had his head full of schemes
to make himself Emperor. But Li Hung Chang
fathomed Burgevine, and Major Gordon was
substituted. The success of the Tai-pings was
astounding. They collared the whole south-east
of China, and even captured Hankow and Nankin.
Wung found Nankin his Capua. There he
gathered a harem of 30 women, and became a
bloated Vitellius, and was falling to pieces just
like the Mahdi after Khartoum. Otherwise, it is
said, nothing could have stopped kis taking Pekin.
However, his generals made a good fight after he
had become a nullity. Burgevine, after he lost
his billet as government general, offered to lead
the rebels and proposed to Gordon that they
should make common cause, seize Pekin, and
divide the Empire. Chang heard of this, and dis-
trusted foreigners ever after.
Ennef: The “Hindmarsh Hero's Ride” is a
daisy of a poem, so we give one verse on spec :
You have heed too long the scouters,
Who prate that our clime has thinned
The red to white in the Austral heart —
But, those bladders of blighting wind
Are pricked by Truth’s Ithuriel :
So we’re sure that they have lied,
And their mouth’s are struck by the dash and pluck
Of the Hindmarsh Hero’s ride !
A Midnight Bide.
Mr. Alfred Smith, a settler residing at Upper
Taylor’s Arm, Nambucca River (N.S.W.), thus
describes an eventful midnight ride he under-
took some time ago.
“I was working very hard unloading corn and
placing sheep in a waggon,” said he. “ I had 12
miles to ride home, and it was nearly midnight
when I set out. The river air was damp and a
heavy dew was falling. When I arrived home
my clothes were sodden and I contracted a severe
cold, which settled in my system. Nothing I
tried could combat it, and I was attacked by
diarrhoea, fainting fits, a heavy, sleepy feeling,
and severe pains in parts of my body. I lost my
appetite, and after the slightest exertion my heart
palpitated alarmingly, and the short hacking
cough I had seemed like bronchitis. On the advice
of several neighbours I commenced Dr. Williams’
?ink pills. The second box improved me greatly.
began to get strong again and to eat well. I
continued with the pills a little longer, and was
as active and vigorous as ever.”
Neglected coughs and colds bring serious
results, as in the case of Mr. Smith. A sharp,
cutting pain with chest oppression, feverishness,
and short jerky breath, are symptoms of bronchitis,
pneumonia, pleurisy and consumption. Dr.
Williams’ pink pills rightly used have cured
these ailments after all treatment has failed. By
their tonic action on the blood and nerves they
also cure rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuralgia,
St. Vitus’ dance, paralysis, etc. Sold by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, and by chemists
and storekeepers But mind you ask for Dr.
Williams’, the kind used by Mr. Smith.


AN INTERESTING LECTURE.
Dr. Daish has delivered a series of eminently
practical lectures on domestic health at tho
Mechanics’ Institute, South Melbourne, and nob
the least important of these was one under the
title of “ Healthy Mothers,” given recently.
"new r " SD, “ ot 311 the talk about the
in t h 7 !?" and her etnancipation. all
“ , ht ' art3 m ust agree that the
Ighest mission for the sex was to be a
good mother. -
The
tight lacing of the corset came In for the
lecturer’s unqualified condemnation, as
did the wearing of high.rheeled shoes.
pressed with the 5 ’ Im- f
"ess of the Japanese m?, ned C <eanh-'>C'
® n d he espeeialiv ’ ma^es and femaipa m
I Jan iS h^ earera lhe extreme 6d '° the notl “ L / A
Japs bestow upon thfUrT re whicl > the V'
*sf- Japanese man There - *« V
Jtheir feet m a " r “man clothe \
'for the areat toe k Wlth a division'
biw;~™ d£d a tight and airy
summer Protecting brim for
drawing up haw depreeated the
bair from ‘he nape of
Of
■*■&£&§► 35?
V'<£><•£?
«v
THE LI QVOR QUESTION.
ATmVOE
xO
Sr
v
to
r o
A
%, a
, 7e
o f^kA.
3$ ~^ e s < ?rga^ Gospel.
J
%
7?fekw(
'HOTEj/f
to
6Ke wer $ tv (+o \
~ MfoW »$ ft" \>l*vCC V\
doi/t"" vV»lfc "tj?e %
o\>\> \\
«
(W.lWell • } yotv Sec V*S
Kefo -Africa /I
-do Qre"t~ ©ye o«'i /
/
vouv^ e 4 -'
kS°%
< \Sect5:|e^ > ’
i
An Athletic Minister.—“ Mr. Melville*,
the Minister for Defence, says that there?
was nothing wrong with the despatch off
I the contingents, and no blundering, and he*
has offered to prove it by racing any mem-'*
;ber of ‘The Argus' staff with his boots off," 5
Qar /Htis'TayJie^lKnA^
'ti/e .
of -tij* j\^ S '* iv?
\/i»7 ii cactiov •
uses
fCE ON Tips BAY.
The severe froifc of Mdnday night had *
remarkable effect upon the William* town
foreshore of Hobson's Bay, ice forming in
• sheet extending seaward for about 12 feet.
The sheltered reserve for watermen's boats
at tho Gem pier was almost completely
covered, and the incident afforded a topic
amongst local identities,
within the memories of whom no such occur
ttfenoe had hitherto been witnessed.
ir 7 ,
171,5 o
sA&C |> uMi 5 V
- ror TO HORSE'WffIP
A” it ’s m rt < r^ fortn "’' I” weU-^dW”
2£. s&Ssfi
gSJSJK*.
\A.c\j cW]/
MELBOURNIAN A.


LATEST FROM THE WAR IN AFRICA.
The cable !haB been out of order lately, and we have
lhad to use 'whatever we could lay hold of in the way
of ; “ news.” .
Here's a specimen brick : ?
“ Bushie,” the N.S.W.
dog of war, has been ac-
cepted by the Queen. He is to be
handed over to Lord Roberts, who
will personally conduct him to his
Royal mistress.—
„w^
n
6^'
Vi**
\ r SUNNY
Windsor, Saturday.—Last night the flood
attained its maximum height, reaching about-
47ft. above summer level. Only twice before
-—in the Years 1864 and I.B67—has the flood
reached such a height.
TOO MANY COOKS.
Chorus op Above : “How shall we
carve you 1 ”
The Pig : “ Thanks, I ain’t going- to
be eaten.”
: SNOWBOUND TRAINS.
The phenomenal fall of snow in
Bathurst was surpassed on the moun-
-1 tains, and in places between Locksley
landI and Rydal it fell to a depth of 4ft. The -
vpassenger train which left Bathurst’
jyesterday morning could not proceed =
further than Locksley.
“ Ugh ! it’s enough to drive a fellow to
Africa or China.”
The N.S.W. Compulsory Education Act is to be strictly
enforced.
publications bill.
The third clause of the bill gave any
power to stop anything going
, .through his office if he had reason to
believe that it contained any matter of an indecent nature,
and it would then be forwarded to the Postmaster-General,
who, if he found objectionable matter in the packet, could
destroy or otherwise dispose of it.
MiC3s£NGtfß ; “ There’s a deputation waiting to see you, sir.”
P.’M.G. Crick: “Tell ’em I can’t see them ; I’m up to my-
eyes in important work that can’t be neglected.”
b«” ,l " **■
mine once.” Fflnc * a second-hand halo I That was
CARTOONLETS.


Wedding and Birtliday GUfta Direct from London House.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brush, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lemaire" Field and Opera Glass, 265, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Silver-plated, Various Styles of
Engraving, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 Ios,'£3.
Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS. -
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
v-^
Mis
iJULiSI.3
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, in
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Gent’s “ Companion,” or Letter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 258.
A. SAUNDERS.
E gg Cruets, Pure Silver-plated,
20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 10s 6d ; other
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s.
A WARM FRIEND.
Silver - plated, 10a,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A Nice Present.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 20s, 255.
■Z7
r
C
k;
V
Z2--J..
s&k
Child’s Sets in Silk-lined Cases, 10s, 16s, 20s,
265, 30s.
HANDSOME STRIKING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Glook; Gill Mounts;, £2 ; without Moi-ntar,, SB's. TDseful Present,.
Guaranteed: 20 T»e.rs..
A. SAUNDERS.
Roger's " Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Mg)
ms
J
large size cake or fruit
BASKET.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 26a.
Extra Ornamented, 30s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Cruet, 6 Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated,
355, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside-
Fi -st-cl S i English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styli, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
3 Js. We do up equal to
new Discolored Hair
Brushes, 2s.
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated,
Red Glass, 12s 6d pair.
Jama, Pure Silver-plated, Ohased, Green or
Eed Glass, as above, 15s 6d; round, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s 6d, in Silk-lined Case.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class I J ure Silver-plated, 21s.
Similar Style, 255, 3Js, 355.
VS
t
lr
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 15s 6d ; large, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle. 16a 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Neat and Useful Clock.
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass,
8s 6d ; Round, 10s.
Toast Hack, Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Cail and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR BEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE.^
1
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 CEORCE ST., sSiS» , ,iaSi! SYDNEY.


CLOTHING VALUES.
No better Clothing- Values can be found on
the market to-day than our Suits at the fol-
lowing prices. Our prices send our popularity
along quicker than a torpedo, and explode the
idea that “ Sale ” Prices are better value than
our
“YEAR ROXJKTD”
ECONOMICAL PRICES.
STYLISH DRESSY SUITS, that show and in-
clude all the goodness and made-to-order
work, but not nearly so expensive, 5/6, l</6
Built of first-class quality Tweed. Suits you
have to pav in the ordinary way 25/- and
30/- for.
It doesn’t cost any more to have every detail
oorrect, if you buy your Clothing from
Hordern’s in Pitt Street.
FINE FITTING BUSINESS SUITS,
ONE POUND.
This is our Famous “ Sovereign ” Suit, and to
which We add improvements as time advances,
keeping the Cut, Style and Finish quite “ up-
to-date.”
< To meet the wants of Business and Pro-
fessional men, we stock
HIGHER QUALITIES, at PRICES RAHCINC
30,'-, 35/-, and Two Guineas.
WITHOUT FORGETTING
Our New Style Guinea Overcoats,
which are now advertising themselves.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street,
—SYDNEY—
(If unable to call in, please write.)
Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE£
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & GO.. LONDON. V,
Humors of the pestilence. An Australian
firm boldly advertises its brand of disinfectants as
conferring absolute immunity from contagion—
and two of its employes immediately take the
plague.
Melbourne Age, with unconscious satire,
notifies that the Working Men’s College has
started a class in wool-sorting specially for squat-
ters’ sons, who pay extra fees for the privilege of
being put through the course more quickly than
ordinary students.
A reminiscence of Mafeking Night in a
Maoriland township:—
V\7ANTED KNOWN,—That all lovers of fair play
' » consider that until an apology is tendered from
the parties who fired on my windows on Saturday last
they are poor,.miserable, low-down, mean miscreants.
—Margaret Porter. .
Be a Bulletin par. of May 19th. The
copper figure of Mercury atop of the Age office
was not originally imported for the Commercial
Bank; it was manufactured locally to the order
of David Syme, by W. H. Rocke & Co., of Mel-
bourne, from C. D. Richardson's, design. The
same firm also manufactured an artistic tympanum
for the new Commercial Bank building, which has
not been fixed up, but will presumably get’there
some day.
“V.”: Met a “right-thinking” Chow
t’other day—a man after S.M. Herald’s own
heart —“ stake in the country,” and all that kind
of thing. Questioned on the troubles in Father-
land, he said that the only possible solution was
to marry the Dowager Empress to a progres-
sive Britisher like editor Philp, of the Australian
Chinese Herald. When told that Philp already
had a charming wife, he said they did not mind
such trifles in China, especially in matters of
state.
Yic. Factories-Act Peacock, M.L. A.,
livened-up the recent jubilee celebration of a
Warrnambool church by slashing around at the
clergy’s neglect to take a genuinely-active part in
social improvement. It was blasphemy, he told a
well-dressed crowd, to call themselves Chi-istians
while they continued to ignore the poverty and
wretchedness of the sweated. Then Bishop
Cooper got up, and, with a peculiar glitter in his
eyes, “cordially thanked” Mr. Peacock for his
“ very welcome remarks.”
The appointment of the commission to
report on the Western (N.9.W.) pastoral drought-
problem came 12 months too late for the squatter
and selector; for the season has, on the whole,
opened better than any for eight years. The only
big question now is whether the country can get
back to its old state, and how to help it to do so if it
can. One thing in favor of its recovery is that the
average squatter and selector can’t afford to pay
the ruling very big prices for sheep or cattle, and
so most runs and selections will fortunately be
understocked for some time ; and, provided the
rabbits can be kept off, nothing could be more in
their favor than that.
ALL GROCERS
AND
STOREKEEPERS
SELL IT.
The Standard
Sauce of the
World.
SAUCE.
TRY IT.
The Original Worcestershire.
Agents—VlßGOE, S r >N & CHAPMAN and DAVID COIIEN & CO., Sydney.
GOOD
FOR ALL !
&
*
52
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price —35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
1 ROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
/or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. Gd. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington ij. soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
9 bo
4
imt,
fVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired ol STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send‘for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon*
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED EDECTRI*
• Cl AN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
'LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
| Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, witli suspensory
a/ita jhments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt, of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, Ac.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical Publications that
compare in variety or value with the
Australian..
Music gooks
Price, 1/-
.. or ..
Posted, 1/2.
No. 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
of Moderate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE CRIEG ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will he sent
Post Free for the asking.
iO~ If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send direct to
Pan #i Co. proprietary £td.
Music Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins st„ Melbourne
THE SECRET SOCIETY," dr. hodosom, ,»
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd., Syd*
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for AT ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for AT. Chambers’
Enc3'clopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for A 2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sjdney.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Kamaaa
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
4O Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
r -
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing-
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
BOOKLET
LLUSTRATED
Of RARE
BOOKS.
ILLXTSXTRA.XED
WITH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1900.
j, j, mm sume mmii
Ahd Aihletio Record.
Price Is. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
,TUST PUIiLISUED
Injjp-ta-gate [flap
OF
tiie
Far East
SANDS & M'DOUGAUL, Ud. and all Publishers.
Peio* X/-, by Post 1/2.
Business Announcement*
■ J
fringes,
(fit oral Curt/, from aAt aacb.
PLAITS and TAILS,
fttn. long, 6/0. all real hala,
CUTTINGS « COMBINQ3
•Oritsd up, V# per oa
W« ara the c'heapeitio lw
train far all Ualr Work.
Bcnd Color of Hair.''
W. N. Wgrsll,
110 William Stbret,
aoroer of Palmer-street,
t SYDNEY.
Cable Tram win stop at Dow..
Send stamps f6r hit) Price IM\
Projppt attacticn’given to Country Oristtk
Medical.
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into' weak men or Drugs giye but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down” in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
ah about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agisms.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
(Registered.)
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the niost
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering £UCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full’ particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY’.
TAKfc
\NSEED
t*
Of*
Zl i
13
T RACE
£
of all Chemists
’LINUM CATHARTICUM Pills Purely %-tuLk
“ s ‘ COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement, for alißroken Articles
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physic I
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, bruin & blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the suffer< r the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6. Rocke,
Tompsitt &Co., Druggi ts, 292
Fhnders-street W., Melbourne.
-i r
O L D '
T^T£> st
. &SC..&C.
mmt
"JfcTOftS ,
Tales of the Convict System :
By ,k PRlcB Wargng.” Paper
193 pp. ; 6d.
covers,


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . ■ .
•oj * so}! ’o*B
JOHN MEACHER & CO.,
A Mtralaxian ih'presentatives ,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
cnnm
GrO TO HBLL-
IGORANAi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real irood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Siamps bought, price-
lists yratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk SjTRIPJS
Mattalasse and .other Unshrinkable Shirts
arp highly recommended.
S3r per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement E’orms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
X
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists !
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
X
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLCY # CO.,
f urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action Rooms'.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Labor members are recommencing to
attend Trades Hall Council meetings. A sure
sign that a general election is near.
James Ashton may succeed G. H. Reid as
Leader of N.S.W. Opposition when the latter
reaches the Federal Parliament. Ashton’s Federal
ambitions may, however, upset anticipations.
Premier Lyne will not introduce a bill to
prevent members of the Federal Parliament from
sitting in N.S.W. Assembly. Several members
of Lyne’s Cabinet want seats in both Parliaments.
The election for Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Federal Division may possibly result in a political
duel between Postmaster-General Crick and his
whilom legal partner, R. D. Meagher. Heaven
forfend !
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise’s speech
on the introduction of the Arbitration Bill in
N.S.W. Parliament is one of the few speeches
delivered during the last few years which take
rank with the studied efforts of such men as
Dailey, Martin, and Parkes. The matter and
the manner were alike admirable.
Laborite M’sL.A. are going the way to
kill the public goose which made them Parlia-
mentarians. The Glassey s, Joe Cooks, Fegans,
and so on use the goose by protesting Labor-solid-
arity. When they get themselves sufficiently
advertised they kick Labor-solidarity over, stand
as Independents, and hold both hands out for a
billet.
Premier Holder has been much criticised
For agreeing to an Opposition demand to publish
all cables —most of them confidential —between
himself and Kingston re the Commonwealth Bill.
One wire conveyed the warning, “ Beware of
backsliders, Govt, of Queensland ropeable.” This,
sent early in May, was a particularly accurate
forecast on Kingston’s part.
No Vic. Premier has ever been able to
boom a second time. Duncan Gillies has not been
“in it” since his return from England. At the
caucus at which he presided preparatory to the
abortive attack bn the M‘Lean Govt., t’other day,
all that could be done was to pass a resolution to
the effect that Dunkey’s party would not give its
support to office-seekers led by Turner.
McGregor (Labour M.L.C.) told Presi-
dent Baker and his colleagues in the S.A. Upper
House there was a disgraceful conspiracy to wreck
the Commonwealth Bill by making the High
Court of Australia an expensive nonentity. He
expressed the hope that one of the first acts of the
Federal Parliament will be either to make the
tribunal final in all its decisions, or to put an end
to it as a costly sham.
Ex-Chief Secretary O’Loghlin startled
S.A. Leg. Council t’other dav bv quoting Han-
sard to show that in ’97, between the Adelaide
and Sydney Conventions, President Chaffey Baker
pleaded with his fellow members to recommend
that there should be finality of appeal in Aus-
tralia, and a motion by Eb. Ward to suggest to
the next Convention that the Right of Privy
Council appeal should be retained was rejected by
14 votes to 4.
Premier Lyne is as yet undecided whether
to appoint a commission to inquire into the work-
ing of N.S.W. police-force. Such an inquiry,
conducted by (say) Judge Murray, would inevit-
ably do no end of good. All sorts of queer rumors
(some of them, apparently, well-founded) have
long been current as to the private doings of indis-
creet members of the force, and it is so long since
the police have had a good shaking-up, with an
all-round opportunity .for the’ventilation of smoul-
dering grievances, that it is sincerely to be hoped
a commission will eventuate.
In Tasmania, last year, one-sixth of the
whole number of letters and packets posted and
one-sixth of the telegrams went gratis—partly the
result of the system by which the Flyspeck legis-
lator gets a small salary and takes the rest out in
free postage. The consequent loss was £17,000.
I f half of this is set down to the free-postage legis-
lator, the amount would have sufficed to pay 42
members at £2OO a year each. The system by
which a politician is allowed, in lieu of full salary,
to send his washing home free, by post every week
and get his clean shirts posted back to him is a
ridiculously expensive kind of economy.
Joseph Chamberlain’s intimation of a few
weeks ago, that the British Government did not
think it necessary to further consider the W.A.
Goldfields Separation petition because the chief
grievance—the refusal by Bigjohn and Co. to
submit the Federal Bill to the people—was
about to be removed, is very suggestive. It sug-
gests, firstly,, that Bigjohn only bought the con-
ditional refusal of Separation by promising
submit the Federal question to the people. It”
further suggests that if Federation is defeated by
any wiles or dodges, or even by a straight-out
vote, the goldfields demand of “ Separation for
Federation ” will be further considered.
Maoriland Govt, announces “a more
vigorous prosecution of railway construction ” as
part of its policy for the coming session. A fine
chance for the Seddon Ministry to complete the
three great unfinished railways of its province
without any extra borrowing or any extra taxation
here presents itself. If Maoriland will only make
bank-notes a State monopoly, and pass an Act re-
quiring all banks to keep 40 per cent, of their local
cash reserves in State notes, the required funds
will rise up and confront it. This scheme has
already stood the test of many years in Canada,
and there is no reason why it shouldn’t work here
if the local politician could get out of bis borrow-
ing rut.
The new Victorian Government has a great
chance before it. Like Turner it includes an Old
Age Pension scheme in its programme. Paying
old age pensions is easy when the money is there ;
finding the money is the difficulty. Turner’s
scheme was killed by his want of courage in the
matter of finding the money ; his proposed income
tax on the poor was fatal. If the M'Lean-Shiels
Govt, will propose finding at least part of the
funds by a graduated land-tax such as exists in
S.A., and an absentee tax, it will have the
Assembly with it. As for the Council, if it rejects
the measure, and deprives the people of their old
age pensions to save its own money bags, even the
apathetic Victorians will rise against their 48
Rich Landlords.
The position of Vic. Conservative Remnant
—it can hardly be called a party —in Victoria
closely resembles that of a small boy on a barbed-
wire fence with a healthy dog underneath him.
His situation is painful, yet if he gets down it will
become worse. Said party fumes at the appoint-
ment of Peacock as Chairman of the Factories Act
Commission, and at other democratic acts of the
M'Lean Govt., yet it dare not assist in ousting
that Govt, lest it should bring in one even more
progressive. It isn’t strong enough to form a
Govt, itself, and the Federal and State elections,
both under pure manhood suffrage, are rapidly
approaching, with almost a certainty that the
Remnant will then be so much further diminished
that it will degenerate into a mere scrap.
THE STOUCHING OF
JOHN CHINAMAN.
A remedy for the “push” trouble: send them
to China as the Gorblime regiment, instead of
good upstanding recruits such as composed the
S’African contingents.
An easy way to get population is to pav
people to come iuto the country, and meet the
paymen ts out of borrowed money The other day
200 Scandinavians arrived in Queensland, all get-
ting free passages at the expense of the long-
suffering loan-account. N.S W. was spending
money OI? the extreme tail-end of its assisted
immigration system as late as 1896, though Vic-
toria abandoned the practice many years earlier.
Victoria and S A. paid all their immigration ex-
penditure out of revenue. N.S.W. has spent
£194,430 loan money on immigration; Tas-
mania, £235,714 ; Westralia, £23,034; Queensland,
£2,808,8961 Truly, Queensland is an amazing
country.
AT THE OATES OF TOPHET.
BILLOUS (gatekeeper): “On what do you pass
this lot in? ”
PAULUS : “Hal ha! ha! Another prospectus.”
BILIOUS : “ Trot ’em along.”
“ If any man joined these contingents
with the view of bettering his own private circum-
stances by settlement in another country, he was
an impostor.”— Ex-Pkemiek Reid, in N.S.W.
Assembly. And thus Moree correspondent of the.
Jingo Sydney E. News “ Nearly all the local
men who joined the Imperial Bushmen stated
that their intention was to take up land or billets
if offered in South Africa.” Of course it was.
On the Household Suffrage question in
S.A. Leg. Council, Labor member Kirkpatrick
quoted, with great effect, the dictum of Attorney-
G-eneral Rose-Innes (Cape Colony), coincided in
by Sir Alfred Milner, that the best way to pre-
vent the Transvaal from being run by a capitalis-
tic gang is to enfranchise thousands of men who
are not capitalists. “If,” he added, “the Con-
servatives in this Council say that the S’African
war is not being urged on the franchise question
then they must be pro-Boers ! ”
Already that unhappy family, the
Victorian parsons, in confab assembled to
draw up a schedule of Bible lessons for
the regeneration of the
local youth, are at logger-
heads. The R.C. Church
declined to take part.
Then the Jewish Assem-
bly withdrew. Now the
heads of the Australian
and Unitarian Churches
object to an “elaborate
and cumbrous scheme of
lessons on Biblical alleged
history,” and talk of a
minority - report suggest-
ing merely a few etnical
lessons. How sweet and
blessed a thing it is
to dwell together in
unity !
Referendum Day
in W.A. has been fixed
for 31st July. A
mighty howling is go-
ing on amongst the
Gropers of Perth and
B.unbury, and
they have resusci-
tated the so-
called National
League—the pre-
sident of which
is “Charlie” Har-
per, boss apple-
grower and chief
owner of the
Wist Austra-
lian. The Premier
is in a terrible fix,
and so is Hackett,
who edits Harper’s
paper. To start
with, Hackett in-
duced Bigjohn to rat
over Federation, and
now that Forrest has
turned round Hackett is full of anguish. He
cannot go against Forrest without imperilling
the existence of his paper, which is kept alive
by Govt, advts., and on the other hand, his
pariner, who scents the speedy removal of fruit
and meat duties, defhands the Premier’s scalp.
The fairness or otherwise of architect
M ‘Credie’s remuneration! for supervising the cleans-
ing of Sydney plague area doesn’t really depend on
the value of the work, but on the size of the scare.
The Government had to get a competent and
reliable man at a time when Sydney had the
Terror so badly that people were flying to the
mountains, to Paris, to anywhere—when hotels
were almost deserted, and country drapers
advertised “No Sydney goods kept here ” —when
the job, in short, looked like going down with a
shovel into the mouth of Hell. It could get
abundance of unemployed—the kind which had
found N.S. W. so bad a place that they didn’t much
mind where they went next —but the kind of man it
wanted wasn’t likely to be unemployed. Mr.
M ‘Credie named his price for going into the mouth
of Hell —as was then supposed—and many of the
people who complain now wouldn’t have taken
the contract then for twice as much.
Parker, the anti-Federal delegate whom
Bigjohn Forrest sent to England, ex-
plained there that the W.A. gold-
fields’ complaint about insufficient Par-
liamentary representation (Kalgoorlie
goldfield, one member to about 5000 elec-
tors ; Ashburton
bullock-raising
district,
one mem-
ber to 42
electors,
about 3 5
of them
absentees)
is quite
absurd.
“We have
had three redistribu-
tions of seats in ten
years,” said Parker ;
“we can’t have a re-
distribution every
year.” Quite true.
But what Parker
carefully suppres-
ses is that Big-
john’s redistribu-
tions leave things
on the Goldfields
not very much better
than they were before. He
doesn’t redistribute the seats
according to population, but partly according to
bullocks, and partly according to the necessity for
keeping a pocket borough for little brother
David.
Glassey, ex-leader of Q. Labor-party,
has resigned his seat, and is contesting it anew as
an “Independent” candidate. He still parades
as a “friend of Labor,” but nobody doubts that
his destiny is Boodle wraith’s maw—if he is not
thrust out of politics, as he deserves to be. Glas-
sey has been a traitorous Democrat for a long time
past (he cast his vote and-influence to bolster up
the Q.N. Bank directorate at the expense of the
country); and since he was deposed from the
party leadership there has been little of Labor
about him but the name. Now he poses as a
British patriot opposed to the Worker on the
war question ; and beats the Jingo drum in the
kanaka-constituency of Bundaberg. All good
Democrats should unite to make an end of him.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid proposes avoid-
ing the loss of those Australian contingenters who-
want to settle in S’Africa by the off-hand process
of compelling them to come back. As soldiers
they can be forced to return —if they try to avoid
doing so they can be brought back in iron-; as
deserters —and then when they are disbanded
here a lot of the would-be settlers in Rhodesia
will doubtless stay here for want of the money to
get away. It is a high-handed way out of the
difficulty, still this country is supposed to be
going in for the Tommy Atkins business, and that
is how the T. Atkins business is done. T 1 link of
a British soldier telling his commander that he
meant to stay in S’Africa, and cheerfully handing
his accoutrements and his resignation to
Kitchener!
Johnstone Sheldon, the S’African war
correspondent now in Sydney, says that he was in
the thick of the great exodus of Outlanders from
Johannesburg for four days, and that the Bor"
did not ill-treat the departing refugees.
This (the testimony of an Englishman and
a Jingo on the spot) is rough on the lurid yarns
about the bruising and battering of women, and
other yellful stories of the early war times.
Sheldon also says that Gatacre was not deceived
or betrayed by any Boer spy, or policeman, or
other treacherous guide, at Stormberg, and that
. the guide wasn’t arrested, shot, hanged, boiled,
or otherwise punished. It was all tlie usual news-
paper lie. Gatacre decided where he wanted to
go and his guide took him there, but the
swiftly-moving Boers got there first, and trouble
resulted.
The Darling Harbour (Sydney) land re-
sumption scheme is to include the awful “ Rocks ”
district, which thus has a chance of being cleaned
and purified and reconstructed. It should have
included all Sydney. There is a great opening for a
Government which would compulsorily resume all
Sydney and suburbs, at a fixed percentage above
the municipal valuation ; pay for it in 3| per cent.
State securities, interest payable in Sydney only ;
enact that the soil should henceforth be the in-
alienable property of the State ; and fix the rents
to yield 1 per cent, towards a fund for paying off
the borrowed money ; 1 per cent, towards a fund
for the gradual reconstruction of the misshapen
city ; and enough over to pay interest on borrowed
money, repairs, and working expenses. The
Bulletin appeals to Minister O’Sullivan to deal
wit h this small question.
Westralia doesn’t know whether its pre-
sent Assembly will be dead or not after 17th Aug.
The Assembly used to last four years, but the
latest Constitution Act reduced the term to three
years, without explaining definitely whether the
change applied to this Assembly or only to future
ones. All it said was :
The constitution of the existing Leg. Assembly shall re-
main unaffected by this Act until said Assembly is dis-
solved by effluxion of time or otherwise.
This makes it clear that the new provisions as to
extra goldfields seats, woman suffrage, &c., don’t
apply to this Assembly. These things relate to
the constitution of the Assembly. But it isn’t
stated that the three years-clause (which applies to
the duration of the Assembly, not the constitution)
doesn’t apply to this Assembly. So nobody really
knows for certain whether the present House can
legally sit after 17th Aug. or not. But John For-
rest will probably chance it rather than meet hia
new batch of voters this year.
THE SWORD WE DREW!
(As it should be.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sword we drew in deadly ire,
It only swept in battle dire,
To right the wrongs of lands oppressed ;
With Freedom won it sunk to rest.
It never fell in East or West
In wrongful fight on true man’s breast;
It ne’er was raised for Lust or Hire—
The Sword we drew !
It never flashed in fulgent Are,
To do some purple tyrant’s hest
Upon the noble freeman’s crest;
it ne’er was soiled in Mammon’s mire—
The Sword we drew !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.


VITADATIO
The Greatest Blood
Purifier of the Century.
A SUFFERER FROM BOYHOOD CURED BY
VITADATIO.
Launceston, Sept. 24th, 1894.
To the Proprietor of “ Vitadatio.”
Sir, —I have been a great sufferer from boyhood from
Hemorrhoids, and the last four or five years from Liver
Complaint, the latter greatly aggravating the former. I
have tried almost all patent medicines I thought likely to
relieve me, and obtained medical treatment, but the usual
result has only been of a temporary character. Some three
months since I was induced to try your “ Vitadatio,” and
it has acted Mke a charm on me, and the usual pains and;
distressing* symptoms have passed away. I have now been
some time without taking the medicine, and feel like a
new man. I might here say I have taken six bottles in
all. You are at liberty to use this memo, as you think fit
and I only hope it may be the means of inducing others
who are suffering as I did to give the “ Vitadatio ” a fair
trial, and I feel assured that they will find relief in it. I
am, dear sir, yours truly, W. HA WEES.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
m
MR
s&U&i.
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co.; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston: Hedley Button.
«3T Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENSMORE.
LOST!
That is the constant cry
of the Shopkeeper
SOMEHOW
who hasn’t a
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER.
To make Leakages
impossible,
. . . THE
NATIONAL..
Cash Register
IS
THE
MONEY
KEEPER
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Don’t
Experi-
ment ..
with Cheap Grade
Cycle Tyres.
mm
|t Costs too much ||)oney \
Leave that for the cyclist who wants to buy experience.
When purchasing tyres always specify
MULTIFLEX
and thus ensure getting a Reliable and Durable
Roadster Tyre. Guaranteed by us to carry you over
all classes of roads for 12 months.
Beware of Imitation Tyres offered as
“on the Dunlop principle.”
DUNLOPS
are only genuine when the
Cover and Tube bear this
TRADE
MARK.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of ]jus. [td.,
150 CLARENCE! STREET, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)
Cornelius O’Brien, first discoverer of gold
at Grenfell (N.S.W.), is applying for the full
reward-money. He originally received £3OO only,
out of which he had to pay agents and others fully
one half. An additional reason why he should be
paid the full reward is that, in order to test the
famous reef on O’Brien’s Hill, he gave away
shares. The possessor of one of these gratuitous
shares died intestate, leaving no kin, and Govt,
auctioned the share for £l5OO. O’Brien, in his old
age, has fallen on evil times, and the balance of
the long-deferred reward would be very welcome
to him. . The other day Premier Lyne received a
deputation of members on the subject and gave a
■vrripathetic reply.
“ A GEORGE-STREET PLAGUE:
“Replying in the Legislative Assembly yester-
day afternoon to Mr. Nobbs, the Premier said
there had been 76 accidents since the introduction
of the Sydney electric trams, and of these 11
proved fatal.”
“ Ballads of Battle,” a red-and-gold-
wrappere.d booklet of verses by “Johnny” Sandes,
taken from the “Oriel” column in Melbourne
Argus, looks very much as though it were printed
for publication (at a shilling or whatever the price
may be) among Donald Macdonald’s lecture audi-
ences. The true significance of the gaudy cover is
suggested in the author’s preface—" I desire at
the-present brilliant moment in Britain’s history
to furnish a small memento of the stirring events
in South Africa, and of the glorious achievements of
those Australian troops who have on many a
battlefield cemented with their blood the unity of
the Empire. ”
Several London illustrated papers had pic-
tures of the surrender of Cronje. But the artists
hadn’t worked.together, and there was charming
variety of facts. For instance, one conscientious
genius put a big patch on the fallen general’s right
knee, while the others represented Cronje wearing
pants sound on both knees.
“A NIGHT CAP”
of' cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
F. W. Whysall, the new manager of
Sydney telephones, affords a good illustration of
rare Civil Service luck. In Broken Hill’s early
days the billet of telegraph-master fell vacant
through the officer in charge putting up his sign
as a share-broker, and the seniors who might have
gone to the Hill declined without thanks on
account of typhoid and dust. So Whysall, a com-
parative junior, was sent. Just at that moment
Broken Hill began to boom; the little office grew
into a big one ; and other circs, put the P.O. as
well as the Telegraphs into Whysall’s hands.
And he, getting his chance, did so remarkably
well that lie wasn’t shifted; instead he was put
permanently into the first-class of P. and T.
masters by the Service Board. But when the
boom burst, the unfortunate whom he replaced
was glad to get back again into the service, and
now he is buried in some country office.
The other day a Hobart alderman made a
row at the corporation meeting because the coun-
cil had shifted a cabstand from one plaoe to
another. His objection to the new site was that
there was a graveyard on ope aide and a guano
store on the other.
La Gaceta, published in Guadalajara,
Mexico, part in English and part in Spanish,
prints the following advt. :
Will the gentleman who embraced my wife at the en-
trance to the post-office about 9 o’clock Thursday evening
please send his photograph for my Album of Heroes ?
He will greatly oblige J.I.
“ J. 1.” thus gets level with the wife, at all events.
Veteran Solicitor William Roberts, in-
terred at Waverley, Sydney, the other day at the
age of 80, developed a passion for poli-
tics in middle age. The passion at-
tacked him suddenly, blazed fiercely
for a few years, during which period
he was elected for Goulburn, and then
as suddenly died out. In the Sydney
courts he conducted some of the big-
gest cases, Frank Gardiner’s and Ber-
trand’s among them. With the excep-
tion of Solicitor M'Culloch (admitted
a year earlier) he was the oldest on
N.S.W. roll. The solicitors of that
early time comprised a number of tough
old practitioners—men who live long
and work every day of their lives.
Mr. M'Culloch doesn’t practise, but
Mr. Russell, Mr. Billvard, Mr. Daw-
son, Mr. Norton and others of the band
still wear harness.
A Victorian J.P. lately fined a
constable £5 for using an official
stamped envelope for his private cor-
respondence. It was rather a remark-
them. His letter was written on the
official paper, and one unfortunate cop.
mistook it for an official communica-
tion. So. fie sold what tickets he could,
and officially returned the unsold ones and
the money. Perhaps she ought to be fined,
but his boss, who used the public’s stationery and
the public’s tired constable as a medium for
trading off gambling tickets, seems sufficiently re-
markable to call for some attention also.
Donald Wallace’s estate (Lerderburg), of
734 acres, in Bacchus Marsh district, was auctioned
last week, by order of—alas !—the executor. Jas.
Sproule, of Flinders (whose wife, by the way, has
one of the most interesting autograph-albums in
Victoria), paid =£ls an acre for the property, and
will probably make a handsome profit on the deal.
Lerderburg was about all that was left to poor old
Donald Wallace of late years. His will was
proved at only £14,000 or so.
Bright red the color of the gore
Shed on the velt in England’s name,
Bright yellow is the precious ore
That gilds the heartless boodlers’ game.
And every book wherein is told
The tale of how the Boers were downed
Should have its title writ in gold
Upon a flaming crimson ground.
able case in some respects. A
more or less legal art-union was
being got up to lift the debt off
a church, and an official in the
Police Commissioner’s Office sent
books of tickets to constables
with a request that they would
use their scant leisure and wear
out their official boots selling


Banking, Publlo Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
ZNT.S.'W.
(|)ont deplete Q.|i|. fio., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEB.EAGH ST., 74
f SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . •
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879. _
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. F.inp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e(c.
W M'MiIiLAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J- ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
file Bank of [jorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350.000
-TTIE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
' Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
' C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600- assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
£4.800.006 0 0
£3,196,353 0 0
Registered Capital
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman- Archibald Currie,
Esq. J.P. i Hon. VV. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ,
‘ ’ Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Read Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Blshopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.) -
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIiGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
S^ ar^h G BS.,er t thi^&{ t Vice ) ’ south
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-GIRLS
I 2nd Edition.
_AND <}RAY
Price 4/6.
HORSES.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Gabo, Sat., July 14, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., July 21,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat., Julj r 14, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., July 17, 5 p.
Gabo, Sab., July 21,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, July 14, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Sat., July 21, 1.2 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbc Trustees, €*€C<itorS,
AND '
Conjpaoy Linr^itcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 M 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
IT WILL PA'Y YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
-•LINCOLN, STUART& CO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pi ces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 425,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool 'l'weeds. Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5, (llerica. Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Hid ng Breeches, 255.
Riding-Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
215., 255.
famous Ballarat Serge
\ uits, Indigo dye, 255.
’ hong Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
KxccllentTweed or Serge
Trousers,ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
18s «d.
Tweed Overcoats, 21s.
W terproof Coats, full
capes 15s 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. Bd., 3s. Bd.
#».6d. ,5». 6d
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rues 10s Bd., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. Bd., 7s. Bd. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. Bd., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Bants Is. 9d.
Necktiesiall shapes and colorsls. White shirts to measure.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots. Gs. 9d.. 9s. 6a.
'patterns of all kinds and self-measur. ment forms post.d free
w Write for them.
LA-DIES !
—r Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . ' .
liarbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for children.
II
w
grg
IE
■ “ I iis3 a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who. had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D. ( The Elms,
June, 189 S. Paringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnuug; Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fanlding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany•
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail 7th September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIO, AFRIO, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
I——a— rill rniK—
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and_ William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“ N.D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW CUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Steamer.
Tons 1 Commander.
| From
Sydney
Destina-
tion.
MUNCHEN ... 4536 A. Krebs ... July 25 Hongkong
STETTIN ... 2478 J. NiedermeyerlSep. 5 Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202.
MELBOURNE.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^
HAVINGf made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we plight particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai 1 boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLE and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE ’
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY >
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, !
Transhipping at E’remantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
July 13.
S.S. Marloo, from Melbourne,
Tuesday, July 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
July 13.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of t' VU.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For A .elaide and W. A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S- N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE— Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—!•> 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cookto. . Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to F. WHITE, Acting Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Kuddart, parker $ IJo’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns | Commander. jLeave Sydney.
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George ...'July 12
AUSTRALIAN ... 3000 P. T. Helms ...'August 4
GUTHRIE ... 2500 W. G. M’Arthur ... September 1
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis ...September 22
I l I
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
■ 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
|D‘|luiraith,||) < Eacharn& (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'xlwraith, M‘Eacharn St Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
MelDOurne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


TWO SORTS OF FATIGUE.
To be tired is nothing. The bodily powers are
more or less exhausted for the time being. No
harm is done. The sources of strength are not
impaired. Food and rest will set things to rights.
We shall sleep all the better for having come
home under the soothing influence of fatigue. It
is nature’s narcotic, leaving no headaches or bewil-
dered brains behind it. It is the highest licence
to knock off work; it is an order for to-morrow s
supply of vigour. The man who was never tired
with honest labour has missed one of lifes
luxuries.
But the thing this woman talks of is very
different. Rest does not relieve it; the cheerful-
ness and refreshment of the evening meal cannot
be used as an antidote to it; it is a sort of weak-
ness which neither welcomes the darkness nor has
hope in the dawn.
“ Ever since I was a girl of twelve years of
age,” she says, “ I have been weak and ailing. I
had no strength or energy, and was always low
and languid. I had a poor appetite, and the little
food I took gave me great pain at the chest and
through to my back.
“My skin was yellow, and I had a constant
pain at my right side. From time to time I was
taken with spasms, and for hours was racked with
pain. I lost much sleep, and had often to sit up
in bed. I had a gnawing pain and a sinking in
the stomach which made me feel as if I had no
strength left.
“In this low state I continued for years, being
sometimes better and again worse, but never free
from pain. I got so extremely weak that I often
thought I should never live.
“ In March, 1893, my mother-in-law told me
about Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and how
it had done her good. I got a bottle from Mr. F.
Hudson, chemist, Eccleshall, and when I had
taken it a short time I found great benefit. My
food agreed with me and I felt stronger. I kept
on taking it, and soon was better than I had been
for years.
“ Since then I have kept the medicine in the
house, and whenever I feel anything of my old
complaint it never fails to ease me. lam now in
good health, for which I thank Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. You can make what use you lil e of this
statement. (Signed) Mrs. Esther L. Pa:in, Cotes
Health Bank, Standon, near Crewe Nov. Ist,
1895.”
Mr. Frank T. Hudson, the chemist whom Mrs.
Palin names, informs us that he has known her
for some years, and vouches for the accuracy of
her statement.
In the absence of definite information we can
do no more than speculate as to the original cause
of this lady having become, at so early an age, a
victim of indigestion. The unhappy fact, how-
ever, is, that there are multitudes of children,
usually girls, who suffer in the same way. They
are anaemic, pale, weak, low-spirited, short of
breath, and generally incapable. Every doctor
comes across them in his practice, and plenty of
trouble and worry he has in trying—commonly
with poor success—to cure them. The fundamental
defect with these young people is a congenitally
bad digestion. The stomach is dull, weak, cold,
and torpid ; hence food does not nourish, and all
the symptoms and results of non-nutrition follow,
as described by Mrs. Palin. The patient may die—
helpless to resist —of some acute disease like
pneumonia or quick consumption or linger along
for many .years, as she- did, bearing a load of illness
and pain that is pitiable to see.
In these sad cases Mother Seigel’s Syrup has
made a record of cures, even in advanced life,
which stamp it as a genuine remedy. It goes to
the root of the trouble, the incompetent stomach
and liver, stimulates them to normal action and thus
ensures a radical recovery. Despite their dismal
past many a woman having used the Syrup, says
with Mrs. Palin, “ I am now in good health
ROCHESTER LODGE
Collins Place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Proprietress.
S 3
W
The cleansers in a Sydney quarantined area
recently discovered in a dirt-heap what appeared
to be two human bodies wrapped m canvas.
Diabolical murder was uppermost in the minds of
all and a big crowd gathered awaiting the arrival
of the police. The “ bodies ” were handled very
cautiously, disinfectants being profusely used,
but, on the wrappings being removed, it was
found that the contents were two dummies,
apparently of the kind used by a stage-ventrilo-
quist.
The Methodists once asked Paul Kruger
for a site for a chapel, and he gave them
an acre. Later on, the Jews applied for space for
a synagogue, and got half an acre. The rabbi
called on Oom Paul, and complained of the dis-
parity. “It’s quite fair,” said the old President;
“ they believe in the whole Bible, and get a whole
acre ; you believe in half of it, and so you get half
an acre.” Despite this disaster, the Hebrew con-
gregation afterwards asked President K. to preside
at the opening ceremony of their temple, and
the grim old man faced a housefull of the Chosen,
and, with his most bitterly wooden expression,
announced, “I declare this building open in the
name of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ! ”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Is this a sign of the decay of English
respect for civil liberty ? On April 14 two Cape
Colony Boers named Van der Walt and Broysen
were sentenced by court-martial at Nauwport to
10 and 5 years’ penal servitude respectively as
rebels. They were not ringleaders, but had joined
Boer commandoes. Now, all through the Indian
Mutiny no prisoners but mutinous sepoys or de-
serters were ever tried by court-martial. Others,
even when taken with arms in their hands, were
always handed over to the civil authorities for
trial. What is called “ Martial Law ”is unknown
to English jurisprudence, except as laid down in
the “ Army Discipline Act.” During the Chartist
agitation in England John William Croker once
asked Wellington what he thought of the proposal
to proclaim martial law. Wellington said: “I
don’t know what martial law is unless it is the
will of the Commander-in-Chief.” He added that
he never had, and never would consent to control
the civil population of a country except through
the ordinary civil authorities. He acted up to
that principle both in India and the Peninsula.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
There is a nice little scandal awaiting ex-
posure at the hands of next Westralian Parlia-
ment. Some years since a crowd of speculators,
among them men on close terms with the Govt.,
acquired a big slice of wild bush-land a dozen
miles from Perth for a mere song. The Mid-
land Railway Co.—an English concern —junc-
tioned with Govt, railway there, and the boodlers
represented in glowing terms the natural advan-
tagesof the place asasitefortherailway workshops,
at present located at Fremantle. A sale of a couple
of hundred acres to Govt, was effected at a colossal
profit on the price paid for it a few months earlier.
The ground was then cleared and a few shanties
erected, but the land—or rather sand—has almost
reverted to its primeval state. Lately Govt, has got
a move on itself, and it is now announced that
£lO,OOO is to be at once spent on new workshops
and machinery. One reason for removing the
shops from Fremantle is the alleged deterioration
of machinery by sea-air, but as no complaints on
that score have been made before it is rather late
in the day to bring forward such a flimsy excuse.
Fremantle is naturally furious, as it is estimated
that £lOO,OOO per year is spent in wages alone
at the works. But in Westralia everything is pos-
sible.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Tailoringr^^
POOR OLD HATTE
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T)UT he turns out a REAL GOOD
SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £2 25.; and a clinker for
505.; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Silk-faced,
from 635.
A chesterfield overcoat
for 555. upwards.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS AND SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. G. HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fk.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c M
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“ My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years —during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. H>. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
liL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“ I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Fh.D., &c.,
iiecturtr on Chemistry, Surgeons' Sail,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and I can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
fOUis’ Velveteen.
\aaaaa^aaaaa«v/»
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0“U"l"S an< * * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
CRESOI.ENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm,
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
** COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM »
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Pree.^^
EUCRRSy
Address orcall on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic.
“ Retained when all” other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
cm
9
BENQER’S FOOD Is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by •
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Yv
l
WHEN any part of the body
is not doing the work that
Nature intended it to do, it
puts the whole system out of
tune —out of harmony. When
all of the parts do not work
well together, none of them
can work just right. Sick-
ness in one part of the body
is likely to run into all parts
of the body. It is not
necessary to be sick all over
the body in order that you
may feel sick all over.
When children stand a row
of bricks on end, they knock
the whole row down by up-
setting one brick. That is
exactly what happens to the
health when the bowels fail
to perform their proper
function. Constipation makes trouble all along
the line—puts the liver out of order, is bad for the
kidneys, bad for the stomach. It holds in the
body poisonous matter, and because it cannot go
any place else, it gets into the blood. The blood
carries it all over the system. That makes
,s’:s'•gishness, lassitude, bad breath, and foul taste
in the mouth, fills the stomach with gas and causes
windy belching, stops digestion in the stomach,
causes sour stomach, heartburn and flatulence. It
makes pimples and blotches and causes sick and
bilious headaches. Nine-tenths of all human
ailments are due to this one seemingly trivial cause.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure constipation.
They really cure it. They do not sicken, do not
weaken, do not gripe. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills give you a healthy stomach, clean bowels, a
lively liver ; they put an appetite in your stomach
and give you blood that is pure, rich and red. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have stood the test of
time ; they have been weighed in the balance and
not found wanting.
Charles Harper, Westralian politician,
parochialist, newspaper-owner, and apple-grower,
: says that, in sending the Federal Bill to the
people, “ the Premier lies open to the. taunt from
his opponents who are opposed to Federation (and
they are many) that he is throwing his friends to
the wolves, on the ground that, because the howl-
ing of the wolves is loud, therefore they must be
many.” Yet Bigjohn is really only taking a
Federal census to see whether the “friends” or
the “ wolves ” are more numerous—to see if there
is a friend for each wolf, so to speak. The W.A.
parochialist invariably declares that the Feder-
alists are a mere handful, and curses terribly at
the proposal to take a vote and prove it.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
THE TRIPLE FORK crown affords all necessary
strength at a vital point, and is a distinctive feature
of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE, which imparts
added value and security to the machine.
factories—Toron to. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin. Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
View Handle jfrar Adjustment.
Fouijd only on 1900 JUlodel Red Bird*,
Notice the great simplicity and effectiveness of this device : just a turn
of the nut and the handle bars may be adjusted to any position : and,
at the same time, be raised or lowered. Nothing to get out of
order. No squeezing of the head tube, as with other bolt and nut
fastenings, consequently no loose head cones and bearings.
This is another of the many little features which make Bed Birds superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by . . * .
Che 6oold Bicycle Co*, £td*
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Auscaaua,
261 COLUNB-6T., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-bt., Wellington, N.Z.
SECOND-HAND MACHINES, ALL MAKES, AT LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C. struck a bright, dry day for the
first act of the Grand National meeting—results a big
attendance, a safe course for the jumpers, and the fastest
3 mile hurdle-race on Flemington record. If anything
could bring a blush to Ikey Mo’s cast-iron cheek, the
victory of Aquarius would have wrought that miracle, for
Ikey opened his double book on the hurdle and steeple
with a 100 to 1 maximum, and the price against Aquarius
capturing the first of the two events was 30, 40, and even 50
to 1 on the course. The winner had done nothing to speak
of over the sticks and he didn’t come from a fashionable
stable. But there were people who remembered that
Aquarius—by Niagara from Rosary was a racehorse in
his young days (Redfearn backed him to win the Derby in
1893) and a few of these old admirers took the odds, and
rejoiced when the numbers went up. The remaining 99
per cent of the audience said Dam.
* • * *
Aquarius (9st. up) was among rankest out-
siders—loo to 3 going begging up to fall of flag. His
time (5.52 J) is fastest since ’B7, when distance was altered
from 2m. 6f. 397yds. to 3m. Next best (5.54) was put up
by Redleap in ’B9; then comes Emmalea’s 6.55 J in ’95.
Not in any instance was Aquarius tipped for a place. One
Melb. scribe wrote last week—“ Beau Brummel ‘lost’
Aquarius at Moonee, and Goldfinder ‘ lost ’ the Beau at
Caulfield. Therefore, what chance can Aquarius have ? ”
Goldfinder was third and Beau Brummel fifth. Backing
’em is a great game.
* * * •
Of the seven nags quoted at less than 20 to 1 for
the G.N. Hurdle, only the favorite, Goldfinder, finished
among the first three. Insult, al2to 1 chance, fell at the
last hurdle when he was leading the field, and perhaps the
catastrophe caused trouble to some of Insult’s pursuers.
Bat, even supposing that the favorite was then interfered
with, there was still plenty of time for him to have got
his nose first past the post if he had been quite the
stayer he was said to be. The way in which Goldfinder
was ridden suggested stable doubts as to his being equal
to a 3-mile journey with the light weight of 9st. 81b. on
his back. Anyhow, a couple of even lighter-weighted
ones were too fast for the favorite at the finish. As for
the animals handicapped at more than 10st., the only one
to make a decent show was Borderer.
* * • •
Considering that the first five horses in the
G.N. Hurdle Race carried less than lOst. each the
scratching of top-weight Wait-a : bit was probably a wise
policy. But you never can tell till you try what a high-
class flatracer is capable of doing with a crowd of inferior
gallopers. Wait-a-bit was ordered to win the Maiden
Hurdle Race (instead of being kept for the big event),
and the Ballarat champion won just as he liked! Strange
to say, the people behind Delusion thought they could
beat the horse that nearly downed The Grafter in the
Melb. Oup. Moreover, they backed their Delusion for a
considerable sum.
* • « •
A line or two re G. N. Hurdles. Since insti-
tution of this event 19 years ago, N.S.W. has never scored
once. Pat’s win in ’9B is claimed by some Cornstalk
writers, but he was in Melbourne months before the race
and belonged to the Vic. trainer Brewer. Ballarat turfites
—among whom were M. Loughlin and Tommy Corrigan
(both dead)— left their marks on different occasions
through swopping down with something that had been
fixed up privately. Redleap appropriated the money in
’B9 and again in ’92. Flemington trainer Whitty shows
out best in connection with the race. He prepared Buzzi
(winner in ’96 and ’97) and Valdis who got home last year.
Brewer trained and owned first nag past post in ’95
(Emiualea) and ’9B (Pat). Horses humping extra-heavy
weights have never won. Don Quixote’s 11.13 in ’B4 is
still unequalled. The Yeoman (12.1, second) and Kings-
wood (12.7, third) are the only nags who have got a
“ drum” with over 12st. up.
» • •» *
At time of writing, the big Steeplechase, run
next Saturday, looks a “good thing” for Mysore, Hay-
seed, and Chelsea “ mixed.” The latter is rather young
for the task, but he’s an honest, improving fellow, and all
going well with him up to the day and in the race, he
will make a big bid for the stake. On the other hand,
Mysore is “ bound to win ” in a street-corner way of
speaking, if he doesn’t let his temper get the better of
him. A while ago the black son of Wellington threatened
to become a confirmed rogue, but after a long respite
from jumping-work he came out and took his fences at
Caulfield, the other day, as though he liked ’em. Mysore
is an interesting question. He wou last year’s G.N.
Steeple, and (bar accidents) he can do the trick again this
year, if he will. At a reasonable starting price, say 4or
5 to 1, which is a short enough price for a queer-tempered
beast, Mysore will carry the present writer’s two-and-six-
pence. Mysore at less than 4 to 1 would not be a tempt-
ing gamble.
* * * *
Ikey Mo’s vile language when a favorite romps
home has been so very vile of late that the V.IJ.C. is pre-
paring to disfranchise the next Ike who may happen to
score six successive unprintable words in one blanky
break. What an argument for the tote ! The machine
ejaculates no filth. It utters nothing save an all-round
dividend of 90 per cent., what time the bookmaker is
cursing because he can’t cop the whole of the share capi-
tal every time. Touching the average profits of the son
of Israel, his sacred Majesty, King of the Ring Joseph,
prattles ingenuously to Melb. Herald. Says the royal
Alf. J. in a recent letter from London : “ There never has
been such a succession of first and second favourites
winning, and the ring have been having a very bad time
this last fortnight, but as the betting is of such magnitude,
one good day and they could get even. ” As though the mag-
nitude or smallness of the wagering had any bearing on
the point that one good day recompenses Ikey for 10 or 12
bad ones ! Imagine the magnitude of his profits when he
gets only one bad day to 10 good ’uns.
■* • * . . * .
“H. S. ” : Now Rand wick (Sydney) has (bar
Onkaparinga, S.A.) the best and most attractive steeple-
course in Australia, would it not be wise of the A. J.O. to
institute a Great Eastern Steeplechase, of, say, 500 sovs.
of added money, with sweep of sovs. added; first
horse, 500 sovs.; second, 75 ; third, 50 or 30 ; and fourth,
20. No third money to be paid unless five horses start,
and no fourth unless seven start. This sort of division
should induce owners to start and run it out. The keep-
ing of steeple-horses is an expensive pastime on account
of the ridiculous smallness of the prizes and the long in-
tervals between events. Also, as the risks of accident are
great, riders’ fees are high. Nevertheless, such a race as
that indicated would be a great attraction, and a step
towards making Randwick “ Steeple ” about the leading
cross-country event of Australia. For such a prize the
competitors might be asked to negotiate the new course
over the hill the second time round as well as the first,
and the addition of a silver or even gold cup by some
wealthy lover of sport would be “ a consummation de-
voutly to be wished.”
* » * •
Cabled last week that the first lots offered at
Duke of Westminster’s yearling sales induced sensational
bids. Twelve realised 43,300g5. One-time Australian
cash-fielder R. Sievier (“ Bob Sutton ”) gave 10,000 gs. for
the Persimmon—Ornament filly, and 5600 and 5500g5. for
two others. Since R.S. hitched on to the Marquis of
Aylesbury’s sister he’s been having a good time. It will
be remembered that he scooped , over £20,000 by The
Grafter’s win, and £30,000 on the day. Since then ’Ome
files tell us that he took £12,000 to £BOOO in one hand
ahout Diamond Jubilee for the Derby, besides other big
sums. His 10,000-guinea 2yr.-old Toddington has turned
out as good as anticipated, and altogether Mr. Robert
Sievieris having a wonderful run of luck.
• » * *
Not generally known that all wagers, no matter of
what magnitude, are paid over at Tattersall’s rooms in
cash. Should a bookmaker offer payment by cheque it
would be thought he was sparring for wind to gain time to
raise the amount. On one occasion a prominent Sydney
business man won £3OOO, and when Humphrey Oxenham
handed over the money in big notes on settling day at
Tatt’s Rooms, the business man, not knowing the strict
practice, waxed wroth, and accused “ Oxy ” of paying in
cash to advertise the bet."
• * * *
Biggest stake-winners for past M.L. racing season
are Advance and Seahorse. Former won 11 and latter 6
events. The pair have never met, though both figured
at Hawkes Bay and Canterbury last spring.
* • * *
Maoriland turfmen are moving in the direction
of stricter legislation re jockey-boys. They talk of intro-
ducing a 3-year-apprenticeship rule by which no lad who
hasn’t served his full time with one stable will be licensed
to “ sport silk ”in a race. The need for such a rule is so
obvious that a paragraph in support of it seems puerile.
Australasia has nothing to learn from England, the old
conservative school of horse-racing, except the lesson that
a boy who can stick to a horse’s back is not necessarily
qualified to steer the animal on courses which are, as a
rule, dangerously circular, in races where starters are
many and jostlings not always unintentional.
* * • *
The unpopular equine Leap-frog is shortly to be
offered at auction by Chisholm and Co. This should
provide a fair test of the public’s view of his galloping
abilities.
• * • •
“ Nulla”: Bulletin par 30/6/’OO anent nag
“ Spare-me-days.” _ Explanation of how he was thus
dubbed is that being 17 hands high his breeder (a short-
legged man) had much trouble mounting him, and almost
invariably tackled the task With the expression “ Spare
me days, how ever am I going to manage it! ” Spare-me-
days is 11 years old and hasn’t yet landed a stake.
* * * *
The death of good-natured Phin Thompson in
Sydney, on Wednesday of last week, surprised sports, as
the old man hadn’t been ill and was to have started a
month’s holiday next day. “Phin” was brother to Joe
Thompson, erstwhile leader of the Australian ring—who
has been laying the odds on a big scale at ’Ome for years.
Barney Thompson, also a bookie “ down under,” is
another brother ; so was handsome, manly Jack Thomp-
son (dead some years) who not only donned the bag but
shone as an athlete—particularly at boxing. Jack beat
Christie in Melbourne and toured Australia giving exhibi-
tions with Larry Foley and J em Mace when England’s last
champion wasout here. All who knew “ old Phin ” liked
him ; but somehow he never had any luck after leaving
that little shop in King-street where he’d lay you the
odds to a fiver and give a fairly good price on the double.
Phin was managing a Sydney tobacco business for several
years past and up to the. time of his sudden exit.
* * • »
First fight in Sydney for heavy-weight bruising
supremacy of the continent since iron man Joe Goddard
quitted these parts is to be decided Monday night. Ebon-
skinned 6ft. Felix and sft. 9in. Bill Doherty are the princi-
pals. Former has a reach like a gorilla while Doherty’s
length of arm is no greater than that ordinarily met with
in men of his inches. Same two fought before in
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) and Felix won. Doherty, however,
claims that a flukey punch, which isn’t likely to recur,
settled the business. If Felix were a second Jackson—
which he thinks he is, but isn’t by long chalks —a fighter
of Doherty’s calibre and physique ought never to get near
him. The lathy-limbed black may win but not if Doherty
can land a punch or two. It’s rough on the country that
produced Larry Foley, Peter Jackson, and Frank Slavin,
to find such mediocre pug. material classed as the finest
available.
• * » *
“ Old-Timer ” : Recent Cribb-Sturgeon fight ex-
cited more widespread interest than anv other for years
previously. Batches of wires came from Q., M.L., and
W.A. seeking information as to result. Cribb has a
damaged thumb—sustained in the second round—which
will go agaiust him always if he’s not careful. Sturgeon
complained of bad hands handicapping his efforts, but
writer doesn’t place much stock in that ; “ Snowy ”
didn’t fight with too much heart at any stage of the
struggle. His backer, Charlie Dunn, said subsequently
that several times he would have taken a “quid” for
what he stood to win. Result goes to endorse what Bul-
letin readers have been told over and over again— viz.,
that fighters as tipsters of fights are the worst in the
world. This time the whole brigade were crazy on Stur-
geon—gave him as an absolute “ moral,” and went about
among “books” and betting people generally, telling
them to have all they could get on—even if they had to
lay twos. Snowy didn’t put up anything like as good a
go as before, and didn’t seem to have the same zest for it
either.
• • * *
Middleweight champion bruiser of N.S.W. —
Mick Dunn —and heavyweight Fred Preston fight in
Melbourne to-night. Latter ought to find it hard to keep
Dunn’s left out of his face,' and' should—bar flukes —be
beaten, if only on points, as his right is, so little good to
him that he might just as well leave it home. - Said that
Dunn, in the event of coming out best, proposes challeng-
ing Cribb. If he does he may run against a snag.
**- • - *
“ Old Timer ” : Went up to see Peter Jackson
at Auburn, where he is putting the finishing touches on
Felix, and was surprised at the marvellous change in his
appearance. He scales as heavily as ever. Sciatica has
almost left him, and his face has complecely lost that
drawn, death-like look which he brought from ’Murka.
Jackson had a quiet smin. go with the other Peter, and
was easily master right through, though the effort taxed
his strength. He talks of opening a big hall in Sydney
on a first-class scale, and taking privately-arranged classes
in hand at their own times.
* * * *
“Jab ”: Wouldn’t mind wagering that if Felix
retains the championship after his fight Monday night
he’ll get out of that promise to meet Mick Dooley by
suggesting a big side-wager, which everybody knows
Dooley can’t find. Felix isn’t gone on putting ’em up
with the 43-year-old Sydney heavyweight, and never did
hanker after the job. A match between Dooley and
Doherty is a “ cert.” if the latter comes out atop. They’ve
met four times, and each has two wins to credit.
* * * *
Said that a certain boxer, who had the luck to
cut even with a better man in a big match not long ago,
and whose “ whack ” of the gate reached within a few
pounds of a hundred, magnanimously handed his trainer
£7 in requital for seven weeks’ close care and attention
and to pay board and. lodging. How different others.
When Peter Jackson beat Tom Lees he gave his trainer
(“ Geordie ” Cowan) half the winner’s share (£300) of the
house. That’s the other extreme,' of course.
» » * *
“ Mark ” : Whilom Melb. “sewerage champion”
Billy Edwards got another knock in New York less than
two months ago. Yankee bruiser, C. Johnson, settled
him in 7 rounds. Newspapers said the Australian quitted
deliberately. Writer won’t believe. that, as few grittier
pugs ever left this section. Billy’s doings in Melb. amply
evidenced the fact. They went crazy on his spunk in
S’Africa, where nothing but the bull-dog that is in him
brought victory his way in that 25-round battle with Mick
Dunn—who meets Preston to-night
* • .. _ * *
. Apropos the world’s champion pug. Jeffries
pbre tacks Rev. before his naine,' and is said to he the
finest, sample of muscular Christianity! extant. Inter-
viewed last month, he adduced Biblical justification for
prize-fighting, and reasoned that all the shining spots in
sacred history are set off by championship contests.
“ God had two sons, and one was against the bther,” said
Parson Jeffries, standing in the centre of a group of
bruisers. “ One was the Son of Light, the Lord of Hosts,
and the other was the Son of Darkness,, the prince of the
bottomless pit. They fought, .and the best son won."
The audience never having heard of that fight before
crowded eagerly around the clergyman. “ Then Adam
had two sons,” continued the shepherd, “ and they
fought; and then there was Abraham—he also had two
sons opposed to each other. Jacob, too, had a couple of
sons who were not in unison ; and,” said the old man
finishing up, “doesn’t the Bible say there shall be cities
against cities, and friends against friends, and nations
against nations.”
An amusing item of pug. news is that Austra-
lian fourth-raters M'Auliffe and Brophy fought for the
top-notch bruising honors of India at Calcutta, May 31.
It was a wild scramble from the jump, and only lasted
ljmin., when Mac. outed his bigger opponent. Brophy
was champion up to this light, through beating a big
fellow in Burmah while he (Brophy) was sickening for an
attack of smallpox that nearly blew his light out. Said
brevity of latest battle gave incipient boom a black eye
that it won’t soon get over. Unsophisticated chutnee
and curry-eaters evidently expected two men from the
same land and far away from home to fight on their
merits. Ridiculous! Why, Melb. pugs, won’t come over
to Sydney and go straight, or vice versa ; you’ve got to
get one from each province before you have ’em right,
and then it’s no “ moral ” that they’ll do the proper thing.
Apropos Australians fighting for the supremacy of other
countries. We had Slavin and Jackson at the same game
in England, and if Bob hadn’t specially barred him Peter
and Fitzsimmons would have shaped up in Yankeedom
for the supremac}' of that country and_ the world. Fitz.
and Oreedon and Fitz. and Jim Hall fought for the mid-
dle-weight laurels of America and the world, and Billy
Murphy and Griffo had a cut for similar distinction in the
feather class.
* * • *
“Bare’Uns”: Bulletin par. (23/6/’00) re Cor-
bett-Choynski fight near Benicia (Cal.) 11 years ago. Said
that Corbett used 2oz. and let Cho.vnski have driving-
gloves. To the uninitiated this would look like magnani-
mity on Corbett’s part, but he had the better of the deal,
as padding was a big protection for his hands and enabled
him to send in the heaviest punch without feeling it on
the knuckles. Choynski had nothing but the bare piece
of kid between his fists and whatever bony parts of
“Pompadour Jim’s” anatomy they made impact with.
Results proved the correctness of this view. Choynski
hits as hard as any man in the game, and Corbett is a
light hitter; former was cut and bruised everywhere
while latter, though bad enough, showed comparatively
few sig*s of stoush. Most people think bare fists cause
greater damage, but that is wrong : it has been shown
over and over again that l£oz. or 2oz. gloves will do in-
finitely more harm.
• • * *
Monday’s cables told that Australian sprint
premier Stan. Rowley (N.S.W.) had competed in the Eng.
100yds. supremacy at annual championship meeting on
Stamford Bridge Grounds (London) previous Saturday,
and, after winning his heat, finished fourth in the final.
Same source conveyed information that Yankee runners
appropriated 8 out of 13 championships contested. S.M.
Herald —up to date, as usual —referred to the meeting as
“ International Championships at Paris,” which under
title of Olympian Games, don’t take place till next and
following Sundays. Last Wednesday Rowley, at Wolver-
hampton, accounted for the then holder (Wadsley) of the
’Ome premiership at 100yds. by 2yds. in 10 2-5, which
made his chance in Saturday’s struggle look very good—
bar the possibility of Americans en route to Paris, up-
setting it. And this would seem to have occurred, as it is
hardly likely that there was a better Britisher than
Wadsley, except, perhaps, the Cambridge flier Hind, who
was credited with 9 4-5. Pritchard, of Calcutta, who
won honors in lOsec. and is said to be capable of 9 4-5,
might have competed, also Americans Barney, Wefers
and Duffy, both of whom have 9 4-5 opposite their names.
Rowley has traversed the 100 in lOsec. dead many a time,
and last Nov., at the Union Championships in Brisbane,
was clocked to do 9 9-10, a yard faster than evens. Soon
after reaching the old country Rowley went in a handi-
cap at Glasgow and was beaten by Jyd. Winner’s time
(probably with a good start) was lOsec. All things con-
sidered, Australia’s chance of carrying off one of the blue
ribbon events at Auteuil (France) doesn’t look too good.
• •< * m
M.L. Amateur Athletic Association members
have been much exercised over the question whether
umbrellas, rugs and sich are legitimate “ trophies,” and,
being unable to settle the matter among themselves, they
appealed to Union officials, who solemnly decided, after
much deliberation, that the articles mentioned were not
trophies “ within the meaning of the Act.” Apropos, a
year or two ago an amateur won a prize (unnamed on pro-
gramme) promised by a Balmain storekeeper, and upon
presenting the order was introduced to a large galvanised-
iron bath and asked whether he would have it sent or
take it with him. Matter came before Council of N.S.
Wales A.A.A. Chairman ruled that a trophy was some-
thing that could be inscribed, and upon its being pointed
out that that was possible with a bath he ruled again that
it was either a pendant or an addition to a sideboard.
• * • *
Two American athletes (Kraenzlein and Prin-
stein) have, at Philadelphia, broken the long-jump record,
with a clear 24ft. 7|in.
“ Nat ” : Was amused at an com-
menting on the “ Trudgeon ” (double-over-arm) stroke in
swimming. He says it is only fit for distances from 30 to
.60yds., or for finishing. Its ablest exponents rarely use
the method in longer races than 100yds. The only man
who depends upon it entirely, he remarks, is Australian
Freddy Lane, who is frequently so exhausted that he has
to be helped out of the water, sometimes bleeding freely
from the nostrils through the strain, and (continues the
’Ome scribe) he has been known to have been quite pro-
strate for hours after a contest. This will all be news to
N.S.W. swimmers—most of whom adopt the “ Trudgeon ”
style over any journey. Even schoolboys use it and
never complain of distressing consequences. Lane bleed-
ing and being prostrate for hours after a race is something
quite fresh; he never suffered that way here, though
many a time at his top speed from end to end of a long
stretch. It’s only a matter of getting used to the double
over-arm stroke.
* • * *
Joe Darling is about to resume farming, and
may play very little more big cricket. It is stated that
he will settle either in the S.E. of S.A., or somewhere in
N.S.W. Darling gave up farming just prior to his acces-
sion to big cricket in 1893, and if hjs resumption of
country life debars him from active cricket Australia will
suffer a big loss. Few people know, by the way, that
Darling was on the brink of retirement in ’99 before the
last team went to England. He still runs his Adelaide
. cricket business.
* » * »
Generally understood in Adelaide that S.A.
Cricket Association will not renew Ernest Jones’s retainer
r next Sept. “ Jonah ” gets £2 10s. a week, and confines
himself solely to playing cricket. A precarious living at
the best.
* * • *
Australia’s erstwhile captain, Billy Murdoch,
came to light again recently with a score of 86 for London
County against Cambridge. Since he left Sussex,
Murdoch has practically retired, and, as he is now 45 and
fleshy, “ W.L.” hasn’t much more cricket in him.
* • * *
Jessop, the Gloucester county team slogger, has
put up a record by scoring 157 runs in 60 minutes against a
West Indies Eleven. But then, Percy M'Donnell, of yore,
could do that sort of thing with less recklessness than
Jessop shows.
• « • *
Details of Englishman Hayward’s compilation
of 1000 runs in first-class cricket before the end of May
are to hand. On last day he notched 92, thus exceeding
the necessary four figures by 74. Though this aggregate
is greater than W.G.’s for same period in ’95, it isn’t quite
'so good a record, as Hayward played three more innings.
Grace notched over 200 twice, and on two other occasions
exceeded 100. Hayward didn’t reach 200 for one innings,
but he six times passed 100. During his first seven innings
he never totted up less than 55, and was run out once.
Subsequently only 14 runs were credited to him for three
innings, but in the last week he made amends, and with
.a similar number of opportunities against Sussex and
Gloucestershire hit up 278. His average for 13 innings
(twice not out) was 97'63.
Gov. Beauchamp, while up North in N.S.W.,
the other day, was trotted out to the inevitable football-
match. A committeeman, with a burning desire to make
himself agreeable, sidled up to His Ex. and began to ex-
Elain that “ one team was tryin’ to put that there leather
all between them two sticks!” “Quite so,” said N.S.
Wales’ Pretty Boy, with a twinkle in his eye, “ the game
was played once or twice before I left England.”
* * • *
“Bike”: Apropos 16st. 101 b. Smyth’s record-
breaking feats {vide Bulletin par. 7/7/’00). Though highly
meritorious for a man of his age and bulk, the perform-
ances are nothing to enthuse over—all things weighed.
Figures wiped out were put up years ago, when turf-
tracks only existed, and the banked asphalt article was
hardly dreamt of. Leaving motor-pace out of the ques-
tion altogether, human-pacing, as it is now, never
occurred. Said that Wally Kerr (Sydney), whose “bests”
most of those eclipsed records were, expressed surprise at
their standing till to-day. He made them six years ago, and
believes they’ve often been beaten since—on grass as well
as asphalt.
• • * •
The system of handicapping by the N.S.W.
gun-clubs is one calculated to play right into a schemer’s
hands. Say a man is placed on 24yds. at the beginning of
the season, he stays there right through, unless he wins a
trophy. Consequently, if a man is out for the coin, he
can back his gun and fall out when it comes to a chance
of his winning the trophy—thereby staying on the 24yds.
all through the season, no matter how good his shooting.
* • • «
At a recent London pigeon-show, five “tipplers”
were listed at £lOOO each ! and two fantails at £7OO each.
Which recalls the case in which a wealthy Sydneyite, a
bit of a fancier, had deputed a P. and O. skipper to pro-
cure for him a few pairs of a very rare and costly variety
of pigeon. When the skipper, in course of time, brought
out the birds from England, he sent his chief-steward off
with them to consignee, who happened to be dressing
when the steward arrived, and, being told by the maid
that “ there was a man waiting with pigeons,” said, “ All
right—take ’em to the cook 1 ” Later on, in town, he met
the skipper, who inquired what he thought of the pigeons.
“ Pigeons ? ” exclaimed the other—•“ good Heavens ! were
those the fancies ? ” And he rushed home, only to find
that the prized importations were already defunct and
under pie-crust. He was a rich man, but a £5O pigeon-
pie was a staggerer.
* • • •
At the Charters Towers (Q.) cycling carnival
Hunt, from Melbourne, carried oft the most important
cycle events — viz., the June Stakes of one mile and the
Cyclone Plate, over three miles. He rode Dunlop tyres.*
♦ * * *
Arthur Smyth, weighing 16 stone, hung on to
the Dunlop motor tandems the other day, and put up
several new amateur records.*
* * * •
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet and Athletic
Record for 1900 has just come to hand. Performances of
the Cup candidates are displayed in alphabetical order,
and the mass of general sporting information is leavened
with a few photo, portraits of men and horses. The
Pamphlet’s postal address is c/o J. J. Miller, Post Office
Place, Melbourne.


n RUSH
for the goal, to be successful,
depends on the quality of the
training
To be successful, requires in
other things, besides football,
self-denial. .
We have thrown a quarter of
a century’s work into our
earnest endeavours to make
rrm
Tobacco
Perfect in Quality, Faithful in Manufacture,
and Unique in Flavour.
Questions HAVE WE SUCCEEDED?
Answer: 3,000,000 lbs. are sold annual! v throughout Australasia.
9 You needn't Rush it—every Tobacconist and Storekeeper sells Derby.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.
Handsomely Chased and Plain Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Pots— Price, 15/
Larger Sizes —17/6, 20/-, 25/-
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HANDSOME
3-Bottle
SILVER-PLATED
BREAKFAST CRUET.
Price, 10/6
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas 00. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney, Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
The sudden upheaval of the Chow and
consequent subversion of the Foreign Devil, has
moved Messrs. Sands and McDougall, Ltd., of
Melbourne, to publish an up-to-date map of the
centre of disturbance and the territories adjacent
thereto. Japan, Corea, Manchuria and the
eastern portion of China are shown, with list of
distances, railways made and projected—-chiefly
projected—and other useful knowledge. To any-
one who wishes to follow the course of the trouble
it is a useful work.
When the news of the capture of Major
Bayly was discussed at Sydney Barracks, a very
distinguished officer remarked : “ Well, I think it
was quite time that Major Bayly took the steps
he did, to let the New South Wales authorities
know what had become of him.” By the way,
Bayly put Jawbone Neild under arrest for writing
a letter to the papers; now Bayly has been put
under arrest for robbing a Boer hen-roost.
Apropos, what has become of the report of the
tribunal which so long ago investigated the row
between Jawbone Neild and a brother officer ?
As Nelson Illingworth, the clever Sydney
sculptor, after an extended period of unusually
hard luck, is now suffering from severe illness, a
meeting was held on Monday last at the Hotel
Australia with the view of taking steps to assist a
man who was never behindhand m succoring"
others. It was resolved that a fund for the pur-
pose in question be formed upon lines to be
decided by a committee including ex-Speaker
Abbott, Messrs. B. R. Wise, Bruce Smith, and
numerous other representatives of politics, art,
music and literature.
The Belgian police have amused them-
selves by testing the “murderous” possibilities of
the revolver which young Sipido lately discharged
at the Prince of Wales. The weapon was re-
loaded with cartridges taken from the pocket of
the bloodthirsty young crank, and was then tested
in a series of attempts upon the imaginary life of
a hospital corpse, Half the cartridges missed fire
and the bullets from the others trickled so feebly
from the barrel that they didn’t even penetrate
the corpse’s chest-protector. Their career terrain*
ated between the Waistcoat and the shirt of the
defunct. It is probable, of .course, that Sipido’s
foolishness had a deadly intent; all the same, the
incident reminds one of another young crank who
sent a thrill through the British nation some 30
years ago. The poor fellow rushed up to the
Queen’s carriage with a small brass-bound volume
in one hand and a humorous, broken revolver in
the other, and was consigned to a lunatic asylum
for his trouble. David James and Tom Thorne,
favorite burlesque artists and joint managers of
London Vaudeville in those days, hit off the
terrible event in a topical verse 1
“ You’ve heard about the villain bold, the vilest ever seen,
Who had a mind to ’sassinate our well-belov6d Queen ;
With pocket-book and pistol, too—but he forgot to cock
it, . .
And when they took him up they found the trigger in his
pocket.”
Remarkable how history repeats itself. _ Topical
rhymes re the attack on the Queen’s Heir Appar-
ent will go somewhat like this :
■When Britain talks of Sipido the cheek of Britain pales,
For he’s the wretch who tried to “pot” ’Bertedward,
Prince of Wales ;
And had his bullets hit the mark (the thought inspireth
loathing),
They might have done some damage to his victim’s under-
clothing.
The Building and Engineering Journal
(Melb.) publishes the following letter from Prof.
Waddell, a leading American bridge engineer
Messrs. Monash and Anderson, 49 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, Australia.
Gentlemen, —Since dictating a letter to you this morn-
ing I have read over the conditions for the competition on
Sydney (North Shore) Bridge, and have come to the con-
clusion that it is a case of “ heads I win and tails you
lose.” Let us analyse the thing. The city (Govt.) offers
prizes to the amount of about 7500d01. for the two best
plans. Let us assume that there are 20 plans prepared.
Each plan, if properly got up, will .cost in cash, say,
1500d01., making a total of 30,000d01. This is the value
of the work done by the competitors for the city, and
they pay 7600d01. for it. Again, what does each bidder
have to do in addition to the preparation of the plans? He
has to putin a bid on the work, and will be called upon to
back that bid with a 50,000d01. deposit; but if his design
is the most satisfactory, he has no assurance that the
contract will be given to him, because the city buys the
plans outright and can call for bids in competition on
these plans. The city should have given the engineering
with the usual 5 per cent, fee to the successful bidder in
addition to the £lOOO prize. Had such been the case, it
would have been worth while to compete, but as it stands,
it is not. We have decided that under the circumstances
it will not pay us to touch the work. If you think best,
you can send this letter to the Government official in
charge of the project. I feel certain that they will get no
designs from really reliable parties and competent bridge
engineers in the United States,
v Very respectfully yours,
(Signed) J. A. L. WADDELL.
He looks on the competition as a kind of depart-
mental confidence trick, and there is solid ground
for the opinion. Some years ago competitive
designs were invited for the Hawkesbury College ;
after the prize was allotted a change of Ministry
occurred, and, for economy, the erection was
made to plans supplied by N.S.W. Works Depart-
ment. The cost complete was practically the
same for a much inferior structure to that repre-
sented in the winning design.
Bomns muidimp,
ioo sovs.
Distance,
130yds.
To be run on Friday Afternoon, Aug 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st
August, 1900. Entry Forms and full particulars may be
obtained from the undersigned.
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rPO CYCLISTS AND CYCLIJ . .
X D*“ YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
“IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines, and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
At Poverty Point.
Marchesi, The Bulletin hears on high authority, is not
too enthusiastic over Amy Castles and her vaunted voice.
Perhaps Madame expected much. But she couldn’t have
expected anything finfer than the Australian puffsters had
promised her.
Lalla Miranda’s recent Italian opera deb (it in London
was, according to Signor Della Robbia (in Sydney-D.T.),
an unqualified success. The part was Gilda, in “ Rigo-
letto,” and the lady, it appears, though on her first entry
“ suggestive of one of Raphael’s angels,”. was rather
coldly received, and showed some consequent nervous-
ness, until her rendering of the beautiful “Caronome”
brought down the house. “It would be absolutely im-
possible,” says the critic mentioned, “to hear it more
tenderly or passionately delivered, or with more consum-
mate vocal and artistic and dramatic expression.” As
regards the histrionic side of the performance, “ all her
actions,” it is stated, “ were spontaneous and subtle, and
one had not to agree that she was doing the right things
with her arms and hands, but that any other actions than
those adopted would be impossible.” Her acting, it is
added, recalled that of Tietjens, and the summing-up is
that the lady is “ an emphatic artistic success.”
It is remarked that Nance O’Neil has not yet made stage
love or allowed it to be made to her, and there are no kisses
in the bill. The Australian public yearns to see Nance
make love to somebody. The Bulletin is ready to buy
the house for first night.
“ Stroller” : The “ School for Scandal” reminded me of
Garrick’s advice to Bannister : “You may fool the town
in tragedy, but beware of comedy.” It was not so much
lightness as variety that was wanting. It was in two or
three keys—already familiar from “ Magda” and “ Eliza-
beth.” Nance’s was the first Lady Teazle I have seen who
has failed to get a round for her line to Joseph to leave
honor out of the question. Because it was no sudden
lapse out of coquetry into seriousness—she had been
serious from the beginning, and, therefore, the audience
were not surprised. Also, the quarrel scenes, by too much
of the same earnestness, were changed into mere man-
and-wife squabbles—which are not comic at all, to any-
one who has been there. The comedy arises from the
feeling that it is a mere contest of wit—with no life or
death on the issue. Married folk will appreciate the dis-
tipction. Realism turns it into drama—at least to the
more sensitive of the audience, probably to the married
portion. This was proved by “ hushes ” interrupting the
laughter at Joseph’s pretended condolences with Sir
Peter. These were from people sorry for Sir Peter.
Realism is as fatal to 18th-century comedy as was Daudet’s
remark that “ he was sorry for the frog ” to the Jumping
Frog story. But no one believes it a real frog, the humor
is the resourcefulness of his owner. In the same way,
make Teazle v. Teazle a real divorce case, and you are too
sorry for either to enjoy it as comedy.
Regina Nagel hopes to make her first appearance in
London next Nov., at a concert where she will get a fair
start as the rival of Clara Butt and Ada Crossley. It
appears that Marchesi’s faith in the one-time timid
warbler of “Ben Bolt” has grown stronger than ever.
After hearing Butt sing in Paris the other week, Marchesi
declared that her pupil could give points to the big
contralto, but Nagel took the flattery with several grains
of salt. “ They talk like that about all of us —before we
come out,” she said.
Tom Fitzgerald sends from London a programme for the
first ten performances of the Covent Garden Opera
season. Melba led off as Mimi in “La Bohfeme”(in Italian)
and was “ great,” says compatriot Tom Fitz. Three days
later Melba sang Marguerite in “ Faust,” and on the
Monday following Mme. Miranda (Mile. Lalla Miranda no
longer) made her debut as Gilda in “ Rigoletto,” and
scored “ a great success,” according to friend Tom’s pro-
gramme notes. The cast for “ Der Ring des Nibelungen ”
series (4 operas) included Frau Schumann-Heink, the
contralto, who was lately concerting in Canada with
Antoinette Trebelli.
Oarados, the London Referee critic, had something
kind and thoughtful to say about Dion Boucicault’s per-
formance in “ His Excellency the Governor,” a play which
didn’t make a big success. “To the first class, which is
so very exclusive, Mr. Dion Boucicault cannot be admitted,
but he is either a first-rate second-rate actor, or a second-
rate first-rate actor, and please understand that I am
placing the rate as high as possible. I have never seen
Mr. Boucicault play any part badly; I have never seen
him play any part other than well, and I have never seen
him play any part in all sorts of parts better than he plays
His Excellency’s private secretary.” Five inches taller,
and with physical strength in proportion, Dion Boucicault
could have been a mighty mummer in comedy or tragedy.
The Bulletin has always worshipped the great little man.
F.: Re your “ Sundry Shows” complaint that Nance’s
declamatory Magda seemed ‘ ‘ out of the picture,” a carping
critic of the criticism told you that the massive lady
would be unnatural if she were not “ out of the picture.”
The picture, said the C. 0., is the parental home from
which Magda has been long exiled, and where, on her
return, she is out of harmony with her humdrum sur-
roundings. Now, I would say that the play is the picture,
and the “ home ” setting happens to be the only scene in
the play. Call the home the picture if you like. Magda
is the central figure. She returns, according to the dra-
matist, in a subdued spirit. The dialogue tells us that
Magda has on some previous nights gazed wistfully at the
windows of her old home until the lights were extin-
guished. At last she is persuaded to come along and be
reconciled to her father. The brilliant prima-donna con-
sents to sleep under her father’s roof. She is inclined to
be a new Magda pro tem , no doubt about that, for when
her father starts to cut up rough on the subject of
her past the dramatist makes her say, “ Now I
am the old Magda again.” Does Miss Nance O’Neil, as
Magda, ever give a convincing performance of the woman
who had kept watch outside the home ere she made up
her mind to re-enter it ? Does she ever suggest a soft
side to her nature ? Is there an air of reality about her
show of submission to her father and the precious pastor ?
If not, she is “ out of the picture ” —right out of it.
“ P. A.” : The real English actors in “ Elizabeth,” Carne
and Kingston, throw the lines off their chests in admir-
able, manly fashion, but Mistah Plimmah, who hails
from my country (Maoriland) and not from England,
comes mincing along, and says in a four-o’clock-tea voice,
“Wat! noe wunne hyah?” Now, Mary’s long-nosed,
wooden-headed son was not the handsome, short-nosed
soldier of Mistah Plimmah, and he did not talk like a
“colonial experiences” From his polygot breeding he
would most likely have said: “Hech.'mon! Personne
pas ici n’est ce pas? Som< piddy vas not hierans, aint it?”
Melb. : Chas. Clark here experiences the fate of many
other worthy artistes. His powers do not decline, but
his audience slides away. The younger generation.
“Viator” : The Belles of New York must always have
one idolised English actor. In my time they were Mon-
tague, Rignold, Bellew.
Holdar M. : I fancy the trained warbler of the Austra-
lian platform doesn’t live too luxuriously these times.
There are hordes of her —and him—in every large capital,
and, albeit their “ regular fee” ranges from three to five
guineas per single concert-engagement, 7s. 6d. to 10s. is
mostly offered—and gladly accepted. The flavor of
ad. alone induces many of ’em to sing for nothing at
benefit entertainments, and the majority despair of ever
raising sufficient “ oof ” to pay their passages to happier
lands. But is there a happier land ?
Sarah Bernhardt, always up-to-date, is introducing
cinematograph effects into a battle-scene in her latest
production, “ L’Aiglon.” Also, a London manager has
tried some animated war-pictures in a topical patriotic
drama.
They have had a Jap dramatic co. performing at the
Bijou Theatre, New York. The little brown artists play
(in their own language of course) a comedy which is
mainly an eastern version of “ Pygmalion and Galatea.”
Jap adaptations of “Hamlet” and “ Merchant of Venice ”
are promised.
According to rumor (says Sydney D.T.), Mme. Melba
returns to her native land with George Musgrove’s
new company. . Her intention is to give two performances
a week “ for the charities,” so as to heap coals of fire on
the heads of talkative countrymen who declared that only
gold galore would bring her home again.
Mrs. Bernard-Beere’s new husband is the son of a Church
of England canon.
Miss Edith Berry, now at Melb. Her Majesty’s, although
a handsome and shapely girl, bears a striking resemblance
to the caricatures of her father, the extinct democratic
volcano.
The customs of the aristocracy, as lately seen in “ East
Lynne ”at a Sydney theatre, are at least original. Lady
Isabel, in a low-down gauze ball-dress aiid diamond neck-
lace, gives the butcher’s orders, that tradesman evidently
standing somewhere outside on the doormat just as the
evening guests are coming in. Again, Sir Francis strug-
gles with his overcoat in Lady Isabel’s presence before
removing his bell-topper, and thus gives the impression
that the girlhood’s home of Lady Isabel does not possess
an entrance hall. This aristocratic conduct so impresses
Dampier’s stout lady that she forthwith takes the fatal
step which leads to her dying; healthily in the last act,
looking as if Sin agreed well with her.
R. 0. Carton’s new comedy, .“ Lady Wentworth’s Ex-
periment,” ought to be an Australian success one of these
days if Brough gets hold of it. The heroine, unjustly
divorced by her “ bad egg” of a husband, takes a situa-
tion as cook, and appears most of the time in natty kit-
chen attire. Old friend Dion Boucicault is said to give a
fine performance of the noble “ bad egg.”
An interesting theatrical divorce-suit—Synge v. Synge
—was decided the other day. Petitioner, a daughter of
General Stuart, sued for divorce from Major Synge on the
ground of adultery and desertion, and when a jury had
certified to the adultery, his Honor sat on his own to hear
the arguments re desertion. Seemed that the Major,
after two or three periods of absence (in India) from his
wife, retired from the army and proposed to settle down
to domestic happiness in London, but the lady refused, as
she had refused four years previously, to live with him on
other than sisterly terms. Also she was determined to
take to the stage. The Major, finding his wife struck on
the stage, and no longer struck on him, refused to live
with her as a mere attendant “ brother.” Hence her plea
of desertion. Judge Jeune, in refusing a decree nisi, put
the law this way : “ The object of married life was ex-
pressed in the marriage service, and was none the less
true because they were the utterances of a more plain-
spoken age than the present; and while human nature
remained what it was he would hold a husband had a
right to decline to submit to a demand by his wife that
he should live with her as husband only in name. The
conclusion he had come to was tha the respondent did
not desert his wife but rather that she deserted him, and
that if he did desert her he did so with reasonable cause.”
As for the adultery it had happened between times of the
wife’s refusal to live up to the marriage service and there-
fore didn’t count. Moreover, the frigid matron had not
known of it when she finally repulsed the gallant Major.
Trebelli’s mother waa a Frenchwoman, her stage-name
oeing partly her family-name—Gilbert —spelt backwards.
Then she married . the Italian violinist, and hyphenated
his name to her assigned stage-name, making it Trebelli-
Bettini. So the daughter of that musical union is pro-
perly Mile Antoinette Bettini.
Some U.S. towns have proscribed the play of “ Sapho”
since Olga Nethersole’s appearance before the Court in
connection therewith, and in several of these Mrs. Lang-
try has been forbidden to present “ The Degenerates.”
The Newark (N. J.) authorities having decided to permit
one presentation of her play, on probation, before them-
selves as censors, she angrily cancelled her engagement
in that place. If there was anything giddy in the piece
the beaks wanted to get the benefit of it. “ Sapho.” (the
book) was interdicted at Melb. Customs when the late J.
Beef Patterson was in office.
The Big Scrub Amateur Opera Co. lately revived
“ Pinafore.” Sir Joseph Porter’s hat was a tea-cosy, and
Captain Corcoran was so awkward with his sword that he
unbuckled it and dropped it over side of ship, and, when
he wanted it later on, he calmly stepped into the ocean and
dredged up his weapon amid much applause. A soprano
behind the scenes used to sing the tenor’s high notes
while he gesticulated appropriately in front.
“La Tosca” has been operaticised by the young
and brilliant Italian composer, Puccini. The five acts of
Sardou’s tragedy have been compressed into three, and
the story is all the stronger for the excision of certain
scenes.
Irving makes one think of Kean when he said, “ They
give me £2OO a week, but I acted better round the barns
for fifteen shillings.”
“Paris”: Du Maurier took the name, “Trilby,” from
the favorite mare of M. de Camors, in Feuillet’s romance
of this title, but Feuillet took it from a tale in some vogue
nearly 100 years ago.
Charles Mathews had a most agreeable way with him.
From his published diary : “ June 1. —Called on Jackson
to pay him the £3O I owe. Ended by borrowing £4O
more.”
Has anybody ever heard of the star actress who didn’t
take to the stage much against the will of her parents ?
Sothern, of “Lord Dundreary” fame, was the champion
jokist of the stage. At New York during one season he
was in a theatre within easy reach of another playhouse
where an intimate friend was “ starring ” in melodrama.
It was Sothern’s habit, between acts at his own house, to
run across to his friend’s theatre, no matter in what
character he was dressed, walk upon the stage at any
period of the play, and, putting his hand on the shoulder
of the hero of the melodrama, say to him with great
earnestness: “You are sure you will marry the girl in
the end?” And then, pretending to have received an
affirmative answer, he would add with the emotion of a
“heavy father” : “ God bless you, my boy ; I always said
you were a good fellow.”
The first stage appearance of Elenezer Ward,
the S.A. politician, was as an amateur at a special benefit
got up at Melb. Royal for G. V. Brooke. The play was
Colman’s “ Poor Gentleman.” In the cast with Ward
were Jas. Smith (of the Argos), Edgar Ray (Punch), John
Edwards (solicitor), H. J Chambers (solicitor), John
Hayward (father of Mrs. R. Stewart, jun., and known on
the stage as Deorwyn), A. C. Fox (Hobson’s Bay Railway
Station Master), and other prominent citizens. A cheque
representing £220 was presented on the stage to Brooke
by Jas. Smith, but it was whispered that it was but so
much waste paper, as the cash proceeds were seized by
creditors.
G. V. Brooke, who was a prodigious favorite in Aus-
tralia, and who also did well in America, failed to establish
himself in London. He made a hit on his first night with
Othello, but he could not maintain the good impression
in subsequent performances, aud finally smashed himself
by quarrelling with Macready, then all-powerful. John
Mori ey wrote of Brooke after his death : “He was a melo-
dramatic actor. He must have been a noble fellow
(referring to the foundering of the s.s. London), but he
could not act Shakespeare.” Laman Blanchard, critic of
London Daily Telegraph, records in his published diary
that Brooke’s Othello was a mistake. Helen Faucit
(Lady Martin), who had acted with the tragedian, states
in her reminiscences that he was incapable of bringing
any brain power to bear on his work. It is possible that
Brooke was a better actor in Australia than anywhere
else. The climate suited his voice, and he took to the
people the moment he landed. But he fell away sadly
during his last two years on the Continent. Brooke
began his stage career as an infant phenomenon—a hand-
some boy with a lovely voice.
Dampier’s popularity in the “ Profesh ” is wonderful.
Given as actors are to the depreciation of each other, not
a malicious word is ever heard of Alfred. Much the same
might be said of George Musgrove, the secret probably
being that both men keep the members of their companies
always in pay, even if the caste allows of little work.
When Henry Irving had reached the top-notch in his
profession, and all Londonfivas flocking to see his Hamlet,
he met Charles Dillon one day, in the Strand, and spoke
to him. Dillon responded, with an air of non-recognition.
“You don’t seem to remember me,” said Irving, “ but I
was a stock-actor at the Edinburgh Royal, when you were
starring there. My name is Irving.” “ Ah, yes,” drawled
Dillon, “ I think I recollect. Doing anything now ? ”
Walter Montgomery' comitted suicide at his hotel in
London. He had invested large savings in Melbourne ;
and he did well in America on his way to England. He
married a handsome woman before leaving the States,
and on reaching London took a theatre to play Shake-
speare .at the fag end of the season. The venture was a
failure. Without closing the house, he fired a pistol into
his mouth one afternoon. Just before the fatal act, he
sang out to his wife, in the next room, “ Good-bye,
Lily ! ” and that, she said, was all she knew about it.
The true cause of Montgomery’s melancholy end will now
never be known. He was a beautiful elocutionist, with a
picturesque stage figure. Many of his Australian ad-
mirers thought that if he had been a level-headed man
(which he was not) he would have got ahead of Henry
Irving, who was never intended by Nature to be an actor,
though he achieved a triumph of industry.
When Henry Irving made his first London appearance
under Bateman at the Lyceum, the wily lessee advised
him to adopt some grotesque peculiarities, on the prin-
ciple that half the critics would condemn and the other
half applaud, so that in the midst of the hullaballoo he
would become a personage. Irving accordingly said
“ grole ” for “ growl,” and “ ole ” for “ owl,” and rapidly
reached the pinnacle of fame.
One of the oldest buildings in Sydney, the Creswick
Club Hotel, Bent-st., is about to be demolished. Long ago
it was the residence of a leading Government official, and
it obtained its present name from the fact that Creswick,
the old-time tragedian, lived there when fulfilling a
Sydney engagement.


s' Bronchitis
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who hfive taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWARB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Oliemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Cure.
Hearne
"DOWKIDGE’S’
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government,
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
]re you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Plesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or .
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(LTMTTETI),
Illawarra), near SYDWBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PnODXJOERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
wm
.
MAKERS OF
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
c leasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST TRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Maktin Place, SYDNEY.
jm
l
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
76=5
WA
w
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
v,A
9Jft
f'.l'll'
LP
t**
%
m
• London:'
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACTVSIZE
OFTHEBOmE
EXACT SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE
By Removing' from the Blood and Tissue the Excess of Uric
Acid, from which this Agonising Malady arises,
KUTNOW’S POWDER gives Speedy and Certain Relief.
There is hardly any disease which attacks more
persons and is more misery-causing than Rheumatism.
It occurs in several forms, most of which are produced
by an excessive generation of uric acid in the blood and
tissue. The accumulation of this acid can only be
stopped by restoring the digestive organs to healthy
activity.
When from an over-indulgence in animal food,
alcoholic liquids, or strong teas, coffees, and cocoas the
stomach, liver, and kidneys become weak and inactive,
the entire system very frequently becomes poisoned
with uric acid accumulations.
lor ridding the system of these accumulations and
relieving the rheumatism and other troubles they pro-
duce, nothing is equal to Kutnow’s Improved Efferves-
cent Carlsbad Powder. It restores all the digestive
and excretory organs to a healthy, active condition, and
dissolves and removes the ui’ic acid formations from
which the system has become poisoned.
Kutnow’s Powder strengthens the stomach, liver,
and kidneys to such a degree that the further genera-
tion of uric acid is stopped, and until continued care-
lessness in eating and drinking has again made these
organs disordered and sluggish, no further attacks of
Rheumatism are likely to occur.
Kutnow s Powder is an aperient in which the drastic,
lowering, and nauseous features of the ordinary aperient
medicine are entirely absent. It is composed of the
most curative, healing, and purifying elements of the
European mineral-spring waters, plus a few other
simple and health-giving ingredients. It contains all
the curative, cleansing, and medicinal properties of the
most famous of these waters, without any of their
undesiiable properties. It is found particularly
useful in treating those diseases that arise from a
sedentary life.
The use of Kutnow’s Powder will purify your blood,
sharpen your appetite, give renewed strength and
activity, and in every other respect render the body and
brain healthy and vigorous. It is cheap, palatable, and
portable, and we do not expect any one to purchase it
until they have tried one of the samples we send free
and post paid to every one that applies.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors See
TnrvnT'f Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature,
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld,, are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on
‘iKUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes; they are worthless.
PROPRIETORS-
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFAUNE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers.
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Handkerchief, and take 4 drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
Pills once or twice a week ifB?ood’pl?Is,
Blood is impure take the Alfaline Blood phis,
xne AITa,,ne BUBON PLAGUE AND ALL OTHER FEVERS.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skm Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, * ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
‘i ,n.y 1 T 7. m T-T^--^W
'
Mi*
X
■
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only he
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
A If aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
fAlfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMTTSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmusseiij
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HtlllS R&SSintISSGII.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s, Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in C tildren and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Wart%
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts—Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE; 160 Queen-st (near Creek-st.)
MELBOURNE : 150 Bourke-st. (Opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st.(nr.York H’tel)
N.Z., WELLINGTON: 91 Lambton Quay
3*ERTH,W.A.: 481 Hay-st.
next Whites’, Coach-'
builders.
KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s)
HAVE YOU
AUDLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CUKE YOU. X don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once fbr
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Bri'ain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
Al BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BltOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g ecn label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
i
MEDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
H eadaehe, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Honje Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
SKIN .
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
u
LIQMOLLIENE
The Great Australian Cure.
LiCMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”)- BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified 'to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, pOW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
lIIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMA.UI/T & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Medical.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rmoRQpyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS dnd
A TELIA ACES
a trial'of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not., we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
$
/ Cures all EYE
/ Disorders. Get a genuine
/ pot from any Chemist.
y/ Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
S'2lo LiAllliliTH Rd., I.iONUON, S.K.
s' Those suffering- from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
' should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
Bubonic Plague
to
%
m
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using
EGKERSLEY’S
(|)entholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small /-
Wholesale from
Australian
Go.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. ROOT,*B, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
HEALTH anp strength
" * may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form).- Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.^
Price 10/- and 20/-; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
DRUNKEN NESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
cm
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes—.lnvisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
WHEN YOU’VE NOBODY TO THANK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’ve nobody to thank for the balance at your
bank,
With a ready-money screw and no paper overdue,
When your neighbors all respect you as they should,
And your darling wife adores you, and neither scolds nor
bores you—
Is there any virtue then in being good !
But when your coat is seedy, and you’re feeling sick and
weedy,
And you’re seeking for a billet,' with a hundred more to
fill it,
Do your neighbors then respect you as they should ?
No, they almost fail to greet you when by some mischance
they meet you —
There’s a lot of virtue then in being good !
You will find your Christian brother shuts one eye and
winks the other,
And his smile is so sardonic, one would think the plague
bubonic
Was upon you by the strangeness of his mood ;
For the Christian up-to-date is on Dives proud to wait,
While Lazarus may whistle for his food.
G.R.L.
“ Ex-R.E.” to The Bulletin
Re the Boer mercenary question (B. 23/6/’00). Every
soldier who serves for pay is a mercenary. It is not only
I who say this. Napier printed it 60 years ago m his
“History of the Peninsular War.” In Wellingtons
Peninsular Army, and also at Waterloo was a German
Legion carefully'kept up to 20,000 strong. There were
also in the aforesaid P.A. 6 brigades of Portuguese. As
far as the statement that foreigners cannot enlist in
British regiments in a greater proportion than 1 to 50
British ; there may be such a rule on paper, but I know
for a fact that 40 years ago quite 30 per cent, of eight
battalions in the British army were Germans. As for the
Indian native army, there are very few natives of British
India among them. The famous Gurkas are foreigners
from the independent State of Nipal, while whole regi-
ments are! made up of Pathans. (Afghans), Persians, and
even Turkmans from the Russian territory beyond the
Oxus.


The beautiful and elaborately-fitted yacht
Noma, which won such reputation for speed in
Cuban waters during the war, and was recently
bought cheap by Gerber, Michaut and Co., of
Sydney, now goes into the pearling trade on behalf
of a Thursday Island purchaser.
Even as the tattoo of the British drum is
to be heard resounding in every quarter of the
globe where law’n’order (and trade) can be intro-
duced, so is David Storer and Son’s Tattoo Oil
finding its way to every part of the world where
civilisation and sheep flourish. And even as the
British claim their empire to be the greatest of
world civilising powers, so do the proprietors of
Tattoo Oil claim it to be the one absolutely safe
wool-marking or sheep-branding oil. *
The National Cash Register Company has
recently bought out the Hamilton Cash Register
Company, taking over the patents, stock-in-trade,
and all business for the sum of 245,000 dollars.
The N.C.R. Co. is now building a very large fac-
tory at Hamilton, Canada, and another in Ger-
many ; and with the grand capital of 5,000,000
dollars at its back to make it feel sound and com-
fortable as money can make it, it keeps going
ahead generally the world over. The co.’s record
month of business was put up last May.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., reports that the wheat market is remarkably dull.
Buyers resolutely refuse to give more than what they
term “ current rates,” while the sellers purse their lips
and stick out vigorously for the prices of the end of last
month, and as a consequence the sales have been few.
The co. is not particularly fond of posing as a prophet,
but it ventures to opine that owners of prime samples
who refused to be beguiled by the blandishments of the
would-be buyers are not likely to suffer by their firmness,
as it has an offer for a large parcel of wheat at equal to
2s. lOd. per bushel, and is now communicating with
sellers. Quotations may be given as—-prime, 2s. lOd. to
2s. IOJd. ; P.A.Q., 2s. 9d. ; pinched and chickwheat down
to 2s. 3d. per bushel.*
The recurrence of the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) floods will no doubt revive the largely
mythical yarns of the Hawkesbury floods of 1806.
Phillip’s narrative of the “evidences, 90ft. above
the bed of the river, of old-time inundations,” will
doubtless also be trotted-out, in defiance of the
fact that the river-banks are only 30 or 40ft. high.
It is, however, true that during the sixth flood, a
6-year-old boy was rescued from a floating house-
top. And, just as hundreds of children claim to
be the first child, still living, born in Victoria, so,
up to within a few years ago, Hawkesbury resi-
dents by the score used to claim to have been the
youngster in question. As a matter of fact, the
salved juvenile grew up to be William Bradley
(one time owner of Wentworth Court, Sydney),
who died under singularly interesting circum-
stances in that city a few years back.
Lord Carrington got a good deal of fun
out of the recent second reading of the Colonial
Marriages (Deceased Wife’s Sister) Bill in the
Lords. “The House,” he said, “ might imagine
the case of a rich Australian squatter who had
married his _ deceased wife’s sister, a man
honoured in his own country, who might even be
made the first Australian peer. (Laughter). He
might buy himself a house in Curzon-street on a
long lease, and, finding it not large enough, might
buy at the back some freehold land, and build a
ballroom. An accident might happen to him. He
might be killed. His lawyers would then tell his
son and heir—“ So long as you are in the leasehold
house in Curzon-street you are legitimate, but if
you go into your ballroom, that does not belong to
you, because you are not legitimate—the property
being freehold. No doubt your father was a peer,
but you cannot inherit a freehold estate, and a
peerage is a freehold estate, and, therefore, you
cannot be a peer.” Carrington’s “borak” pro-
bably contributed a good deal to the subsequent
carrying of the reading.
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English ,
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
Public Companies.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 2s. per Share,
for Half-year ended 31st May last, is now payable
at the Co’s offices, 81 Pitt-street.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
THE NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO
COMPANY, LIMITED.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Interim Dividend of Is. per Share, being at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum for the Half-year
ended 30tn June, 1900, is now payable at the
office of the Company, Gladstone Chambers, 90
Pitt-street, Sydney.
EDWARD SHEEDY, Secretary.
Sydney, 7th July, 1900.
Missing Friends.
HENDERSON FAMILY.— The children of the late Mr.
James Henderson, who left Glasgow in 1857 for Aus-
tralia, will kindly communicate with the subscribers.
Some time since some of them were in communication
with their aunt, Miss Agnes Henderson, of Helensburgh.
Kerr & Barrie, Writers, 149 St. Vincent-street, Glasgow,
Scotland, agents for Mrs. Henderson’s Trustees.
Amusements.
RINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
Return to Melbourne for a brief season only of
THE BROUGH COMEDY CO.
(prior to their immediate departure for India and China
on a prolonged tour).
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
First Production in Melbourne of
THE MANOEUVRES OF JANE.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
the Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING, .
THE EVENT OF THE SEASON.
NANCE O’NEIL as
C AV. 3VE ILL E.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TOWN HALL, MELBOU RNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JULY 14, at 3 O’Olock,
Scbcrek’S Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR .. HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RITISHBI O G R A P H.
(From Palace Theatre, London).
THE ONLY BIOGRAPH IN AUSTRALASIA WITH
GENUINE BOER WAR FILMS.
Echuca, July 13 ; Deniliquin, 14 ; Castlemaine, 16 ;
Ballarat, 17 to 20 ; Melbourne return, 23 to 26 ; Sydney,
Palace Theatre, July 28, 4 weeks.
Newcastle and Brisbane to follow.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TH€ AQUARIUM-
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
MISS NATHAN, Clairvoyante, Palmist, Otis Chambers,
82 King-street, Sydney.—A true reading can be
rendered. Paint hand with sepia or Indian ink, moistened
with glycerine, place paper on cushion, press hand firmly
until clear impression results ; write underneath color of
eyes and hair and month of birth. Characteristics, by
handwriting—Fee, 2s. 6d. postal note.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
AN UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
achieved by the Williamson Opera Company in
“THE OLD <S U ARP.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. 03&" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25.. and Is.
y H EAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Stirring Melodramatic Spectacle,
"W" Oman anti ’Wine.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
will be presented for the first time in Sydney,
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAY,
For the term of
“HIS NATURAL LIFE."
THIRD SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, JULY 13,
“MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
WILL BE REPEATED.
Farewell Concert to
MISS
KATE ROOKTEY
Town Hall, Sydney, Wednesday, July 18.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME!
Prices, 55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
First Appearance in Australia of America’s Trio,
EMMONDS, EMMERSON and EMMONDS,
Arrived direct from New York per s.s. Mariposa.
Splendid Success of Mr. CHAS. SEEL, PROFESSOR
ALMOND, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, PAUL’S 1900
CENTURY ANIMATOGRAPHE, Billy M'Olain, M.
Cordelia, Alma Gray, Roy Cashin, and all our Great
Double Co. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in his
Masterpiece, ROBERT MACAIRE.
THE FLYING JORDANS, VENUS and OLAF
SCHRADER.
WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, Mr. Tod' Callaway, Dr. Leigh,
Dora Taylor, Eva Lee, Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman,
Fred Duncan, Alf. Lawton.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
DONALD MACDONALD,
The S M. Herald and Argus War Correspondent.
V
BEFORE THE SIEGE OF LADYSMITH.
_____ :
_ ,
AFTER THE SIEGE OF LADYSMITH.
Shortly to appear in Sydney.
■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
THIRD WEEK.
THIRD WEEK.
EVERY EVENING,
“ Two Little Drummer Boys ”
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
The Foreign-Trade Deficit.
The other day, Sydney Telegraph rose with an
immortal truth in its mouth, and pointed out that
N.S.W. had now accumulated a visible deficit of
over £4,300,000, and that, but for the swindlesome
policy of charging ordinary expenditure to a tem-
porary loan-fund (one of the many public frauds of
the awful Reid regime), the visible shortage would
be over £5,000,000. The figures are quite beyond
dispute j in fact, when the (Finance Committee
finishes investigating the horrors of Reid’s finance,
the amount will probably be more than this.
There is “the deficit,” so-called, of over £2,000,000,
of which at least half is the result of G. Reid’s
mental and moral confusion; the shortage on the
Centennial Park suspense account; the ditto on the
Martin-Place suspense account; the payments to
various sinking-funds which RfelD didn’t pay ; the
huge shortage on the Civil Service Superannuation
Fund; and the deficit of this year, arising
through extra contingent and bubonic ex-
penditure. Then, in addition, there is an item
which the Telegraph did not include —a
further deficit of £500,000 or £700,000, which
will probably arise if the Cash Basis fraud
is put right, and the shiftless system of carrying
the unpaid bills forward is abandoned. The
Telegraph tells another great truth when it says
that N.S.W. wants more revenue, not only to pay
off its past deficits, but to keep its accounts sol-
vent in the future. The Bulletin has been say-
ing that for years, and it is a pity the Telegrath
didn’t start saying it at the same time The Bul-
letin started. The great truth it doesn’t tell is
that it and the S.M. Herald and the News, and
their joint and several Foreign Shoddy fetish are
the prime causes of the whole melancholy busi-
ness. These papers demanded a violent form of
Freetrade, which involved the sacrifice of much
customs revenue. They dared not demand a Is. 6d.
in the £ income-tax and a 3d. in the £ land-tax to
make the loss good ; their loudest whoop and the
point on which they claimed most credit was that
their tin god could do with much less revenue
than the Protectionist Dibbs, being sustained by
the inward grace of Calico-Jimmyism; and that he
had “lightened the country’s burdens.” They
dared not propose cutting down Civil Ser-
vice salaries 50 per cent, to make up for
the deficiency in revenue which their system
involved ; their next loudest whoop was that
Freetrade was a Jolly and Fat policy which meant
decent wages for everybody without serious bur-
dens on anybody. They dared not suggest econo-
mising by stopping the charitable vote and throw-
ing the sick and aged out into the street. Their
party had bought office by the reiterated lie that
the old Protectionist Government was wildly ex-
travagant, and that they could give a better
administration of affairs for less money. _ So they
had to work strange dodges to make it appear
that their Foreign-trade policy supplied enough
revenue to pay the country’s way, and to keep up
some fleeting semblance of Jolly-and-Fatism.
They cut down the road-maintenance vote from
£1,100,000 to £550,000 and let the public highways
go to ruin. They charged current expenditure to
loans wholesale. They invented the Cash Basis
fraud and the Temporary Loan delusion. And
by the showing of their own leading supporter
and fugleman, the Telegraph, they left the
accumulated deficit fully £1,000,000 perhaps
£2,000,000 —worse than they found it. The Tele-
graph now warns Lyne seriously that this kind of
thing must not go on—which is a solid fact of long
standing. But it does not say what Lyne is to do.
If the revenue is to meet all legitimate expendi-
ture in future, and leave something over to pay off
old shortages, the land and income taxes must be
made to yield at least double what they do, or
some new sources of revenue good for about half-a-
million a year must be discovered, or N.S.W.
must go bald-headed for Protection. In fact, it
probably needs to do all three things. Its present
troubles arose out of the frantic effort to make it
appear, by faking the public accounts, that the
Telegraph and Herald and News and the
Foreign-trade party in general were not departing
from the truth when they said that N.S.W. could
pay its way on Reid’s Foreign-trade tariff,' and
that they were not the prize Ananias family of
Australia when they said that Foreign-trade
meant solvency and prosperity. Now the Tele-
graph denomstrates by great masses of indubit-
able figures that the Foreign-trade epoch
has brought N.S.W. finances to terrible
disaster. And it demands that N.S.W. shall
fight for the maiiitenance of the Foreign-trade
policy in the Commonwealth. And, being to some
extent the organ of Fat, it doesn’t advocate
imposing graduated land and income taxes on a
big scale, and huge absentee taxes, arid the like, to
fill the gap. It simply says that Lyne ought to
do something. So he ought. If Lyne were an
absolute monarch the obvious thing to begin with
would be to hang or exile the Foreign-trade editors
whose bad advice made the great N.S.W. deficit
inevitable, and who swore for four years that their
dreadful Foreign-trade Government was quite
solvent and thus prevented a remedy being applied
earlier.
; , +
The Australian Star’s excuse for upholding the
Transvaal contingents when the hot fit of blood-
drunkenness was on it, and yet for throwing cold-
water on the proposal to send a contingent to
China now that the cold fit has come, is that the
Chinese trouble “does not in any sense menace
.the foundations of our empire.” Well, does the
Star propose to heave such a blasting insult at the
British empire as to imply that a war with the
150,000 population of the Boer States (about one-
third the population of Sydney), or even an up-
rising of the whole 500,000 people of Dutch descent
in South Africa (about as many as the population of
Melbourne), menaced the foundations of the
British empire ? There are about 40,000,000 white
people in Britain alone. All the unpleasant things
The Bulletin has said about England in the whole
of its career don’t add up to this tremendous insult.
The Bulletin has called the Englishman unjust
and greedy, but it never suggested, as the Star
does by implication, that he was a cur, or that 80
of him were in any danger of not proving a match
for one Boer.
The opinion of Attorney-General Wise that mem-
bers of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly are bound to pay
income-tax on their Parliamentary salaries, less
the statutory exemption, accords with the opinion
of the public, but does not accord with the word-
ing of the Act under which the salaries are paid.
The Act describes the salary as a “ reimbursement
of expenses incurred,” and in other walks of life
such reimbursements are not taxable as income.
Reimbursements for expenses incurred is, as Syd-
ney D.T. remarks, “tne merest pretence,” but
that .is not the question. The money is drawn
under one Act and the other Act excludes money
so drawn from ranking as taxable income. The
other day an ex-solicitor, who is M.L. A., pleading
for re-enrolment before the Full Court, altogether
omitted mention of his Parliamentary salary
when making a full statement of his sources of in-
come, and their Honors, who knew his political
status, suggested no correction. The public all
along called the pay salary or wages, but the Tory
opponents of payment of members, backed up by
a kindred press, coated the objectionable measure
with phrases meant to conceal the fact that they
had to give in to a democratic demand. Now,
when they want to make the paid members dis-
gorge some of the cash, they describe the phrases
as the “merest pretence.”
The Story of Private Ghoul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Based on the accounts given by some of the Australian
troops of their own doings, and published with evident
pride in certain Australian Jingo papers.]
The old man’s eyes flashed brightly and his bosom swelled
with pride,
The wrinkled hand no longer dangled listless by his s ide
But grasped my coat-sleeve firmly, whilst I patient heard
once more
How his son, Private Ghoul, became a hero of the war !
’Twas at Shrapnelpompomfontein, ended was the fight at
last,
Great guns had ceased to vomit, droning shells to sear
and blast;
The foe had fled ere nightfall, and our victory was com-
plete—
And Private Ghoul’s battalion rested from the smoke and
heat.
But my son, though he was weary, and with the struggle
worn,
Was anxious that some trophies should his distant home
adorn ;
So he stole forth past the sentries, and across the open
veldt
Went the brave lad armed hut lightly with a clasp-knife
in his belt 1
The light was of the dimmest—little wonder moon were
loth
To pour down her pure splendour upon those red scenes
of wrath.
The tainted wind was moaning in a dismal undertone,
As though the dead men’s ghosts were holding vigil there
alone.
But his stout heart was undaunted, as he picked his care-
ful way
Among the silent friends and foes who all distorted lay.
At length his quest was ended ; where the mountain
downward dipped
With strange disfigured upturn’d face, a bearded Dopper
slept.
Private Ghoul, he paused a moment. P’raps the Dopper
was not dead
(They have such a trick of shamming—Boers are liars bom
and bred!)
But when he stood beside him, scarce his rapture could he
curb—
For the whiskers were luxuriant, whilst the molars were
superb !
He was indeed a gruesome 'sight, all shattered, scarred
and torn ;
A human form of nearly all its human semblance shorn ;
One eye had met some dreadful bolt —the other, open
wide,
Seemed fixed in gaze beseeching upon him who stood
beside.
A foreigner may well have quailed before that frozen
stare,
And slunk away appall’d, the whilst he breathed some
heathen prayer ;
Nor, shudd’ring, dared to mutilate that mutilated head,
But he feared no Dopper living and he feared no Dopper
dead
My son was of the bull-dog breed and worth a score of
such!
His young hand never falter’d when with bold and sweep-
ing clutch
He grasped the beard and shore it from the broken face
beneath :
Then with a handy boulder pounded out two splendid
teeth !
And when the troops were landed, and he marched along
the quay,
The martial port of Private Ghoul was glorious to see.
He was burned quite brown and swarthy— why, his hands
were almost red !
You may see the war-spoils hanging just above his
mother’s bed.
The bid man’s gaze grew wistful as he looked across the
hall,
To where a glass frame shuddered on a text-strewn bed-
room wall;
And he grew a little husky—“ Yes, his mother’s darling
he
Was always, but he might have—brought an ear or so for
me.”
He wrong my hand in siience as we parted at the gate
Which bore the name of “ Ghoul ” upon a staring brassy
plate,
And in my dreams that night I knew the joy the old man
felt—
I dreamed that I was carrying teeth and beards across the
veldt. ■
I drfeamed that I was Ghoul, and round me toothless
Doppers lay,
I had shaved them and I’d shorn them, and I bore their
hair away.
. And sacks of teeth I’d plundered, and was coming back
for more,
And that I, too, was a hero—a hero of the War.
T. BRMM.


'Afflicted
And
any Lon
Weary
A PERFECT CURE
-• ASCRIBED TO AM
•l v
Act of Providence.
The Case of
Mrs; JAS. COPLAND.
{From the
'■ Newtown Chronicle. )
(pHte other day a “ Chronicle ” reporter WAs
tnaking his usual tour, seeking for news of
interest to our readers, when word reached
his ears of a most remarkable case. He
pursued further enquiries in the matter,
and the same day he proceeded to enquire
into the cure of Mrs. Copland, of Prospect-
Btreet* Erskineville, near Sydney ihis
lady received the man with the notebook
with unusual courtesy, asking him to be
seated, and volunteering to afford him al l the
information that he could possibly require.
He first of all said : f
“ I hear you were ill, and are cured.
“Well, rather,” replied Mrs. Copland,
“ I was most emphatically ill —ill for many
long and weary years with a complicated set
of complaints, which entirely defied the
efforts of the doctors, as well as the enor
mous quantities of pills and medicines which
I was induced to take. It is a great wonder
that I survived all this physicking. lam
sure it did me a lot of harm, and prevented
my food from digesting.”
“ Do you mean that you deprecate the
Use of all medicines ?”
“Oh, dear no ; but I mean to say that
you must use the right kind—if you don't
you will only suffer for it, and your illness
will be prolonged. I found the right kind
in the end, and one bottle absolutely cured
me from a most distressing list of maladies.”
“ Kindly relate your experience.
“ I first of all found that my vitality was
gradually waning. I lost my interest in
things. My work wearied me, and I felt
it was too much trouble to even walk up
the street. My usual cheerfulness of spirits
disappeared. I was dull and depressed, and
it often seemed to me that I was too tired
even to think. I took some strong tonics
and pick-me-ups, but they were all failures.
1 continued to get worse. Slowly my
digestive organs lost their power. Bilious
attacks came on at frequent intervals, and I
was seized with fits of sickness. I now never
experienced the sensation of real hunger;
indeed, it was a matter of utter indiffer-
ence to me whether I ate anything or not
As my complaint established itself I experi-
enced severe pain, especially in the breast
The sensation was exactly as though my
chest was full of lumps of wood. Again
pains in the back and sides began to assert
themselves, besides a heavy languorous ache
in the fore portion of my head. Often I had
to seek the quiet of my bedroom oppressed
with a terrible sickness and sick headache.
At these times I couldn’t bear anyone to come
near me, let alone to speak to me. I was
excessively irritable and peevish.”
“No wonder, Mrs. Copland.”
“And I could take nio pleasure in any-
thing. My nights were a torture to me. I
indeed went to bed, but not to sleep. Night
after night I never closed my eyes, and I
got out of bed languid, tired, and fairly
broken down. I lost greatly in flesh. My
eyes got dull looking, and my complexion
was very sallow and unhealthy. On and
off I suffered like this for years—a regular
burden to myself, and a cause of distress to
my friends. Meanwhile, I consulted doctors.
I took bott e after bottle of physic, and
boxes of pills too many to count. All were
ineffective, and I was forced unwillingly to
•the conclusion that I was doomed to be a
martyr to my complaints, and an invalid for
life. This was a very saddening reflection
for me, and I often wondered why all
ills should descend on a poor weak
Woman. My nervous system was not abl*
to stand the strain, and I got utterly broker
down.” .j
How unfortunate you were.
Yes, I was; and I don't know whan
Would have happened to me but for
something that, though it seemed at the
time a pure accident, I shall always look
upon as a veritable act of Providence.. 1
read in a newspaper about an astonishing
cure of a lady from a derangement of the
liver and other internal organs. On reading
further down the column, I found that not
only had she suffered from similar symptoms
to mine, but had been entirely cured by
Clements lYnic after the doctors had given
her up as lost. Of course, under these cir-
cumstances, it would have been sheer mad-
ness on my part not to have given rnyself a
chance, so I sent for a large bottle.”
“ What was the effect of Clements Tonic
in your case ? ”
“ Well, it would have to be felt to be
described. Imagine my astonishment when
1 found that before I had taken half a bottle
a marvellous change for the better had come
over me. The pains in my back, side, and
chest disappeared as though I had been
touched by the magic wand of a good fairy.
My spirits plucked up, and I felt toned and
strung up all over. From that time I began
to enjoy and digest my meals once more, and
to sleep the peaceful, refreshing sleep of a
healthy woman—and, mind you, 1 hadn’t
done this for years. That’s the astonishing
thing about it! None of the other things
I took were of the least use to me, yet here
I had run across a remedy, which in a few
days had put me on the high road to
recovery after years of illness. By the time
I had completed the first large bottle all
disease seemed eradicated. However, I
continued Clements Tonic as a general
restorative, to enable me to pick up my lost
nervous strength and flesh. It did this most
effectively, and made me as strong, and
vigorous, and bright as I could wish.”
“ Is there anything else that you would
like to say about Clements Tonic ? ”
“Yes, there is, and I think it not the
least wonderful portion of all that that
remedy has done for me.”
What is that, Mrs. Copland? ”
“ Why, I’ve been absolutely free from any
sign of my old complaint ever since Clements
Tonic drove it out —or, to use a somewhat
slangy expression,” said Mrs. Copland, with
a smile, “ I was cured at one go.”
“ May we publish this ? ”
“ The sooner the better, as I think such a,
miraculous recovery as mine should be made
public.”
DECLARATION BEFORE A MAGISTRATE.
1, Mrs. Jas. Copland, of Prospect-street,, Erskine
ville, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, dt
solemnly and sinceiely declare that I have carefull}
read the annexed document, consisting of five folio?
and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission t 6 publish the same in any way ;
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily and
without receiving any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by \irtue of
the provisions of an Act made and passed in the
ninth year of the reign of her. present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
ei^r
Declared at Erskineville this 24th day of November,
1898, before me, ANDREW MURRAY, J.P.
r GOUT v
PIIE.LS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
* ' LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies,
USB
SPOONERS
u
L!
SPOONER’S
;-^s%
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RIOS &?
*►*•>*•
‘'liy
ROYAL NAV'
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAK."
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishir-
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers ,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
This is the Latest Type i
GRAIROPHODItf
ZONOPHONE!
iPridej £,lt
TALKS! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In faot, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clock-work Action
Records, 2s 6d; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
tCW Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £50 —a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT I
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edispn Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY OOMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SITDNEir.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco,Perth,W.A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
MOIR’S
Pure Jams.
Assorted kinds in 1 lb. Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office’.—9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London, E.C.
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACINO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE,
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public, speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman's Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.


I STEWART DAWSON & CO.
The Great Watch, Jewellery and Plate House of Australasia.
FIRST-HAND PRICES WITH NO £ « , TTr .. _
ltjddlemen’s profits to pay. 5 Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, London.
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 115 A.—Novel Design, 9-cfc. Gold and
Amethyst Brooch, £1 6s.
No. E7ssl.—New, Elegant Design, 9-ct. Gold and
Fine Amethyst Brooch, £1 2s 6d.
No. 132 A.—9-ct. Gold Bar Bracelet, set Fine Pearls, £3.
I M
: m
w
Pretty Frosted Glass, Silver Mounts.
No. E64l4.—Match Holder, 5s 6d
No. E73so.—Cigarette ~ 6s 6d
No. E73sl.—Cigar „ 7s 6d
No. 311. —Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6£in. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
Best Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 289. —Out-Crystal Toilet Salts Bottle,
Silver Top, 2|in. high, 11s 6d.
No. E6142.-—Sterling Silver Saw-pierced
and Engraved BELT CLASP, 10s 6d.
Best Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
Drawn Half-size.
I®
term
POWDER JARS.
Finest Out-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
37s 6d, and 455.
No. 316.—Solid Silver Sweet Dish,
3Jin. long, 12s 6d.
Others, 18s 6d and £1 Is.
No. 184 A.
Keeper, 18-ct. Gold,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 166.
2 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire
18-ct. Gold, £2 7s 6d.
No. E7o6l.—New Design, 9-ct. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No. 161.
18-ct. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10s.
No. E 3006. —9-ct. Gold Bar Brooch with
Safety Catch, 6s 6d.
No. 185.
Wedding Ring, 18-cfc.
Gold, £llss.
No. 358 A.—Lovely Chased
Sugar Basket, Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver.
Full Size, £1 7s. 6d.
No. 3SsA.—Lovely Design Oblong Cake Basket,
Saw Pierced, Finest Silver Plate, £3 6s.
No. E644B.—Best Silver-
Plated and Engraved
Napkin Ring, 4s 6d.
Silver-Plated Pocket Spirit Flasks,
7s 6d to 50s.
Particulars on Application.
No. 290 A. —Solid Silver Serviette
Ring, 10s 6d.
No. 373 A.
Silver-Plated Thistle Cruet, with
Spoons, very elegant, £1 Is.
No. Es2o6.—Ladie! Long Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £2 17s 6d ; 15-ot. Gold, £5 10*
Charm, 9-ct. Gold, 5a 6d.
New Lucky Bell
No. E4B67.—Ladies’ Long Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £3 10s. ; 15-ct. Gold, £6 6s.
No. E6735.—Fu1l Size Solid Silver Hair Brush, £llo*
No. E64os.—Hat Brush, 8-in. long, Solid Silver, 13s 6d ■
Silver Moustache Brush, 12s 6d; Small, ss.
mm
No. 274.—501 id Silver Cloth Brush, 7i-in. long, 17s 6d.
No. 272B.—Gents’ Solid Silver Military
Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d.
No. E6523.—501id Silver Toilet Hair Brush, £1 7s Bd.
No. 231 A.—15-ct. Gold
Locket set with 3 Dia-
monds and 4 Sap -
phires, £4 10s.
9-ct. Gold Chased Heart Pin Charm,
5s 6d.
No. 193.
Set LINKS,
9ct., 15s 6d ;
15ct.,£110s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 230.—Compass.
15-ct Gold, £2 10s.
9-ct. Gold, £1 6s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 200 A.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15-ct. Gold, £l lss ;
Silver, 5s 6d.
O-ct Gold Wishbone Pin Charm, 5s 6d.
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 15ct.,
£llss.
No. 275. Paper Knife, Solid Silver Handle, Ivory Blade.
12Jin., 16s 6d.
896—Elegant Silver-Plated Bread Fork, llin. long, Pearl Handle, 14s 6cL
No. 327. —Solid Silver Glove Hook, 3J-in.
long, 2s 6d.
No. 148.—Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds, 4 Rubies,
£4 4s.
No. 176 A.
Lady’s or Gent.’s 18-ct.
Gold Band Ring,
£1 Is to £2 ;
Set with 3 Fine Opals,
16ct., £2 6s.
w Bucky Bells. The Latest London Novelty.
No. 756.—9-ct. Gold 5-bell Bracelet, £1 10s ; Do., 3 Bells,
£1 6s. 3-bell Brooch to Match, 12s 6d.
No. E 7458.
18-cfc. Gold Diamond
and Sapphire Bing,
£llos.
No. 138 A.—New Design. 9-cfc. Gold Bracelet, £ll6s.
No. E 3781.
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service, 4 Pieces,
£7 10s.
No. ES4;»O.
Finest English Cut-glass Clarel
Jug with best Silver-Plated
Mounts, £2 10s.
No. E 6819.
Silver-Plated Tea Pot,
Elegantly Engraved,
17s 6d.
HI
iSS*I
No. E 3184.
Silver-Plated and Polished Oak
Biscuit Barrel, 14s 6d.
1
k&Js
KS
No. E 3792.
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service,
4 Pieces, £8 XOs.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct.
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
Inte
NE
?w a te h E *• «“* “ y ° f ** r®
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George-st. & Strand,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
For the many complaints arising from Habitual Constipation,
there is nothing like
emu syrupoffigs
IT ACTS AS NATURE ACTS-GENTLY AND PAINLESSLY, CLEANSES THE
SYSTEM THOROUGHLY, AND LEAVES THE LIVER, STOMACH AND KIDNEYS
PERMANENTLY STRENGTHENED.
When you feel bilious or have indigestion; when you are
s
<
V
I
OF
,r.cX>
TMIS KXOUWtNT MMtOV PftISINTQ
MOST AOOEPTAOUe FORM
THE MtOIOIN4X.LT LA*ATiVS PfliNO'PLtS OP
PLANTS KNOWN TO *OT MOST BCnITiOiAL-
LVI TO OUtANSt TH« SVSTtM CPEMTUM.*
yf I TO PtNMANtNtLT OVtNCOMC
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
OtiPtL 00100 ANO MCAOAOMtS ANO PAS-
VENT TCVCHSi TO AOT OtNTLT »Sf
PROMPTLY ON TM*
KIDNEYS, LIVER ANO BOWELS.
qipot ro" o«i» T
ooiOMufS
INUW Hitt. tONOON *. 0>
PRICE !*• I ft®*
suffering from depression, loss
of appetite, feverishness, head-
ache; when the liver and bowels
are sluggish and inactive, you
are, in nine cases out of ten,
suffering from constipation,
either through neglect or, at
the other extreme, through
excessive drugging or pill
taking: you want a medicine
that will make the organs act
as Nature prompts them to act
when they are in a healthy
condition. California Syrup of
Figs (the original and genuine)
supplies the want. It is both
pleasant to the taste—a luxury
as much as a medicine —and
an unfailing remedy. It acts
as Nature does. It does not
gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It
gives relief pleasantly, leaving
the liver, kidneys and bowels
permanently benefited, so that
its use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is relieved
and cleansed. There is no dis-
comfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature,
and its results are healthful
regularity, and total freedom
from dangerous impurities in the system. That is
doctors recommend its use.
why
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
iis?' ciSpSorst."™;
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness
Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kmdre . ’
speedily restoring health, appetite energy and gQod^pmL;
A boon to the busy man ; grateful to delicate persons ,
treat to children.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT*
In order to get its beneficial effects you must take the genuine remedy,
in oraer 10 g icaomta qv'RTTP OF FIGS —and refuse imecioi
Remember the lull title-CALIFORNIA SYRUP
substitutes Every package ot the genuine bears the Name and Ikade
of he 3oie Manufacturers, the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of ali Chemists and Stores, is. i|d. and is. 9 d. per bottle
DEPOT:—32 SHOW HILL, LOHOOH, EHS.
Australian Colonies-Of aU leading Wholesale Houses.
The deposit of tailings looks like becoming a
serious trouble at Hannan’s within the next year or two.
Those of the Ivanhoe, Horseshoe, Boulder and Lake View
are already spreading themselves over large areas ot the
co.’s leases, and layer after layer will be added until they
reach an inconvenient height. A large quantity wi go
below to fill in the stopes, but this will represent less than
40 per cent, of the total. A fair proportion of the balance
might be well used in filling up the shafts and workings
of “ cats ” on the camp, and thus wiping these latter out
of existence and into oblivion. The 1 ‘ cats ai eanej e
sore to the place ; many are distinguished by their mas-
sive poppet legs and miniature mullock-heaps^
Westralia has one paying copper - mine, the
Murrin-Murrin, in Mt. Malcolm district. Pegged out as a
gold-mine, the case with everything m the Golden
West.” One Taylor, a Montana man, came along and
thought it was good enough to work for copper , put up
a am til blast furnace, and is smelting with a combination
of charcoal and coke, the latter costing him £lO a ton.
Running through some 15 tons of ore a day and producing
nearly two tons of copper. Has several deposits of rich
oxides, carbonates, and sulphides, and is said to be pro-
ducing and shipping copper for a little more than h alf its
market-value. The worst that can be said of the Muirn -
Murrin is that it seems too rich to last, a remark not para-
doxical when applied to copper deposits. Rich gold
deposits seldom last, copper hardty ever. Quite possible,
however, that the Murrin-Murrin deposits will last long
enough for the owners to make a fortune them.
It isn’t safe to own shares in a mine the output
of which other people can mostly take away in their
pockets. Some of the big Westralian mines find that lots
of telluride is pocketed and carried off ; in fact, small
plants for treating telluride have been discovered in the
camp. So they mean to institute the changing-house
system. , *
White Feather Main Reef : Formally known as
Bissenberger’s, when it was a very poor surface show, has
developed so well with depth that it is now a long way
the best mine of the camp. Has only worked out two
levels; has the 300 intact, is going out from the 400 ;
has several ore bodies, one about 300 ft. long, and is alto-
gether working 700 ft. of ore. Reef averaging from 2ft.
6in.: value, 25dwt. A simple crushing and cyanide pro-
position, making less than 25 per cent, slime. Cyaniding
costs 3s. per ton and leaves only a dwt. in the tailings.
Paid a number of divs. ; more in sight, well-managed
and economically worked. It is a ref resiling thing to find
one mine at Kanowna, which is nearly dead in every
other respect. The thousands of alluvial diggers have
gone, some of those Remaining look as if they cannot get
away; more than half the shops are shut; nearly all the
“cats” are closed down; the pubs, remain open fora
little business, and an air of depression reigns every-
where. One mine can’t keep Kanowna alive.
* * * *
Hainault: —The value and prospects of this
mine during the last three or four years have changed
with kaleidoscopic rapidity. Easy to meet men who will
tell you of the momentary amazing richness of it at one
time or another. How they were induced to buy shares
because of a face that bristled with fre* gold and how the
very next week it had all vanished like a dream. Another
will tell you of an amazing telluride deposit, when a face
glistened as if plastered with silver. This, too, did the
disappearing trick in a night. The shares have been as
high as £7, they are now as low as 255. blot long ago a
crosscut came into a wonderful ore patch. It did not go far
up or down, nor to the right or left. Probably spent to
date £30,000 in finding less than 1000 tons of good ore.
Now following a pipe of rich stuff, but the will-o’-the-wisp
tricks already played give little hope. It is just outside
of that accursed break which is distinctly seen in the
Ivanhoe and although not very clearly defined in the
other mine it is there in some shape or other beyond
doubt. _ _
* • * *
The move-on of the “rushers” to Cape Nome,
the new Alaskan beach goldfield, has begun ; H. P.
Pearse one of the pioneers of North Coolgardie, and
before’that of all Australia, Maoriland, and Papua, has
sailed that way.
* * * W
Henry Bratnober, the London mining engineer,
well-known in Australia, is looking at mines in Alaska,
which he describes as a great gold-field ; he writes of Cape
Nome that it is very rich and extensive. So far, it is all
alluvial; there is no quartz country that carries gold.
There is any quantity of quartz that is barren, and he
presumes that some day they will find gold in formation
similar to that in Westralia.
• # • *
A pretty little trouble is looming ahead on the
Alaskan coast. The Alaskan beaches in places contain
much gold, and a small army of miners are making a fair
living by treating the sands at low tide. A number of
American capitalists are building large suction dredges
which are to be anchored over the alluvial beaches at
high-tide and put into operation—to the ruin of the
miners. The latter are all armed, and say they will fight,
but the dredges are also to be armour-plated and supplied
with U.S. Govt, is despatching some thousands
of soldiers to the scene.
* • * •
That well-known old miner, Captain William
Dick, has been forced by rheumatic gout to throw up his
Kalgoorlie appointment and take another health-trip.
He will try the hot-air cure in Melbourne, and, failing re-
lief will go on to the M.L. Hot Lakes. He gives anything
but a cheering account of the Kalgoorlie fields, and is of
opinion that the sulphide question is far from settled—
the assertion of the chairman of the Associated notwith-
standing. Over 5000 men are workless at present ; a de-
cidedly blue look-out. # ,
A Bulletin man in Melb. met an old miner from
S’Africa, the other day. He was an Australian who knew
Queensland, N.S.W., Vic., Westralia, Maoriland and
Papuan fields, and who has spent a few years in Rhodesia,
trying it for all it was worth. His straight opinion is that
the country is no good for miners from these parts ; Aus-
iralia offers hundreds of bigger and brighter things for
the speculative digger. The discovered country that a
pair can work is rarely worth the working, and the on y
hope for Rhodesia is possible lodes at a great depth. Big
antique granite mortars, probably used for crushing
quartz in the dim past, are occasionally found a few feet
under the surface, and Rhodes is trying to give his wilder-
ness a golden reputation on the strength of them. Aus-
tralian miners are attracted by Rhodesia where the
Chartered Co. exacts 50 per cent, royalty !), but the ex-
perienced man who has been and seen reckons that 99 out
of every 100 who go will have the sornes very bad directly
after getting there. # » *
Dear Bulletin.— According to our latest Q.
mining laws, Japs., Kanakas, and Chows are barred from
working on any goldfields in the province ; yet here the
Horn Island G.M. Co. employs four Japs. at general
work, and proposes to employ more at wood-cuttm*,
although there are lots of white men seeking work. The
co it appears, prefers to send to Victoria for white men
and to give all outside work to Japs.-Locusr, Horn
Island, Q. . » •
* *
Nr a W Mines-Minister Fegan, to encourage
the discovery and exploiting of cinnabar-deposits offers
£5OO reward to the first person or co. producing 50,0001 b.
quicksilver from N.S.W. ore. Good so far as it goes, but
it is a paltry bait. * * *
The Australian (German) Metal Co., running
the magnetic zinc-concentrating works at Broken Hill,
talk
of a complete reorganisation. ,
The ulant which the Australian Metal Co.—the
iu er l word SI or le twor o i r s kS ’the t principle 1 upon which
this and all the six or eight other electro-magnetic
processes are based :-Nearly all substances posses, some
magnetic properties, varying, however, in degree. Ma,ny
substances are of the same or nearly the same specific
gravity; when they are they cannot be separated by
flowing water. Also many substances (ores, for instance,
and irangue or waste) are so intimately associated that, in
order to separate the particles, the whole has to be
crushed so fine that it floats off as slime in water. Where,
however, the particles in either of these two cases possess
different magnetic properties it is possible by usin<* elec-
tro-magnets to make some sort of a separation. Some-
times the magnetic properties, always weak, are too much
alike to allow of effective work ; and when that happens
it is often possible to alter the constitution and character
of one of the elements by roasting or some such process.
So far, however, no preliminary roasting has been found
necessary in connection with Broken Hill zinc “ tailings.
* * * *
Recently a S.A. Govt, party, headed by the
Minister of Mines, paid a visit of inspection to Tarcoola
goldfields. The journey back and forth occupied alto-
gether 15 days, but of that time only Four Hours were
spent on the mines, the rest being accounted for at
different stations and other stop ling-places en route.
Yet every member of the expedition considers that he
knows all about the prospects of the different claims.
* • • *
Gold-mining in S.A. must be in a pretty bad
way when the Bird-in-Hand, the best-known and hitherto
among the most productive of the dusty province’s shows,
appeals to Govt, for help to keep the thing going. And
this, too, during one of S.A.’s quarterly gold-booms.
* * * *
George Turner’s half-hearted attack on Vic
Ministry included a feeble reference to Mt. Deddick land
grant railway, which appears to be merely the provi
sional scheme of syndicators who hope to dump thei
“ concession ” on to London market. Turner’s tongu
didn’t wag freely re this latest Deddick dodge. He migh
have pointed out that Premier M‘Lean is personally ii
terested in doing all he can to open up Gippsland, wher
the Deddick yarns come from ; but that remark woub
have also applied to Poster, Minister of Mines in the lat
Govt., and a chieftain among the Deddickskiters. A yea.
or two ago Turner dodged the question. Poster was fow
ever trying to persuade Turner and the public that sundry
Deddick mines would justify 80 miles of railway to the
mountain top. M'Lean has persuaded himself that it is a
fair thing to make land-concessions to anyone who can
float a big Deddick Railway Mine on the strength thereof.
Mac is the Man to feed the Oat that brings the Coin to
make the Line to serve his Friends in Gippsland.
• * * *
Alleged that a valuable cobalt discovery has
been made by three Gippsland prospectors. The cobalt
is associated with much nickel and a little gold. Evi-
dences of the mixed mineral reef, or crystalline formation,
or whatever it is, extend for two miles, says the man from
the spot.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bittees.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * » *
The Glenfine South people were getting them-
selves talked about re the long delay with that battery
and machinery, and now that the fixings are on the field
the stock in Melb. seems shaky.
Dr. Ebltze, director of Adelaide Botanical
Gardens, claims that the typical orchard which he
has established in the Mount Lofty Hills is the
best in Australia, if not in the world He now
has 5000 fruit trees, comprising 3000 different
varieties, planted in most symmetrical row_s (12ft.
apart everyway), and each tree is named, num-
bered, and registered.
Either the elements have a considerable
down on the ship Canada or that unfortunate
vessel is afflicted with the worst sort of luck or
else she carries a Jonah. Sailing f romtheStates
with coal for the TJ.S. warships at Manda she
encountered very heavy weather till off the Leeu-
win where, in a perfect calm, she was struck by a
waterspout which carried away the mizzen-mast
Tnd turned her deck-gear into match-wood
Docked at Melbourne to refit, hei cargo caught
fire and the local brigade had to pump her full o
water. Her coal was removed, and -once more she
was fixed up. Now comes news that she has been
picked up* by the s.s. Kolya and towed to Fre-
mantled dismasted and helpless, with several o
her crew injured.
“ Gunner ” to The Bulletin :
... /Q/R/'OOV “The fall of Lucknow woul<,
It is said (8., pi I ) men a nd worse to all
have meant assassinat t° Jdj dur i n g the mutiny,
the women.” Well Ivy as in (in | h e sense sug-
and I never h durino-the whole trouble. The
gested) on a white \ “ ld perhaps, and employed
women would have been , F those takel)
to turn handmills or t g in ” d wo j. se . Kaju Man Sing, one of
atCawnpoie, Residency, before he went to Luck -
the assailants ■ { Europeans he could
now, collected all the «W« hern o udh, fed and
find in his fo „ nd when he could hear
sheltered the ® the ’ d the Ganges in boats,
°f «° in ° P ?’, S r 0 f his own followers, to Allahabad.
I! 1 ® f Lucknow ”he said, “to fight your people ; but
Igo to LUC Know, > d men .” Again, at Cawn-
I don’t kill women o the Bibi G hur to shoot the
pore, the s epoys se t voUeys into the ceilings.
women aid child > inesg to sbo ot women and chil-
ald »nd that if h the Nana wanted that sort of thing he
dren and that if th He did t At Meerut, where I
must get others t« 3 murde red, but the crime was
was, one white woman b^tcher And afc the
traced to a low-cla 0 g d Light Cavalry posted a
same place a troop of the « fc h £ wife ,
Children These are historical facts-all to be found in
official records.
“ Although there exist many thousands
of subjects for elegant conversation there are
jjfersons who cannot meet a cripple without talking
about feet.” —Chinese Proverb .,
“A.A.A. ” : An old black and dirty tub
of a schooner was lying at Bullock Island dyke
(Newcastle, N.S.W.), a while back. Went on
board to look around, and the first thing I beheld
on reaching the deck was a big, fat A.B. working
all he knew at a pump. “What 0!” I asked,
“does she leak as bad as that; in still water, too ?”
The seaman cast a careful look around before re-
plying. “Leakl (a couple of vigorous pumps.)
By h —, I’ve pumped Newcastle harbor through
her three times since we got here —that’s eight
days ago. Poes she leak ? ”
George William#, 54 years of age, the
other day committed suicide at Wyong, N.S.W.
by hanging himself from a rafter in an outhouse.
His father and brother suicided in like manner.
T’other day a lad was chopping wood in a
Ballarat backyard when he was flabbergasted by
the timber suddenly disappearing, followed by the
axe, down a hole 200 ft. deep. It is not so long
since the top of an old shaft caved in in a Ballarat
main street. One of these nights a prominent
citizen will disappear hastily, to bump loudly on
the roof of Hades after descending a few hundred
feet. Ballarat ought to be careful where it puts
its statues; the possibility of one of them drop-
ping suddenly into the far interior of this globe is
too awful to contemplate.
The Mockers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The woman seated in the doorway was a study
in feline immobility; yet her half-closed eyes saw
each living thing that moved in the street. The
urchin toiling in the rain-flushed gutter before her
became an object of ferocious interest. She knew
that the piling of rotting garbage in the floodway
meant the swamping of her house ; and he was
laboring with impish stealth to attain that end.
The remarkable hatred existing between the
boy and the woman was a thing that passed under-
standing in the street. It was known that he
had been the playmate of her dead son ; it was
since the funeral that hostilities had begun.
Suddenly the boy found that his dam was pro-
ducing some effect—the water swirled over the
pavement and touched the woman s feet. She did
not move. Then the boy doubled forward and
laughed—laughed in jerks with his hands grip
ping his knees. .
The slow venom in his voice brought her into a
sitting posture. Her mouth twitched as though
something had cut it. She began to sing, and the
boy ceased capering in the filth. The words o.
her song caricatured his ill-shaped head, hn
squinting eyes, his dubious parentage. She was-
Irish, and had discovered long ago that it wa:
easier to wound in rhyme than prose. Her fee
beat time in the slush. She clasped her hand
fervently and jeered. . , .
The boy stood, white and palpitating in in
childish fury. Then suddenly he moved away,
affecting a grotesque limp that only permitted
him to pass her with painful slowness. She
stopped singing ; something in his pretended limp
struck her into a fit of blind coughing that left
her grovelling in the doorway.
“ Them two are at it again,” said a man oppo-
site. “The kid beats her, though. Y’see, her
Jimmy wot pegged out uster limp like that; an
this kid’s imitatin’ it— her think a bit,
y’see. By cripes, look at her !
The boy went limping up the street.
ALBA.


A WOMAN’S BACK.
DOAN’S—*-
Backache Kidney Pills
The Tonic for Every Woman !
"'til
M
m
m
mm
$
%
m
//>>
AS
%
/Sf*
'--
v-:--:
Mbs. M. A. BISHOP, OF LAUNCESTOF
Household duties should not be a drudgery—
they are not when women are strong and well.
But where backs are aching and heads throbbing
as though they would break, even the joys of life
are turned to drudgery.
Do you know what makes the backaches, and
headaches, and the all-tired-out feeling ?
Sick kidneys. They are the filters of the blood,
and cannot stand all the work put upon them.
Backache is the cry of the kidneys for help—and
it is a warning of more serious trouble to follow.
Unless this backache is taken in time, it will run
into urinary troubles, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease,
and—Death.
Women do not need to suffer—there is a remedy
for backaches and for all other symptoms of kid-
ney disease —Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They should be used to stop the progress of any
and all disorders of the kidneys and urinary
organs, and may be thoroughly depended on.
When your kidneys are not doing their work it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pains, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day and to get
up during the night, uric acid, sleeplessness, ner-
vousness, irritability, sallow, unhealthy complexion,
puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss of energy
and ambition.
If your water, when allowed to remain undis-
turbed for 24 hours, forms a sediment or settling,
or has a cloudy appearance, it is evidence
that your kidneys and bladder need immediate
attention.
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done for them.
Mrs. M. A. Bishop, whose picture is given
above, of. 153 St. John Street, Launceston, Tas-
mania, said she had suffered from kidney disease
for five years. “My kidneys were very weak,”
she writes. “My back was very bad. It ached
so dreadfully that I felt tired out after doing the
least thing. The pains would at times work up
between my shoulders, but they were worst in the
small of my back. The kidneys were very weak
indeed, as certain symptoms showed. Oh, I tried
everything, liniments, plasters, and many medi-
cines, but nothing ever reached the kidneys like
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, They seemed to
act directly on the kidneys and on them alone.
They strengthened my kidneys, helped my back,
and have done me a world of good —more than
anything I have ever taken. This is true, and you
may publish it if you wish.” (Signed) Mrs. M. A.
Bishop.
If any woman who reads this has suffered as
Mrs. Bishop did, and thought the symptoms were
due to some female trouble, let her take heart, for
nine-tenthsof all so-called female troubles are really
kidney troubles, and should be treated as such.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a splendid
tonic to the whole female constitution.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
or from any of our branches, as follows: —Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (main
office); 292 Elinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King
William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever had any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from tliat complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them, Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder” for any such trouble. Any
troublesome irritation of the skin can’t resist its
healing, soothing influence. Lots of Sydney
people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “Waratah,” Orange-street,
Randwiek, Sydney, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged
10 years, was cured of Eczema by Doan’s
Ointment. Mrs. Carter thought her daughter
contracted the disease at school. It affected
her scalp, which was terribly inflamed, and all
broken out, and irritated her terribly. She pro-
cured some of Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s
Pharmacy, King-street, and, after thoroughly
washing the child’s scalp, applied it. The result
was the scalp entirely healed in a few days, and
left no scar, much to their joy. . .
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Eczema —and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles,
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it; send a
penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt of
price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Rivals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Valour, with his buckskin glove,
His simple forehead smote ;
Quoth he : “To please my Lady Love
I go to lands remote !
“ I go to lands remote, to fight
A race I never knew.
No matter; God defend the Right!
My Lady Fair, Adieu! ”
His Lady Love, in ancient mode,
Gave him a favor white ;
And sighed, as down the street he rode,
“ Adieu, my own true knight! ”
Sir Comfort in his arm-chair sat;
His look was keen and sly ;
He seemed a sleek, old fireside cat,
With half-shut mousing eye.
And, as he gazed into the fire
He chuckled quietly:
“ The only woman I desire—
She makes a mock of me.
“ She says her heart is with her knight,
Her Love, her Hero grand—
A large swashbuckler gone to fight—
And fast—in Boerland.
“ And ever, as the days go by,
She reads the cables grim ;
And, pretty idiot, wonders wb y
They do not mention him !
“ He wrote, she says, to tell her how
He slashed around, and made
A brilliant capture of a cow,
While on a scoutirig-raid.
“ It’s odd, these fellows sent to fight
Should think—they make me sore—
That they must Commentaries write,
Like Caesar, on the war.
“ But deeds of valor on the veldt,
And courage in the kloof,
Though worthy of a champion-belt,
Produce but little oof.
“ Maidens there are who value more
Love, Fame, and manly looks
Than stacks of d ress and gold galore—
They live in story-books.
“And real maidens, too, will dare
For love the coldest storm —
If they have padded gowns to wear,
And furs to keep them warm.
“ And they will faded roses keep,
Wherewith they once were wooed,
And over them will softly weep—
When they are in the mood.
“ But, when they meet with other girls,
To roses they prefer
Some simple rubies, strings of pearls,
And diamonds for their hair.
“ Their dreams, in hours of fond desire,
Across the seas may roam ;
But they are cats that love the fire,
And keep their hearts at Home.
“ Sweet Isabel is like the rest,
As fickle and as vain ;
And young Romance is now a guest
Where Fact and I shall reign.”
O, he was old and worldly-wise,
And in experience deep ;
And, closing then his crafty eyes,
Sir Comfort fell asleep.
Alas, for Love that come 3 to flee,
And Faith that cannot stay !
Alas, for Woman’s constancy,
And Lovers far away !
Sir Comfort married Isabel.
It was a wedding fine ;
The world that day went very well;
The sun did gaily shine.
She was in whitest silk arrayed—
A vision glorified—
And all the papers said she made
“A very charming bride.”
Sir Valour died upon the veldt,
And, so his comrades tell,
They heard, as by his side they knelt,
But one word—“ Isabel! ”
Sir Comfort, rich and old and sly,
Holds vows of woman cheap—
I’d rather like Sir Valour die,
And my illusions keep.
CREEVE ROR.
The Bet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Things were not going well w ith the Rev. Theo-
philus Broadbent. The Rev. Theophilus was a
Nonconformist parson, with a small wooden
church and a smaller, more wooden congregation.
The Nonconformist parson was a tremendous
stickler for conformity: he conformed with innu-
merable laws, commands, customs, and traditions,
little and big. His life was a perpetual round of
conformities, and he expected it to be the same
with his congregation. But his congregation sul-
lenly rebelled and expressed its disapprobation
by icily ignoring the plate. Consequently the
Rev. Theo. Broadbent was a lean, shabby, and
frequently a very hungry parson.
Had parson Broadbent been something more of
a bad man, he might have been a great one ; but,
lacking a certain capacity for evil, he was a failure.
He had a conscientiousness that nobody could live
with. I may be expected to except Mrs. Theo.,
but their marriage was so complete a success that
the pale, small wife had been quite assimilated by
the Rev. Broadbent,*and, to all moral intents and
purposes, had been non-existent for some thirteen
years. She could not be said to have a soul to
call her own, and her intense admiration for her
husband was only an aggravated egotism.
The Rev. Theophilus was strongest, most
vehement and most insistent in his condemnation
of gambling, and this was a theme to which he
almost entirely devoted himself during the run of
the great racing event of the year, and for some
weeks before and after. His congregation
affected all the seasonable sins, and withheld
contributions more determinedly than ever, with
a view to buying tickets in Tatt.’s Sweep. The
Plate, in a word, suffered for the Cup, and an
empty plate is a poor thing to dine from.
The Rev. Broadbent carried his principles into
his home. He was always a preacher ; he could
not pass the mustard without making a sermon
about it. He was one of those men who find ser-
mons in stones and good in everything—terrible
men to live with, for they will insist on imparting
their discoveries. The congregation could escape
from the clergyman’s preachments—the family
could not. Little Paul Broadbent, aged 12, and
little Mary Broadbent, aged 10, and four other
little Broadbents, were brought up in the odour of
sanctity. The little Broadbents had no compre-
hension of a more hideous villainy than gambling.
A playing-card Theophilus called a Free-Ticket
to the Pit; dice were the Corner-stones of Hell.
After the great racing event in 1895 the wooden
congregation in the little wooden church was more
reserved than ever before in the presence of the
plate. It had mostly backed the wrong horse and
was soured as well as impoverished.
One evening Elder Dourer, a truculent but
devoted apostle, in a fit of ungodly wrath, carried
a tiny toy plate, taken from, a child’s tea-set, from
pew to pew, but the wooden congregation was
impervious to his fine irony, and the Rev. Theo-
pliilus admonished him severely and at great
length, after the service, taking his text from
Ezekiel, chap. 3, verse 3.
This was the worst time Parson Broadbent had
experienced since he first took up the interminable
and crushing burden of the Church. He was
behind with his rent. To be shabby always and
hungry now and then were phases of his martyr-
dom, and he had the pride in them a soldier has in
his wounds ; but to owe rent he thought was not
respectable. To crown his troubles, the boy Paul
was apparently developing a serious sickness.
Paul was a tall, strapping lad for his years, a
cadet, and at 12 already imbued with a passion for
militarism.
Paul suddenly lost his exuberant animalism and
his vigorous appetite. He became pale and
heavy-eyed, and moped at home. After the
inefficacy of domestic remedies had.been proved,
a cheap doctor was called in, and his conclusion,
after investigating, was that Paul had something
on his mind.
The Rev. Theophilus Broadbent considered this
at great length, and prepared an improving dis-
course for Paul’s especial benefit, basing his
remarks on Proverbs, chap. 1, sth verse. The boy
collapsed under it, and wept miserably, but all
efforts to induce him to unburden his mind were
vain. Paul neither admitted nor denied, he only
sobbed and moaned desolately, and after that
became worse than ever. Mrs. Theo. was dis-
tracted.
As time went on Paul grew worse. He secreted
himself in out-of-the-way places; he hated to be
under his father’s eye, and ate scarcely anything,
sitting at the scanty meal with the downcast, fur-
tive looks of a convicted criminal. Theophilus
was profoundly disturbed. It occurred to him
that perhaps the boy had discovered the true state
of the family finances and prospects, and was
allowing the dismal truth to prey upon his mind.
In the course of ten days Broadbent’s unhappy
son had worked himself into something like a
fever. The doctor gave medicines, but insisted
upon the accuracy of his first diagnosis— the
patient must make open confession. On the night
of the tenth day, after the rest of the family had
fone to bed. the Rev. Broadbent tried to talk to
‘aul like a loving father. He only succeeded in
making a sermon, and the boy was dumb. Then
Mrs. Theo. broke with rule and precedent and
took Paul into her own hands, and talked to him
like a mother, with profuse tears and little femi-
nine appeals to the protective instinct that is the
pride of the male animal.
The mother’s appeal broke her small son up ;
he became almost hysterical, but presently fled
from the room, unconfessed and unshriven, and
for an hour the father and mother sat silent in an
atmosphere of grief that defied the parson’s obsti-
nate religious optimism. So occupied were they
with their trouble that they did not notice Paul,
who had entered the room again, and stood just
within the door, clad in his white nightgown, and
holding the garment gathered in front as if
carrying something heavy in its folds. A sob from
the lad attracted the parents’ attention, and each
uttered a cry of alarm at the sight of him. He
was ghastly pale and hollow-eyed, and the ex-
pression of his drawn face was the more shocking
for the mystery of it.
The boy stiffened himself and walked across the
room, gazing on his father as the condemned man
at the gallows gazes upon his executioner. He
stopped again and let his nightgown fall, and from
it streamed a shower of sovereigns ; a heap lay at
his feet, others ran hither and thither about the
room, eddying in the corners. Then Paul threw
himself face downwards on the hearthrug. When
he spoke his voice was clear and'high.
“ I won it! ”he said. “ I’m a gambler ! The
officer gave five shillings for the best shot in our
regiment. I was the best shot. Other boys were
betting on the horses; they were always talking
about it, and I put my five shillings on a double,
and I won/”
There was a pause of nearly a minute, and Paul
centinued.
“I wouldn’t have minded if I hadn’t won. I
hid the money away. I was afraid of it. It was
horrible, all that money. I couldn’t bear it !
I—l—l ”
Paul broke down, and lay cowering, waiting the
catastrophe, and the Rev. Theophilus Broadbei.t
gazed upon him, speechless for the first time
in his life. Twice he opened his mouth and said
something in an unnatural voice about the epistle
to the Colossians, first chapter, verse sixteen, and
each time his utterance failed him. His eyes
drifted from his son to the minted gold on the
floor.
And then, with a strange unearthly cry, he seized
a handful of the money, fled out into the dark-
ness and paid the rent; and as he ran he felt that
his cherished principles were dropping off him like
grasshoppers—and that he was Lost !
EDWARD DYSON.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
ifM
m
s'.
%
m
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
U I took quantities of medicine,, but constantly grew -worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one'which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World's Greatest-Family'JVled-icSne.” '
Ton ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and .certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism ; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect Cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS—A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing l
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK EOK
BE SURE TOC GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
JFor outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDQE’S EMBROCATION.
it is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold ia bottles,' at Is. lid., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
KHAKI . .
Is Fashionable
but it does not follotv that KHAKI-
COLORED EYES give you a
Military Bearing . They are, how-
ever, unmistakable evidence that
your liver and stomach are in a
sadly disordered state . The wisest
thing to do, under the circum-
stances, is to
h /- 7-"
Surrender Yourself
Unconditionally
to the kindly rule of Beecham’s
Bills, which will soon restore to
your Eyes their naturally Clear,
Bright, Healthy Appearance—Free
from Kliaki .
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
Over 6,000,000 Boxes Sold Annually.
imporxaktt i
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
©T!LL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON 8c CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
m
im
Perfume
S fl :&s
m
FARRINGDON AVENUE’
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
i SINGEBS & SPEAKERS
m
m
w
BONNINGTONS
MOSS
WILL CPR^
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...F08...
Cycle Tyres
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube ... j g g
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber, 15s. and 0 18 6
Cuter Rubber Covers ... ... ... og g
Inner Tube, complete, with Valve ... 07 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbermg Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, wide ... 0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve ..016
Victor Rims 0 6 6
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric" ' 15 0
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application.
We do Repairs.
PERDRIAU&CO.
268 and 270 CEORCE ST.,
Between Hunter and
.Bond Streets.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
M AN OEACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
IS THE ORIGINAL . .
• •
■ ; '
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
.
e Australasian Representatives
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
ence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PULLEY BLOCKS.
Hydraulic and Screw
Jacks
TO
too TONS.
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY
BENNIE, TEAEE & CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
. y.;>v
imt-
a iah ur
eo
W_ C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y Oil li STItEM I’, SYDNI3V
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERT
George and
Market-Sts.
the most nutritious
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST— SUPPER.
H
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
le same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the verv finest
cream consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can eive. There arja for w fre
pleased to say, only afew, .idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfec
to know that these are getting less dailv. The difference m price between -Pasteurised hcinKfitlw , , , . ,
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six “f* “* thf
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter! and if he will not, S lnd VOUr Orders to rii -md we wiP 7r
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-Street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
REET
1
MINING machinery, StEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOE. THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE 1
A.3xrr>
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
'i
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes ROCKRRE ATTTT'tcq t>ttt
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS HOTSTTNC vvrnfKreG CT ADar al^ l KUOKBREAK ERS 5 ROLLS, PUL.
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, ° f all WATER
SKIPS AND BUCKETS ET FCTRO rnppro -dt COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
sjaik, AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTINc’ AND OILS.
lill
m
“ DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Yalves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS |^iMBTEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
< q;
mu.
BAKING
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Ba
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY
g or Square).
FLOUR.
CRYSTALS.
HJAPom WYKYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN
H E OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
H ■ There is riot a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sult'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Qxford-st., London. ![W" Pur-
chasers should lOok to the Labe! on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
AND
WEW
FU
(Best
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 5l» PER CENT.
-f.l Saved is equivalent
to t's Earned !
Every requisite for the EiWnishiqof of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect. ;
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georsre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SIDNEY
Telephone 1023.
