

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
■ - v‘ ■ ■/. ... I ■■ ."V, • O
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
t.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
X£. Gr. 'WTJSI'E'XS.XN'S CO.,
107 Kent StT-oet, Sydney,
__„ . ' —FOB—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining H»ecjuisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* amp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
me
Medals.
;
Steam
> A -
f KBE
A--
m
mm
&Wl> FOE PRICES 'and PARTICULARS
««»»«
jJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W I M I’QLE'S GEOR G E H OTE L, opposite S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, Bs. per Day, or 2 Guineas per YVeek.
BATTLE & C°-« Pitt street, SYDNEY.
Ruston, Proctor & Co. L;. 1
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
8008
■ ■iiin—.m. .in . i i
RIC TEERASHDvr Gr MA.CHIKTES, S A.-W BBKTCHES, & c .
&c
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and BEMI-Ffvan
HORNE’S
Established 4 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICE NSED GROCERS.
K
R
:e3:c>:b.a.:oli''.
Hadley s Orient Ijotel.
D . S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS. >
T3EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 654 George-st., Sydney*
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
CO
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, Ills. (id.
"i'll Try It" Sold Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
PERPEim SITER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; .also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP GO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING'
The .beading Jbeit oi r*usioralia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.YV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to \y address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SOM, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Poet Is. 3d.
sr.M) Fun a
BOOK CATALOGUE
,« rare, curious,
and laughable books.
A* advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
How Do! May I send you
my
Eoctra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
TEACHER’S “ WHISKY
IS GOO® AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE GREAT • . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEBE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH.
MOXOR TOR AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
•
The following Cable appeared in the local papers of July 1G:
“LONDON, July Joshua Bros., of Melbourne, have been appointed
by tfoyal Warrant to supply their Boomerang: Brandy to the households of the
Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of .York.”
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. We
“ rA sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/~ extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
*
ga
\
a JEWELLED, FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong: and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways, pf Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
H. POTIER & CD.,
63 ROYAL ARCADE,
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
jliic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. GENN€RT,
890 Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, Franco
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.— N0. 1073
[Saturday, September 8, IUOO.
Beyistfred at the Genera! Pent Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Uewsnaner.


* Favenc and others should really not have to correct
this blunder so often. The leptosperma are “ tea- trees ”
because you can make a bitter tea out of them, and Cap-
tain Cook and his sailors are said to have made.
PERIODICALS BY POST,
AT CHEAP RATES.
Cassell's Magazine,. Harmsworth’s, Royal, Sanbow’B.
Quiver, 7s. per year.
Pearson’s, Strand, Windsor, Wide Worm*, Enolli*
Illustrated, Munsey, Idler, 9s. per year.
ALL POST FREE. Stamps or Postal Notes.
w.
5 Macquarie Place,
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d. ; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free. '
The Last of Six:
d ales of the Austral Tropics, By Ernest
Favenc, Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses;
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
% / ree ‘ *** charming presentation
The Ways of Many Waters t
By E. J. Bradt. Buckram, gilt top; 65.,
post free. ** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles;
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
Eirst-class for reoitation.
free.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. V The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection;
B J A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert ViUcent, Leist, Eisher and
Full wood ; 6s. post-free. %* “ The jolliest
book yet printed m Australia.”
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mad in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian provmce), ■ postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & C 0.,: Limitbd, Sydnbt and Brisbane
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
; (REGISTERED). *
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS,
•P 9 ’SI ‘SNIJL Nl
m
Sl'acvm'T
'NO
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA- and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable .for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Cr.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH O
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and 7 OTTttWNT’H a™ ’
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE BED PAGE.
N.S.W. Art Society.
THE Art Society of New South Wales is
luring interested Australians to its twenty-
first annual exhibition at 70 Pitt-street,
Sydney. From that catalogue where so
much humour is subtly hidden, one learns that the
Society has sold at its exhibitions pictures priced
at £7469 ; that its subsidy from Govt, is expended
entirely in art education; that it will award a
travelling scholarship next year if Govt, provides
the money ; and that among well-known artists
educated by the Society are F. P. Mahony B E
Minns, Percy Spence, C. Conder, A. J. Fischer’
A. ,T. Hanson, J. S. Watkins, A. R. Coffey!
J. Wohnski, J, Salvana, C. E. S. Tindall, Sid
Long, G. W. Lambert, H. Garliclc, &c.
The pictures now shown form an interesting
collection ; and compared with last year’s they
are more various and more charming. Given that
Art in Australia is pursued in hobbles ; that the
majority of the painters are still learning the rules
of the game, that attempts at sculpture rarely pass
beyond clay modelling; that the force of developed
fen ius is nowhere manifest as yet;—then the Art
ociety’s exhibition does the members credit.
The most noticeable exhibitor this year is A. R.
Coffey, who has worked : succeeded as far as his
present talent permits ; and painted better pictures
than in, any previous year. He exhibits both
landscape and portrait work ; and in a large
composition called “ Curse the Gold ! ” he tries his
imaginative wings, and falls without hurting him-
self. He is decidedly to be congratulated on his
pluck and achievement. The chief fault to be
found with him seems to lie in a certain hardness
of temperament which prevents personal
emotion from showing in his pictures, and
which leaves them rather in the category of
clever pictures than in that of fine art. His
large landscape, “Under the Ti-trees,” *
purchased by N.S.W. Gallery, is un-
commonly well painted. It is well seen,
truly realised, and transfers to canvas a
beautiful glimpse of Nature. There is
velvet shade in the foreground, the dense
branches of the trees overhead, and be-
neath the branches a bright daylight vista.
The stray sun-ray which shines through
the branches to the foreground gives the
illusion of real sunlight. Yet the picture
is a little hard, a little garish, a little too
dazzling. Even the shadows are not cool.
One admires—and turns away with relief.
What does that mean ? Either, if the glare
was not in the scene the painter saw, that
he has missed some subtle tones of shade ;
or, if the glare was in the scene, that he
has painted too well, lias not subordinated
a natural crudity to his artistic effect. An
artist should never forget that he must
transfuse Nature through himself to obtain
the highest result: even her miracles he
must merge in his own mood. There was
never a spectacle of Nature so grand that
the spirit of Man could not rise above it,
grander.
In “ Curse the Gold ! ” A. R. Coffey re-
presents two men in a desert apparently
meant for Westralian. One is reclining,
sick or dying, near an empty water-bag :
the other with the left arm supports him,
with the right thrusts to Heaven that
accusing fist which is the popular embodi-
ment of a curse. An exploring person who
has been there complains that the shadows
are too light for the strong sun overhead :
it might be added that there is little energy
in the thrust arm, no grip in the accusing
fist—and so on. But details like these
matter little in view of the main fact that
the picture does not arrest, does not con-
vince. It takes a commonplace idea,, the
most obvious pose for the idea ; and
there is not yet force enough in the artist
to justify the idea and the pose. The
men hardly live, and the curse is dead. Never-
theless, this is a class of picture one feels grateful
to our artists for attempting, whether they fail or
not.
Throughout A. R. Coffey’s work comes the same
defect. His colours are warm ; his pictures are
cold. Now a good picture, like a good poem, is
not an exercise in manualor intellectual dexterity:
it is a manifestation of forcible emotion. And A.
R. Coffey exhibits a hard brilliance without any
emotion worth mentioning. It is so in his clever
study of rock and wave, “A Rugged Coast.” It
is so in his “ Moonlight on the Hawkesbury.” ' In
the pretty watercolour, “Two Ketches,” and the
attractive pastel, “The Lady with the Veil,” hi»
energy seems to want just a touch of softness, a
glimpse of feeling, to make its result perfect. Bub
he goes through all media with the same rigid
barrier between himself and his subject. He has
done good work ; but if he can break down that
barrier he will do great work.
* • • •
Pass to A. J. Daplyn. It is a fashion among
some of our younger artists to pity “poor old
Daplyn ; ” —and some of them would be fortunate
if they could compass the sympathy between
Daplyn’s brush and his subject. In the present
exhibition, his talent is perhaps shown to greater
advantage than in any exhibition previously.
His worked is keyed as low in colour as Coffey’s
is keyed high; and he shows some of the
emotion which Coffey lacks. But his energy
“ The Return of the Pearl-
Fishers .”— A. G. Plat.
does not rise to
the level of
Force, and his
emotion doesnot
rise to the level
of Passion. It
is rather senti-
ment—a little
tricked, maybe;
a little faded;
but tender and
charming with-
al. And Daplyn
knows his limits,
and paints with-
in them and
up to them.
Read an old
love’s letter and
stroll with a
mild cigar and
a memory un-
der a shaded
moon, and you
will receive
something like
Daplyn’s im-
pression. He car-
ries his senti-
ment into his
titles. “The
Moon is up, yet ’t is not Night”—the
picture which N.S.W. Gallery bought—is hinted
by the drawing on this page. It has glamour, but
the glamour is a trifle elderly and familiar. For
myself, I would prefer ‘ ‘ The Lagoon, Narra-
been,” bought for 40gs. less by some discriminat-
mg person. It is a villainous simile, but “The
Lagoon ” seems to me a fresher infusion than
“Ihe Moon”—where the tea-leaves might have
been dried and decocted over again. And
Daplyn keeps on. Not so well in his large
“Shades of Evening”—is the lighting bad ? —but
m his “Marsh-land” and “Where Creek and
River Meet ” —and in others in a lesser degree.
He is selling, too ; the public have sense, after all
somebody picked up Sophie Steffanoni’s plea-
sant glimpse of “ Mount Keira from Wollongong
Beach ” cheaply at four guineas.
* * * «
Lister, the solid man ? He slogs away. With
a vast of labour, a deal of skill, and no soul worth
speaking of, he covers his huge canvases year after
year with Nature as he sees her ; and he sees her
weH. She shines for him ; but. she never glorifies
him, never transfigures him, or he her. There is
some impediment to their marriage. Sometimes
his skill imitates soul so well (in his smaller
pictures, usually) that you are almost deceived.
Never quite. The hem of her garment he clutches
often; sometimes the garment; never the god-
dess wholly. Always she herself escapes. And he
follows, follows—through good sales and bad sales
he follows. I admire that man. And I wish, I
wish
* * * *
.Albert Hanson appears in -some, dozen land-
scapes. He has skill; he has emotion ; neither in
surpassing degree. He knows what to jjaint, and
he paints well; but fails in the force to send his
work past pretty-good into very-good. Yet his
“ The Moon is tip, yet Hi's not Night.”—A. J. Daplyn.
work is attractive : everybody should have one
Hanson on his wall. There are “ A Bend in the
Teremakau River”; “ Otira Gorge’’—priced
high : “ The Oaks by the Lake, Narrabeen ”;
“ Nafrabeen Lagoon ’’—priced low.
Horace Moore-Jones works; he is improving
his work : it is still a little meretricious, a little
flashy; wanting simplicity, sincerity, good man-
ners.
(This is not in order of merit; the all-but-best
picture is to come.)
Robert M. Ronald, a young man from Armi-
dale Technical School, shows promising work : it
has delicacy, syinDathy--and weakness still.
This space represents Frank Mahony, who is
practically Unrepresented. About five years ago
somebody sent to The Bulletin fr Jm Queensland
a poem about a dreamer, and in the last line “ The
Dreamer lay with the unknown dead.” I don’t
know that he wasn’t just as well off; but when
one has talent one might just as well be better
off. However, there is a big picture at home—for
next year. And, of course. -. . . Still
Ekeu, fugaces ...
* • • •
Nerli is unfortunate m bringing his
talent to several pictures which seem un-
likely to sell in this community. His chief
picture, an idea -of “ Cosette,” has a
striking face (though it is rouged enough
for lan tine), and the figure stays in
memory; but, once the Gallery has passed
who is there to pay the 100 guineas which
are not an extravagant price—if one wanted
it ?
Dattilo Rubbo’s excellent painting of the
figure of an old woman seems in the same
class: there is no market for old women.
A much more attractive picture comes in
ms heads of three old smokers, types of
‘Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock’’—full of charac-
ter, well painted, and with a good human interest
m them.
Clement Blackman sends one Tasmanian land-
scape-^-well conceived and well executed—one
mood of Nature caught and fixed.
Anybody with a guinea and a place for a- small
panel of red roses should buy Hetty Dymock’s
No. 78 —just as good as some priced at five times
as much.
Toni Roberts gives one picture—a lady in “A
French Hat,” dexterous and dainty. Worth, on
a , c , om P^ ruson of prices, 15gs. ; priced, lOgs.
sold. (An old dog for the local Art road.)
“ The Return of
the Pearl Fishers,”
here illustrated, is
one of several pic-
tures by A. G. Plate
—and the most at-
tractive; though the
idea is old and treat-
ment obvious en-
ough the moon’s
red path o ver witter,
the boats dark in a
red glow. Still, a
good glimpse.
P. Van der Vel-
den for the most
part paints uninter-
esting subjects beau-
tifully: aMaoriland
“Creek Scene” is
well chosen, but
does not inspire.
The workmanship
of “Fe rment i n g.
Cider ” is a delight;
but should one be
content with work-
manship ?
Arthur Oollingridge, like the others, is not to
be valued in proportion to price or size of canvas.
Somebody was lucky enough to get the best ex-
ample of his art on show—“ Clearing ” —for sgs.
, Simihriy with C. 11. Hunt. His large picture,
Strayed ” —counts for nothing. A nice little
girl m a nice little gown and hat, holding a nice
little flower in a nice little way', is pleasant to see
against a background of bush and rocks; but she
does not look in the least “strayed” or worth
lOOgs. And there is a small water-colour at 3gs.,
“Near Woy Woy,” which holds the value of Art.
and which should in due proportion be priced at
250 gs.
“ The first sail in the offing of Port Jackson,
6th May, 1770,” by Blagdon Chambers, may illus-
trate some artists’ point of view. The conception
is excellent. You have to show the surprise and
terror of the Australian aboriginal at the onset of
this strange harbinger, animal, maybe gckl. What
is the chief point of your picture? The abori-
ginal and his emotions, of course. The scenery
and the sail are incidentals—to be indicated with
greater or less fullness as the picture will permit.
So you bring barbarism close to you—its gesture
of. agitation, its play of feature, its attitude
of fear. Highly dramatic, this clash of old
and new ! A fine opportunity for a study,
of aboriginals, a display of human emotion,
with the underlying idea to point it all. But
Blagdon Chambers does not see things that way.
His blacks, his scenery, his sail, take nearly equal
importance. The result is that the ideh i 3
frittered away. The blacks are brought close
enough to suggest, but not to display emotion (the
male lying down looks about nine feet long, by
the way—and the cliff to the right may be rising
from the water or lying nearly flat uponit); so the
picture is wasted for want of a key, a climax.
“The literary idea of art” is decried ; but in
imaginative subjects a notion of literary perspec-
tive (which is one with all imaginative perspective)
would a”"- 1 - help ~sme artists ?
» » • *
J. WoMaski’s picture, “After life’s fitful fever
he sleeps well,” comes up for criticism under,.dif-
ferent conditions from those which held at the
students’ competition. It represents a man just
dead in bed, with a bowed and weeping wife,
a hardly-understanding little girl like “The
Widower’s,” and a sleeping infant in a cradle—all
the material for a grief-impression. And by dint
of very careful, very complete painting, it does
leave the impression of death and grief
(though it is only the title which assures you
the man is really dead). Further, the painting
is so good, the detail so complete, the figures so
well posed, that the impression deepens with
acquaintance. It is a picture which reflects great
credit on the painstaking talent of the artist. But
it is not a picture on the high plane of art. Wh‘y ?
Firstly, because it deals with a hackneyed idea in
the most obvious vJay. You imagine the artist
saying, “ How should the woman be posed ?—Just
so”—and posing her just so. “ How would the
child stand?—Just so’’—and she stands just so.
Of course, every artist does that—he has to do it ;
and if he leave the obvious attitude for
the extraordinary, ten to one he will
lose his impression. But a figure should
neither be commonplace nor outr6— it should be
lifted just sufficiently from the commonplace to
give a result of freshness, of “ slight novelty
lifted not far enough to make it improbable or
not-plausible, but far enough to remove the touch
of the prosaic, the mechanical, which clings to
familiar objects or ideas. Except in the case of
the little girl, Wolinski does not do this. His
picture composes mechanically, but not artisti-
cally ; with the result that his achieved
impression seems rather the result of artifice
than of art. This may seem hypercriticism;
but (if the competition judges were similarly
impressed) it may explain why work inferior in
the totality of result was preferred above Wolin-
ski’s picture; It is not meant to detract from the
cleanness, the simplicity, the surety, which are
such fine qualities in the work, and which have
earned its place in a gallery of Australian art.
And, ag Wolinski goes to Paris with the proceeds
of his picture, one hopes that he will soon be able
to add the original flavour, the flavour of dis-
tinction, which are,all that is lacking to make his
picture a masterpiece.
* • . • •
The black-and-white section is not large or
very attractive. J. Mather’s etching and “fumo-
graph ” are noticeable: the latter is especi-
ally to be prized. There is a panel in Ameri-
can walnut by Louise Hunt. Remain some 200
paintings in oil or water, beyond (or below)
decided praise or blame. The one picture
which' should have eclipsed competition is
suggested in the third drawing on this page
(these three are chosen for publicity because
they occupy least space and least-misrepresent the
“ Sunshine after Rain.” — T. Dean.
paintings)— “ Sunshine after Rain,” by T. Dean.
Here is a man, a railway fettler, who nourishes the
young plant of Art in a. hard environment, and
with a little more science would culHhe best blos-
soms of them all. He paints landscapes which he
feels, and shows that he feels, and by dint qf feel-
ing his paint becomes light and atmosphere. The
effect of rainbow on mist, of sun on wet trees,
which he puts into his picture is artistically the
highest effect in the exhibition. The cattle
in the centre are not good, the nearer figures are
bad, and the foreground in which they stand is
clumsy and badly-painted, and spoils the picture.
If it were simply taken away tlie remainder would
stand, admirable. If it were improved, as con-
ceivably it could be improved, the picture would
rank very highly indeed 1 . The same artist’s
power over atmospheric effects is seen in the sky
of “ Out Back,” and the personality of this picture
also is noteworthy, though less marked. A “Sun-
set ” scene has less of Dean’s peculiar power.
_ Well,. ! did my best to lookat things in a dry
light, through spectacles of sympathy. And those
are the impressions the Art Society's 21st annual
exhibition made upon me.
A.G.S.
“ Henslowe’s Annual ” is issued by Gordon and
Gotch, at Sydney, in a dashing cover. The
literary and artistic contents are not of great
merit; but the publicatioTi seems well designed- to
secure popularity and a sale.
JR. H. Matthews forwards a pamphlet on
Divisions of the South Australian Aborigines,”
reprinted from a recent volume of proceedings of
the American Philosophical Society. It should
have been made clear that the compilation does
npt relate to the present day: the conditions of
tribal distribution and existence having greatly
changed since they were studied, for example,' by
Schiirmanii in the seventies and Curr in the
eighties.


ASTORAL f INANCE |j SSQC’N ■■ID.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
■—(SELLING ONLY) —
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURHS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland,
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Eire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins held W' eklv.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SYDKTB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
“LAWRUS” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE BAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, F tirs Lane, Melbourne, & 422, Ceorge St., Sydney.
V to
V?
1111
VN
•V/'/.-T
t*V>\
tVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bclletu*.
If you are iiireo ? STOMACri DRUGGING |
and disappointmen j, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by |
j Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- |
5 CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
j THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.'
\DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER ’
-LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can/
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly- *
constructed Belts give prompt relief iq Insomnia, t
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General"
’ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. a
5 They impart vigor and potency to every function, ’
' brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and i
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted “
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and £
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. 4
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 :0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, i
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— i
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges# Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
-LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN,
MANAGER.
fcO|M
VINOLIA WAR FUND
AMOUNTS TO
£lo,ooo^
REPRESENTING NEARLY
5,000,000 HA’PENNIES!
d. sent on every tablet sold.
Wm
" sORP «^ s
00^^
th*" M '
wit* 1
Vlw
/a
tw » um
ApP fopri
OW-
O'
Ui
Q
«iss®
--*■
9
Vinolia Soapis specially prepared for Sensitive Skins.
t
C B B
iBoj
KnjyLwe
saoe
> a
S&<*
/si>
5500
i-sSfc.
5,607
oorto break or burn,
CERTIFICATE. —ShouId any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
'CBlr
BRIAR
SUOIMUIS XSIID
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders—Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas.
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color —Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door ; Duchesse Dressing Table to
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong-
-6 Padded-back Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and* 2 Pillows
Triple Wire Mattress. ° W8 ’
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
stol, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s Hew Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m, Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-stree or Hall’s.
K€MP’S
PatcQt Sl)€ep-Brai)diog LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting - Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat-; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents- E, RICH & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Hlack, Reel, and Bine. 3s 6d per gall, in Melb. and. Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Demonstration H. oct 1
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Name,
Address.
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL):
100,000 Sutosoribers a<t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Name
Address.
Melbourne C. November 6,
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
oS « t
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
For foil particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Creo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, PEARLS
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
B«st Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
V
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
an(J Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
aH«»
***%!*'" vA^ 1 ’
You Should Have
Every Number
m
m
OF THE
Australian
• •
m" From this date we will publish consecutively
in The Bulletin the contents of every number of
the “ Australian Music Books.” Every one is a
marvellous shilling’s worth.
No. 1.
Ten Popular Songs.
The Song that Reached My
Heart
The Arab’s Farewell to His
Steed
Let Me Like a Soldier Fall
—Wallace
I Dreamt that I Dwelt
—Balfe
The Wolf —Shield
The Heart Bowed Down
—Balfe
Waiting —Millard
There is a Flower that
Bloometh
Hearts and Homes Blockley
The Anchor’s Weighed
—Braham
No. 2.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
Largo (The Celebrated)
—Handel
Sultan’s Grand March
—Blake
Fairies’ Frolic, The Sudds
True Love Gavotte Resch
Merry Peasant, The
—Schumann
Maiden’s Prayer, The
—Badarzewska
Signal March, The Kleber
Ray of Sunshine, A Le Due
Robin’s Return, The
—Fisher
Indiana Valse Marcatthou
Christmas Piece, A
—Mendelssohn
Price - One Shilling:;
or POSTED, Is. 2d.
Obtainable at all Music-sellers throughout Aus-
tralasia, or direct from the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
The Last of Six :
Taleg of the Austral Tropios. By
Ernest Paying. Paper eovers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free,
Australia i? ProVideot Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD OITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD andO.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed oontains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying nob
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEIECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KMUtfSN,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
BST Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
im
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ I hare used
your ‘ KOK 0 ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stopped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
1/v
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY.. LTD.,
XX ieT BEVIS MARKS. LONDON. ENOLANOj
VX
k
FOR
THE
the great
HAIR PRODUCER
and RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE"
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling’
Off or Turning Crey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
to
•m
Vor Preserving Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf. Dandruff, *O. also for
For Preserving. g RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
1 PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
Co., HiSri'S Holborn, L,ONDON s ENGLAND.
Tff.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
& Saddlery Manf. Com.pany (
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do \° u want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us - „ y .
Our One-man Sulky, £6 ; 2-Spring SiHkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, fe7 Xss. Our Special BenM"?™
Sulkies, the best ond strongest in Australia, fell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladle?* Pheatons (single and
and everv descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
border HARNESS and SA UDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us j our
address, and we will forward lllustrated
mSTy any d flrms C who 9 say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay la per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
£
Delivered at any Wharf ©r
ii.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Frog-farming is a coming industry of the
U.S., which territory is said to grow a finer na-
tural article in Bana esculenta than Canada;
though, owing to a superior method of prepara-
tion, Canadian “ frogs’-legs ” have hitherto been
most in demand. In San Francisco frogs’ legs are
largely consumed at the restaurants.
Yic. C.J. Madden recently delivered a
learned dissertation on the asininity and
absurdity of the law as it concerns divorce. The
alleged man in the case had frequently beaten his
wife, so severely on one occasion as to temporarily
deprive her of the sight of one eye. Also he
became a more or less habitual drunkard and
entirely neglected to maintain her. Nathless the
learned C.J. refused the decree nisi, ruling that,
“as he (the husband) had called at her mothers
house as late as Dec. last, he had, in his own miser-
able fashion, recognised her as his wife. Ihe
woman who had united her life to that of a thrift -
less and good-for-nothing fellow had married him,
and if he turned out to be by no means what her
fancy had painted, she could not hope to escape
on that ground. If he desired, even in the most
shiftless, half-hearted fashion, to live with his
wife, he could not be said to desert her. Also,
though Ins disposition was so brutal that she
might readily regard him with some mistrust, as
far as her future safety was_ concerned, the
violence alleged was not sufficient to bring it
within the legal definition of cruelty, ’’ Madden s
definition of desertion is tiuly amazing, A man
may wholly cease to support his wife and even
cease to live with her, but if he calls on her once
in eight months or so (possibly to threaten her
with further battery) it isn’t desertion within the
scope of Madden’s law !
The Exhumation.
“ I was practising at Cobar,”
Said the lawyer-man to me—
And I know that he was sober,
For we both were drinking tea—
“ I was practising at Cobar,
In the year of ’93.
“ Cobar girls have lips of coral;
. Cobar girls are charming sport;
But one cannot long on moral
Kisses hold the vital fort —
And the folk there seldom quarrel,
And they rarely go to Court.
“ How I yearned to make my pile and
Leave this place devoid of sin 1
Life upon a desert island
Would have more of joyful din—
My sole fountain in that dry land
Was the Copper-Miners’ Inn.
Black Bad Luck, with grim derision,
Came and sat upon my knees,
And dropped hints that an incision
In the neck would bring me ease,
When —a sweet celestial vision !
Came a squad of eight Chinese.
And they brought some Chinese toddy,
And they asked me what would be
Cost of leave to raise the body
Of their countryman, Ah Kee.
‘ Eight pound ten,’ I said —no shoddy
Pettifogger’s price for me.
Well, they planked the money down—and
Oh, ’twas good to see the gold !
Then I wrote straight off to Town, and
Got a permit to unmould
Dead Ah Kee for half-a-crown, and
Twenty-seven-and-six, all told.
Then I offered Michael Carty
Half-a-sovereign to exhume
That decayed old pagan party
From his long-neglected tomb;
And his answer it was hearty,
Though he had an eye of gloom.
Now, there was a dissipated
Corpse, by name of Fogarty,
That in ground unconsecrated
Had been buried privately ;
And they thought it would well-mated
With another heathen’s be.
So Ah Kee’s remains they planted
In that grave, without a wreath,
Never fearing to be “hanted,”
The white spectral moon beneath,
By a spook with eyes that slanted,
Or a ghost with hairy teeth.
That was long before, but Carty
Had a row with Fogarty ;
And he cherished still a hearty
Hate against the enemy;
So, instead of the Chow party,
Carty dug up Fogarty.
With a grin he said, confound him !
‘ Think of Fogarty the Chow
With the other Chows around him
Bumin’ joss-sticks ! Troth I vow
Though in life I often downed him
I have downed and damned him now.
Well, the thing could not be mended ;
So the coffin took the road,
And in war it nearly ended,
For each Chow would bear the load;
I was near with laughter rended
At the reverence they showed.
Did those cheated Chows divine a
Reason for the change absurd ?
Faith they never made a sign, a
Faintest sign, nor said a word,
But they shipped the corpse to China,
As I subsequently heard.
Sir, I sometimes can’t help sighing
As I think of poor Ah Kee,
And his bones near Cobar lying,
While in far-off Pe-che-li
All his folk are softly crying
At the shrine of Fogarty.”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.


The Best
Literature.
“ THE TIMES ”
REPRINT
OF THE
ENCYCLOPEDIA
BRITANNICA.
a:\
05
/
iSI
?>oi
, \
In practice, the best literature is that from which the reader derives both pleasure
and profit, the joy of reading apt and sound English and the sense of enrichment that
comes from gaining knowledge. That the English should be apt, that the treatment be
fitted to the subject matter, is a requirement based upon the utilitarian foundation of all
literary principles, and the tediousness of hack writers arises from their obligation to
write indifferently well upon all subjects.
THE LATE ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
used to say that the most difficult of literary tasks was to describe a game of cards so
clearly that a party could sit down and play at it by book, and to write upon science and
philosophy for the unscientific and unphilosophical reader is a task beset by kindred diffi-
culties. A specialist may so master his subject that it ceases to present to his mind the
bristles of its technicality, but it is only the most profound students who can achieve this
happy result. The best treatises in every branch of learning must necessarily be written
not by “ popular expositors,” but by men who live so entirely in a world of their own that
they lose their sense of aloofness. In such an atmosphere
CLEAR THINKING IS AS HABITUAL
as is asceticism in a monastery. To Lord Kelvin, Lord Rayleigh, or Sir William Crookes,
for example, the physicist’s point of view must have become second nature. Heat and
cold, light and darkness are phenomena which, to such a scientist, present each a code of
action. He recognises the vibrations of light and sound in the air as plainly as a child
sees smoke; there is to him no vagueness and
MO NEED FOR VAGUE WORDS
he has a plain tale to tell and tells it plainly. To an astronomer like Sir Robert Ball the
paths of the stars and planets seem altogether simple, they move to and fro as perceptibly
as the steamers that ply on Sydney Harbor. To a child the mere thought that the world
spins on an axis is so bewildering that it accepts the statement as a savage accepts a
myth, and even to the* average adult the effort to conceive unbounded space results in
little else but headache and confusion. ~ Special training is necessary before one can even
receive a clear impression, and to impart that impression to others is an art in itself.
There are, indeed, in each field of study but a few specialists who can tell what they
know so that he who runs may read with understanding, and it is hardly too much to say
that these few are almost all to be found in the ranks of the Encyclopaedia Bfitannica’S
contributors.
The Ninth Edition of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA,
which “The Times ’ offers to residents of New South Wales, is
universally recognised as the most perfect of works of reference.
Completed nearly ten years ago, it at once assumed and has firmly
retained a position of paramount authority. “ The Times ” Reprint
is in every respect the same as the copies already sold by Messrs. A.
and C. Black, the Original Publishers, at the higher prices; it is
what booksellers call a new impression, not a changed edition. There
has been no condensation, no abridgement, no omission. Every
word, every illustration, every map, every element of value is
preserved intact, there is not the most minute cheapening of
the product to offset against the remarkable diminution of
the price.
But your order must be booked at once in order to secure the
work at the present favourable prices.
The greatest bargain in the world of bookselling; the great
national work for a preliminary payment of
ONE GUINEA.
To be followed by 16 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each.
SOME FACTS AND FIGURES.
“ mocl, type " atter “■ five p,ges ot “ oK ‘ i ’“ rj ' —~ ™>“»»
The complete work of twenty-five volumes represents a library of 275 ordinary octavo volumes, each illustrated with one
or more full page engraved plates and twenty-five separate illustrations, besides maps, plans, &c.
Geography and Physiography^ 0 V ° lume aS a baSlS ’ there are m the Enc y cl °Padia Britannica twenty-seven volumes on
On History, twenty-seven volumes.
On Philosophy and Religion, twenty-one volumes.
On Medicine in its departments, nine volumes.
On Law, eight volumes.
On Industrial and Applied Sciences, thirty volumes.
- On Mercantile subjects, nine volumes.
On Agriculture, ten volumes.
On Games, Music and Legends, nine volumes.
_ „ . And libraries on Natural History, Biography and fine arts
Over fifty of its leading articles on Mathematics, Historv, Theology, Physics, Geography
printed in separate text-books for use in the leading colleges and universities of England and A
Chemistry, fee., have been
merica.


ONLY SEVEN DAYS MORE
SEPT.
If
Before the Withdrawal of the Offer
OF THE
ENCYCLOPEDIA
BRITANNICA
(NINTH EDITION—THE LATEST)
t
(L O 3Xr 3=> 0IXT)
At a DISCOUNT of 50 PER CENT.
A BARGAIN FOR BOOK-BUYERS.
TO DELAY IS DANGEROUS.
“ A LL good things must have an end,” says the adage. Had the sage who first propounded this
jr\ maxim been of a less pessimistic turn of mind he might have observed that evil things, as
well, are not always eternal; but, be that as it may, the adage that he made fits the case in hand
exactly. We refer to the London “Times” ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA ENTERPRISE.
For, first of all, it is an essentially good thing, since it has already placed the great international
standard library of reference in hundreds of homos in New South Wales—placed them at only half the
usual cost, and "yet permits the subscriber to pay this reduced price at the easy rate of only ONE
GUINEA PER MONTH. Then it is transitory, too, for on SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, the
opportunity it embodies will pass for ever beyond the reach of those who have failed to avail them-
selves of the benefits it offers.
We have but one word of advice for all our New South Wales friends, and that is : Seize the
opportunity while it is yet within your reach. Cut out the order form printed below, and post it; but
be quite sure it is posted on or before. SEPTEMBER 15. If there is any doubt about it, make sure of
your set by telegraphing us as follows:—“The London ‘Times,’ Sydney, Reserve set Britannica,”
giving your own name in full; then follow your telegram immediately by an order form properly filled
out, and a remittance of the first guinea.
REMEMBER that the withdrawal of the offer terminates the, arrangement which made this
extraordinary offer possible in New South Wales. ON SEPTEMBER 15 the offer must be withdrawn
permanently, and it will not be renewed at the prevailing prices or at any other price. It is a case,
therefore, of—NOW OR NOT AT ALL.
laii
m
i! !
ly/V/iv//*#V r
////////
«k
»;• i
Hi
1511
NRm»nSaittv«jiS ENcmort
- ::: jllli '•.iill .::j)
AITANMCn! QRtTANWMemTANM
*£■3s 58s
*w™nn«s
ENCVCLtIPin E
iiIRRITAwi £
NCYCLDrti £
ERITANNifc |
W/A
s§
:■ *l','
VOL I
VOL II
AHA-ATH
VOL 111 a VOL IVJ voulTii
ATH-B01|.8(IK-CASlll!A«-CLt
m.
a-ana
U-DAYI"
s’W
3«ssb
m
Mil:
m
5S
1*
;p§s
4
SHEXCLW
TTfl( '*wfl!|Bßl7fiNM|A|BßlTA
«E2«Sh
W!
''oi viiil unu viHjl
fal-fvzlFvg.
VCL XIII:!
FV6-GOT
F
g|g
wy.w/
Wmrnm^.
mm
is mm
•iOfelfSH
THE SPECIAL BOOK*CASE
The Offer—Good until Sept. 15th Only.
The sensation of the bookselling season in London, the remarkable offer of “THE TIMES” Re-
print of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA (Ninth Eedition) is already known to residents in
New South Wales who read “The Times.” No fewer than 15,000 copies of the massive work were
printed, but applications were received in rapid succession for more than 25,000.
Widespread disappointment was occasioned by the enforced refusal of a great number of orders,
and residents in New South Wales were, owing to delay in communicating with London, peculiarly
unfortunate in this respect. .
What “ The Times ” did for residents in England, it is now doing for residents in New South
Wales. Arrangements have been made for a limited number of copies for distribution in New South
Wales. The price and terms upon which these copies may be obtained are stated in detail below, and
immediate application should be made by persons who desire to avail themselves of this extraordinary
opportunity.
An Admirable Investment.
The ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA is an admirable investment for three excellent reasons.
The three excellent reasons which combine to recommend the “ Encyclopaedia ” are these _ ar-p. TA
In the first place, it is the very best thing of its sort to purchase. The ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA has been recognised, ever since the first edition was published in 1771, as the very
best work of reference in the world. It is easy enough to find more costly books, to purchase a thou-
sand volumes instead of only twenty-five, but that thousand would be ill chosen if the twenty-hve
volumes of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA were not among them. It is not, indeed, too
much to say that no thousand other volumes contain so great a proportion of the whole sum of human
knowledge as do these five-and-twenty. Here, then, is one excellent reason why the “ Encyclopaedia
is the very best thing of its sort. , ,
In the second place, the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA may at the moment be purchased
upon remarkably advantageous terms. The established publisher’s price for the twenty-five volumes
in cloth binding is £37. “The Times” offers precisely the same work, unaltered and unabridged, tor
seventeen monthly payments of one guinea each, or for £l7 in cash —less than half-price. Ims is
another excellent reason, for everyone must wish that the pounds and shillings one spends should do
their utmost in adding to the accumulated wealth of the investor.
In the third place, the purchase of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA does not involve, on
the one hand, ready money, nor yet, on the other hand, the incurring of a vague debt which the debtor
may be called upon to pay when it is least convenient for him to do so.
A preliminary payment of only one guinea in cash will secure the delivery of the volumes. After
the delivery has been made other payments of one guinea each become due at monthly intervals. ** e
purchaser of the “Encyclopaedia” who adopts this novel and convenient system of paying for books
knows precisely when his payments should be made, and knows too that each one of them is so incon-
siderable as to make hardly any strain upon a month’s income.
The Popularity of the Work.
The popularity of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA is sufficiently shown by the fact
that in less than twenty months more than twenty thousand copies of “ The Times” Reprint of the
“Encyclopaedia” have been sold in the United Kingdom alone, in addition to copies supplied by
“ The Times ” in India, South Africa, and Australia, as well as to the United StAtes, where this com-
plete and authentic Reprint of the great library is eagerly welcomed notwithstanding that the country
has, owing to the faulty condition of the copyright laws, been flooded with three or four hundred
thousand copies of piratical and mutilated editions.
The aggregate sale of “The Times” Reprint of the “Encyclopaedia” has been, at i Lome ana
abroad, over twenty-five thousand sets of twenty-five volumes each, a total of six hundred and twenty-
five thousand volumes. The figures in each case are of interest, not only because they show that the
“Encyclopaedia” is a general favourite, but also because they describe an unprecedented success m
the dissemination of really good literature; and go far to -prove that the public taste is by no means
so debased as some alarmists believe it to be.
They are figures, too, so astonishing that they cannot readily be grasped.
Every copy of the “Encyclopaedia” contains twenty-two thousand pages, and this means that
over five hundred and fifty million pages have been printed and sold. Large figures of this sort pro-
duce upon the mind an effect which a contemporary foreign writer has aptly described as a
“brain-blur.” One cannot easily picture priuted pages floating through the air and lying like snow
upon the ground, but a simple comparison will assist the imagination. Each of these pages is 11
inches in depth by 8| inches in width. Their aggregate sqperfices would therefore be, if the front a,nd
back of each leaf could be split apart and all the pages spread out, no less than fifty-two thousand nine
hundred and thir.ty-seven millions five hundred thousand square inches, or 367,621,527 square feet,
or 8,349 acres, or nearly 14 square miles. Conceived as one gigantic sheet of printed words, having
its centre at a given point, the whole would extend nearly two miles north, nearly two miles south,
nearly two miles east, and nearly two miles west. On this enormous sheet there would appear no
less than 750,000,000,000 words, for there are more than 30,000,000 words in each copy of the
“Encyclopaedia.” Using another familiar illustration, 550,000,000 pages each 11 inches in depth
would, laid end to end, make a ribbon more than 95,486 miles in length, reaching nearly four times
round the earth.
Each copy of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, packed in a box for delivery, weighs
about one hundred and ninety-six pounds. The whole would therefore weigh over two thousand tons,
as much as can be carried by a dozen ordinary goods-trains.
No other book devised by human ingenuity has ever had a sale which can be compared to this, and
after the recapitulation of these figures the acceptability of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA
as a timely investment can hardly be questioned.
The Forthcoming “ Times ” Supplement.
A Supplement to the Ninth Edition of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA is now in course
of preparation, and will shortly be published by “The Times.” When completed it will be supplied
to the purchasers of “ The Times ” Reprint at a lower price than that at which it will be obtainable by
the public at la rye.
It is impossible to give a work so large and so comprehensive as the ENCYCLOPAEDIA all the
minor advantages possessed by an annual, such as “ Whitaker’s Almanac ”or the “ Statesman’s Year
Book.” The scholarly care with which the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA was prepared
serves to make the progress of its issue so slow that its volumes must inevitably cease to be “ up-to-
date ” before they leave the printer’s hands. The value of such a work is quite unaffected by the
changes of the moment. It has none of the perishability of a directory Or a year book, because its
editors were wise enough not to attempt to give it the advantages and disadvantages of an annual.
Information that is truly of an encyclopaedic nature does not indeed accumulate in any great
degree in a year, or even in a score of years ; it is only in the case of a few of the more rapidly-advanc-
ing sciences that more could be said than is now contained in the treatises of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA. The subjects which have been seriously affected by the progress of the past few
years form so small a proportion of the contents of the ENCYCLOP.ASDIA BRITANNICA that the
great bulk of the work will probably remain the same even when the tenth edition is issued to the
next generation.
No steps will be taken towards preparing the tenth edition for many years to come, and when a
new edition is undertaken it will require at least twelve or fifteen years to complete it. The present
edition (the ninth), with the Supplement now in preparation, will therefore be the national standard
work of reference for at least twenty years to come.
' The editdr-in-chief of the Supplement is Sir Donald Mackenzie Wallace, in collaboration with
Prof. A. T. Hadley, President of Yale University, U.S.A., and it will contain new articles dealing
with the various inventions, discoveries, &c., which have been made since the ninth edition was com-
pleted. The Supplement will also contain biographies of distinguished men and women who have died
since then. The various treatises of the ninth edition and all the scientific and historical information
which these treatises present will be brought up to date so fully that the edition of the Supplement
will, to all intents and purposes, make all the volumes of the 9th edition as recent as if they had been
prepared this year.
Temporary Prices until September 15th.
|D®“ Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
FULL
MOROCCO
17 Monthly Payments of One Guinea, each
or, if cash in FU-LL accompanied the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies' the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
29 Monthly Payments of One Cuinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding-, £6s]
£29
The Sets will be Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
The first 1000 Subscribers in New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporarily.
OLDER FORM—CASH PAYMENT.
Subscribers who elect to send Cheque
in full with the order have the advan-
tage of an additional saving of one shilling in the guinea, as shown above, and no order form is required. Cheques
should be drawn to the order of the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, and sent to Tim Times (London)
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
ORDER FOR PAYMENT.
(Date) r .
To the Manager, “The Times” (London), New South Wales Office,
. Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th Ed )
BOUND
IN
( (A)
J (B)
l (c)
CLOTH, for which I agree to malic to you, or to anyone you may ap-
point, 16 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 21 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
FULL' MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
TStrike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
my next payment upon delivery of the complete volumes, and my succeeding payments on the corresponding day of
each month following. Until such payments are complete, I engage that the Volumes remain your property and
shall not be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforseen circumstances of which you
shall be the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered, the return of this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel the
agreement.
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make three further monthly \ Strike out if Bookcase
payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete. f ig not desired'
[Syd. Bul. EJ.]
Signed.
Address
gW If books are to be delivered elsewhere than in Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the name "of 'the
carrier (rail or boat) in Sydney to whom delivery is to be made for forwarding.


THE
PLUM
Price—SINGLE RAZOR, 109. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIGr <& A.IXKE3ST, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 1871.
T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
FEOERKE PJMtE HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, ANP
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in
before our own. IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in
which we have studied your interests
getting every possible good result for
our supporters.
GIVE 1)8
YOUR BUPPORT
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
£THE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
Financiers; Wool , Hides , Tallow, Shins, and General Produce Brokers .
TO SECURETHE GENUfIJ?^
awua iHiivAiimj^
<2
%
"D
37
&
BB
Sr^iV
STieK TO
CAME©
eiGARETTES
m
:
&
5*
m
m
CM3
C V' #♦%
cvuo
i:
Those
Two
Letters
P#B PAINT
(WATERPROOF)
p&
STAND
FOR
PRODUCTS
OF
SUPERIOR
MERIT
IN
WHICH
ALL
ARCHITECTS
AND
ENGINEERS
ARE
INTERESTED
(ALSO WATERPROOF)
Is undoubtedly superior to all other coatings used for the preservation of
surf aces from the effects of Moisture, Acid, or Fume attack IF rased exactly
as we direct. It’s a waste of time and money to use —
P#B PAINT
P#B PAPER
On a wet surface
On a dirty surface
On a rusty surface
On a greasy surface
On an oily surface
On ordinary paint
IT IS BLACK
A Little Higher in Price
than some,
A Little Lower in Price
than others.
but of UNRIVALLED
QUALITY
E. RICH & COMPANY, LIM ITD, SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVELY
SQUATTERS’
SUPPLY
MERCHANTS.
*
cv^>
wyi
CW3
52$
o*^l
*
§
1
SPi
w
»
a
*
<*
*^42
s/»
V
Q
•p
as


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Jor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You ZL— No. 1073.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1900.
Price 6d.
Some brilliant genius sug-
gests that the police go up in
a balloon and search for the
Breelong blacks with a spy-glass.
Another equally brilliant suggestion is that the N.S.W.
Govt. Analyst be instructed to hocus a lot of whisky to be
left promiscuously about the bush for the Governors
to get hold of and thus facilitate their capture.
Whoever suggested this last is no friend of the police.
“At any rate, Sullivan,”
says Sergeant Dooley, “ they
can’t lave no insoolting mes-
sages fur us oop here.”
No doubt a policeman’s boot dropped
from a balloon at a high altitude upon a
Breelong black’s head would
make him sit up.
Jimmy Governor . “For two pints I’d'
go to Sydney, and become the
Governor of Australia.”
NS.W. Minister for Works O’Sullivan recently paid a Ministerial'visit to the Breelong Black country, armed to the teeth and
under strong, police escort. The above is what Ministerial journeys up country are coming to.
TOUCHING THE BREELONG BLACKS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 6
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3!£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. P. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wnstralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — \\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
y%^sbxxllelz/7i.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8. 1900.
The Federal Land and Income-Tax.
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth with respect to :
11. Taxation, but so as not to discriminate between
States or parts of State.— Commonwealth Constitution,
clause 51.
During a period of ten years after the establishment of
the Commonwealth, and thereafter till the Parliament
otherwise provides, of the net revenue of the Common-
wealth from duties of customs and excise, not more than
one-fourth shall be applied annually by the Common-
wealth towards its expenditure.
The balance shall, in accordance with this Constitution,
be paid to the several States, or applied towards the pay-
ment of interest on debts of the several States taken over
by the Commonwealth. — Commonwealth Constitution,
clause 87.
Chiefly owing to the hard lying practised
by the anti-Federal press, much misconcep-
tion exists as to the financial situation
created by the Commonwealth Bill. Despite
a large amount of misinformed public opinion
to the contrary, that document does not
commit Australia to either Protection,
Revenue-Tariffism, or Freetrade ; it leaves
the whole question as open as it is now. It
does not commit the Federal Government,
as so frequently alleged, to “ raise four
times as much revenue as it requires.” It
does not commit the Federal Government
to raise any customs and excise revenue at
all; if the Government does raise any
customs and excise revenue it has to refund
three-fourths of the sum to the States, but
the Constitution leaves the Commonwealth
absolutely at liberty to pay its way by
direct taxation, and to wholly and entirely
abolish the tariff if it feels so inclined. The
only reasons' why it will impose a tariff that
will afford Protection and raise a large re-
venue at the same time lie in its own common
sense and in the necessities which the States,
by their great debt-accumulations, have
created. The Commonwealth Bill did not
create either of these reasons.
* * * •
Further, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is not bound to impose only such
taxes as it requires for its own
use. It may impose others that it doesn’t
require, and hand over the proceeds to the
States. Though it is only pledged to hand
over to the States not less than three-fourths
of the tariff-revenue, this is merely a mini-
mum ; it can also hand over anything else
it pleases. And herein lies one of the Com-
monwealth’s grandest opportunities to pro-
mote prosperity, discourage land-monopoly,
break up absenteeism, provide land for
closer settlement, and otherwise do a great
and noble work in Australia. For the Com-
monwealth can impose heavily-graduated
land-and-income taxes and absentee taxes
throughout its territory, quite irrespective of
its own financial needs. It can do this sim-
ply because Australia requires these things
ior the discouragement of the great and in-
solent oligarchy of land-grabbers, and to
suppress the absentee, who make this coun-
try a slave and tributary to foreign States.
In one or two States the oligarchy
of land-stealers is so impregnably entrenched
in a property-vote Upper House that the
people can’t carry out these urgently-needed
reforms through their State Parliaments.
They are suppressed and over-ruled by aprivi-
leged and immovable handful. Therefore
the natural and obvious way out is for the
people to seek the line of least resistance,
and effect their purpose through the Federal
Parliament, where no privileged handful will
be allowed to block the road.
• * * *
The Federal land and income and absentee
taxes would not be additional upon any such
taxes levied by the States, therefore any cry
about double-banking the burdens of the
people would be wholly irrelevant. It is not
proposed that the Federal Parliament should
retain the money for its own use, but
that the entire net proceeds should be
handed back to the States, or that
the Federal Government should balance
things by taking over State liabilities
and responsibilities sufficient to equal the
amount derived from the land, income and
absentee duties. Therefore those States
which have such taxes now could be relied
upon to abolish them with all possible speed.
South Australia is the only Australian pro-
vince which has a scientific system of direct
taxation, and its system, with a few improve-
ments, is the one which should be followed.
N.S.W. and Tasmania have a miserably
unscientific and undemocratic land - tax,
which falls about as heavily on the small
owner as the large one, and which does not
discourage the accumulation of large estates,
or facilitate closer settlement. Victoria has
a still worse system, and the privileged
House of 48 Rich Landlords blocks, the way
like a vast Boer entrenchment, and makes
improvement impossible. Westralia and
Queensland have no land-tax. Neither
have they an income-tax ; the great land-
lords and great financiers run these States
with a regard for their own interests which
is deeply touching. S.A., Tasmania, and
Victoria have a reasonably scientific income-
tax system which varies according to the
amount of the income, and according to
whether it is a precarious revenue derived
from personal exertion and liable to stop at
any moment, or a reasonably permanent one
derived from investments. And N.S.W.
has a hopelessly unscientific one which falls
on the income derived from personal exertion
and the income from property alike. S.A.
is the only Australian State which has an
absentee-tax, and its absentee-tax is much
too small for the purpose it is intended to
serve.
* * * *
The purposes of the land and income tax
should be to raise revenue, to raise it where
it can be best afforded, to encourage the
settlement of land by small landholders,
to discourage the formation of large
estates by taxing them so heavily
that a £200,000 estate in one lot will
be worth only half or thereabouts of
what the same land would be worth if cut
up into holdings small enough to be below
the taxation limit, and to make the exist-
ence of the absentee landlord wholly unpro-
fitable. The absentee, by taking his rents
out of the country, is a constant drain on
the national resources. The owner of
£1,000,000 worth of property can, at any
moment, by permanently leaving the
country, convert that asset into £1,000,000
of debt owing by Australia to a foreign
State. The fact of Australia having to send
abroad the rents on £1,000,000 of property
places it in exactly the same position as if it
had borrowed £1,000,000 at 6 per cent, or so,
and had to send the interest abroad. Therefore
it is most essential that the absentee should
be specially included in every scheme of
direct taxation. If there is enough of him
he is about the shortest possible cut to ruin.
But there is little hope that the slow-
going and undemocratic State legislators
of New South Wales will recognise
these facts. There is less hope as
regards the Boodle Government of Queens-
land, and the Forrest gang of Westralia,
both of which are abject slaves to the fetish
of foreign capital. There is quite as little
hope with the land-shark Legislative Coun-
cils of Victoria and Tasmania. There is no
reason, however, why the Democracy should
grieve over these matters any longer.
Nothing can be gained by spending years
and years in weary effort to bring the local
Parliaments of Property to a sense of their
backwardness and incompetence, when the
Progressive party, by throwing its weight
into the truly democratic Commonwealth
Legislature, can accomplish all that is neces-
sary without the least difficulty. If it likes
to do this the local property-vote Upper
Houses and the local Boodle Ministries will
be of as little account in stopping the way as
the dead leaves of last year. And even if
the State Houses of Property were willing
to reform, of which they show no signs
whatever, it is better that the work should
be done by the Commonwealth Parliament,
if only for the sake of uniformity.
So The Bulletin proposes that the
Federal Parliament should, at the earliest
possible date, impose taxes on these lines :
All incomes not exceeding £240 a year to be
exempt. From that point up to £6OO the
tax to be 4|d. in the £ on incomes derived
from personal exertion, and 9d. in the £ on
incomes derived from investments. From
£6OO to £2OOO the tax to be 6d. in the £ on
incomes derived from personal exertion, and
Is. on incomes derived from property.
Above £2OOO the rates to be 9d. and Is. 6d.
With regard to land tax, every holder of not
more than £5OO worth of land (unimproved
value) to be exempt. From £5OO to £lO,OOO
the rate to be Id. in the £ : from £lO,OOO
to £20,000, ljd. in the £; and an addi-
tional Jd. in the £ for every additional
£lO,OOO up to 6d. in the £. Also that
every absentee—thereby meaning a person
or corporation that has been more
than two years -continuously out of the
territory of the Commonwealth, or that
resides out of it for more than half the
time, averaged on a term of four years or
more, even though there may not be any two
years’ continuous absence, shall pay fifty per
cent, extra both in land and income tax—
holders of State or Federal Government
securities that were originally issued abroad
being alone excepted.
* * * *
This is placing the absentee-duty higher
than either Maoriland or S.A. have done,
the tax in both cases being too small to be
efficient. On the other hand, it is bearing
more lightly on the small landholder than
any of the land-tax systems now existing in
Australia. It is specially devised to give
every possible assistance to the small farmer ;
to make land worth more and more per acre
as it is subdivided till it gets down to
the exemption limit, and less and less per
acre as it accumulates in huge estates.
At the same time, it is more merciful to the
large landholder who is willing to cut up and
sell his huge holdings than any land-tax now
existing in Australia. It gives an extra
value to holdings worth £5OO or thereabouts
by relieving them of all taxation. Under
the proposed new taxation policy a single
estate in S.A. or N.S.W., now worth
£lOO,OOO or so, would be diminished in
value by reason of the extra tax on large
properties. At the same time, if the owner
subdivided that property into 200 small
farms worth £5OO each, and sold them
singly, he would get more for his property
than he would get rfnder the existing law of
either S.A. or N.S. W. Small farms would
be more valuable by reason of the extra
exemption allowed; under the proposed
Federal taxation system a farm worth
£5OO would be free of tax, whereas it
now pays £1 Is. Bd. in N.S.W. and
about the same in S.A. Therefore the pro-
posed extra exemption would add £2O a
year to the selling value. By making the
large estate less profitable and the small one
more profitable than under any existing Aus-
tralian land-tax system the establishment of
a class of small independent proprietors
would be greatly accelerated, and the growth
of the obnoxious classes of “ squires ” and
“ tenantry ” would be stopped short.
* * * *
Also the plan outlined is specially designed
to reduce the exhausting tribute which this
unfortunate country pays to foreign lands
more particularly the interest, rents and
dividends exported to maintain people who
are away hunting for titles and decorations
in London and elsewhere. It is devised
with the intention of steadily diminishing
the hold which the innumerable foreign
mortgagee has on Australia. And incident-
ally the policy here suggested would supply
S.A., Tasmania and N.S.W. with as much
revenue as they have now, and the other pro-
vinces with more. It would, to a great extent,
fill the gap created by the abolition of
Border duties. It would turn the en-
trenched position of the Victorian House of
48 Rich Landlords, and the Tasmanian
House of Proprietors, and the Boodle Gov-
ernment of Queensland. It would transfer
the fight on the most essential of all demo-
cratic questions from the Parliaments where
class privilege is strong and the people are
weak, to the Legislature where class privilege
is nil and the people are all-powerful. So
far it doesn’t appear that the Australian
Democracy has seriously realised the splendid
chances that lie before it, if it only uses
wisely the powers conferred on it by the
Federal Constitution. That Constitution is
the greatest opportunity ever offered to this
country, and one of the greatest ever offered
to any country at any time in history.
The A.M.F. Extension Joke.
After a weary and lonesome fashion the S.M.
Herald and the Sydney Telegraph keep pound-
ing at each other with blunt weapons re the pro-
posal to give the A.M.P. directors power to extend
the Society’s business all over the British empire.
The Herald struggles along under a great weight
of statistics to prove that there is no chance of
getting much new business in England, and there-
fore it isn’t worth while to extend. Tlfe Tele-
graph labours heavily over the theory that there
is plenty of room for the A.M.P. to do a very
large new business in England, and therefore
maintains that it is worth while extending the
A.M.P.’s business, and heaves things like this at
the public’s head :
But the argument put forward in that way yesterday
was designed to prove the A.M.P. Society, if it went to
London, would only secure about one-eighty-eighth part
of 24,753 policies, and as it can get 15,00 n policies a year
in Australasia, the extension was useless from a business
point of view. Why, then, make all this fuss about it?
To some, with less of a bent for declaring business in the
old country as used-up and inferior, it may seem odd that,
if the'A.M.P. can secure so many new policies out of the
4,000,000 people in Australasia, its expectation should be
only about 280 policies a year out of a population of
40,000,000. The Mutual Life of New York managed last
year to pick up 3959 policies, assuring £1,843,11 9, in that
much-used-up country, and, in spite of their vast inferi-
ority, went on piling up its funds in a remarkable fashion.
What are the managers of that office thinking about to
persist in such a suicidal policy as to take these not only
worthless, but, as we are assured, positively harmful,
British lives in its keeping? There would be no difficulty
in picking out any number of offices doing what they con-
sider a thriving business in the United Kingdom, but is it
worth the trouble ? When the A.M.P. is also securing its
4000 policies a year in the United Kingdom, we may re-
turn to the subject.
Why these two papers should hammer away
thus wretchedly and irrelevantly re the size of the
probable business to be done in England passes
comprehension. The mere size is a question of
no interest whatever, except to the staff which, if
a very large new business opens in a new country,
will have many new and improved billets in
prospect. But to the Australian members of the
A.M.P. it doesn’t amount to a single straw
even if the A.M.P. can get £40,000,000 of
new business in London. The question is—
how will that new business pay ? If the
English business is quite as cheap as the
Australian business, and the death-rate is quite as
low, and the interest earned on investments is
quite as high, then the new English business,
even if it amounts to £40,000,000 a year, won’t do
one penny of good to the Australian policy-holder.
It will leave him exactly where he is. tlis only
satisfaction will be in knowing that the English
policy-holder is getting as large bonuses as he is
getting himself. But if the new English business
is • more expensive to get, or the death-rate is
higher, or the interest realised on investments is
lower, then it will be a dead loss to the Australian
policy-holder, and the larger the English business
the greater the loss. The English business may
be a splendidly profitable one, but if it isn’t quite
as profitable as the Australian one then it is still a
dead loss to the Australian policy-holder. A
business that yields 20 per cent, on capital is
doubtless a splendid one, but if it coalesces with
another business, having exactly the same capital,
and yielding 30 per cent., the chances are that the
average profits are 25 per cent. And the second
business, by pooling with a most sound and profit-
able concern, only loses money. That is the pro-
bable situation as between the Australian policy-
holders of the A.M.P. and the prospective English
ones. For there is no reasonable prospect that
business will be cheaper to get in England ; no
English office doing the same proportion of new
business as the A.M.P. does, works any more
cheaply. And it is dead certain that the
mortality in England will be higher; the
average Australian death-rate is 124 annually
out of ’every 10,000; in England it is
177. And the expectation of life for an English-
man aged 30 is fully two years less than for an
Australian aged 30 —in other words he pays two
less premiums before collecting the amount
of his policy. As for the rate of interest
which can be earned on money invested in England,
that is notoriously less than the Australian rate,
and no ordinary life office in England shows any-
thing like the A.M.P.’s interest rate. Therefore
The Bulletin maintains that the extension of
the A.M.P.’s business to England will raise the
average death-rate (which means less bonuses all
round), and reduce the average interest rate
(which again means less bonuses all round). And
the more business is obtained in England, where
death-rate is higher and interest is lower, the
greater will be the loss in bonuses to Australian
policy-holders.
* * * *
The Mutual Life of New York’s extension to
England, which is so vigorously quoted by the
Telegraph as a reason in favour of the A.M.P.’s
extension to England, is as irrelevant as the rest
of that paper’s reasoning. When the Mutual of
New York extended from the U.S. to England it
extended to an equally healthy country, so far as
the imperfect U.S. statistics make it possible to
judge—therefore, its action might be wise enough.
If the A.M.P. extends from Australia to England it
extends to a less healthy country—which is un-
wise. A man with 15s. a week is advantaged by
having his wage changed to 205., but it doesn’t
follow that a man with 255. a week is advantaged
by having his wage changed to 20s. The Tele-
graph holds that he is, but that is merely its
want of reasoning faculty.
* * * *
Moreover, there is another aspect of the case
quite apart from the English aspect. The direc-
tors ask for power to extend the business all over
the British Empire—power to fool away the profits
m the fever-haunted swamps of the West Coast of
Africa, in plague-stricken India, in the unwhole-
some wilds of British Guiana, and all the other
lazar-houses of Victoria’s dominions. If that
power is given them it can’t be taken away again
except by a two-thirds vote of the policy-holders ;
and before the policy-holders were sufficiently
aroused to the nature of the situation to secure
that two-thirds vote, the A.M.P. might easily have
struck the biggest rock in its history. The
directors will probably say that they don’t
intend to_ use this power of extension all over
the empire. Perhaps they don’t, but, if
so, why are they so desperately anxious to get it ?
People don’t, as a rule, strive so hard after a
tmng which they are not going to use, and whicli
they don’t want, and which will be of no kind of
service to them. And even if they don’t use to
the full the amazing power that they ask for, to
‘blew” the A.M.P.’s funds in the swamps of
Africa, what guarantee is there that no future
body of directors will so use it ? Why should any
body of policy-holders deliberately give any board
the power to wreck their sources of profit for the
benefit of outsiders ? The man who gives another
a blank cheque, merely on the other’s assurance
that he won’t use it, and who never thinks of
asking why he is so anxious to have it if he does
not mean to use it, is many kinds and varieties of
a fool.
The Assessment Insurance Eelusion.
Ijie Bulletin .has drawn its own attention to a
lengthy advt. in the Review wherein the manager
of the Independent Order of Foresters (a Canadian
assessment life assurance institution which re-
cently arrived in these parts) replies to this
papers criticisms on his institution. He states
that he was driven to this course because The
Bulletin refused to insert his lengthy
letter in its entirety, which is quite true.
Ihe Bulletin offered him for his reply a larger
space than was occupied by its attack, and all the
real subject-matter of his discourse could easily
have gone into the space offered, but the rhetorical


frills wouldn’t. The disagreement arose over the
frills.
* * * •
And, after all, the answer hardly touches at all
on the points raised by this paper—the points
which made it grievously doubt the solvency of
the 1.0. F. and urgently call for legislation to
establish a reliable standard of solvency among
life assurance offices doing business in this mis-
managed, neglected, happy-go-lucky land. The.
1.0. F. publishes tables in which it sets forth that
its allegedly very low premiums (the alleged re-
markable lowness of its premiums is the means,
above all others, by which it attracts business) are
quite sufficient, provided not more than 5 per
cent, of the premiums are absorbed in expenses.
The 1.0. F. has the gall to declare that it doesn’t
spend over 5 per cent, of its premiums in expenses.
And, in his reply to The Bulletin, the manager
says distinctly :
The 1.0. F., too, makes a deliberate inclusion of ex-
penses in the premiums, but the amount so taken is
ABSOLUTELY LIMITED TO FIVE PER CENT.
And then this same 1.0. F. deliberately publishes,
in Sydney, its revenue and expenditure account
for the fiye years 1893-’94-’95-’96 and ’97. And
some items in the five years’ accounts read thus: —
Receipts. Expenditure.
Premiums .. £1,039,792 Commission .. £1402
Expenses of Man-
agement .. 96,275
Legislation .. 1406
“Expenses of management” alone run to over
nine per cent, of premiums, and if the other items,
which are also expenses, are included, they run to
nearly 10 per cent. What is the good of saying
that the expenses are limited to 5 per cent, and
publishing tables to prove that everything is well,
provided the expenses are kept down to 5 per
cent., while documents like these are on record '!
* « * •
Again the 1.0. F. issues tables of figures whose
purport is that the allegedly very low premiums
which serve as its great advertisement and stock
argument are quite sufficient, provided these pre-
miums are invested so as to bring in 4 per cent,
interest—that if they are invested to bring in 4 per
cent, interest regularly they will accumulate to a
sufficient sum to pay its policies when the said
policies fall due. And these, according to its own
published returns, are the interest rates actually
earned in its life department on the average funds
for each year: —
Interest on Average Funds of Each Year.
1893 .. £1 16 6 per cent. 1896 .. £2 2 4 per cent.
1894 ..3 3 4 „ 1897 .. 4 12 2
1895 .. 3 18 4 „ 1898 ..4 2 8
Therefore it is certain that the 1.0. F. doesn’t
always average the 4 per cent interest which it
assumes to earn, and which, by its own figures, it
needs to earn. And even if it did always earn the
full 4 per cent, that .would leave no margin of
safety to cover possible losses on investments
(even the 1.0. F. is not free from that risk), or for
a future drop in the rate of interest.
* * • *
But the most crushing thing of all is a certain
actuarial report issued by the 1.0. F. itself. This
sets forth that, at the end of 1897, the present lia-
bilities were £7,159,342. That is, assuming that
every policy-holder then in existence kept on
paying his premiums the same premiums
which are quoted—until his policy became a
claim, the amount then on hand should have been
£7,159,342. And, instead of this, the sum it then
had on hand was £518,724, so on this basis there
was a fearful and wonderful shortage of £6,640,018.
Assuming that it was called upon to pay its
policy-holders what it had pledged itself to pay
them, the 1.0. F. was apparently then good for
about one shilling and sixpence in the £. For
every £ it should have to be a solvent, substantial
office, on the same basis as the best offices doing
business in Australia, it had eighteenpence.
* * * *
To make good the difference, it apparently
trusted : (1) To Providence; (2) to the power
which is reserved by the management of increas-
ing the premiums—that is to say, the 1.0. F.
attracts business by announcing very low pre-
miums, but there is always ahead the pos-
sibility that after the policy - holder has
joined the 1.0. F. because the rates are
lower than those of the A.M.P. or National
Mutual or Maoriland State Department, and has
been in a few years, he may find himself confronted
with the alternative of paying far higher rates
than these offices charge, or else losing his insur-
ance and all the premiums he has paid. And (3)
the 1.0. F. apparently depends largely to keep
itself square in the future on the fact that many
policy-holders drop out and as it pays no surrender
values all these are clear profit. But though it has
been many years in the business, and members
have been dropping out all the time, all these
droppings out still leave a deficit of 18s. 6d. in the
£ according to ordinary insurance ideas. Is there
any evidence that they are going to drop out
faster in the future ? Further, if the insurers
really believe that the 1.0. F. is quite able to,
and quite certain to, give them so many
advantages as it alleges at so low a
rate, they will do their best not to drop
out. Further, the fact that the insurer,
by dropping out, loses every penny of the money he
has put in is another strong inducement for him
to stay in with far more pertinacity than he does
in offices which give surrender values. And yet,
if they stay in too much it looks as if it might be
bad for the office, and bad for the people who
stay in.
* * * *
The Independent Order of Foresters, according
to its own actuary’s report, conducts business on
these lines:
Every certificate and policy issued by the society shall
contain a promise to pay the whole amount therein men-
tioned, out of the mortuary funds of the society, and out
of any moneys realised from assessments to be made for
that purpose, &c.
This looks all right, but what the insurer needs to
remember is that assessments are simply calls to
be made on him and others like him. When he
gets his £IOO policy, he really gets it with this
condition :
We don’t undertake to pay this policy out of the pre-
miums charged, but only out of these and any further
premiums (amount unspecified) which we may find it
necessary to charge you later on. If you don’t pay these
extra premiums (which may raise the cost of your policy
to far more than the A.M.P. would have charged you)
you can drop out and lose your insurance, and lose all
the premiums you have already paid. If you do pay
them that doesn’t necessarily make your policy safe ; its
safety also depends to some extent on how the other mem-
bers pay up.
This isn’t a very satisfactory-looking situation,
but it is about how things stand.
In some of its printed literature the 1.0. F.,
drawing a parallel between itself and the A.M.P.,
claims that it, like the A M.P., gives bonuses to
members. This comes as near to flat misrepresen-
tation as anything well can without quite getting
there. The principle of giving bonuses to mem-
bers is recognised, provided their policies have
been seven years in force, and provided a
;wo-thirds vote of the Supreme Court is cast
’or giving bonuses, and provided the bonuses don’t
•educe the funds below £5 ss. for each member —
there is something very beautiful about the system
which empowers the management to distribute as
profits everything above this amount, and to keep
m hand a reserve of only £5 ss. per member, when
it agrees in its policies to pay each member sums
varying up to, say, £IOOO. But the principle is of
no special value without the cash, and the 1.U.-t.
has never yet paid any bonus, and there is no
proof that it ever will. In fact the actuary says :
“ The policies of the Order are non-participat-
ing in all cases.” Therefore, when it classes
itself as a bonus-paying institution alongside the
A.M.P. it is getting pretty close to straight-out
misrepresentation. And when it speaks of its
total fund as its surplus (as if it was a sur-
plus over and above liabilities instead of being not
nearly enough, on ordinary assurance principles,
to cover liabilities) it again gets pretty near to
plain misrepresentation.
♦ * * *
The much-advertised fact that the 1.0. F. has
hitherto met all claims with ease counts for
absolutely nothing. The A.M.P. last December
had £16,i00,000 of assets, which covered its then
liabilities and left about £600,000 for bonuses and
reserves. But the A.M.P. with its £15,500,000 of
liabilities, could also have met every claim with
ease even though, instead of having 16 millions,
it hadn’t had a penny accumulated. It would in
that case, of course, have been utterly insolvent and
good for almost nothing in the £, and the collapse
would only have been a question of time, but the
new premiums coming in would have more than
covered all claims and expenses. A reconstructed
bank with one million assets and ten millions of
liabilities to depositors might also meet all cur-
rent claims for 20 years if the deposits were
fixed for 21 years. The mere fact of having been
able to meet current claims proves nothing. It
certainly doesn’t prove that the 1.0. F. can keep
solvent on present premium rates, or that it won t
be necessary to make heavy calls on policy-holders
some time in the future. And when a policy-
holder goes in because rates are low, and yet with
the knowledge that a great part of the security
for the payment of his own policy consists m the
institution’s reserved power to charge him very
high rates hereafter, he is a very foolish policy-
holder.
* * * *
Moreover the 1.0.F.’s wonderfully cheap pre-
miums are not all a member has to pay ; he is also
liable for “court dues” which make a serious
difference, and for entrance fees. Then the 1.0. F.
in all its comparisons compares the with-bonus
rates of the Australian offices and its own without-
bonus rates —it has never paid a bonus and there is
no visible prospect of one. Comparing the 1.0. F. s
rates with “court dues” added, and_ the without-
profit rates of two Australian offices (which is
putting them all on the same basis) the quarterly
premiums on £IOO at various ages are :
Age 1.0. F.
Last including
Birthday. Court dues. A.M.P. City Mutual.
20 ' 8s ljd 7s 6d 7s 6d
30 10s 4Jd 9s lid 9s lid
40 13s 7Ad 13s lOd 13s ltd
50 21s 4Jd 20s 8d -20 s 8d
Out of the 1.0.F.’s Bs. l|d. at age 20 “court dues”
and expenses absorb about 3s. 6Jd. so there is
about 4s. 7d. left to accumulate in order to pay the
assurance at maturity. In the A.M.P.’s case
expenses absorb about Is. Id. out of 7s. 6d., leav-
ing 6s. sd. to accumulate towards meeting the
policy at maturity. Therefore the chance of the
policy being paid at maturity is vastly better.
That is the situation as regards the small insurer,
on whom “court dues” fall heavily. Things
don’t pan out so badly for the large one. Then
on the one hand the 1.0. F. promises benefits in
case of total permanent disability, and relief from
all premiums at age 70, and certain old age benefits,
which the A.M.P. doesn’t. On the other hand
the A.M.P. gives surrender values, which the
1.0. F. doesn’t. It charges no entrance fee, which
the 1.0. F. does. Its policies carry no risk of a
huge increase of premium hereafter as the 1.0.F.’s
do. And its security for payment of the policy is
immeasurably better, for it has sufficient funds to
pay everybody in full without increasing its rates
even if all its insurers hang on till death, while
under these same conditions the 1.0. F., at the
time of its last valuation, was apparently good for
about Is. 6d. in the £. And all the other leading
Australian offices are in the same situation as the
A.M.P.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The North Queensland Syndicate
Railway Job.
If North Queensland is successful in getting its
great syndicate railway, 435 miles long, from the
Norman to Cloncurry, it is reasonably safe to
assume that North Queensland will be, for many
years, the sorriest place in all Australia. It is
especially and carefully stipulated, as one of the
conditions of the work, that the syndicate is to
have power, for 50 years, to charge one-and-a-lialf
times the rates now charged on the Queensland
State lines. The rates charged on the North
Queensland lines are already high, and one-
and-a-half times these rates will be an appalling
burden. The North Queensland lines about pay
their way on present rates—the great loss is on
the Southern system—so if the syndicate is as
economical in its railway building as the State has
been its profits will be enormous. As population
increases in the North, and business improves, the
State’s railway rates will doubtless be lowered,
and in course of time the syndicate railway will
probably be charging three times the State tariff,
for there is no provision for lowering its charges.
Then there will arise a demand that the State will
buy up the dreadful incubus and reduce the rates.
And the syndicate will demand to be compen-
sated for the sacrifice of the enormous profits
which its charter allows it to exact for half-a-cen-
tury. And if it is so compensated the price of
the line to the State will be so vast that it will be
impossible to reduce the rates to the level of the
other State lines without making a very heavy loss.
And yet if the State doesn’t resume the Cloncurry
private line the district will remain for 50 years
subject to exactions which will be little short
of ruinous. It is a disastrous policy for any
district, merely for the sake of getting its line a
year or two sooner, to sell itself into commercial
bondage for 50 years, or even half that time. It
is especially ruinous just now, for, even if the
Queensland Government can t build the railway
as alleged, it will be possible in a very few
months to appeal to the Commonwealth to do the
work, and, if the appeal is successful, North
Queensland would probably get its railway years
sooner in that way than by the lingering opera-
tions of a syndicate. At all events, until that
rational expedient is tried and has failed, it is
utter madness to resort to the suicidal one of
giving private speculators the power to oppress
and loot the country for half a century. And, in
any case, the plea that the Queensland Govern-
ment can’t find the money is utterly untrue.
Queensland could find the money for railway con-
struction in the first place by imposing a
land and income tax, neither of which exist
at present in that State, and could set
its railway-extension business going again out
of the proceeds. If it hasn’t the grit and sense to
adopt this expedient it could borrow the money.
It is only a question of paying enough interest.
It could probably raise enough to build the Clon-
curry line six times over if it offered 4 per cent.
And if it charged one and a-quarter times the
usual fares and freights, that would far more than
cover the extra interest. The existing North
Queensland lines pay their way reasonably well,
yet they have to meet the interest on money
borrowed at the average rate of 3| per cent. If
the Cloncurry line started with a 4 per cen t.
interest burden that would be only one-fifteenth
more, and if the rates were put up to one-quarter
more that should cover the difference several
times over, and yet that arrangement would
supply the district with vastly cheaper means
of communication than the syndicate offers.
Borrowing is unspeakably bad, but syndica-
lism is a great deal worse. And the wildest
humor of the situation is this: The other
North Queensland railways were built with
money borrowed at over £3 15s. per cent.,
and they practically pay their way on
present rates. The result of the last loan
shows that Queensland can borrow even
now at about £3 10s. per cent., or £3 12s. 6d. at the
outside, at which rate it should be possible to
build the Cloncurry line more cheaply than the
other Northern railways, and make a profit out of
it on the existing scale of freights. Queensland s
last big loan, disappointing as it might be, was
actually the cheapest big loan Queensland, has
ever issued. And yet because money can t be
obtained more cheaply still, the Philp Govern-
ment claims that State railway construction is
impossible, and that it is necessary to let the woik
out, on the most atrociously usurious terms, to
private grabsters. Where is the necessity ?
♦ ’
Industrial Arbitration.
One result of the visit of M’s.L.A. Trenwith and
Best to M.L. is a Bill now before the Victorian
Lower House for the abolition of strikes and lock-
outs, and for the better protection and organiza-
tion of employers and employes. It is entitled
an Industrial Arbitration and Conciliation .Bill,
and proposes, much on the lines of the Maoriland
measure, to enact that a registrar is to be
appointed to register companies or associations of
employers, and trade-unions or branches of unions.
Subscriptions are made recoverable and penalties
imposed for non-payment of same in due time.
Agreements may be made between unions and
associations or employers, which shall have the
effect of an award of the Court of Arbitration.
The Court is to consist of two paid arbitrators,
nominated by. employers and employes, presided
over by a Supreme Court Judge ; and is to have
power to hear and determine any industrial
dispute, to dismiss such as trivial, to dismiss with
a view to amicable settlement, to award costs and
expenses (with the special exception of costs for
counsel, solicitor or agent,) to summon and deal
with witnesses, to grant injunctions and pro-
hibitions and issue writs of mandamus, and
generally to exercise the powers of the Supreme
Court in the administration _of the Act. The
Court is also to prescribe a minimum wage, and
a direction is to be given for preference in
employment to members of industrial unions
or trade unions. Provisions are also made
for the enforcement of decisions and . the
recovery of penalties. Altogether it is a
most comprehensive and discerning measure, and
one that the House of 48 Rich Landlords will
either alter out of all semblance to its original
purpose, or reject with enthusiasm. And the
Assembly knows that the 48 Rich Landlords will
do this. Nine times out of ten it knows, when it
introduces a progressive measure like this, that it
is only wasting time, and that it would be just as
much' use if it introduced its proposals in the
Zoological Gardens or the Waxworks. The right
end to begin at is by shifting the House of Land-
lords first, and there are two visible ways of doing
that. One is to have a coup d’etat and shift the
Upper House with an axe. The other is to send
up a Bill for the establishment of a new Upper
House on the lines of the Federal Senate, and
tack on to it a clause giving a handsome life-
pension to each of the existing 48, and thus pay
them to go out. Until they are got out in one
way or other, democratic legislation in the
Assembly is mostly the purposeless digging of a
big hole, and the purposeless refilling of the same.
♦
A Blank Form.
An interesting letter from Maoriland :—
Tasmania is in trouble through (in the depth and vast-
ness of its grovel) sending most of its locally-subscribed
Patriotic Funds to England and leaving itself in the
curious position of having to beg for some of its own
money back to relieve its own war-widow with. Maoriland
Premier Seddon must also have seen trouble looming
ahead when he tried recently to get all the M.L. cities to
“pool” their funds and appoint the Public Trustee to
administer same—first taking into consideration local re-
quirements. Unfortunately local jealousies set in, and
the desire of each big business man on the local com-
mittees to stand well with his customers at ’Ome, and top
the score with his own Separate local fund, came out on
top—result, huge sums remitted to the Lord Mayor of
London, and very little kept on hand. It was certainly
understood that the Maoriland Boer-hunter was to receive
the same help from the big fund as his cockney brother,
but the reply received from London to the first M.L.
request for help, and read in the House by Seddon, would
seem to dissipate that impression. It is about three
months since the application was sent in, and after going
through the red-tape departments the substance of the
reply was somewhat as follows: —“ The Commissioners
are —haw —sensible of your generous subscriptions to the
_er —patriotic fund, but we—er—understand from the
Lord Mayor (salaam) that a certain portion of the money
collected for these funds was kept—er—for your own
beastly widows and orphans, don’teherknow. We would
have sent some—er —money to Mrs. B. but for
this information. You can —er—however, give the
woman something on account, if she needs it and is
—er —troublesome, and to enable you to deal—er —
adequately with her case we enclose you a—er —BLANK
FORM ! which please fill up with the —er —creature’s
worldly circumstances, and return it to us with another
BLANK FORM which we enclose for any additional infor-
mation you may be able to—er—give us. We also enclose
SIX spare BLANK FORMS in case there should be any
other beastly widows in your contingents in the future,
and — er — remain, yours, etc., llaw ! ” Poor Seddon read
this document out, and in a most pathetic manner added,
“ We sent them over £30,000, and this is the reply to our
first application.” • The woman’s husband was killed in
action, and this is the experience of Maoriland’s first war
widow while the enthusiasm is still warm. How will the
last war widow get on when the excitement has frozen
hard ? Application three months going, fill up a form,
wait three months more for a chance of a favorable reply,
then perhaps have a few shillings doled out (Maoriland’s
own money, too). Then the blank form to be filled up
with “ further information.” But the climax is reached
with the enclosure of SIX extra blank forms in case there
are any more widows and orphans left by the men M.L.
sent to S’African abattoirs. There are more likely to
be 160 blank forms wanted. Luckily some of the com-
mittees, warned in time after the first crisis in the fever
was over, did keep in hand a certain portion of the sub-
scriptions, and the wisdom of this course has now been
amply proved. But for that forethought there would be
nothing for the Maoriland war widow except a blank
form.
The Victorian Government has a measure in hand
prohibiting a politician holding a seat in the State
and the Federal Parliaments simultaneously. It
it passes Victoria will be able to whip up all its
Federal members when they are wanted for an
important division. . N.S.W., if Lyne’s proposal
to allow the holding of two seats is not promptly
suppressed, mav often be unable to bring moi
than half its Federal members to the scratch
when they are urgently wanted, the rest being
away rolling an important log m the local
Assembly. If N.S.W. allows the same man o
sit in both Parliaments, it is quite probable
that at first, till the electors drop to the
disadvantages of the arrangement, lil ;.
more than half, its federal re P rese ”* a^
will be dual seat-holders, They will
strong democrats—under the Federal Constitutio
it is hardly possible for any other class to be
elected to the Commonwealth Legislature. po
they attend properly to their Federal business it
will mean, to a great extent, leaving the lory
minority to run local affairs. And if they attend
properly to their State business it will mean
largely disfranchising N.S.W. in the Federal Pai-
liament. The logical process is to enact that a
State member may stand for the Federal Parlia-
ment, but that, if elected, he must, within seven
days, resign one of his billets. There is no sense
in making him resign his State billet before he
gets his Federal one, and leave the bone for the
shadow. But he should be compelled to choose
between the two bones.
The Wilkie case, which lasted for 11 solid days in
Melb. Divorce Court, is one more instance ofthe
Law’s splendid capacity for piling up costs Mrs
Wilkie, the petitioner, sued for a divorce from
her husband on two grounds—firstly, habitual
drunkenness and cruelty, and secondly,
“alleged adultery and cruelty, concerning
which the evidence was purely medical. lhat
is to say, it didn’t involve any specific
charge of ad Wery. There was no co-respon-
dent named in the case. The whole of the
evidence bearing on the inferential giddiness of
husband Wilkie, and the physical effects thereof
upon Wilkie’s wife, might have been put through
the Court in one day. Ninety, per cent, of
the evidence related to the ridiculous charge
of habitual drunkenness and cruelty. Day
after day this farce was permittee! to proceed tor
the benefit of lawyers and barristers engaged.
Every man in the street who read the printed
evidence knew that Mrs. Wilkie was wasting
dine and money in her attempt to prove Wilkie
the navvy (as she called him) guilty of habitual
whisky whilst employed in making £lOO,OOO profit
on Westralian railway contracts, and habitual
cruelty whilst he was giving her tens of thousands
of pounds for her own personal use. In granting
a divorce to the well-gilded spouse of . s } lc "
cessful navvy, Chief Justice Madden decided
that she had “failed on the first ground of
drunkenness and cruelty, but had succeeded on
the second ground of adultery and cruelty.
To use a racing simile, Mrs. Wilkie had started
two horses for this legal event. The one horse
was, in Judge Madden’s opinion, a certain
winner, whereas the other was so obviously weak
on all four legs that it ought not to have been
started. And yet the “ wrong ’un ” was allowed
to go fooling round the course for ten or eleven
days at vast expense to the petitioner and
respondent. -A. word from the Judge could have
stopped the hopeless gee-gee at any moment, but
he let it go on and on for all it was worth to
Ikey Mo, the man who lives by the game.
Griffith, M.L.A., recently (28th Aug.) dragged
into the half-light of N.S.W. Assembly what looks
like a most revolting ease of injustice. His story
was to the effect that a contractor habitually sup-
plied to a certain public hospital food of the worst
and cheapest description—putrid fish, decayed
vegetables, and vermicelli so weevily that the dead
insects floated on top of the soup. These horrors
were accepted by the responsible officer despite
the protests of cook, matron, and others, and the
public is left to draw its own inferences as to why
they were accepted. Presumably, there was some
reason, political or otherwise. It is also alleged
that rations were drawn for dead or discharged
patients, which, if true, must have been a source
of handsome profit for somebody. Appeals to the
officer in charge being useless, one of his subor-
dinate's at last drew the attention of the authori-
ties to the matter. The authorities did noth-
ing, and made no inquiry. They simply
allowed things to go on, and they allowed the
man who drew their attention to the scandal to be
promptly sacked for his officiousness. He has
been out of employment ever since. Then the
discharged subordinate besieged the Public Ser-
vice Board and other functionaries, and after long
delay and intense pertinacity, he at last moved
somebody to an inquiry. The result bore out all
his accusations—and what does this free country
suppose followed? The man who was sacked for
doing his duty—for calling attention to a hideous
cruelty practised on the sick and suffering—was
not reinstated. He didn’t get paid for the time
when he was unjustly deprived of his employment.
He wasn’t compensated. He wasn’t given a
better billet, as a man who did his duty fearlessly
and was worthy of trust. He was simply left in
the same state of “sack” as before. And the officer
who neglected his duty so shamefully and
allowed the hospital patients to be treated in this
unspeakably disgraceful fashion—well, he wasn’t
sacked. According to the Parliamentary state-
ment he was only “ transferred.” It doesn’t even
appear for certain that he was transferred to a
worse billet; he may have been shifted to a better
one. And as for the contractor, Premier Lyne
says he thinks that when he heard of these things,
he either cancelled that man’s contracts, or refused
him further contracts, or struck him with a feather,
or something. No attempt was made to deny
Griffith’s story—which may or may not be
correct in all details. If this story, as would
appear, has at. least a substratum of
truth, it is a gruesome reflection on
the incapacity and small meanness of the
Government that it required a Parliamentary
debate to impress on its alleged mind that the
prompt discharge of the man who did his duty,
and the retention in the service of the man who
disgracefully neglected his, wasn’t quite a satis-
factory ending of the difficulty.
*
Alex. Hutchinson, the ex-N.S.W. M.P. who
has been making several country newspapers’
lives a burden to them with libel-actions, failed
in his case against Singleton Argus last week.
The case was curious enough. There are three
Alexander Hutchinsons, two of them ex-M’sP. ;
and another Hutchinson was imprisoned in
1891 for stealing spoons. A paragraph reporting
the occurrence was printed in several country
papers, adding that the guilty Hutchinson
was an ex-M.P. Then Alex. Hutchinson,
formerly M.P. for Glen Innes, brought actions for
libel apparently all-round. At first he was suc-
cessful ; but in the last case Judge Stephen
summed up in favor of defendants, who printed
the paragraph in good faith and published an


The equitable life assurance society
of the United Btates.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In ordei to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
Cr. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
0« CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager Tor Australasia.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
m
apology. The result is satisfactory, because it is
quite obvious to common-sense people that the
Argus paragraph, followed by an explanation and
an apology, could not have done plaintiff the
£lOOO damages he claimed ; and because the prac-
tice of prosecuting a dozen newspapers seriatim
for one accidental blunder should be ended by a
consolidation of the suits. If a blunder occurred
in a cable, probably all Australia would print it,
with the result that a plaintiff could bring a thou-
sand suits for damages aggregating a million—
which is absurd.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “lolanthe.”
Royal “ How London Lives.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones "and
“ An Empty Stocking.”
Criterion... “Drink.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall Museum of Art, Physiology and
Anatomy.
Redfern Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian.”
Theatre Royal “ Land of the Living."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Building. .. The Aquarium.
The recrudescence at Sydney Royal of the
peaceful, pastoral Tank is probably a sign that
the war is nearly over, and that the blistering and
explosive war drama is off. Also, its contents are
a symbol of the cold water that is being thrown on
all proposals for the prompt payment of the war-
bill. The Tank is cool, homely and placid, and
the olive branch of peace grows by its side ; and
the disinherited Bland Holt, who was cast off
before the tale opened through the machinations
of Arthur Styan re a forged bill, floats on its
surface with three other newsvendors, who all eat
’am sandwiches. Whatever incoherence there
may be in “How London Lives” it will be
remembered by its tank, which is one of the most
beautiful on record. All round it stretches the
property of the man who threw Bland Holt out,
and of that man’s depraved second wife; and
the second wife’s paramour is engaged thereabouts
as secretary. Most of the drama works itself
out beside the smiling Tank. When Miss
Frances Ross is told by her father that she must
marry the secretary and must not wed Albert
Norman she refuses there, and when he bids her
enter his doors no more she casts herself into the
Tank, and Bland Holt fishes her out. When she
has been properly dried and blotted she naturally
marries Norman, and as they were both depen-
dent on the old Tank-owner they sink into great
poverty and naturally have a baby in an attic.
Norman, who is a weak sort of hero, grows weary
and deserts his wife, and walks right out of the
drama—he is supposed to be afterwards killed oy
a Boxer. Wherefore Miss Ross and the baby sink
to deeper depths of poverty, and Bland Holt, who
stands by them to the last, even pawns his hat
and goes home with a newspaper round his
head, in order to get the money to shift a bailiff
named Sandy out of the attic. The old man is
frequently on the verge of relenting and sending his
discarded daughter 6d., or even more, but is
always dissuaded by his second wife and her para-
mour, the secretary. At last he comes so near re-
lenting that the secretary finds it necessary to
murder him in order to save the property, and the
murder is comfortably saddled on Bland Holt, and
the second wife and the secretary see before them
a life of love and affluence. And just here the
secretary’s one good quality is his undoing. For
years he has had a tenderness for the disinherited
daughter, and when Albert Norman was killed in
China he honestly offered her his black heart and
his red hand, and desired to make her a good hus-
band. He did it in a crowded street, in presence
of four newsvendors, just when the speshul edition
was coming out. And the second wife, hearing of
this, casts away the great property and the Tank
for the sake of vengeance, and tells how she and
the secretary did the murder. The story ends
with Frances Ross and her child inheriting the
Tank and the other assets.
* * * m
It’s a somewhat unfinished story, inasmuch
as Albert Norman, who should be the hero, vanishes
early. Also it is never clearly explained how
Bland Holt, who is nephew to the Tank, was
betrayed and reduced to poverty before the drama
Opened. The moral is bad, too, for the secretary
falls over the one redeeming feature in his char-
acter, and if he had had no redeeming feature
Bland would have been hanged, and Miss Ross
would have been left to struggle with the world
and bailiff Sandy. A very long cast does honor-
able service in this drama. Bland Holt is hardly
up to his usual standard, but Mrs. Bland is
pleasant to look upon as a sunbeam kind of
creature in a print frock, which makes the balance
even. Misses Frances Ross and Harrie Ireland,
as the good daughter and the bad step-
mother, are both satisfactory. Also they are both
beautifully dressed in the first act, but
whereas the bad woman remains a dream of
lovely frocking all through, the good one
has to pawn everything with three insulting Jews
named Moses, Isaac, and Abraham, and at last
her only decent property is a leather waistbelt.
Arthur Styan, who is generally successful as a
murderer, or a fraudulent secretary, or some other
lost soul, is commendable as usual. Albert Nor-
man, on the other hand, has been training for
many years as the dramatic bad man, and fills the
part of the disappearing husband rather uneasily.
Among the casual multitude who come and go a
few leave behind a large enough footprint to be
worth mention. Harry Norman’s bailiff is one of
them, and Charles Brown, Max Maxwell, and
Miss Lucy Coppin are three others. The Tank
has already received honorable notice.
“ What Happened to Jones,” or rather the
violent happening of Jones to other people, is
making strong progress at Sydney Palace.
Serious-minded people may complain that no real
family would stand the riotous invasion of Jones,
of the firm of Smith and Co., but in comedy the
rights of Property are suspended, and any substan-
tial citizen is liable to have a strange bagman come
into his house from inadequate motives, and borrow
clothes, and hide his own previous pants in the
piano. The pathetic little play re a small girl’s
“ Empty Stocking ” is meanwhile getting a power-
ful hold on a section of the public to which the
riot of Jones is only a vociferous mystery. There
is much human nature in its four characters. The
patient and hungry little girl who is waiting sadly
for an unpunctual Santa Claus, the writer whose
manuscripts won’t sell, and the awful girl from
downstairs, are all very real; and the unex-
pected father, though less lifelike than the rest, is
good enough to pass muster. Miss Dot Frederic
never did anything better than the offensive girl
from downstairs, and little Edna Arnold is so
many miles above the usual child-actress that, if
she fell, the result would probably be fatal, or, at
the very least, she would bounce severely.
m* # *
The beautiful opera of “ lolanthe ” is to
be revived at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Satur-
day. The cast is mostly new. George Lauri is
to be the Chancellor who gives agreeable girls
away, and a community which is accustomed to a
long thin Chancellor must learn to accept a short
thick one instead. Wallace Brownlow will be
Strephon, he of the airy legs and the frivolous
hop, whereas the community has grown accus-
tomed to seeing its beloved Brownlow in heavier
characters, with a crown on his head, and ordering
people to be executed or otherwise discouraged.
Jennie Opie will be the Fairy Queen, pretty
Carrie Moore is cast for lolanthe—in fact, barring
Earls Tolloller and Mountararat, almost every-
body will be fitted with a new part. Probably
Lauri will be the most difficult to accept. A long
and bony Chancellor is one of the local traditions
of “lolanthe.”
** * *
The incident on which Marie Corelli
founded her “Vendetta,” now being played as
“ The Power of Wealth ” at Sydney Criterion, is
unreliably alleged to have really occurred at some
Italian city, and Marie, like the good, dear
woman that she is, wrote her story as a warning
to her widowed friends not to speak slightingly of
the deceased till he had remained dead at least
five days. Three days, she discovered, are not
sufficient proof that gentle woman is really in
that condition in which women wish to be who
don’t love their lords, but are mashed on some-
body else. This Corellian version of the swell
that came back just as well as ever causes great
thrills at the Criterion. And when the Old
Clothes man tells the hero how the Judge exon-
erated him for killing his Flossie wife because he,
the Judge, reflected that he had a wife himself,
and might require to kill her some day, it gives
a glimpse of society as it is in stage Italy,
wherein men descant publicly on their wives’
virtue, and make casual after-dinner remarks on
the purity of these same goods and chattels. When
a (stage) Italian woman has virtue it is necessary to
mention the fact. The Cri. d.c. hears those
views of matrimonial severity with interest, and
the small husbands of large, plain women who
wear their hair straight and have long Roman
noses, inwardly resolve that they will follow the
old-clothes philosopher’s plan if they ever come
home and find, &c. The Criterion earthquake is
not much of a warning to would-be erring wives,
as the pillars merely fold over quietly like so
many yard measures, while the great, hard
boulders from Vesuvius or somewhere bounce up
from the vault when they touch it and do no harm
whatever. But as the “Power of Wealth ” ends
on Thursday night, “Hamlet” following on
Friday and the gruesome “Drink” on Saturday,
this frivolity on the part of the boulders is of little
importance.
** * *
By a person who was there :
A wild rumour went about that the Illingworth Benefit
was to give a representation of the Latin Quarter in Paris,
with wild-eyed Australian geniuses wandering about,
dropping fragments of poetry and sublime thoughts in the
gay and giddy atmosphere. Why the real affair was
called “A Night in Bohemia” no one can tell, as any-
thing more like a respectable concert was never seen.
Some of it was good, some of it was bad, but the long-
haired geniuses were quite lost in the crowd of short-haired
folk who had come to gaze upon them, and could only gaze
upon one another. During the first part of the programme
the look of stolid bourgeois endurance on the faces of the
would-be Bohemians was conspicuous, not because the
programme was a bad one, but because the bourgeois per-
sonage always takes his pleasures that way. The idea
was to have a promenade concert, and one 10 minutes’ in-
terval was announced to be given up to fraternal convi-
vialities, but most of the people stuck to their seats in
case they shouldn’t get them again, and merely
glared at one another by way of friendship. The
men were allowed to smoke after 9 o’clock, and
the noble artist-soul did not prevent them spoiling one
of the best effects on the organ with the universal
crackling of matches. George Rignold gave the hack-
neyed “ Oration of Marc Antony,” and when he said he
wished he lay with Caesar most of the audience wished so,
too. He was in splendid form, however, not forgetting
his part more than twice. C. W. St. Julian, and what
somebody called the Mustard-Slingers, sang the never-
stale “ Funiculi Funicula.” Mr. Sun Johnson, in his ren-
dering of a song, showed the difference between English
and Chinese ideas of music ; the complications in his
native land seem to have got on his brain. The items of
the programme were given erratically, a good number
that were in being left out, and another lot that weren’t
mentioned being interpolated. The song by Nelson
Illingworth, jun., was a happy inspiration. At 11 p.m.
the authorities ignored the other items as yet unsung,
and the alleged Bohemians went home decorously. And
now the world knows at last how they amuse themselves
in Bohemia.
* * * *■
Fitzgerald’s Circus, well and honourably
known in these parts, and including the Dunbar
Trio, Mademoiselle Margharetta, the Cinnezallas,
the Jandaschefskys, and others, is to open at
Sydney next Saturday. It will be found on the
old stand, near Redfem station, and conveniently
adjacent to the Labour Bureau, the Benevolent
Asylum and the Cemetery.
m* * *
New songs are scattered up and down
Sydney Tivoli programme this week. Mr.
Arthur Crane comes out with “ A Father’s
Advice; ” while Billy McClain warbles agi-
tatedly of his Black Baby. Miss May Lewis
generally favors us with ditties wherein the chief
sentiment is a request that she may be his. If it
were put as a gracious permission for him to be
hers, it would be more suitable to these days of
Woman’s Rights. This week is stated to be the
last of the Coon Ballet. Its departure is some-
what of a relief; while the Coon Ballet faced the
audience it was fairly right, but when it turned
its back . Arthur Crane and Wallace King
have started duetting concerning the classic young
man who climbed up a mountain for no purpose
discernible, with a banner in his hand, and a re-
mark in bad Latin floating from his mouth at the
end of every verse.
** * *
The Crane-Power Co. made a first Mel-
bourne appearance at Her Majesty’s on Saturday,
starting its short season with “Trilby.” In
some respects the present performance is in
advance of the one that flourished at the Princess’
four years ago, but in other respects it isn’t. The
stage pictures are not so well displayed in the
oval-shaped theatre, and the deeply impressive
voice of Regina Nagel is not there to give a sound
of truth to the name part. On the other hand,
the burden of the old Little Billee has been lifted
from the show and replaced by a young man
whose head is unobtrusive and general appearance
not altogether aggravating. The old Billee had
a head of the pumpkin order, and a habit of crying
“O Gard!” and “Tarfy ! Tarfy ! ” which was
fatal to the illusion. So taking one thing with
another, and allowing for the fact that a number
of people will now see “ Trilby” for the first time,
the management has nothing to fear from com-
parisons.
* • » *
Svengali now-a-nights is a less impish
creature than the Jew that Reuben Fax intro-
duced to us of yore. Tyrone Power makes his
own music, instead of pluggingaway at a dummy
piano in a wild, irresponsible manner. There is
some dignity about the greasy man of talent when
he goes to borrow five francs. He appears to
think more and laugh less than the previous
Svengali, and he sacrifices melodramatic points in
the interests of realism, but perhaps Fax’s per-
formance was all the stronger for its extra lurid-
ness. Svengali is bound to look as though he had
escaped from a ghost story. His influence over
the young woman with the naked instep and trans-
cendental toe-nails doesn’t work by the rules of
hypnotism. The idea of a hypnotist walloping
his tame prima-donna because she jibs at a top-
note is quite unreasonable, for if he pours his own
soul into the lady she naturally must do her best
to carry out its instructions. No matter. Miss
Edith Crane’s handsome Trilby has improved
during these four years, also the new Laird
(W. F. Grant) is a very satisfactory stranger, and
Cyril Keightley, as Taffy, wears his long whiskers
as though he had grown them himself. Gecko,
in the first two acts, is a limp reminder of our
previous Gecko, but subsequently he turns
upon Svengali with unexpected vigour, and
may be said to fill the bill. Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis, it goes without saying, makes a wel-
come re - appearance on the stage in the
part of Madame Yinard. Her French accent
was rather rusty last Saturday night, but she
comes as a boon and a blessing after the inferior
specimens of “ old woman ” acting that Melbourne
has lately endured. Oily Deering scores as the
oily shepherd who gets reconciled to Trilby’s
moral character on discovering that the Prince of
Wales has made inquiries after her health. Cecil
Ward is a pretty fair Zou-Zou, and the very small
parts are neatly filled. But “ Trilby ” it seems,
is only a six-nights show. On Saturday the
company will play “ The Christian ” for the first
time in Melbourne, or mostly the first time.
Half an act of the drama was produced at the
Princess’s on the night of J. C. Williamson’s
farewell, just before he immediately came back
again.
** # #
On Saturday night the deceased Svengali
committed the grievous error of a speech to the
audience after the third act, reminding one of the
new warbler at Rickards’s, who usually thanks his
applauders kindly when he has got through his
third ditty and hopes that his fourth and last
effort will give them further satisfaction. Luckily
Tyrone Power’s oration was brief and neat.
*» * *
The drama wherein a Queen’s Own Lancer
gets restored to his missing parent by a bill-
discounting barrister of the Hebrew persuasion
concludes its fitful fever at Melb. Royal this week.
On Saturday, “The Land of the Living” will be
staged on manager Anderson’s ordinary “scale
of magnificence” (which, in truth, is a very
respectable scale), and six nights of this coming
narrative will be the last nights of the present co.
** * *
At the Bijou, the same programme as
before is just now appealing to the sentiment of
Agricultural Show-week, and the temple of
Rickards resounds with the gusty, lusty laugh of
the occasional visitor from up-country. It is
understood that Paul Martinetti and Co. will pack
up their pantomimes and depart at the end of this
week, unless they stay till Monday. Anyway,
they must be gone from Melbourne ere the red
dawn of the next Bulletin, and Emmonds and
Emerson, or somebody else, will fill the gap.
** * *
Definitely stated that George Musgrove’s
reign at Melbourne Princess’s and Sydney
Lyceum will open in Melbourne with a short and
quick-change season of classic opera in English.
“Faust ” is almost certain to come first on the list
(a fine organ has been shipped from London for
“Faust”), and the after productions will be
selected from “II Trovatore,” “Carmen,”
“Lohengrin,” “ Tannhauser,” and one or two of
the ancient British ballad operas. After which
some comic opera, with Nellie Stewart to the fore.
When this second co. moves along to Sydney in
its turn Nellie will stay behind to play principal
boy in a panto, at the Princess’s.
4
Fatal Thirteen ! In Sydney harbour, on
Sunday last, a sudden south-westerly squall cap-
sized an 18-footer sailing craft, containing 13
young men, of whom four were drowned, though
neither of the only two inferior swimmers of the
party perished. The same squall “turtled”
another craft of the same size, but all ten occu-
pants escaped.
Bressi, the late King of Italy's slayer, has
been sentenced to life-imprisonment. They never
were too hard on homicide in Italy.
The necessity for public inspection of all so-
called private orphanages and charitable institu-
tions has received striking exemplification in the
case of Stoke (Nelson, M.L.) monastically-con-
ducted orphanage. What is wanted is not the
common or garden prurient-eyed old-maid inspec-
tion, but inspection by competent Govt, officials,
well-versed in the horrors of philanthropy. The
evidence evoked by a recent Govt, inquiry into
the ways of Stoke Orphanage shows a state of
affairs "of the Middle Ages, and the Marist
Brothers who conducted the institution are
just now at a considerable discount. Latest
news is that the brothers have been
“ removed ” by whom is not stated.
A prominent medical man asserted that the in-
mates of the school were stunted, insufficiently
fed, and vermin-stricken. Evidence was given
asserting that several lads were starved, kept in
chains for a month, and beaten on the bare flesh
with supplejacks, and that one was kicked on the
head by one gentle Brother, while another struck
him in the mouth and face with a bunch of cell
keys! The boys marked for ‘ ‘ punishment ” used at
night, it was deposed, to be forced to lift their
shirts whilst leaning over a desk as a preliminary to
receiving as many as 30 strokes on the bare flesh.
The lads suffered agonies through their filthy gar-
ments festering in their wounds, one boy being
quite unable to sit down for a fortnight. At
Stoke the lonely orphan seems to have been used
as a sledge-horse, and his time, so said the evi-
dence, was spent in carrying loads of heavy posts
from the bush to the Home. The simple rule
seems to have been that those who didn’t carry
enough posts got no tea. The reward of those
who were strong enough for the work proved on
one occasion to be a piece of festering cow that
had died in a neighboring gully —which, it must be
admitted, reads like a rather tall yarn. Anyhow,
Stoke orphanage seems to have been simply a place
where certain persons who were too lazy to carry
their own wood, and too mean to buy a horse, got
the work done gratis by orphans. Otherwise it
appears to have existed chiefly in order to let
off the bile of certain Brothers —the kind of
brothers who like to flog something and who want
to have something small and convenient, and
plenty of it, to practise on.
The Wild Cat Column.
Revenue returns for August, 1900 :
Revenue Increase as Compared
August, 1900. with August, 1899.
New South Wales .. £738,047 £36,804
Victoria .. .. 579,915 23,349
Tasmania .. .. 90,207 10,201
Westralia .. .. 242,833 6,560
Decrease as Compared
with August, 1899.
Queensland .. .. 307,859 30,071
As far as the financial year has gone (two months having
been completed in Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria, and
Westralia, and eight months in Tasmania), and so far as
accounts are available (S.A. publishing its accounts punc-
tually every quarter only, while Maoriland presents its
accounts unpunctually every quarter) the progress made
is as follows:
Revenue Increase as
to compared with
August, period to
1900. August, 1899.
Tasmania (8 months) £685,607 .. £63,736
Victoria (2 months) 1,188,484 .. 42,530
Westralia ( „ ) 446,434 .. 39,420
New South Wales ( „ ) 1,516,432 .. 11,697
Decrease as
compared with
period to
August, 1899.
Queensland (2 months) 648,044 .. 26,190
A certain haziness, as usual, surrounds the telegraphed
report from Tasmania, where the daily paper correspond-
ent’s figures appear to be in conflict with some of his own
previous figures and with last month’s accounts as pub-
lished in the local papers. However, the above is reason-
ably close to the amount. Going by population, and
reducing all the increases to so much per head per annum
the results are about these :
Increase of Revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia .. .. £l7 8
Tasmania .. .. 0 10 6
Victoria .. .. 0 4 5
New South Wales .. 0 10
Queensland .. .. Decrease.
• * * *
Apropos of the Philp Government’s announce-
ment that Queensland can’t borrow any more at present
for railway construction, and the consequent proposal to
hand over the building of the big Cloncurry line —the
first section of a trans-continental railway—to a syndicate
with power to charge, for 50 years, 11 times the fares and
freights now charged on the State lines—just consider
the matter in the cold light of arithmetic and see its out-
rageous folly! The existing northern lines practically
pay their way on existing charges, and yet they are bur-
dened with interest on money borrowed at a fraction over
£3lss. per cent. Now, the last loan, floated a few weeks
ago, showed that Queensland could borrow money at just
about £3 10s. per cent. Therefore it is fair to assume
that it could get it at £3 15s. per cent, with reasonable
ease. That is a high rate, but still, if the Cloncurry
line was built with money borrowed at £3 15s. per cent,
it would still be built on cheaper principles than the
other North Queensland lines, and as it is a more promis-
ing line than niost of the others, the reasonable assump-
tion is that it would pay at ordinary fares.
And instead, by its syndicate proposals, the un-
speakably foolish Philp Government proposes doing some-
thing which is equal to borrowing at £8 ss. per cent. On
a North Queensland line which just pays its way, about
7d. out of every shilling paid on the present scale of
charges, by the people who use the railway, goes in work-
ing expenses, and about sd. in interest on capital— i.e.,
money borrowed for construction at £3 15s. per cent.
The syndicate proposes to charge Is. 6d. where the State
charges Is. Working expenses need be no higher ; the
same 7d. will cover them. That leaves lid. for interest
on capital, so the tax on the people of Queensland will
be the same as if the Cloncurry line was built with money
borrowed for 50 years at £8 ss. per cent.! The burden on
the people is the same whether the money goes in fares
paid to a foreign syndicate of railway-owners, or in fares
paid to a foreign syndicate of money-lenders. The in-


—
Pr'fttB
Add'd
w
Re-
serve*
Dividend*, Ac,
Dee., 1801
a
2,874
£
454
Shareholder*, 6 p c.
£
1,S20
3,617
1,100
/Shareholders, 7 p.c. 1
1 Polio -holders, 10 p.c, i
2,743
„ 1893
1,207
Shareholders, 4 p.c.
1,280
„ 1804
4,137
1,000
/ Shareholders, 6 p.c-
\ Policy-holders, 10 p.c. ,
8,118
.. 1S9C
4,335
1,025
1 Sharcholden), 0 p.c.
1 Pollej'-holdcru. 10 p.c.
8,401
„ 1890
3.021
145
/ Shareholders, 6 p.e.
t Po|lev-holder», 10 p.C.
3,080
„ 1897
5,072
1,030
j Shareholders, C, p.c,
\ Policy-holders, 10 p.c. ,
3,392
June, 1899
6,707
750
/ Shareholders, 0 p.c. 1
l Policy-holders, 10 p.c.
4,990'
„ 1900
4,943
1,050
/ Shareholders, 0 p.o.
\ Policy-holders, 10 p.c.
. 8,120'
35.013
7,250
20.063.
in
*
t
A
MTI-M
! TOE
toll
mmki
TIKE
IpftTEl
Yhe^
ZETZ smw\
BAIUMORE
MW il»0
w-s-w-
Hope#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY ADD WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Hour Bros. & Co.. Ltd., Liverpool. Agents;
Famous
Hcbaeec#
wr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Insurance Opinion, July, 1899: “Not only
does the vigorous and enterprising Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society increase rapidly in point of magnitude,
but it also exhibits all the features that are characteristic
of a prudently managed life office.”*
* * * *
North Chillagoe Mines : The prospectus of this
group is out, accompanied by reports from Jack, ex-Q.
Govt. Geologist, and Dunstan, assistant ditto. The latter
says the group undoubtedly bear a most favorable com-
parison with any other in Chillagoe district; that they
have been selected simply on their own merit, and their
value is not influenced bv their proximity to high-priced
mines. And the promoters claim that this is a large
development company, in which shareholders will partici-
pate in the profits made in the development, as well as
profits likely to be obtained by flotation from the English
market when the twelve properties have become suffi-
ciently worked to justify their being placed into inde-
pendent co.s. Already one-half of the issue has been
subscribed, and the placing of the balance is practically
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating Mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
* * * •
The Bulletin is glad to know that arrange-
ments have been made for paying the back wages of the
miners who had been working at the Pinnacles, outside
Broken Hill.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/.
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 37 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin ; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Blasting Powder, Caustio Soda, Mining
Requisites, Candles, eto.
credible Philp holds that because Queensland can barely
manage to borrow at £3 10s. per cent, and might have to
pay as much as £3 15s. for the money to build the Clon-
curry line (the money to build all the other lines being
borrowed at an average of rather over £3 155.), therefore
the only thing is to commit the country for 50 years to
what is exactly the same as borrowing at £8 ss. per cent.!
Another strange point is this : The cheapest big loan
Queensland ever floated before this year cost £3 11s. 7id.
per cent, in interest. This year Queensland floated a big
loan which cost it ahout £3 10s. or £3 11s. per cent. And
having floated the cheapest individual big loan Queens-
land ever got, Premier Philp declares wildly that State
railway construction must be abandoned, for further bor-
rowing is evidently impossible. So just when Queens-
land’s loans are at their cheapest he falls back on the
syndicate at £8 ss. per cent. Barring two little borrow-
ings of about a quarter of a million, the loan which broke
Philp up, and made him throw State railway construction
overboard, was the best on Queensland’s record. Queens-
land’s credit may not be Al, but just let Philp try Sydney
and Melbourne with a 4 per cent, loan before he casts
himself on the bosom of his £8 ss. per cent, shind.vkit 1
Query : What is Ph Ip’s motive ? Is he only a tremendous
fool in matters financial ? Or has he been deluded by some
very clever people who are grinding the biggest axe in
Queensland behind the scenes ?
Further, Premier Philp stated as a reason for
handing over railway-construction to private syndicates,
that the State railways have run Queensland into a loss of
£2,428,114. Well, they wouldn’t have done that if the
State had charged even 25 per cent, higher fares, not 50
per cent, higher, as the Cloncurry syndicate is going to
do. As it is, by charging unprofitably low fares the
people paid in taxes instead of in railway rates, so it is as
broad as it is long. Also Premier Philp might have added
another thing. The southern railways have lost about
£2,200,000 ; the central and northern lines have only lost
about £225,000, and now these latter are practically pay-
ing their way. Therefore l’hilp’s argument is, by his own
mode of reasoning, good cause why the State should build
northern and central railways itself, and let syndicates
try their hands at the work down south. To abandon
State railway construction in the profitable region,
because it is a loss in another part hundreds of miles
away—to give the profitable end of the work to syndi-
cates and keep the unprofitable end for the State —is true
Boodle Government logic.
* * * '*
The Victorian Government’s offer of £500,000
worth of 3 per cent, stock locally at a minimum of £96
brought tenders for about £900,000. The loan fetched
about £96 65., so it is again worth remembering that this
local loan realised a better price than Victorian stock ever
realised in London. In fact all the inscribed stock which
the Victorian Government has sold in Melbourne has
brought a better price than the very best ever realised
in London, and all the bonds sold in Melbourne have
fetched a far better price than the bonds sold in London.
The only question is whether the local market is able to
take up big loans. Tub Bulletin reckons it is able to do it
six times over. If the Victorian Government had offered
in Melbourne a £2,000,000 loan at the price it would have
to pay in London it would probably have got offers of
£5,000,000. Of course while the Australian Governments,
in their painful and habitual grovel to England, will offer
the Australian investor much less than the English one,
th, v won’t get the offer of very large amounts. But that
is no reflection on the capacity of the local market.
South Australia, by the way, recently floated a
one-million 3percent, loan in London,and thenet proceeds
appear to be about £9O 12s. per £l9O. And Victoria had
offers of 1900,000 in Melbourne when it fixed the minimum
at £96. On this basis it seems reasonably certain that S. A.
could have got its million in Melbourne and Adelaide
with perfect "ease at £94 and thus saved over £30,000 and
a good deal of interest, income tax, expense in remitting
interest, &c. But it has never offered its stock locally at
anything like the price it was glad to accept in England,
and because the Australian market won’t tender money
as freely at £97 as the English one does at £92 it is
alleged that it is “ unable to absorb large loans.”
Apropos of these two loans and many other
loans The Bulletin rises to repeat that the practice of
floating loans at a discount is pure swindle. S.A., for ex-
ample, raises £906,000 by incurring £1,000,000 liability.
It will never have more than £906,000 of reproductive
works to show for the money. Its credit was only good
enough in London to enable it to borrow at about 3J per
cent. Instead of paying 3i per cent, honestly, and get-
ting full value for its securities, it pays less interest, and
to do so adds £94,000 to its permanent debt. That
£94,000 is really part of the interest, paid in a dishonest,
surreptitious way out of loan moneys. When a State
whose credit is only good enough for 31 per cent, floats a
3 per cent, loan at a discount it is as truly using loan
moneys to pay part of its interest bill as if it floated a
loan expressly for the purpose. That is what S.A. has
done, unless it adds £94,000 from revenue, and thus
makes the full £1,000,000 available for the purposes for
which the loan was floated—and when was any Australian
State honest enough to do a thing like that ?
* * * *
The Federal Palace Hotel, Limited (Melbourne),
shows remarkable signs of improving fortunes. In the
boom days this concern had a paid-up capital of £123,584,
mostly represented by building and ground, then valued
at £151,082, and burdened with a mortgage of £70,000.
With the great slump in property about £llO,OOO of
capital was written-off, and it now stands at £13,485
paid-up. The hotel and ground is described as worth
£66,500, subject to a mortgage of £59,000, the other
£ll,OOO having been paid off by careful management.
The recent record of this institution has been as follows :
Profit. Dividends.
July, 1897 .. .. £1237
Loss.
July, 1898 .. .. 182
„ 1899 .. .. 125
Profit.
„ 1900 .. .. 2002 about 10 per cent. =£1465
This leaves £1467 undivided profit to carry forward, toge-
ther with a replacements reserve of £506. The improve-
ment is certainly very remarkable, and the Federal
Palace shareholders feel better than they have done for a
number of years.
* * * *
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney), the
concern which publishes the Australian Star, is an
enterprise which seems to make little progress in a
financial sense. For the year ended 30th June, 1900, the
net earnings are set down at £1963, and a balance of
£l5O brought forward from previous year makes £2113.
A very moderate dividend of 5 per cent, absorbs £2OOO
(£37 more than the earnings), so the balance carried for-
ward is reduced to £ll3. This £ll3 is the only semblance
of a reserve fund which the co. possesses, and even its
existence is less certain than might be. The chief asset is
“ Premises, plant, furniture, stationery, and goodwill,
£31,783.” How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear,
but it is reasonably certain that the goodwill is set
down for more than the £ll3 which forms the sole visible
reserve, and the surplus, whatever it may be, represents
a shortage in the visible assets as against the liabilities.
It is questionable if an enterprise which earns barely 5
per cent, on its capital has any goodwill—whether it can be
said to have any selling value apart from the value of its
visible assets. Certainly it can t have much. At
events the amount of the alleged goodwill should be
separately stated. The shareholders ought to know how
they stand, and a balance-sheet which doesn t ™
much of the assets are real and how much is the more or
less dubious value set on the business, does not tell them
how they stand. The accounts for the last two years can
be lumped together thus o aoa
4 per cent, div., 1899.. £l6OO Balance at June, 98.. £B-8
5 1900.. 2000 Profits to June, 99.. 922
Balance .. 113 1900.. _1963
£3713 £3713
In two years the dividends, small as they were, have
absorbed £715 more than the earnings.
* * » *
Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tasmania):
_ Dividends and Divi-
Profits. dend Duty.
June, 1892 .. £7913 10 per cent. = £7003
December, 1892 7154 8 ~ 5602
June, 1893 .. 5169 6 = 4202
December, 1893 3076 6 ~ 3501
June, 1894 .. 3882 5 „ = 3/93
December, 1894 4134 5 ~ 4-.18
June, 1895 .. 4327 5 4218
December, 1895 3363 5 „ = 4219
June, 1896 .. 4602 6 = 4429
December, 1896 4444 5 „ 44-9
June, 1897 .. 4429 5 = 4429
December, 1897 4428 5 = 4429
June, 1898 .. 4450 6 = 4429
December, 1898 3129 3 = 2658
June, 1899 .. 2668 3 „ = 2658
December, 1899 2374 3 „ 2658
June, 1900 .. 3108 3 „ = 2658
. £72,650 £69,533
On paper, at all events, the Cascade Brewery Co. has im-
proved its position to the extent of £3117 in eight years.
It has a paid-up capital of £168,750 and total reserves (on
paper) of £16,522. But the Cascade Brewery Co. is
one of those remarkable concerns which square their
accounts with a paper item of “goodwill.” This is set
down at £25,000, so the visible assets are less than the
visible liabilities by £8478. Goodwill is in some cases
a less papery item than in others ; the pathos of
the thing is that it is generally the concern which
has no visible goodwill which puts the item among
its assets most assiduously. In the present case,
a brewery whose visible assets are, even on its own
valuation (which may, or may not, be a greatly
over-stated valuation), £8478 less than its liability to
shareholders and others, and which is only paying 3 per
cent, on its capital, asks the public to believe that the
goodwill of its business is worth £25,000 —-this at a time
when investors can get about 3J per cent, in State securi-
ties. The effort is too great a strain on the imagination.
The Cascade Brewery Co. should write off that goodwill
item at once so far as its reserves will allow, and then
extinguish the balance out of earnings with all possible
speed. After that it should lay the foundations of a real
reserve fund. A reserve fund which is all represented by
goodwill is very unreal.
* • • *
The big Sydney stock, station, and wool firm of
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited, shows net profits for the
last four years as follows :
30th June, 1897 .. £1,841 I 30th June, 1899 .. £4,043
30th „ 1898 .. 2,731 | 30th „ 1900 .. 6,555
In each case no dividend has been paid, the profits being
carried to a special reserve to meet bad and doubtful
debts. There is a material improvement in earnings,
which are now equal to £l3 2s. 2d. per cent, per annum
on the paid-up capital of £50,000, and if it were free of the
burden of these ‘ ‘ bad and doubtful debts ” this co. would
be a highly profitable institution at present. The balance-
sheet conveys no information as to the amount of said
bad and doubtful debts, so it is impossible to say how fast
they are being 1 reduced, and whether old doubtful debts are
turning good, or whether new bad debts are arising as
fast as, or faster than, the old ones are paid on.
The principal purpose of a balance-sheet, under the
ridiculous Australian company laws, is to conceal a com-
pany’s position. But at 30th June 1899, Pitt, Son and
Badgery’s bank overdraft was £65,437, and other creditors
£6680 (total, £72,117), while at 30th June, 1900, overdraft
was £55,741 and other creditors £3009 (total, £58,750),
which is a very large and promising reduction of liabilities,
and looks as if the concern was rapidly righting itself. A
notable item among the assets is, “ Goodwill, office furni-
ture, plant, &c-, £25,000. How much of this is the purely
paper item of goodwill doesn’t appear, and when this and
the absence of all information about the bad and doubtful
debts are added together, it is impossible to guess how
much of the shareholders’ nominal funds (paid-up capital
£50,000 and reserve fund £7500) are intact on present
values. It can only be said that the co. appears to be
making good progress at replacing the loss, whatever it
may be. When this country has a decent company law
it will be compulsory to show the paper item of goodwill
separately, in order to reveal how much of the assets are
only , , .
Balmain (Sydney) New Ferry Co.
Profits, less Dividends.
Depreciation.
1893 .. £294
1894 .. 612 6 per cent. =£4lo
1895 .. 2326 10 „ =1258
June, 1896 .. 1029 10 „ = 643
Dec., 1896 .. 613 10 „ = 646
June, 1897 .. 578 10 „ = 646
Dec., 1897 .. 1306 Nil.
Loss.
June, 1898 ..£lll4 10 per cent. =£64B
Profit.
Dec., 1898 .. 1371 10 „ = 648
June, 1899 .. 1355 10 „ 648
Dec., 1899 .. 1687 10 „ = 648
June, 1900 .. 772 10 „ = 648
The Balmain New Ferry Co. has total reserves of £4072,
so on the whole it has panned out reasonably well up to
date, though the “ insurance reserve ” of £4OO, as against
over £12,000 worth of highly-combustible ship property,
looks a trifle ridiculous. Still, if the co. s old boat with
the rising sun painted on the paddle-box would only keep
a little better time, and there were fewer drunks among
the Saturday night passengers, there would be no great
cause of complaint. „ » *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Fire and Marine In-
surance Association of Canterbury (Maoriland) has now
been 9i years in operation, with these good results :
The co. with the long name has accumulated £7250'
of reserves (general reserve fund, £6OOO, and rein-
surance reserve, £1250), which is by no means bad.
for the first 9£ years of a very small concern. It
has also £llOO undivided profit (subject to adjustment
when the amount of the policy-holders’ bonus for 1900 is
ascertained, the £3420 set aside for dividend purposes
being only an approximation). It has paid a dividend to
shareholders every year, and has given policy-holders a 10
per cent, bonus on their premiums every year except two.
And—again apropos of that mendacious and interested
expert who tries to scare the State off taking a hand in
fire insurance business by assuring it that such business
can’t pay if confined to one State, as Government insur-
ance would be, and that “ a wide diffusion of risks” is
absolutely required—the Farmers’ Co-operative has pro-
duced these results, not only by sticking to one province,
but mostly by sticking to one corner of it. The only
dubious feature about this concern is that its funds are
almost wholly invested in mortgages. Still, its invest-
ments yield over 6 per cent, all-round, which is a highly
respectable rate of interest.
• • • *
At the Junction North meeting in Melbourne
a shareholder wanted to abolish the London office, estab-
lished in the few days of the co.’s fatness. Directors
admitted it was useless, but said it would be a breach of
faith to do what was asked. And yet expenses will have
to be pared somehow. In 12 months, to the end of July,
42,390 tons of ore were taken out of the mine (and 42,360
tons of ore make a big hole, especially in a mine like
the Junction N.), and the profit, according to the direc-
tors, was £4159 ; but, counting in all that was spent on
development, it was really less than that by a few hun-
dred pounds. Per ton of ore, in fact, it was Is. Bd.—just Id.
per cwt. And that notwithstanding that the metal mar-
kets have been Dooming this last year. No doubt develop-
ments at the deep level are good; the ore there is
better grade than the average crushed last year. But the
management will have to keep its nose to the grindstone.
A few months, or perhaps weeks, will give a better idea
whether it wouldn’t be wiser to seek amalgamation on
some terms with the North.
* • * *
Compare the recovery of the metals contained
in the ore respectively in the North and the South groups
of B.H. mines South group: South, 67'39 per cent,
of the lead and 50 51 per cent, of the silver ; Block 10,
72 -31 per cent, of the lead and 35'35 per cent, of the
silver. North group: North, 54'1 per cent, of the lead
and 37'1 per cent, of the silver ; Junction North, 55 per
cent, of the lead and 31 per cent, of the silver ; Junction,
52 per cent, of the lead and 30'7 per cent, of the silver.
The difference is partly due to the fact that the Southern
mines (the Sulphide Corporation’s figures are about the
same as Block 10’s) have rather more appliances for re-
treating slimes, &c. ; but it is mainly due to the fact that
the northern ore is more refractory, though the North’s is
less so than its neighbors’. It will be seen, though, that
onlv one of them all saves half the silver.
* * * *
Block 14 tested its mill capacity the other week
lt weighed all the ore it put through, and made the tally
2905 tons. This co. is putting through rather better ore
again. Its neighbor, the British, is making a “new
departure ” in prospecting its northern block with a dia-
mond drill. At the other B.H. mines the most interest-
ing features are the discovery that the new South Blocks
can mine payable mill-sulphides from the start (but it
hasn’t a mill) and the completion at last of the small
Odling magnetic zinc plant at Block 10.
* * * *
B.H. South has been obliged to adopt a resolu-
tion for dealing with divs. unclaimed after one year. This
co. was for 8 or 10 years regarded as hopeless ; it struggled
for 12 years before paying a div., passed through three or
four reconstructions, and got into touch with final
liquidation once. Hence a good many shares have
apparently been thrown aside and forgotten, so that at
the end of the last half-year there remained £4700 of divs.
uncalled-for.
* • * •
The Federal Centrifugal Dredging Co., near
Braidwood, N.5.W.—2740z. ; result of 33 shifts of 8 hours
- outlay said to be £350, which should therefore mean
nearly £7OO profit. Shares selling at 7s. ; show run
chiefly by a Ballarat crowd. Turon No. 2 Dredge.—
28oz. for week ; shares 305., and every Sunday people are
advised to buy them, but no more is said about getting
“ round the corner at Golden Point.” People are weary
of most things and they are becoming rather tired of the
eternal over-boosting of the Turon. Araluen Pro-
prietary.— 260 z. gold for less than a week’s work. Sellers
20s. no buyers reported. Running a dredge under favor-
able’ circumstances is cheap biz., but these little yields are
not good enough under the best conditions. There
will be a few dredging successes in N.S.W. and many
hideous failures ; some of the latter will be on the Shoal-
haven River, the top part of which may be suitable for
dredging. So, too, that part of the river in Nowra dis-
trict'’but the 100 miles of river-bed and banks between are
quiteunfitted for the game, and anyattempt todredge them
will ignominiously fail. The Shoalhaven had a sluicmg-
boom some 8 or 10 years ago when many scores of thou-
sands sterling were lost in genuine efforts to establish the
hydraulic sluicing industry- Not a word is said of this in
any of the dredging prospectuses. Of course, hydraulic
sluicing was all wrong—the modern bucket-dredge is
going to do the trick. Attempts were then made to dam
back parts of the river with the object of getting the
« rich gold deposits ” at the bottom, and those who made
them have been “damning ” the Shoalhaven ever since.
* • * ♦
Associated Gold Mines: Wonders will never
cease with this concern. The very latest: “ This morning
the cages ceased working in Tetley’s shaft owing to the
pit having come together. This was caused through
stoping being carried on too close to the shaft.” It ap-
pears that this mine has been gutting out the last of
Tetlev’s shoot, so “ their troubles ” about the shaft coming
together. As a result of the gouging, this month’s return
is expected to be better than last. The newest sensation
in London is the appointment to the board of a gentleman
who reported on the mine last year and went one better
than even the manager. He then declared that there was
750,0000 z. gold in sight in the mine. Directors seized on
this, and after the chairman had made much of it as a
confirmation of their own manager’s report, shares
reached £l3—a modest valuation of 5& millions. When
the bottom fell right out of the mine and the market
dropped 4i millions, the optimist was asked what he meant
by it, and he still said the gold was there. When asked how
long he was on the mine, he replied, “Three whole days.’
The three experts who came out —Frecheville, Angovy,
and Prof. Liveing—took three months over their examina-
tion, and their report was the result of as exhaustive a
sampling as was ever given to a mine ; its correctness has
been confirmed by the mine itself. Nevertheless they are
still regarded bv many people as the wreckers of the.
show. It is admitted that the biggest gilded fools in
thG world are in London, so it can he assumed that there
are some shareholders in the Associateds living there
who think that the election to the Board of this sayer of
sweet things will be followed by his getting the 750,0000 z.
out of the mine. Here is briefly the present position.
The less than 40,000 tons of pay ore left in the mine
when the three experts completed their examination is
almost exhausted and the average return obtained
has confirmed their estimates of value. The nulls
have shut down for want of payable ore to crush,
the mine is gutting out the balance of Tetley s
shute for the purpose of shipping sulphides and
making as good a show as possible under the distressing
■circumstances. Thousands of feet of development-work
in the form of sinking, driving and boring in all direc-
tions with a view of finding some more ore have been
■done, so far without any result. A little more of this pro-
specting and the mine, unless something wonderful hap-
pens, must be regarded as a property of one payable ore-
shute like its neighbors, the Kalgurli, on one side, and
the Central and West Boulder, on the other. Fortunately
it has over £200,000 cash to go on with, and if it is the
intention to spend all this money in prospecting, then
the Associateds are even bigger fools than writer
imagines; much better buy another mine with some of
it. Shares still show a market valuation of £1,700,000
this for a mine that has never paid a div. for a year, has
no hope of one this year, and could only W
out of capital if it were used for that purpose. T e
are 500,000 shares in the Associated, and upwards m
5000 shareholders, consequently there is no P“ b h l 'P I'® 1 '®
pect of any bear-squeeze. It is for that reason that
a million shares have been oversold, and but for this over
selling the shares to-day would not be one-third their
market value. _ - ,
• * * *
“Moses Moss,” the mining man °f that mis-
named London paper, Troth, chuckles over the alleged
fact that some bears have been caught by Whittaker
Wright, who has been laying wait for them ever since he
himself was caught as a “bull ” about a year : •
sees nothing wrong in “bulling shares to thiee
their value by lying statements, etc., m newspapers, or
in bringing about a “corner,” ami making people pay
£l5 for shares that are not worth 15s. M.M. is pro-
bably so innocent that he saw nothing wrong in the
“Half-forgotten Frauds”—when London CliiTicexposed
the swindles perpetrated in London with the able assist-
ance of several most respectable newspapers. Stated in
Adelaide that that nerveful operator R. H. Hemung, has
been caught to the extent of £125,000 m the Le Roi No. 2
deal. This co. came out a few months ago as an offshoot
of the Le Roi, a copper mine in Bntish Columbia. It was
manipulated by Whittaker Wright for the London Globe
Finance Corporation. A small proportion of the shares
were widely distributed, and other traps were laid. The
moment it was found that some big parcels had been
sold “short” all the outside scrip was quietly bought
up, and when the mail left the shares were standing
at £l5, and the last cabled report is that they have
reached £3O ; so no doubt “ Moses Moss is again shriek-
ing with joy in Truth. Whittaker Wright’s crowd be it
remembered, are the people who control the Consols and
Ivanhoe mines, the shares of which rise and fall £1 per
day, and are usually far beyond the price warranted
either by yields, prospects, or divs. These two mines
fluctuate more than all the others of Hannan s. It is
also rumored that some “bears have recently been
caught in over-selling these shares, and the same Moses
Moss ” insinuates that some of them will soon have to quit
London for Montana and elsewhere. It is altogether a
lovely state of things, and indicates pretty plainly the
condition of the mining industry of Westraha, where
there are several mines so monstrously over-valued that,
if all the gold they produce was profit, the dividends
would not represent more than bank-interest on the in-
vestment —and this is in face of the fact that the cost of
mining there is the highest in the world.
* * * ♦
Mt. Lyell. —Writer was wrong last week in
assuming that there would be no div. this quarter on
account of the South Tharsis purchase and others in con-
templation. Allowing for these the mine has not earned
the usual div. this quarter, but has paid a little one of 2s.
No doubt had the money been held m reserve, other
people, who have mines for sale in the district but are
greedy with regard to price, would have at once jumped
to the conclusion that it was being kept for them and
would have regulated prices accordingly. The S. Tharsis
crowd showed their good sense in taking £45,000, but even
this good sense would not have been arrived at but for
the heavy purchases made on account of the Mt. Lyell Co.
itself. Next hardest thing to selling a mine is sometimes
to buy one at double its intrinsic value. The S. Tharsis,
as a concentrating copper proposition, was too low-grade
to pav and had it been 2 miles further away from Mt.
Lyell it would have been no use to that Co. and could
never have paid for working on its own.
* * * *
Croydon notes to Aug. 17 : Golden Gate 3 and
4 South Tribute cleaned up finally, making yield 91650 z.
lldwts. for a month’s run on 1059 tons ore. Aggregate
value of gold, £23,701. Tribute Syndicate divided
£16,640, and the Proprietary Syndicate out of royalty
divided £4400, making total div. from crushing £21,040.
An illustration elsewhere shows the 20 gold bars got from
this record crushing. During two years, or less, the mine
has crushed 9473 tons ore for 36,2970 z. gold, gross value
£96 927, and paid divs. to its owners and tributors aggre-
gating £72,459. Golden Gate 4 and 5 South Block re-
cent crushing, 200 tons for 6230 z., valued at £1592.
Jubilee Consols (True Blue) recently discovered rich gold
at 400 ft. vertical; gold improving in value with depth.
This is the deepest-level gold worked on Croydon. G.
Gate mines and field generally looking well, and with
rain, which is badly wanted, would boom.
* » * •
O mining items:—Markets generally depressed ;
majority of small N.Q, fields absolutely dry. Dredging
started at Clermont. Coen men still looking for the dead
man’s secret. One or two poor fellows have found it.
Yet another coal-find—this time on the Mackenzie, west
of Rockhampton. Warden Pegus, of Maytown, has
signed his last exemption ; if integrity counts he has a
payable reef on the golden shore. The Perseverance
(alas!), near Brisbane, has turned turtle after 26 vain
years. Ravenswood still doing well; J. Bull taking a
hand. Some figures :—G.vmnie : Q. St. Gt. Eastern, 1157
tons 16500z5., Is. div. Ch. Towers : Vic. Caledonian, 3d.
div. ; Day Dawn, 605 tons. 8020z5., looking well; Bonnie
Dundee, turning soft; Brilliant and St. Geo., 1400 tons,
15310zs Is. div. ; Brilliant, 820 tons, 9060z5., 3d. div. ;
Brilliant Extended, 660 tons, 4600z5. average only;
Kelly’s Block, 992 tons, 10250z5. Q. Menzies still cyamd-
ing—4Bo tons for 311ozs.
* * * *
In The Bulletin’s reference last week to the
Mount Garnet Freehold (N.Q.) the expenditure to date
was erroneously made to appear over £BO,OOO by the in-
advertent charging thereto of £22,940, cash at fixed
deposit and current account.
(Continued on page 29.)


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
,vith DEEP CAPE,
Fan j cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
V
New
Smart
Shapes
A
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES”& COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
SOCIETY
The difficulty of fittingly rechristening an
organisation was proved last week by the Anglican
Synod sitting in Sydney to be as great as that of
rechristening an adult individual. A name is
something, The lame notion of calling the
Anglican Church in Australia the British church,
as one dignitary suggested, or the Empire, as
suggested by another, or the Kangaroo, as hinted
by a third, or the Anglo-Australian or the Anglo-
Catholic or any other of the absurd inventions,
was properly banned. As well rechristen George
Reid Harry, W. J. Lyne Edward, or John Norton
Joseph.
* * * m
At the Anglican Church Synod in Sydney
the other day the Dean of Perth (W.A.) perti-
nently referred to the absurdity of the Australian
Anglican clergy calling themselves “ priests and
deacons of the Church of England,” although
when they went to England they were not recog-
nised as such without passing an additional exami-
nation. Even the Australian churches are catch-
ing a faint reflection of national spirit.
**. * *
In the matter of reports of the Aus-
tralian delegates’ speeches, the British papers
apparently don’t yet think Australian Common-
wealth affairs interesting to their readers; they
invariably reserved their space for the Imperial
leaders who spoke on the same occasions. At one
function, held specially to give Barton an oppor-
tunity of putting forward certain views, the
speech of John Morley, the chairman, was purely
introductory to Barton’s, and he “apologised for
standing between them and the principal speaker
of the evening” (Barton). Though all the lime-
light was turned on Barton, who is said to have
made a fine speech, the press next morning gave
Morley a column and a half and Barton exactly
13 lines !! ! After all, though Australians are
overwhelmed with kindness and hospitality in
A CHANGE OF VENUE.
You seem to have lost all interest in Women’s
Rights.”
“Yes; I'm devoting all my time to Women’s Lefts.”
“ What do you mean?”
“I'm engaged to a widower.”
England, they are always put in the moral posi-
tion of country cousins. Hence Copeland’s tears
and letter to the Times.
* * * *
Premier Lyne’s defence in N.S.W. Assem-
bly to the attack re the appointment of the
“ assistant paymasters 55 to the China Contingent
was lamentably weak. He said there was a pre-
cedent : when the Imperial Bushmen were
despatched to S’Africa the ’Ome people requested
the Govt, to send a clerk to act as paymaster, &c.
Consequently an officer from N.S.W. Treasury
was selected to go. Well, the Bushmen numbered
2,000 and if one man could do the work of that
crowd it is nonsense to say that the appointment
of two assistant-paymasters for under 500 men is
justified by the case. And while the two persons
selected may be excellent journalists there is no
reason for Premier Lyne to suppose that they can
do the work for which on the first occasion he
selected a Treasury clerk as likely to possess the
necessary qualifications.
* * * *
Quaint answer of a London Missionary
Society representative to the query whether his
society would send out missionaries to replace
those dead in China : “ Will merchants send out
cotton goods again?” Shoddy religion and
shoddy clothes; the analogy is perfect.
* * * *
The dreaded examinations, introduced by
N.S.W. Public Service Board with such a flourish
of trumpets, are likely to be abandoned. In reply
to a question in the Leg. Assembly, Attorney-
General Wise announced that the Board did not
bind itself to make the examinations an
annual institution, but only to hold them “when
occasion demanded.” So that the majority of the
luckless clerks who failed in the solitary one held
in|lB99 will have to remain unpromoted until the
Board think fit to hold another. But here is an
instance of the weight the Board attaches to
its own examinations. The regulations pro-
vide that the clerks in the service shall
(provided that everything is well with them)
advance by yearly increments of £lO each. All
those, however, on £3OO, £250, £2OO, and £l5O
cannot get any further, but in the last three cases
must pass the examination for the next grade. In
one of the sub-departments under the Chief
Secretary four of the staff sat for the examination.
Three passed and were granted the regulation
increment of £lO. The fourth man failed, and,
appealing to the Board for further consideration,
was immediately granted an increase of £5O a
year ! He is thus better off than his three col-
leagues who were unlucky enough to pass the test
prescribed by the Board.
* * * *
The true story of the burlesque Bushmen,
who sailed by the Atlantean to S’Africa, is gradu-
ally leaking out. One “trooper,”
a baker by trade, passed no tests
—merely “gave his word that he
could ride and shoot.” . . . “An
officer shouted: ‘ Now then, you
bush-rats, get ready.’ A number
of men grouped together and re-
fused to get ready.” Then a war-
rant-officer ordered the men
“roughly” to wash decks, and
“they told the warrant-officer that
if he wasn’t careful, he’d go over-
board. And he would, too!” No
notice seems to have been taken of
such gross insubordination ; yet
when the baker aforesaid com-
plained about the food, he was
clapped into the guardroom. So
that it was safer to disobey orders
and threaten to murder a warrant-
officer than to make a complaint.
Good old discipline that!
* * •
T. M. Slattery in N.S.W.
Leg. Council and J. C. Neild in the
Assembly move to legitimatise off-
spring of parents subsequently
married, and despite a lot of hen-
opposition are likely to succeed.
N.S.W. follows England in the
brutal law of “once a bastard al-
ways a bastard,” though in Eng-
land the Queen is vested with
powers. which, when the illegiti-
macy is in “noble” circles, can
alleviate the condition materially.
Eor ages, canon and Roman laws
have legitimatised such offspring
when the father and mother entered
into wedlock ; France, Holland and
Germany passed special Acts legiti-
matising children on the after mar-
riage of their parents, and from
time immemorial Scotland has
acted on this principle of fair play
to the innocent. Most States of the
American Union have passed legiti-
matising laws. Despite all this, however, stiff
resistance is anticipated in N.S.W. Parliament,
and. friends of the proposed measure will need to
put forward their best strength.
• • * *
ParisNesbit, Q.C., considers that whenever
a wretched abortionist kills a girl, the six best-
dressed and most respectable women in the
nearest fashionable church—Anglican preferred-
should be executed. He would also slay all Aus-
tralian judges who wear gold-rimmed spectacles.
Now that early closing is the vogue why
do not all Australian Parliaments
run through a measure ordaining
that law-courts, especially in the
trial of criminal cases, shall not
sit after sundown ?
DISTING DISHED RELATIVES.
“ ’Is ole man was shot by the Boers, an ’ his ole
woman died of the plygue, an’ now ’is brother’s
goitern’ ter fight the Chows. Some blokes gets
all the luck.”
N.S.W. Govt, is going to offer a prize for
an ode to be set to music in connection with Com-
monwealth inaugural ceremonies—“perhaps £500,”
Premier Eyne said. The naive musicians who
deputationised suggested that Australasia should
compete, and “at least a fortnight would be re-
quired for the ode, and a month for the music.”
What sort of ode will be produced in a fortnight !
*• * * *
“ Hawkesbury ” : M.L.A. Ferris’s pro-
posal that the proclamation of the Commonwealth
should be made at the old Govt. House, Parra-
matta Park, should be incontinently rejected.
Parramatta smells badly in Marsden-made history,
but that particular old house contracted such an
odor from Charles Augustus Fitzroy that the
succeeding Governor, Denison, refused point-
blank to live in it and no Governor since has slept
a night under its roof.
* * * *
A member of N.S.W. Assembly withheld,
under advice, an important question which he had
ready for the Notice Paper one night lately. The
question referred to the total moneys paid per
annum to N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges, as
salaries, travelling and other allowances while on
circuit, and otherwise. In view of a recent
demand made on the Treasury the question should
be asked.
* * * m
It is strikingly typical of most of the
characters figuring in Australian democratic his-
tory of the past 30 years that the bitterest feud of
members Lesina and Glassey in Queensland should
pivot on the distribution of Gov. Lamington’s
complimentary banquet tickets. Lamington sent
Glassey 20 tickets for distribution among mem-
bers ; Glassey, alleging in excuse the way the
Laborites treated him, passed them by, and
Lesina, representing the Laborites, rends Glassey.
A political melee, with an ugly moral,
* * * *
The 40 or so invalided contingenters who
returned to Queensland the other day rather
shocked the community, for, with one or two ex-
ceptions, the men were apparently in the pink of
condition.
# • * *
Item from a Yic. Bushman’s letter, joy-
fully printed in Colac (Yic.) Reformer— Heaven
save the mark !:
All I wish for is to have about a week or so with the
Boers and then back to civilisation, but I mean to kill a
Boer or two before I am done, whether the war is over or
not.
Noble warrior!
* * * *
The N.S.W. Public-School Teachers’ Jingo
fund closed with £4302 and the presentation of an
address signed by 500 teachers to someone who
took a prominent part in the affair. The Bulle-
tin could easily get 1500 teachers to privately
sign an address cursing the Minister who did not
interfere to prevent the teachers from being
politely but most effectually squeezed. “Why,”
asks a correspondent, “ were not we, the teachers,
allowed to contribute, or decline to contribute, to
the general fund raised by the public at large
(though many of them oughtn’t to be at large),
instead of being in reality forced to pay toll to the
self-importance of a greasy and obsequious bureau-
cracy ? ” The reasons which prompted signatures
to the address in question were no doubt exactly
the same as those which prompted subscriptions
to the teachers’ Jingo fund.
♦ * * *
On the Manning River (N.S.W.) the
Chinese threaten to become bosses of the vegetable
industry. They are adding to their holdings or
taking up fresh areas day by day and regularly
advertise for white laborers. Within a stone-
throw of one another ten white men may be
counted serving Chows for Bs. per week and
tucker.
* * * *
S.A. law met with a really tough problem
the other day. Seaman Charles White left
his ship, it was said with the inten-
tion of deserting, but ere he could
be long enough away to prove
that he didn’t intend going back,
he was arrested for stealing the
chief officer’s clothes, and sen-
tenced to a fine of £1 or 14
days. He took the 14 days,
chiefly, it appears, with a
view to the fact that his ship
would be away before he
came out, so that he would
get quit of it without any
unpleasant penalties for
desertion. But shortly
before the vessel sailed
the captain sent up the
£1 and demanded the
return of Ohas. White.
Next day, as Charles
hadn’t returned, he
laid information
against him as a de-
serter, and then he
ascertained to his
surprise that
White was still in
gaol, and flatly re-
fused to come out,
White’s plea was
that he, not the
captain, had been
fined. That he had
the legal option to
pay £1 personally or
do 14 days person-
ally, and that having
chosen, as a free Brit-
ish citizen, to do the 14
days, his right to do 14
days could not be torn
from him by the inter-
ference of any outsider.
Also, that he couldn’t be
a deserter when the law
had given him the option
of £1 fine or 14 days, and
he was absent from his
ship doing the 14 days as
the law ordered. The cap-
tain demanded that White
should be kicked out of gaol, and
have the blessings of freedom conferred
on him by force, so as to constitute him a
deserter if he didn’t return to his ship. The
law replied thatif the Governor remitted White’s
sentence then he could be liberated by main force,
but otherwise it really didn’t know whether drag-
ging White out of gaol when he refused to pay the
fine himself wouldn’t open the way for an action
for damages. While the law was in this para-
lysed state the ship sailed, so seaman Charles
White came out on top. And now the law really
doesn’t know for certain if White hasn’t a good
case against it for false imprisonment, because it
didn’t throw him out when the £1 was tendered.
Able-seaman White has reduced S.A. law to a
state of such imbecility that it doesn’t know
where it are.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Transit Commission
is now dead and buried. This fate was predicted
for it when John Norton became licensees’ repre-
sentative. Some 20 inspectors will have to be
provided for somewhere.
• * *
“Z.” : Apropos the huge lump of bad debts
in an undertaker’s estate which has just got into
Bankruptcy (8., August 25). Undertakers, like
doctors, habitually allow for a big proportion of
bad debts. Jabez Wright, the much-discussed
Labor Mayor of Broken Hill, and an undertaker
by trade, therefore advocates that undertaking
should be one of the first things “socialised.”
Bad debts, he says, mean that people who can’t
afford to pay have to get the work done (there is
no avoiding that), and so the charges are piled up
on the other clients, whereas the deficit ought to
be borne by the community. In Paris the muni-
cipality does all the burying.
* * * *
Melbourne’s Immigrants’ Aid Society,
which at least feeds them decently and allows
them their liberty, maintained last year in its two
homes nearly 800 inmates at a cost of 3s. Bd. per
head per week. Yet Victoria’s Govt, still persists
in the costly and infamous system of gaoling the
sick and aged poor. Of the 800, 31 are totally
blind, 72 of weak intellect, 71 suffering from
paralysis or epilepsy, and 337 from other chronic
ailments.


Medical Science asserts
that
LIFEBUOY
ROYAL
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
will effectually destroy
the germs that produce
infectious diseases.
ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLANDS
ODONTO
EOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
The Melbourne Bung brotherhood heh
jubilee t’other day, when a spacious and elegant
suite of offices was formally opened for its use in
the Block Arcade. There was a large assemblage
of people interested in the Fiend, and the atmo-
sphere had a decided smack of “ What’s yours ? ”
The speeches also were all highly laudatory of
Bung as a national and necessary institution. The
L.Y.A., it was stated, was growing in numbers
and in strength, and is soon to become a powerful
political organisation. And then Bung went
home to “break-down” the rum, and bedevil the
beer, and disgruntle the whisky !
Again “ drunks’-luck ! ” Early one recent
morning a very beery mariner fell out of a third-
floor window at the Melb. Sailors’ Home, banged
upon a verandah-roof 70 feet below, and bounced
off to the ground. It was apparently a case for
the morgue, but when they took the “shell” to
the hospital on the ofif-chance, it was found that,
except for a bruise or two, he was none the worse.
The gentleman himself, indeed, was inclined to
think that too much fuss was being made over a
“ bit of a tumble,” and departed from the hospital
upon his own legs.
. * * *
Not many weeks ago two Australian
judges—one of Supreme, t’other of the minor
Bench—settled a little difference of opinion, on a
question of honor, in the good old-fashioned way
with bare fists. Preliminaries were fixed up in a
few minutes at a fashionable club, and the legal
luminaries retired with their seconds to a well-
known private boxing-hall, where they vigorously
pounded one another for 15min. Both were ex-
Eerts, and some blows were beautifully delivered
y the minor judge, who eventually established
his claim to precedence—probably for the first
time in Australian history—by a knock-out stunner
under the Supreme Court jaw. Fact!
* • » •
Four cases of old misers who deprived
themselves of the necessaries of life while pos-
sessed of from £lOOO to £6OOO, have come to light
within the last few weeks—two in Melb. and two
in Adelaide. Novelists tell us that avarice is the
last of the passions to die. The truth is the miser
is the monomaniac whose disease is of gradual
growth. Three out of the four poor creatures
referred to were proved to be lunatics, and the
other one was known as eccentric.
* » * m
Sydney will by-and by have several train-
ways which are sorely needed for summer holiday
purposes: the line to South Head, now in course
of construction; a line right through to Manly,
now almost completed as far as the Spit; and one
from Botany to La Perouse. The through line to
Manly, which has so far been blocked by the
bridging of Middle Harbour, will no doubt be
facilitated by punting the passengers, or perhaps
even the cars. When there is easy land-commu-
nication with Manly the place (and the district
beyond it) will go ahead like a house on fire.
* * * *
Aha !at last! Extract from “ letter from
the front,” S. M. Herald, Aug. 30th :
We had a heavy battle at Diamond Hills. . . . of
Glen Innes, fell shot in the stomach. He is all right now,
his \iible, having turned the course of the bullet, and it
glanced out through the skin.”
It had to come. Who says this is an irreligious
community !
* * » *
Here is one of the things which-
help to make this life the vale of woe
it is. According to a lengthy Mel-
bourne paragraph, Mr. John
Danks, who was a member of South
Melbourne Municipal Council
from 1871 to 1880, has modestly
presented his own full-length por-
trait in oils to the municipality.
The portrait was painted by the
daughter of the municipal engi-
neer. Cr. Cockbill presided, and
Cr. Mountain proposed the
health of Mr. John Danks in the
presence of Mr. John Danks’s
own oil - painting. Mr. John
Danks feelingly responded. Then
Mr, Aaron Danks proposed the
health of the lady who painted
Mr. John Danks in oils, and later
on somebody else (Mr. John Danks
probably) proposed the health of Cr.
Cockbill. So Mr. John Danks’s
portrait in oils was suspended, to
be a grief to future generations,
and all the Dankses went
home. In this beautiful world
there are seas and lakes with
the moonshine on their waters
waiting for an artist to do them jus-
tice ; there are mountains and val-
leys, and rivers, and cataracts and
forests, and haunts of fern and shadow,
and all the beauties and wonders of
earth and sky and ocean. And yet
there are people who paint ex-Councillor
John Danks in oils ! No doubt they do it
because there is a demand for Danks in oils.
But that isn’t an explanation. It only shifts the
question a step further back. Why, so long as
there is a moonrise to be painted on Dandenong
ranges should there be a demand for Danks in
oils ? Possibly there are people who prefer Danks
,in oils to the great silver moon climbing over
Dandenong. Or possibly these people encourage
Danks in oils so that he may lead to a demand for
themselves (Smith) in oils later on, and with that
view want to create a habit of Danks in oils. It
is all a mystery.
Miss Jane Sutherland, the level-headed
manageress of the Melb. Neglected Children s
Society, gives it as her opinion that “illegitimacy,
crime, prostitution, and misery have not
decreased since the advent of the Salvation
Army.” All those troubles come of weakness and
impecuniosity, and the commercial-minded
Harmy offers little or no “ means of salvation ” to
weak “sisters” who haven’t a penny to bless
themselves with. As for the various self-support-
ing Homes where wretched women (some of whom
have not even “fallen ” in the sexual sense of the
term) are required to wash and pray for 12 months
in return for bare tucker and a scanty supply of
clothing, Miss Sutherland doesn’t think much of
them. Her ideas, for that matter, are the ideas of
everyone who can speak from personal acquaint-
ance with the victims of this wash-tub philan-
thropy. To get a domestic servant from a Home
where religion spells soap-suds is to know that the
released prisoner—for a Home is a prison—would
rather cut her throat than return to the awful
discipline of the Tub.
* * * *
The injunction granted restraining N.S.W.
Govt, from using Randwick rifle-ranges recalls
that rifle practice in populated neighbourhoods is
risky at best. A peripatetic rifle ball is a thing of
delightful vagaries. A tree, a stone, may change
its course to any angle from the direct line.
Writer has known a spent Martini-Henry bullet —
having struck a near rock —to rebound and fall
behind the shooter.
a a a a
Dear Bulletin. — Be that alleged “ ex-
treme improbability ” that bullets from Randwick
rifle-range should top the hill at the back. Here
are a few of the happenings out Coogee-way, since
the Lee-Metford rifle has been in use on the range.
Mr. Musgrave’s premises stopped three bullets;
Mr. Vickers’s, 3; Mr. Thompson’s, 2 ; Mr. Wat-
HARD LUCK.
BROWN: “My
old man di-
me a fiver
writes."
ways sends
when he
GREEN: “ You don’t say I Does he write often? ”
BROWN (gloomily): “He never writes."
son’s, 2 (Mrs. W. narrowly escaping); Mr.
Harris’s, 1. Boy at my own house injured by
bullet which, after passing through iron roof,
struck him sideways on the hip. Again, a bullet
passed through a paling-fence withm an inch of
present writer’s knee, and immediately afterwards
another cut a twig from an adjoining low tree.
The “singing” of bullets overhead, also, was
quite a common sound in the neighborhood, so
that it was high time for the move that has re-
sulted in a restraining legal “ injunction.”—H.S.
* * * *
That old Melb. vagrant discovered cutting
firewood in Fitzroy Gardens while he had £2OO
concealed on his person was adjudged a lunatic
and sent to the asylum. Yet the ancient is the
very essence and embodiment of the great Fatman
virtue—Thrift. People have to be careful in Vic-
toria nowadays. If a person commits suicide
through want of cash he is pronounced insane ; if
he doesn’t die he is run in and gets six months’
gaol, and if he has money and doesn’t spend it he
is again reckoned insane. By the way, the old
miser wasn’t the only one to get his firewood from
the Fitzroy Gardens. Whoever has control of
that beautiful pleasure resort and play-ground for
children and lovers is cutting down his trees
wholesale, and turning the place into a collection
of railed-off bric-a-brac beds and peep-show plots.
Last autumn that magnificent southern avenue of
Moreton Bay figs was utterly spoilt, apparently —
as only the street side of the trees was ruthlessly
hacked away—to save the City Council the trouble
of sweeping the fallen leaves off the pavement.
* * * *
The Bulletin hears that, at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) Benevolent Asylum, where 200 more or
less phthisical patients are walled-in —permission to
allow them fresh air and exercise having been
officially refused (inmates of charitable asylums
have no votes)—the Govt, chief medical officer has
an official public notice dealing with consumption
and its beneficial treatment boldly placarded.
This proclamation insists on fresh air and sunshine
as the best-known possible remedies for the pre-
vention and cure of phthisis. “ Closed gates,
however,” remarks a justly-embittered patient,
‘ ‘ reduce advice so truly excellent to a mocking
burlesque—ever tauntingly proclaiming the vicious
effect of incomprehensible paradoxes. Verily, a
patriotic Govt., which spends scores of thousands
m unwarrantably poking its nose into other
people’s affairs, might spare a few thousands in
endeavoring to prevent, if not to cure, consump-
tion. Phthisis, being so treacherously infectious,
is, after all, more a question for the unafflicted than
the afflicted.”
* * * *
The s.s.. Moana last week took from Syd-
ney, for ’Frisco, £550,000 in gold. Over half-a-
million of money in one bottom ! —and, Sydney to
Maoriland, 1000 miles; M.L. to Samoa, 1200;
Samoa to Honolulu, 2000; Honolulu to ’Frisco,
2500. Nearly 7000 miles of ocean, on an almost-
uniquely solitary track, to tote the huge treasure
over! The chances are enough to evolve a
piratical coup even out of these prosaic and unad-
venturous days ; and, if the Moana should mys-
teriously disappear, many people wouldn’t feel at
all certain that her fate had been either fire or
wreck. Anyhow, the bottom of the sea by this
time holds more gold than the dry land, and it is
surely tempting the Fates to send so much
treasure in one ship.
• . * •
N.S.W. National Council of Women, at its
recent biennial meeting, decided to present as a
petition to Parliament the following resolution :
That this meeting is of opinion that the law as to hours
of closing public-houses and wine shops should be brought
into harmony with that for ordinary shops, especially in
view of the manifold evils connected with the sale of in-
toxicants.
In a word, when unlovely woman (most of the
“National Council” are unlovely) has her way,
poor Man won’t be able to get a drink after
6 p.m. ; he will have to go home to his wife.
Woman always was jealous of Wine.
* * * *
Report by a Board of Health Inspector re
a visit to a Kyneton (Vic.) dairy is summed up in
this picturesque paragraph :
His kitchen was crowded with all sorts of things i.e.,
the general safe, containing meat, bread, butter, cold
vegetables, jam, and other edibles. On a table in one
corner were the remnants of a meal, and dirty crockery ;
on another table was a can of milk, said to be intended
for sale. Beneath this table were two parrots in cages.
A perambulator with a baby in it, and another small
child tending it, were placed between the fireplace and
the milk-table. A bag of potatoes and a lot of stale
cabbage-leaves were lying in another corner. Articles or
old and dirty wearing apparel were hanging from nails all
round the walls.”
• * * *
Breelong nigger - item from Bathurst
(N.S.W.) National Advocate :
It was shortly after the murderers had commenced
their reign of terror. A number of persons were
in the bar of an hotel, discussing, of course, the topic of
the moment. The police and black trackers were being
severely dealt with, and just about the moment when the
debate was at its highest pitch one of the black-trackeis
entered. He was picked upon immediately, and beca-'a •
the object of many taunts. They fell fast and furio,.:j,
and at length he could stand it no longer. “ Why,” he
said, “could have caught them last night. Tracked
them to a scrub ten minutes after they went into it. Me
and a sergeant. Asked sergeant for rifle, but he said
‘ No.’ Told him to go in himself, and he said ‘ No.’
Asked him again for rifle, and he said 1 No.’ Said he was
sure to get them, and he said ‘ No.’ Asked him to go in
w 7 ith me—him first —and he said ‘ No.’ He asked me to
go in first—l said ‘ No.’ Pulled out his watch then, said
‘ Time to get back to head-quarters now ; let’s go.’ We
went; so did the blacks.”
* » * »
A Vic. Jewish Rabbi preached recently
in the Synagogue on the subject of the recent
deaths of the King of Italy, the Duke of Saxe-
Coburg, and Mrs. ,of Fitzroy ! With fine,
unconscious humour the rev. gentleman said,
“ The loss in each case is irreparable.”
* * • *
At a “veteran” social, held recently in
Melb., two whilom warriors were. mentioned as
having won the V.C. in Maoriland in 1863. This
was another case of confounding the Y.C. with
the quite distinct cross locally issued at the time
referred to.
BEING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit on the pack at the foot of a tree,
And a bird in a bush is looking at me.
His mate in the tree has a grub in his hill,
And the young in the nest are singing out still.
And all the world over the lesson’s the same.
Their lives are the stakes and they’re “playing the game. 1 *
I sit on the pack at the foot of a tree,
And the bird in the bush is sorry for me.
O.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the Beerbottles grow.
ill) ben the fates have but frowns for your
W\ chiding.
(JUhen the world has not waked for your throes,
You can hie where my sorrows are hidinp.
To the land where the beer-bottle prows.
fmjftere was never a trouble
•yj worth caring
(One would starve if be red
on bis woes).
There was never a grief
bejyond bearing
In the land where the beer-boUle grows
Bbere the king is brought down to the
toiler-,
There the toiler is self crowned as King ;
There the spoiled clinks bis qlass with the
spoiler,
And the slave with the sweater doth
sing.
ohet> .your soul would uplift to the
heaven f
Ana it spills all its hope in the cloud L
When you’ve broken the word that was j
given |
When your- pearls have beer) cast F
to the crowd
oher> your wings at lifes bars have
been bruising-,
There’s a bar that the sorrower
knows _
There is Lethe at band forjjour choosiM-
ln lb« land where the beer-bottle jroius.
800 l bands smooth the brow of your
sorrow,
But (now . mind', this is under the rose)
There’s a very sore bead on the morrow
In the land where the beer-bottle groins'.
"LEONIDAS."
A FAITHFUL WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wonder not that I am moved
Thus to leave you lonely;
I an epicure in Love
Claim its freshness only.
To my high ideal firm,
Not to any wooer.
Seek I now a Love as true
As yours is,—and newer.
Let the world misunderstand,
Call me trifler,—natheless
Who would faithful be to Love
Must to Man be faithless.
CONSTANUE OLYDE.
Withdrawal of “The Times” Offer.
In accordance with arrangements made by The
Times and by Messrs. A. and 0. Black, original
publishers of the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica,”
The Times Reprint of the Ninth Edition has, for
some time, been sold by The Times at a reduction
of 55 per cent, from the price originally named by
the publishers.
These arrangements will, on September 15
(eight weeks from the day on which The Times
Reprint was first offered to the public), cease to be
operative ; and the sale in New South Wales will
be discontinued on that day. This early intima-
tion is given so that readers who desire to procure
a copy of the “Encyclopaedia” on the present
terms may send in their, orders promptly. It will
be impossible to accept belated applications, and
if more orders are received than can be filled,
those which first reach The Times office will have
priority.
The results of the plan of sale adopted by The
Times have been gratifying in the highest degree.
Apart from the advantages presented by the
great reduction in price and by the system of
monthly payments, a larger usefulness was given
to the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” by the mere
fact of the broad publicity which has been given
to the issue of The Times Reprint. The “En-
cyclopaedia ” was, of course, already known every-
where the English language is spoken, and every-
where recognised as an authority.
This constant usefulness of the “ Encyclopaedia
Britannica ” has been brought home to the public
in the course of the last seven weeks. The subject
has been in the air; everyone who bought a copy
of the “Encyclopaedia ” has talked about it to his
friends; and the volumes have been used and
quoted more than ever before. It may even be
contended that this increased appreciation of the
work has done more to promote its sale than the
reduction of the price and the new facilities
offered to those who desire to procure it with the
least possible effort.
Those who would avail themselves of The Times
offer before it is too late should do so at once, as
we understand that while the sale is to remain
open another week, there is a probability that the
popular half-Morocco binding will be sold out
before that date. In this case late subscribers
will be compelled to take the higher-priced full-
Morocco or the cheaper Cloth binding.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY'B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing l
-? r,u MARK FOy, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as if you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
The Melb. Poster Ball was a revel of fan-
tasticness and a feast of beauty. Where beauty
reigned, and gleaming dames with ivory shoulders
in the galleries were lavish of dazzling charms,
there was the P.D. Corset putting in its fine work
of artistic expression. Indeed, the ball, in regard
to the revel of female contour, may be said to
have been a feast of P.D.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
TICHT^
s j\unning
5* MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GbOSE TEDS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, September 4, 1900.
Mr Dear Mtee,—
The atmosphere of laity, usual to September, is
being so thickened with black clerical vests and
low hats that Sydney looks like redeeming itself
without the ticket, as it were. It is the great
Mission Meeting that rains bishops into Coffee
Palaces in this lavish fashion. But why Coffee
Palaces? I merely ask because an incident has
floated my way that tells how a wild man from the
west got into a lift with a long-lipped clergyman,
the other night, and kept his head turned the
other way, considerately endeavoring to keep the
odor of—er —tobacco from the clergyman’s delicate
nostrils ; and then, at the third floor, the reverend
gentleman gave a whispered order to the lift-boy
—“ Three brandies and sodas, up to my room, / ”
The lift-boy’s explanation was : “Three b’s and
hesses! ’E (as one when ’e gets ’em, and one
when ’e gets into bed, and ’e keeps t’other standin’
on the washstand to look at till the momin’.”
But the beery man from the west, who hadn’t
been to church since his beard began to stiffen,
and still reverenced things, amended, solemnly—
“ Oh no, he’s sick, and his wife’s sick, and he’s got
a sick friend ! ”
Speaking of what Cloth can stand, there was a
procession of Bishops last week at the Town Hall,
each one carrying, in a little black satin bag, the
collection from nis diocese. One lordship stag-
gered under the awful load of £l2OO subscribed by
children, but it wasn’t all in pennies ! But what
do you think of that offertory at St. Andrew’s
last Friday that amounted to £B4OO os. lid. ? I
wouldn’t be surprised in the least if you replied
that you are almost persuaded to be a Christian.
Sydney is certainly raising the wind in a royal
way just now. Look at the Children’s Hospital
subscriptions ! Miss Eadith Walker, Mrs. John
Fraser, and Mr. W. P. Faithfull are giving a thou-
sand pounds each, and money is pouring in from
our business houses.
At the Advertisement Ball, this Thursday, Miss
Walker is to represent Hardy Bros., and on dit
that our heiress will be shadowed by two
detectives —to see that nobody else makes off with
the trimmings. The A.B.C. has donated all the
supper to this same grand ball. But it has its
reward by being represented by Mrs. Forbes
Angus, whose gown, I hear, is going to be some-
thing too wildly beautiful for words. One
Society dame has been inspired into a sedan chair
with four men to carry her round all the evening.
Mrs. “Monty” Severn scores off everybody by
getting Tattersall’s at £lOO. Up till then the
highest price for an advertisement was £5O.
What a lively time business people have had
lately ! One music warehouse had 27 females of
all ages calling for permission to be “your repre-
sentative.” To decide between them all was too
much for the music-shop. It sent a donation,
but declined to be personated. Pretty Miss
Enid Whiting is going as David Jones, Mrs.
Fred. Aronson as Sunlight Soap, Mrs. Harry
Levy as the Sydney Book Club. Big sums are
being paid for all these, so you may imagine
the feelings of a society matron who sailed into
a draperess’s shop the other day, laid down her
proposal, and was calmly told “Well, XXX,
I’ll give you 10 shillings.” This is the lowest offer
on record, and I needn’t add that it was rejected.
“A Night in Bohemia” brought thousands of
people to the Town Hall last Wednesday. His
Ex. came along, with A.D.C. Harris. They sat
at a big table and fondled their cigars, but neither
of them smoked, and the suggestion of an eminent
counsel that they should take the Havanas be-
tween their teeth, and deceive the large and
breathless audience, was not acted on. For my
part, I thought there was something cruel in ask-
ing “ Little Billee” to smoke his first cigar before
three thousand people. Financially, Bohemia was
all there.
“ Ars et Fraternitas” will profit Mr. Nelson
Illingworth to the tune of some £3OO. But, as
always happens, the affair resolved itself into an
ordinary smoke concert, with a few ferocious
items, and some good ones, and one quite top-
lofty—Rignold’s magnificent recitation of the
Forum scene. Leist and Souter lightning-
sketched. The latter threw off a hideous black,
alongside the words “ The Governor,” not adding
“Blacks” till finished. There was a shocked
pause, and in the midst of it His Ex’s clear voice
rang out, “ Charlie, go and ask Mr. Souter if he
will give me that?” And “Charlie” carried it
home under his arm tenderly, and everyone
breathed again.
Trust the Italians to make an artistic and im-
pressive affair of anything they undertake. At
King Humbert’s Funeral Service last Saturday
our Town Hall was turned into a vast black cham-
ber, silver touching the black up lightly, lovingly,
until it became a fitting place for beautiful music
to wander in. Away at the end, a huge painting
of Umberto displayed the fierce white moustaches
of the benevolent king; colored lights burned
dimly all around the portrait. And, presently,
there came stealing out from behind the organ
little fair-haired Italian girls, dressed all in
white, who crept up to the feet of the por-
trait, laid white wreaths there, bent low, and
stole away again. The Englishman, fearing to be
theatrical, never does things that way. He brings
in hordes of public-school boys and girls, who
shriek cantatas out of tune, move through stiff
drill, and are robbed of all childhood’s
grace by neurotic teaohers frowning nervously
from every possible disadvantage - ground.
The music, too, was Italian ; dramatic, mourn-
ful. Hazon led his Amateur Orchestra through
funeral music of Verdi’s, of Faccio’s, and Pon-
chielli’s “Prelude' in the Death of Donizetti.”
Our leading pianist, Signor de Beaupuis, wrote a
special Funeral March, and played it tenderly on
his beloved piano. But when the Italian element
retired a little, and Sydney politicians tookthefloor,
and Harris, Barton, Lyne, and Reid began long
speeches of sympathy and consolation, and eulogy,
and heartfelt feelings, and the crowds clapped, or
didn’t clap, Art broke up suddenly, and the cere-
mony came near attaining the “ pre-eminent in
grief” in the usual crude, colorless “Anglo-
Saxon” way.
Our Free Kindergartens Union had an evening
party at the Australia last week. Singing, music,
refreshments, and plenty of cult. Mrs. Dane, the
secretary, received people in a pink silk gown; and
Miss Buckley, president, wore a beautiful frock of
a flowered silk polonaise over flounces of crepe de
chine. _ These two ladies have worked like Trojans
for their cause, and you will be glad to hear the
Kindergarten is getting a large, firm foothold
wherever there are children in Sydney.
Miss Thea Cowan’s Afternoon Tea on Monday
had for cause Mr. Barton’s bust, which seems to
give general satisfaction. The aesthetic sculptress,
gowned in ultra-clinging pink, had her uneasy
moment when a too-ardent admirer lifted his child
up and said, “ Stroke Mr. Barton, dear.” The
little black kid hand was just descending on the
marble, and long black streaks were already there
in imagination, when someone averted the acci-
dent, and the bust came off with a clean face. It
is being presented to Mrs. Barton by a hundred
friends.
In new music I have only Annie Summerbelle’s
“ Mafeking Waltz,” published by the composer,
who played it at the Society of Artists’ Ball the
other night. Like all this clever young composer’s
work, this has something in it.
The Society of Artists’ has prepared a regular
bomb by way of the next exhibition. Instead of
the usual September show, the young society will
keep its inspirations dark till January, when it
proposes to collaborate with Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Adelaide artists in a great Federal Art Show
that will rank among the festivities of Common-
wealth week. With Lord Hopetoun to open it,
this looks like a brilliant idea.
Not apropos of the above, it makes one sad to
think that the Governor-General’s name begins
with “ H.” Anybody that goes to many meet-
ings will realise the immense debt of gratitude we
owe to Lord Beauchamp for beginning with a
“B.” And now it threatens all over again, the
dreary, futile struggle between aldermanic peoples
and the “h” that gets into “hexcellency ” but
will never be induced to come out into “Ope-
toun.”
Apropos the succession of Mr. Ted Samuel to
his deceased father’s baronetcy, the new Lady
Samuel is a plump little lady, fairly well
gilded on her own behalf by her father, Mr.
Abraham Cohen, but otherwise the baronetcy
doesn’t carry much with it.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Poster Ball (August 28) was big, vulgar,
and terribly overcrowded, so that even from
the gallery of the Town Hall, looking into
the throng below, one could see very little
more than a thickly-jumbled-pack of papier-
mache bottles, cigars, mugs, jugs, and scare
crows mixed up with milkmaids, monks, and
Pear’s Soap inebriates. This last ad. was a
living replica of Harry Furniss’s familiar drawing:
‘Since using your soap I have used no other.’
“ The ball packed the Town Hall and was such
a success that its glorified ghost, in the form
of a ‘Grand Advertisement March,’ was in-
vited to walk the Exhibition Building (Chil-
dren’s Hospital Bazaar), and will have done
so ere this is printed. The Naicest, with
scarcely an exception, and all the nobodies who
got the chance, poster-ed for sweet Charity’s sake
—the advertisers in some cases finding the gorgeous
dresses, cab-fares, ball-tickets, etc., while the
human advts. basked in the admiration of a record
crowd ‘ on the cheap.’
“The most spirited ad. was Yankee Doodle
tobacco. You know those three Bunker Hill
braves, squeaking out ‘ Yankee Doodle’ on drum
and fifes, while quenchless grit and Puritan dog-
gedness shine through the blood and bruises on
their haggard faces.
“S’Rupert Clarke, as a Kandyan chief in a
costly Eastern costume, represented a brand of
tea. His facial make-up had cost him much
anxious thought, and theatrical experts had been
called in to prescribe the exact proportion of
coffee-color and grease-paint. His fascinating
step-mother, in her Argus role, expressed the
‘hundred eyes’ idea by a train of peacocks’
feathers hanging from the shoulders of her white
satin gown. Crests of the same birds perked on
her head and shoulders, while diamonds and
crystals added to the peek-a-boo effect. Supersti-
tious guests who felt shivery at the sight of her ill-
omened plumage wonder if the popular wearer has
always disregarded traditionand harbored the ‘bird
of ill-luck’ within her gates. ‘lf so,’say these
latter-day augurs, ‘it accounts for the many
troubles of the lady’s life.’ This gloomy view of
her career would probably sur; rise Janet Lady
Clarke, who, despite cloudy days, has always
regarded herself as one of Fortune’s favorites. At
small domestic card-parties in bygone years family
friends often heard her say, laughingly, when her
successful play was discussed : ‘ Of course I’m
lucky, or 1 wouldn’t have got such a good hus-
band !’
“The Lieut.-Governor’s prettiest daughter
would soon lose her reputation for beauty if she
often appeared as that tea-poster in Jack Tar
frock, big, red-lined sailor-hat worn on the back
of her head, and scantyish tress-supply hanging
down her back. ’Tis said that the poster-girl m
question, now smirking from every hoarding, was
drawn from Miss Ruby Madden. And there is
a large, hard, shrewd resemblance. An unsus-
pected likeness to the supposed original’s Pa is
disclosed in the picture’s smile —you know his Ex’s
pawky, canny look when, with a neat bit of
blarney to bestow—he surveys the recipient-to-be
with an artful ‘ little-bit-of-sugar-for-the bird ’ air.
“ Miss Leslie Madden advertised a fashionable
drapery-firm, as a chic, little stage modiste with
short skirts, auburn curls and cute little band-
boxes inscribed with her Principal’s name. Mrs.
George Chirnside, in pale-blue satin regal robes,
jewelled crown &c., distributed tea-ads. Col.
Campbell lived and moved and had his being in a
mammoth ale-bottle, only his face and feet show-
ing. He did his duty as an advt., and even danced
the Lancers with Lady Clarke, though she had to
steer and tote him round, as, of course, he could
only see straight ahead. These evidences of con-
scientiousness in the chief Madden aide are here
recorded as so much in his favor. There’s no love
lost on him when his Chief takes him to suburban
bazaars, etc,, where he fusses and hurries stall-
holders up with theory, ‘The Guv’nor’s goin’.’
Meantime his Lord and Master, all sweetness and
light, returns paid-for sweets with the request
that they may be distributed amongst chance
children, etc. Keeping a dog he naturally leaves
it to do the biting.
“A monstrosity at the Poster Show was Some-
body’s food, enacted by a ’Varsity’s prof.’s fatted
son, in short sleeves and baby socks, etc.
“ Widow Clarke’s dress recalled the one in
which Ellen Terry played Lady Macbeth, and in
which Sargeant, R.A., painted a fine portrait of
her. The costume, with its countless greeny-blue
eyes, was certainly very beautiful, and an ex-
cellent symbol of the Argus— all glitter and no
eyesight. The Age missed a chance in not being
represented. The representation would have been
quite easy—just an elderly dyspeptic Scotchman,
sipping hot water and saying ‘ I canna afford it! ’
“A commotion arose when one of the poster
sets was being arranged. One cold, proud
and over-wise virgin refused to take the
partner! allotted to her —the very beau
who is regarded as her probable fiance.
She was reminded she had been told whom to
expect for her partner, but making the sweetly
feminine excuse that she had forgotten, she in-
sisted on being apportioned to another fellow,
much to the chagrin of the beau.
The prayer of the advertiser for a mention of
his Poster Ball contribution is irresistible in this
case. It is so beautifully worded (meaning the
prayer) that I feel bound to remember the affect-
ing spectacle of four ‘ Beef-Eaters ’ who bore the
strange device, ‘Smoke Derby Tobacco.’
“ Quite a relief from the prevailing common-
placeness of theatre play-bills is the dainty little
Booklet programme of the Brighton Yacht Club
‘Smoke Night and Distribution of Prizes.’ A
copy of the B. Y.C. production came my way last
week and set me thinking that the amateur
mariners who edited it must have inhaled a sense
of art along with the odour of brine from the
ocean. One wishes that theatre and concert
managers would go out on the deep and get ideas
for something tasteful in their programmes, which
nowadays seem to be printed for the purpose of
being left in the theatre by departing audiences
and flattened out for re-distribution next night.
By the way, talking of the respectable ‘ get-up ’
of the two books published for the Children’s
Hospital Fund, I said that the pictures of ‘ Bud
and Blossom ’ were to be ‘ worthy of their cesthetic
selector,’ Mr, Josh Lake. The humorous comps,
put ‘ athletic ’ instead of ‘aesthetic,’ and now
people are calling on Mr. Josh—a fragile-looking
person who wears white spats and a thoughtful
stoop—to pull himself together and show them
some feats of strength.
“The Wilkie divorce-case witness from whom
the petitioner has been taking lessons in “social
etiquette,” at 3s. an hour, is~ the same lady who
figured as guide, philosopher and friend to Mrs.
Silas Harding some years ago. She was one of the
victims of the carriage accident which cut short
poor Mrs. Harding’s career just at the time when
that joyful relict of stingy old Silas was bidding
fair to be the most conspicuous entertainer in
Melbourne.
“An interesting social-literary event that is
likely to come off in October, in Melbourne, may
be a Canterbury Pilgrimage Show, in celebration
of the fifth centenary of the death of Chaucer.
There is plenty of room for picturesqueness in such
an affair. If the organisers want a natural
Chaucer-looking man they have only to dig out
Mr. Justice Holroyd, who could look the part
without trying.
“ Over 5000 people in Melb. signed the petition
to Prof. Marshall-Hall asking him to apply for
the Chair of Music and not leave Victoria. The
5000 included the l .ainiest folks in the Southern
metropolis: doctors, barristers, professors, bankers,
merchants, social women, and almost everybody
who counts. The petition is a great black eye for
the bigots and their press backers. People all
recognise that though it is possible to get another
Ormonde professor, it is extremely unlikely that
any money can buy the enthusiasm, public spirit,
and artistic thoroughness which Marshall-Hall
has poured into his work, and which have made
his Conservatorium a really fine National institu-
tion. You can buy talent in the market, but the
something which is more than talent, and which
Marshall-Hall has, is rarely met with.
“At the opening of the Children’s Hospital
Bazaar (Sept. 1), the daintiest pair on view were
Janet Lady Clarke and Miss Ruby Madden—the
former in white silk, overlaid with exquisite white
lace, and lilac tulle toque ; the latter in creamy
silk-voile over white satin, skirt befrilled, bodice
and sleeves of white satin partly veiled by ivory
guipure, and a tiny relief-line of black inserted
down the front. White hat and feathers went
well with the wearer’s blush-rose complexion,
while two pink-white camelias tucked into the
belt matched exactly with the faint-rose lining of
the belle’s white satin reticule.
“ The Lieut.-Governor, as show-opener, poured
forth his usual floods of fluency, picturing Toorak
husbands kept awake o’ nights by their wives’
charitable schemes. Later, his Ex. referred to
said husbands as ‘these interesting men.’ Can
nothing uninteresting come out of Toorakia?
“The bazaar itself is prettier than most, its
stalls not built against the walls but scattered
mushroomlike, with red and white tent-tops. To
the wanderer in boothland, it seemed on Saturday
that the white-aproned busy-bees of the Trades-
Hall, driving their needles to the very last minute,
deserved gubernatorial gush quite as much as the
naice butterflies of the Cafe Chantant.
“From a would-be customer point of view the
tea-room arrargements on opening day led to
nothing but anarchy and vexation of spirit. The
department, accessible only from one side, was
barricaded in front by foliage of the porcupine or
debbil-debbil order. When thirsty invaders
effected a breach, a flushed dowager drove them
back, hissing ‘No thoroughfare ! His Excellency
will pass this way.’ The Governor always sends
two huge policemen and an aide to clear his path,
and, considering his size and the strength of his
body-guard, it seems to matter little if a mob of
thirsty women did get between the wind and his
nobility.
“ Cliveden, the Clarke mansion in E. Mel-
bourne, was gayer last week than it has been
at any time since the Baronet’s death. It was
thrown open for amateur theatrical kickings of
the swagger kind, with bunches of Maddens,
Clarkes, and military fuzzywuzzies in the bill.
They played Pinero’s ‘Schoolmistress.’ The
acting was lamentable, but no more than might
have been expected; and as the object was a
charity, and the people in the audience had mostly
paid an extra twopence a week at school to learn
manners, nobody threw bricks. Mrs. Col. Bing-
ham, who is tall and willowy and graceful, and the
sort of woman men rave about, played Mrs.
Rankling rather well; and Miss Ruby Madden—
growing plump in the family fashion—looked
amazingly pretty in one of the ingenue parts.
Then two colonels, a major, a captain, and a
lieutenant played parts as badly as they knew
how, and everybody said how naice it all was. The
big Cliveden ballroom was full, and looked bril-
liant./ All the folks had their best clothes on, and
Govt. House was there to give it tone.
‘ ‘ It seems pretty well known that a memorable
cablegram addressed to a certain pompous official
and signed ‘Victoria’ was not despatched by Her
Gracious or anyone belonging to the hupper circles,
as recipient fondly supposed, but by one of the
young ladies at Spiers and Pond’s Criterion.
“People who look well in mourning seem
slightly piqued that distant relatives in Pekin are
still absurdly well. Of course they’re not sorry
that the massacre was only imaginary, but they’re
very angry with the newspapers. Missionary
Ethel Halley, like some other supposed martyrs,
is as jolly as ever, and volunteered t’other day to
go to the front with the allied troops, as nurse.
“The crowd that poured into ‘Cliveden’
was met at the door by the youngest
daughter of the house with a monotonous
‘Do you care for a programme? Thruppence,
please ! ’ Men dived into their pockets, whilst
the women searched their gloves for anything
over their tram-fare, and not having provided for
the threepenny emergency many passed pro-
grammeless into the ball-room taking their cloaks
and goloshes with them.
“ When the set of .Lancers started on the stage
an elderly beau sitting in the front row quietly
but heroically shifted his place to the side where
he would not see so much. This to the admira-
tion of all the ‘right-thinking’ women in the
vicinity, for the frilly skirt of one of the three
thoughtless spinsters stuck out like a lamp-shade,
and when she swung—well, the front row was no
place for old gentlemen.
“Lieut. Crespin, aninfantile-visagedGussie, with
short curls and an ‘air,’ was the lucky individual
who had to make love to glowing Ruby. The pair
fell asleep with heads nestling close together, and
woke up to clasp hands and dote on one another.
The beauteous one took kindly to the nestling
business, but otherwise she was an unhappy
amateur, given to pulling her frock down and
running after the more lively Leslie, whose streak
of grey hair in her brown tresses showed out with
quaint effect.
“Janet Lady Clarke enjoys playing fairy god-
mother to her kinsfolk, and the little cousin, now
her daughter-in-law-elect, has from her youth up
paid periodic visits to Cliveden, whose mistress is
a Cotton on her mother’s side. The original
Cotton, an English gentleman in whose life there
was much romance, is remembered hereabouts as
the owner of a house of tame birds and pet animals.
“Since Melba’s warning blast, the Cliveden
Dowager is bound to draw in her horns and lend
a less flattering ear to the aspirants who daily
flock to the gun-girt portals for sympathetic aid
and recognition. Lady Clarke has helped many
m their musical careers, cheered and encouraged a
legion of others, and still they come. But the
widow is alive to her ‘responsibilities,’ and
may now dissuade a few from going ’Ome to swell
the army of impecunious Australian nightingales.
ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1891),
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company. _ _ _
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY —Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE— 2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE— 2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE— 73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART— 93 Macquarie Street.
The old difficulty of insuring valuables against
fire and burglars has come up again. It is, however,
becoming an acknowledged fact that it is impossible to
arrange a satisfactory insurance. The Sydney Safe De-
posit has overcome the difficulty by offering to secure to
insurers the articles themselves in their fire and burglar
proof vaults, and thus, by the payment of a comparatively
small premium in the way of rent, avoiding all possibility
of loss. The system is most interesting, and the manage-
ment invite a' call for inspection. The Safe Deposit is-
situated at the hack of Paling’s, off George-street.*
HATS. HATS HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the "newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. NlOUlltCaStte & SOIIS,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Historic Record Society of Ballarat
(Vic.) has secured the wig and gown of Peter
Lalor, worn when Speaker of Vic. Leg. Assembly
from July, 1880 to Sept., 1887.
Recently “ passed-in ” at Kurrajong,
N.S.W., William John, native of Pennant Hills
in same province—aged a trifle over the century,
llis youngest offspring is over 60.
Noteworthy that Vabien Solomon, in
giving notice of his no-confidence motion in S.A.
Assembly said, as reported, that “he not
counted noses before giving notice of motion.
About the most isolated Australian is Mr.
Jardine, who, with his Samoan wife, dwells on
the tip of Australia, at Cape York, with a snug
homestead, four hours’ sail from any other place.
Three Q.C.’s talked of as affording a
probable successor to Chief-Justice Harley on the
Supreme Court Bench read with theC.J. when
studying for the Bar—Pilcher, O’Connor and
W ant.
Bishop Green, now bound for Ballarat, is
the first C. of E. man ordained deacon, priest and
Bishop in Australia to take charge of a diocese in
Victoria. Dr. Green is an Englishman, but an
LL.D. of Sydney University.
Prof. Baldwin Spencer, whose book
(written with the aid of Gillen, of S.A.) has been
so successful, is likely to go for a sojourn amongst
the blacks of the Northern Territory, if he can
get leave from Melb. University.
N.S.W. Leg. Council has knocked out of
the Sydney Corporation Amendment Bill the
clause empowering the ratepayers to elect the
Mayor. If it hadn’t, John Norton would almost
to a certainty have been elected Mayor.
Died, the other day, at Singleton, N.S.W.,
Richard Hooker, said to be born at Canterbury,
Eng., in 1800. Hooker brought to Australia, in
’39, a wife and four children, and leaves 200
descendants. That’s the kind of man to give a
statue to.
Saul Samuel was the last surviving mem-
ber of the first Forster Ministry (1859) and of the
Cowper Ministry of ’65. With J. E. Salomons he
shared the honor of being the last survivor of the
Robertson Govt, of 1868 and of the final Cowper
Ministry, 1870.
Press censorship was mooted in connection
with the army put out to circumvent the Breelong
blacks. It was insinuated that Jimmy and Joe
Governor were regular subscribers to the Sydney
dailies, and had even lodged complaints against
defective postal delivery.
Quite recently N.S.W. Chief Secretary
John See was initiated an hon. member of an
Odd Fellows’ Lodge, and last week, as a sort of
counter make-weight, N.S.W. Opposition leader
G. H. Reid was initiated as a member of the
Strangers’ Refuge Lodge.
Died recently at Prospect (N.S.W.), John
Booth, the noted cattle-breeder. Durhams were
his hobby ; his stock originating in animals con-
signed to his father on behalf of George IV. His
attention to his herds had its outcome in the
numerous prizes he obtained.
Svdney Debating Club has decided “That
the Right Hon. G. H. R,eid, P.C., M.L. A., should
be the first Prime Minister of the Common-
wealth.” The fact that Mr. Reid is a graduate
and was for long a bright star of Sydney Debating
Society aforesaid possibly accounts for the milk in
the cocoanut.
The resignation of his seat in N.S.W.
Assembly by W. W. (“Baldy”) Davis, member
for Bourke, crushes the spirits of a small bunch of
members who took the bushman’s yarns as the
essence of original humor. The garrulous back-
blocker did little else to establish a memory in
Macquarie-street.
The latest rumor with regard to the
aydney Harbour Trust presidentship is that the
Lyne Govt, is not “game” to go on with its
alleged promise to Varney Parkes, and intends to
throw him over. The favorite tip for the position
is Commissioner-for-Works R. P- Hickson, one of
the best of N.S.W. public officials.
“To be Captain (of the N.S.W. Lancers)
on probation: Philip Charley.” How - many
remember that Capt. Charley, now a N.b. W.
squire, was the knockabout lad on Mt.
Gipps station who got hold of a full fourteenth
share in the original Broken Hill (the mine forms
part of Mt. Gipps) and hung on to it all'<
Edward Levien Samuel, son of the late
Saul, entered into his baronetcy unawares. He
was a juror in a Sydney Court case when news of
his father’s death came through, but the Judge
suppressed it, the legal theory being that a juror’s
mind must not be disturbed. After being locked
up two nights the juror emerged Sir Edward, Bart.
Paris Nesbit Q.C., the eccentric lawyer-
poet who is so prominent in Adelaide just now, is
suing Dr. Ramsay Smith for heavy damages for
signing the medical certificate which consigned
him to the Asylum two years ago. The action
will furnish much excitement, as nearly all the
prominent citizens, including the three Judges of
the Supreme Court, have been subpoenaed to give
evidence.
Thus Paris Nesbit, Q.C., in his new
paper: —
Has any one noticed, what has been apparent to me for
years, how Kingston would pass for a reincarnation of the
Apostle Peter? All his virtues and all his faults —violent,
passionate, choleric, full of strange oaths, and bearded
like the pard—look at his jowl and those enormous
shoulders. No weary Titan this, but a demi-god, capable
of carrying on his bowed Atlantean back not only the
Church, but the World to boot.
Lord Stanmore, a younger son of the Earl
of Aberdeen, and the last peer created by Glad-
stone (whom he accompanied to theTonian Islands
in ’5B), took a lively interest in the passage of the
Commonwealth Bill in the House of Lords. As
Governor of Fiji, Maoriland, and Ceylon (when
Sir Arthur Gordon), he was a strong Exeter Hall
man, and a great stickler for the rights of native
races. Being cold and secretive also, he was not
fipular, though he considered he ought to be.
he mention of his name still brings swear-words
to the lips of the old Fiji planters ; and for a long
period he was not on speaking terms with his
constitutional advisers in M.L., whose method of
exploiting the subject race did not meet with his
approval.
Murphy, the Ballarat
M.L.A., who passed into the
“ Upper House,” t’other day,
was the first man sent into
Vic. Assembly by female in-
fluence. His wife was given
credit for hustling him into Par-
liament, but Murphy was prac-
tically returned on the day
when a great picnic from Bal-
larat was stuck up in Geelong
station, and the genial Irishman
chased himself all over the place
with liquid refreshments for the
women and childer. It was a
terrible brickfielder of a day,
and the youngsters and their
mothers were utterly exhausted.
The sitting member hustled for
himself, Murphy hustled for the
ladies, and literally irrigated
the train with tea and lemon-
ade, with the result that he
awoke next day to find himself
famous in Ballarat as a true gal-
lant and a philanthropist. After
that, election was easy.
The biggest man in Q.
Leg. Assembly is “ Bill ” Hamil-
ton, 6ft. 3in., and stout at that. Fittingly, he
represents the Gregory, biggest electorate in the
North, stretching from Winton to the other side
of Sundown.
Apropos the death of the Duke of Edin-
burgh, there was for five years in the window of a
humorless Melb. tailor a frame with the device,
“England’s greatest admirals.” Drake, Blake,
Nelson and Hawke were in the frame surrounding
a portrait of no less eminent a seaman than Prince
Alfred himself—the intrepid salt whose only
memorable exploit on the water was to wreck a
warship worth perhaps half-a-million.
Sydney D.T.'s London correspondent tells
this:—
Of Lord Hopetoun there are few stories in circulation,
but, maybe, the following concerning his father will be
new to you. The late lord was one of the shyest of men,
and when the future Governor-General made his debut:
on earth his pater was conducted by the nurse to see the
son and heir. On Lady Hopetoun inquiring of the nurse
whether her husband had kissed the baby, she received
the following reply, “ ’ls lordship, mum, shook ’ands with
Lord ’Ope.”
JOHN ROBERTS.
The veteran Miss Spence delivered a lec-
ture on her voting system to about 20 S. A. M. sP.
recently. Brooker, Govt, whip, who opposes
Hare-Spence ideas, remarked that present condi-
tions had always been good enough for him. “ But
the final results are so unsatisfactory,” said Miss
Spence. “Not to me,” said Brooker, “Ive
always been satisfied.” “Perhaps so, was the
quiet rejoinder ; “I was thinking of your consti-
tuents.” Collapse of Brooker 1
Alex. Hutchinson, when head of N.S W.
Cold-tea party, was invited to Bega to open an
1.0.G.T. lodge. He did, and the lodge was very
numerously joined. But when the Grand Chief
Templar was again invited to pay a visit he was
staggered as one grizzled farmer arose ana
asked if it was a breaking of the pledge to drink
rum-and-milk in the morning. “Of course, it is,
said Hutchison. “Then, was the reply, we
have all brokeu it ! ” And thereafter that lodge
rapidly petered-out.
ON HIS DAILY PARADE IN TOPHET.
OLDMAIDUS : “ Now, girls, no smiles, he’s a woman-hater.”
One of the oldest of Australian mission-
aries among the aborigines, excepting the R.C.
community in the West, died lately in S.A. —
pastor Rechner. He worked first somewhere near
Kopperamanna, in Centralia, and afterwards pro-
moted a mission in S.W. Queensland. For some
years past his chief work has been the translation
of bits of the Bible into aboriginal dialect—a
tough job to which the Lutherans have given
more attention than any other sect.
Centralian papers lately announced the
death of Donald Coutts Gordon, original owner of
what is now the Mt. Morgan Co.’s freehold pro-
perty at Mt. Morgan. Gordon was G 9 when he
died, and had lived 50 years of that time in
Queensland. He seems to have died very poor.
A bachelor—hence no anxious youngsters en-
quiring eternally about the dividends poor Donald
Coutts never had. One wonders did he repine
very much when he considered all things.
The death of the Duke of Edinburgh
recalls an incident of his first visit. At Melbourne
public library, an address signed by old colonists
who had arrived prior to 1846, was presented by
one of the Hentys. The pure merinoes en-
deavored to ignore John Pascoe Fawkner because
his father was a V.D. Land first-fleeter, but the
little old man with the skull-cap pushed through
the crowd and introduced himself to the Duke
who warmly shook his hand.
R. Barr-Smith, who has lately followed up
his big benefactions with a £lO,OOO gift to Adelaide
C. of E. Cathedral, is generally bracketed with
J. H. Angas as S. Australia’s rich man. Both of
them, as well as half-a-dozen of Adelaide’s best-
known merchants —the Goodes, Fowlers, and
others —are large givers and philanthropic people ;
and this has had more than anything else to do
with the fact that there has never been any really
fiery anti-capitalist party in the-province.
Historic St. Philip's, Sydney, solemnly
chimed the “Old Hundredth,” a few days ago, to
celebrate the anniversary of the birth of the late
Charles Moore, M.L.C. Who was Charles
Moore ? people asked. It seems that that medi-
ocre politican bequeathed a sum of money to have
his memory chimed annually down the future, and
the contract must be fulfilled. Moore never said
or did anything that the world wants to know
about, and now when he’s dead he makes a hideous
noise. ir
Sir Robert Hart, Commissioner of Chinese
Imperial Customs, who was among the slain in
that hideous massacre at Pekin which never came
off, when the infuriated Chinese stripped and
hacked to pieces the European women who are
still alive, is a quiet, middle-aged and harmless
gentleman who uses a big blue-and-white tea-cup
which holds a quart. Also, he potters about in
slippers among his flowers in the mornings, and
smokes a long pipe with a china bowl, and is fond
of children and dogs.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., launched his new
paper (Morning) at Adelaide on Aug. 29, and
such was the general curiosity in respect to it that
the whole issue of 5000 was bought up the same day,
and at night as much as a shilling was paid for
copies published at a, penny. The paper is filled
with Nesbit from beginning to end, for the anony-
mous poem which has attracted so much attention
was written by Paris Nesbit’s cousin, E. Nesbit
(Mrs. Hubert Bland) —authoress, by the way, of
“ The Ballad of Splendid Silence.”
When Editor Bonython (S.A.) was visiting
Cornwall, in July, he met one James Carne, the
parish clerk of St. Columb Minor, who is 94 years
old, and has held the position for 54 years. His
father filled the same office for 50 years and his
grandfather did the same before him for more
than 50 years. So that the three James Carnes
carried the record back in uninterrupted succession
to 1740. This record can rarely have been
paralleled. The Queen was born a year before
George 111. died, and their two lives also stretch
back to 1740, but that is not quite the same thing.
Samuel Toinkiuson, M.L.C., who died last
week, was the most unbending Tory S.A. politics
have seen. Although 84 years old, he was in active
political harness up to within a month of his
death. “Sammy,” 50 years ago, worked with
Cobden and Bright in the anti-Corn Law move-
ment. He had at different times opposed almost
every progressive idea, and yet was so transpar-
ently honest that he died without an enemy.
Three years ago, when 81, he contested and won
the big southern constituency of S. A. Leg. Coun-
cil, and addressed meetings at every polling place.
Ex-Tasmanian Treasurer, JohnF. Packer,
recently deceased at Sydney, used, in the early
50’s, to ride the skinniest horse that ever pre-
tended to be alive. Street urchins referred to the
noble animal as “Ribs!” and used to ask its
owner if he fed it on sharps. Packer came of a
musical family, but was wedged into the Civil
Service by Gov. Sir Win. Denison, and stuck like
wax to his billet. A quiet man, of domestic tastes
and small ambitions, he was just cut out- for the
life he led. His uncle was Packer, the comuoser,
who also died in Sydney years ago —half a degree
from being a genius, and badly afflicted with
elephantiasis.
Said ex-Premier Reid in N.S. W." Supreme
Court: “There is only one G.H.R.” Nonsense T
You couldn’t count them on all your fingers and
toes. There's G.H.R. the Freetrader; then
there’s G.H.R. the imposer of Protectionist
duties. Likewise, we have G.H.R. the Federalist,
the anti-Federalist, the mob-orator, the Union -
Clubist, the perspiring Democrat, the chilly Con-
servative, the man of surpluses, the originator of
deficits, the financial reformer, the spend-as-you-
pleaser, the sweet-tempered, the irritable, the
joker, the tragedian, the vigilant, the stiorer, the
simple, the cunning, the Jingo, the anti-lin-
perialist. And so on ad infinitum.
Geo. Hutchison, M. H R., of M.L., has
great expectations of the future for British
lawyers in Johannesburg, and has shown his
faith to the extent of giving up his M.L. practice
and practically selling out of all his interests
there including, no doubt, _ the historical
“Rogues’ Castle,” at Wanganui, a building the
story of which poor Lands Minister Mackenzie
never tired of telling the House. Up till the time
he left the public had no idea Hutchison had
resigned. Among the Govt, candidates,! the
popular man appears to be Dr. Gillon, who some
years ago figured in connection with a rather pain-
ful Sydney divorce-case, and it would be one of
life’s little ironies were the brother of the late
editor Gillon, of Wellington Evening Post, to sit
in Parliament as a supporter of Premier Seddon r
against whom deceased levelled some of his
bitterest shafts.
JUST LIKE SOCIETY.
MISS SMITH : “ You seem to be very fond of your
little playmates. It is pleasant to see such
love among children.”
THE TW O PIRATES: “ Yes! ’E's got a penny to
spend. ”
Dr. Nicholson, Sydney’s old medico-
politician, is ranked by the English press as the
oldest doctor-statesman now in Britain. His
M.D. degree goes back to the early days of
William IV., and he was Speaker of N.S.W. Par-
liament nearly 60 years ago ! Dividing his life
into three parts, it is found that the first was
spent in England, the second in Australia, and
the third (which he still enjoys) in England again.


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NcrriogS „
Kippsr«d NcrriQgs
Herripgs >0 Tonjato SaCict
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
The other day some wag, signing “E. H.
Thompson, F.R.C.5.,” worked off the following
lovely piece of information upon the guileless
new-chum who runs the kennel-column of S.M.
Herald
Perhaps you have not heard of the wild dogs of Central
Australia. In the course of my wanderings in the cause
of geographical knowledge I frequently heard of them
from the blacks, and on one occasion had the good for-
tune to locate their “ village.” They are a social animal,
living in burrows like the prairie dogs of America, and
associating in communities of several hundreds. . . .
They are uniform in colour, the males being black with
white ticks, and the females of a grey cast with similar
marking to the males. These colours, it is interesting to
note, are identical with those of our native cats. . . .
Owing to the remoteness of the place and the fierceness
of the natives, our party did not stay long enough to
enable me to learn much of the habits of these curious
and little-known animals ; but from the few specimens
which fell to our rifles I found the females to be endowed
with the pouch which is so conspicuously absent from the
dingo. Here, then, I submit, is the real Australian dog,
the indigenous product of the country. From my note-
book I am enabled to state, for the information of the
curious, that these burrowing dogs are about the size of a
spaniel, pricked-eared, and their coat resembles fur rather
than hair, and, as already remarked, is identical with that
of the native cat in colour and texture.
And nobody on Granny’s staff seems to have
“ tumbled.”
• * • •
“N. 1.” (Tas.): A few of “Old Con.
Dineen’s ” experiences in mining will take some
beating. On aW. Coast (Tas.) mining township
Con. was working in a shaft. A lath fell from the
brace and killed his mate. In another shaft a
cleat dropped and broke his mate’s arm just before
the relieving-shift came on, one of whom was
killed a few minutes after starting work. Con.
was repairing a tramway one windy day, and a
tree fell where he was working, but a friendly
fork just fitted over him, and he escaped unhurt.
Again, Con. and his mate were being lowered into
a shaft on the bucket, which was full of drills, and
about 10ft. from bottom they struck foul air.
Mate climbed the rope to the next level to get at
the signal-line, which was in another compart-
ment. And about lOmin. later they landed at
the surface, Con. with his legs jammed in amongst
the drills and his body hanging down the shaft
outside the bucket, while the mate stood on his
legs to make sure of him. He had been overcome
and had thus travelled to the top, 300 ft., escaping
with a few scratches and no ill-effects from the
foul air. He couldn’t get a job in that township
at last, because he was considered the very genius
of bad luck. He was in W. A. when last heard of
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT.
JOHNNIE (clinging on to lamp-post, to constable): “Aw (hie) why
don’t you pleecemen (hie) do as they do in London (hie) and
look after the traffic (hie) don'tcherknow?”
CONSTABLE : “So we do. We look after the liquor-traffic. You’re full
inside, and have got more’n you can carry. So come along
wid me.”
—dollying, and jolly as a sand boy. Hadn’t had
a wash for 18 months.
* '* * *
“ Vril”: Just returned from a trip through
C.Q. The stock-losses are indeed an eye-opener.
“Will you lose 33 per cent, right through the dis-
trict ? ” I asked a wool-king, who has a property
close to Win ton. “Shall we save 33 per cent.,
even if rain falls now?” was his reply. Even
east of the Dividing Range, close to the coast,
where grass is fairly abundant, the fatal spear-
grass is at work decimating the exiled western
flocks. Noticed in a slaughtered sheep the seed,
not only up into the fleshy parts, but actually
penetrating the liver.
“ S.M.” : Be “A.H.J.’s” inquiry
(B. 22/7/’00) as to snakes’ power of remain-
ing under water, I am going to make some
tall but probable statements. A snake can
live entirely without air from the outside.
You can lug one up in a short length of
gas-pipe, and at the end of two weeks, if
you warm the pipe, you will find the snake
lively enougli when let out. Also, a snake
will not choke, although it may take hours
to swallow its prey ; the reason being that
when the snake is in the act of swallowing
a slit in the windpipe opens, so as to allow
the lungs to draw air from the stomach.
The edges of this slit are serrated, and so
closely fitted as to escape any but the
minutest observation. I have seen snakes
so flattened out that I have considered
them dead, but as soon as they inflated a
little they were very much alive. The hiss-
ing of a snake is caused by the escape of
air from this slit under excitement. I
have ploughed up snakes in winter with
their mouths so glued up with mucus that
they could not open them for some time ;
so, to my mind, they lay in an air-supply
before hibernating—and are, through tha
same means, able to exist a long time under
water. I have also a notion that it is while
the snake is in winter quarters the poison is
secreted from the foul air within the reptile.
Snake-poisoned persons and animals, at all
events, present the appearances of having
been killed by foul air.
« * • •
“ Creeve Roe ” : Re “ Animal
Chivalry.” I met some time ago this
curious statement —made by Prof. Raco-
vitza, an eminent Roman naturalist: “ The
octopus does not behave brutally in its love
affairs. A certain delicacy is shown by the
male towards his companion in the course
of their courteous flirtation.” Fancy the
courteous and comely octopus going
a-wooing ! What a subject for a humorist
artist ! And what a theme for a “Lewis Carroll”
if he were alive ! Also what a lesson in love-
making to the rude human Romeos of the present
degenerate days 1
• • • •
“ Yril ” : On Glengallan, Q., once saw a
pair of eagle-hawks coursing a hare ; one hawk
flying a bit behind and the other wide. Presently
No. 1 hawk—the nearest to the hare —made a dash
and passed the quarry ; and, while No. 2 pressed
the hare from behind, No. 1 suddenly flashed back
and nailed bewildered puss before she knew what
was happening.
• • * •
“ Yuna ” : Once
heard a Fiji planter
reminiscing of the early
seventies t h u si y :
“ When in my cotton
house one day, a trucu-
lent chief came in and
swore in choice Vitian
that he would not lea ve
until I had given him
my American axe,
though I had told him
on a former occasion it
was impossible for me
to part with it. After
some barneying, he said
he would sit down and
wait till I had changed
my mind. I then took
out my revolver and put
a buliet into his right
shoulder. Still he would
not budge. Next I put
one into his left shoul-
der. As it did not move
my unwelcome visitor,
his darned obstinacy
made me angry, and I
fired without taking
aim. Would you be-
lieve it ? I had to put
six bullets into that
rascal before he would
clear ! After receiving
the sixth somewhere in
the chest, he sauntered
off with a supercilious
grin.”
* • *
“ C. R. ” : A man
who has been in New
Britain tells me that
the cassowary of that
island goes fishing in
this curious fashion.
It wades some distance
into a river, and then
sits down, with its
apologies forjwings out-
spread as if it were
cooling itself. After a
time it wades to shore
again, shakes itself
vigorously, and then
picks up the little fish
that lie on the ground
all around it. The per-
formance is repeated
until the cassowary has
had enough fish-diet for
the time. Is this a
fact, or is my informant another Munchausen ? ”
• • • •
Johnnie was 16 years old—the detestation
of the station and the pride of his mother. Since
his return from Sydney he had been fired with
the ambition to make his mark as aped. He was
convinced that he possessed more than ordinary
“toe,” and the flattery of the station hands, who
wanted to be “in” with the boss’s son, made his
assurance doubly sure. Sports were coming off at
the township—a big prize was offered for the
100yds., and money was freely wagered on the
event. Johnnie began training—on the quiet,
because he meant to make much money on him-
self, and did not wish anyone to share his good
thing. But he found he needed a confidant; he
Avan ted assistance in training, his time taken, and
other things. Who so suitable as his mother ?
The lady entered heart and soul into the game,
and in a week’s time was as well up in the mys-
teries of training, times, records, and all the jar-
gon of the pro.-ped. as any store-boy in the
township. J ohnnie had fixed a good track, and
worked regularly under his mother’s fond eye.
When it came to taking his time, however, a
difficulty arose. In her excitement the old lady
dropped Johnnie’s watch and broke it, and there
was not another timekeeper on the station which
would register seconds. J ohnnie was in despair,
but his ma found a way out of the difficulty.
From her youth up, she said, she had been noted
for her ability to mark seconds, tapping one hand
against the other and counting aloud. She had
often beep tested against a watch, and had always
been successful. So she said, at all events.
THE BOXERS.—OVERHEARD IN SYDNEY BOTANIC GARDENS.
HE: “ Look , Mary, these must be the chaps that’s kicking up the row in China.”
Johnnie, dubious at first, allowed himself to be
convinced. Daybreak saw them on the track ; the
mater in command. She placed Johnnie on the
mark, and went to the winning-post. “ Only one
word, Johnnie, remember. Are you quite
ready?” “Yes.” “Off! One—two—the dear
fellow, how beautifully he runs—three —just like
his dear father —four—five—keep it up, Johnnie
—six —seven —Oh, Johnnie ! —O-o-o-h, Johnnie !
Well done ! We-e-e-11 done ! —eight, nine—Oh,
Johnnie, you’ve broken the record ! ” Johnnie
thought he had, too, and plunged. His mother
plunged with him. He is now sadder and wiser.
His mother cannot understand it. Neither can
J ohnnie.
• * » •
“ H.S.” : The South African eland (the
largest of the antelopes), which it is proposed to
acclimatise in Australia, has a wither-height, in
the male, of 16, 17, and even 18 hands; and a
well-grown and good-conditioned beast weighs
about a ton. The bovine affinities of the eland
are very obvious, and its flesh has the reputation
of being superior to that of the best Highland
cattle. Attempts made to domesticate the eland
in Europe have not been commercially successful,
the cost of the meat being too high, but the ani-
mal should do well in Australia, or, failing this, it
would be an ornament to any park. The eland’s
color ranges from grey-blue to dun, and both sexes
have horns, those of the cow being longer and
thinner than those of the bull, whicli has a short
mane. If it is true, as asserted, that the eland
breeds only once in two years, the fact would be
greatly against its commercial value as a beef-pro-
ducer.
* * * *
“ Via ” : Be ghosts (B. 21/7/00). I “laid ”
one in N.Q. a while back. Years previously an
aged dame had hanged herself in a house which
thenceforth gave out weird sounds at dead of
night. The place, a lonely one, got therefore an
evil reputation, and the local blacks couldn’t be
coaxed within cooee of it. I, having made a pot-
valiant wager to clear the thing up, loaded my
revolver, let it be known I would pot anyone tom-
fooling around, and waited (in the dark, as per
wager) for the moans. They came, right enough,
about 1 a.m. as near as I could'judge, and I got a
nasty feeling down the spine. Three or four low
moans or groans and then complete silence for
the night. I had a sickly time until daylight.
Next night I had to go again—to win—and would
have “ chucked it ” but for the look of the thing.
I got through second night (same noises) and then
explored in daylight. Found that the ridge-
capping of gal. iron and eaves had “sprung ” from
the wooden-supports so that when the iron cooled
and contracted in the night it slipped back and
both timber and iron complained bitterly. I fixed
that spectre with a few 3in. nails, but the grateful
owner |tried to get me run-in for trespass and it
took all the wager and a bit over to keep him quiet.
* * * *
“The Mussel” writes on the stupefying
effects of Melbourne whisky :
I met Jones on Spencer-street railway-station, wander-
ing around in an aimless manner. His brain was evi-
dently disentangling some knotty problem ; his forehead
was puckered with wrinkles and his eyes glared stead-
fastly at an advt. about somebody’s unshrinkable pickles
that wouldn’t wash clothes. This was what he told me :
“ I’ve had a fearful blow. It is 3.25 by that clock, isn’t
it?” (I said it was.) “To tell you the truth, Wilkins,”
he went On, “ I can’t trust my own eyes. I don’t feel
sure of anything. My train goes in half-an-hour. Let us
have a drink.” (We had a drink and I ventured to in-
quire the cause of his trouble.) “Trouble! Why the
trouble has hardly commenced yet. The trouble start 3
when I meet my wife this evening and try to explain how
this lunatic business came about.” (We had another
drink.) “ Listen, Wilkins! This is what happened :
The wife and I arranged to go up country for a holiday.
Just then I got a summons for not having Tommy vac-
cinated. Now, you know my ideas about vaccination.
You have heard me say many a time that no child of
piine would ever be vaccinated—that, with my consent,
no filthy disease would be injected into the blood of any
of my offspring to stave off another disease, an attack of
which is much less probable than being struck by light-
ning on the fourth Wednesday in the month. However,
we’ll let that go. Well, my wife was very anxious for me
to come with her and pay the fine —whatever it was.
But I was determined to stay behind, and have a run for
my money. It was hardly likely that I was going to
allow a parcel of wooden-headed J’s.P. fine me without a
protest and a very strong expression of my opinion. Day
before the case came on I saw the family off. I particularly
requested my wife to look up the paper and see how I
held forth to the Bench, and peruse my withering scorn.
After the train left I walked round town and met a few
friends, and I had a few drinks. I had my dinner in town,
and I believe I must have had another drink or two, or
probably more. We went to Rickards—that is, Johnson,
M‘Phee, and I. I think the drink must have gone to my
head, because I remember having to close up one eye with
my hand in order to see the stage. I don’t remember much
after this. I have a dim recollection of assaulting some-
one or breaking something ; but probably I only dreamt
it. I awoke with a dreadful head. The gas was alight
and the blinds down. Someone must have brought me
home and lit the gas—probably M’Phee ; he’s unmarried,
and, of course, has no awkward questions to answer.
There was about half a bottle of whisky on the mantel-
piece. Where it came from—the Lord ,knows. I had
some—perhaps more, and felt much better. I went to
sleep again, and when I woke it was still dark. It seemed
a terribly long night. I had a look at the clock. It was
about 20 past 3 ; but, on closer inspection, I found that it
had stopped. I had another drink. I didn’t sleep any
more thataiight. I wandered round the house rehearsing
my anti-vaccination speech, and waiting for daylight.
Daylight wouldn’t come. I got irritated. At last there
were signs of daybreak, and I went out on the verandah
to await the morning paper. It came, and I read this
paragraph.” (Here Jones drew a newspaper from his
pocket) :
“At the W Police Court yesterday W. M‘Wil-
liams and J. T. Thomas were each fined £l, with ss.
costs for neglecting to have their children'vaccinated.
W. H. Jones, who did not appear, was for a similar
offence fined £2, with ss. costs.
“ Well,” said Jones, “ I told you it seemed a very long
night. And now the only thing I can tell my wife is that
I got stage-fright, and ran out of the court when my case
was called.” (Here we had another drink.)
* * * *
“Jaw”: They were telling damper-yarns
round the fire, and some of’em were tough ; but
they all shut up after one little chap had spun his.
In the early Coolgardie days he and a mate were
one night compelled to camp where the sand was
worse than ordinary, and a damper had to be
made somehow. There was no shelter from the
sand, and they had no tent. So this man induced
his mate to lie face-down wards and head to wind,
draw up his shirt, and allow him (the other) under
its protection to knead the damper on his back !
• » » *
The aboriginal recently death-sentenced
in N.Q. for destroying his deformed child gave as
his reason : “ That fellow too longa legs—all same
grasshopper ! ”
* * • *
Recently a backblocks cockie had occasion
to carry considerable cash (in notes), sewn for
security into his shirt front. He dallied in town,
absent-mindedly donned his only “change” and
jogged forth as usual, till the thought of the for-
gotten “loot” struck him. Then he streaked
full-speed to his lodgings. But the shirt
was gone and the lodgings’ keeper “fired” him,
as a man “as wanted ter injer the ’ouse.” Then
THE SAVING HALF.
WHITEWASH: “I say, Mister, I want three-
penn’oth o’ hair off.”
BARBER: “ You want what !”
W.: “ Three-penn’oth off.”
B.: “ What do you mean?”
W.: “ Well, yer see, Mister, me 'ole woman giv ’
me a sprat ter get me hair cut, en I cut up
a trey in cigarettes; but (appealingly) yer
can take a trey's worth off, carn't yer, please,
Mister?”


Tiae LADIES’
“ FX & R
Watch at £6 6s.
>9
Is a f-plate Lever.
Is jewelled in 10 holes.
Has ruby roller jewel.
Has solid heavy 18ct. gold case.
Has Brequefc hair spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
two years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
/
m
v.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS
Lady’s f-plate movement,
14ct. Gold Case
<£s 5 0
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
cookie informed the police, went sadly home, and
refused to be comforted till on going to bed he
found that he was wearing both shirts.
• • * •
The two aides, or attaches, or something, of
a certain Australian Governor possess badly-at-
tenuated legs, yet they fatuously go in for
“bloomer” riding-pants and the concomitant
puttees. On a racecourse lawn, recently, an un-
couth Westerner remarked to a friend in a draft-
ing-yard, “My Gawd! they look like cranes in
jam-pots ! ”
* * * *
“ Ston ” : There was a bullock on Dryaaba
Station which was used as a decoy to yard other
bullocks, and as soon as a mob was safely yarded
he would jump the Bft. fence around yard. I saw
him do this several times, and he only once tapped
the top-rail. [You saw him do it — several times!]
• * • *
Dear Bulletin.— “Vril” (B. 12/7/’00)
was lucky in getting the duck, and not the “ egg”
only ; as a wire-cartridge fired from a “ choke-
bore ” almost invariably bursts before leaving the
muzzle, and scatters the shot in all directions.
Know of one instance when the case dropped not
20ft. from the gun, and at 40yds. the shot scattered
nearly across the creek. Anyhow a “choke-bore”
loaded in the ordinary way is often good for over
100yds., but to a “choke” I prefer the “all
cylinder” barrel, loaded with a cartridge cut
nearly all round between powder and shot. Thus
frovided, I have potted rabbits at 140yds.—Bo-
EEP.
* • * •
“ W.V.D.” : Re “ Vril’s ” long shot (B.
21/7/’00). I was out, recently, after plain-turlcey,
with ordinary b.l. gun and common cartridges—
No. 1 shot. The birds were so wild that at last,
in desperation, I banged at one which rose, ap-
parently far out of shot, and was astounded to see
it fall. Found it quite dead, though subsequent
post-mortem showed that it had stopped only one
grain of shot, which had broken its wing. On
measuring the distance, I found it 130yds.
• • •, •
Dear Bulletin.—There’s a substance that
falls from the blossomed red-gum (the children
call it “manna.”) Looks like “frosted” sugar,
in pieces from pea to bean size, and has a most
delicious taste. Where ants are not numerous
sometimes quarts of it may be gathered. What a
country for bees this should be !—Ben Sun.
HIS SPIRITUAL WANT .
C ADGER: “ I s'pose yer couldn't give us the price of a”—-
PARSON (snappishly): “ The price of what?"
CADGER (in disgust): “ Oh , a Bible!"
“ J.W.C.” : Be “ Imray’s ” par. (B.
19/5/’00). In ’6l (in the early days of South Aus-
tralian cookie farming) I saw two German girls
ploughing, one holding the plough and one pull-
ing, in conjunction with a cow ! The driving
damsel had a whip, and at the time I was passing
they were having a good slanging-match—which
probably the whip accounted for. In those days
most of the farm work was done by the woman-
folk.
* * * •
“Eller”: Re black sheep. R. Whitticker,
of Adelong Crossing, N.S.W., has a flock of 3000,
and J. Dennis, of Tarcutta, Wagga, N.S.W., can
muster 2300 blacks and greys. Black sheep are
much hardier than white, but their wool does not
sell nearly as well as white wool.
“ Canip : Re running down animals on
foot. Given favorable conditions and plenty of
time and you can walk them down; else I have
just parted from a beautiful liar. Told me that
»* X
and ngxt morning cou ldn’t get a trace. Was
re f uge( j at t } ie sta tion a horse to hunt his own up
. h 12 000 acres but only one waterhole, so he
fenced off and went 0n his t Sighted
with somo brumbies and followed the
j ot up> day after day, till at last a dozen or so
~ loughs » an d his two veterans, with woebegone
looks and spiritless carriage, were seen proceeding
fo tbe stockyard—only too glad that it was over.
* * * «
,< The bush-missionary has to be a very
” h '‘ 7 ' i
“ A .Q*” ; The other day, at a ro‘ad-camp,
.- , . .. , A' , . r u j
I tasted tinned bull. Ihdnl.knowf **
the time, and rather relished it,, b
felt a bit °®- When your tin
a P ar t m layers, like that s u .
_* „ * ~ * no , h „ nft v
“ A.B.T. : “ Morg. (8.. 28/7/OU) says
he lias vainly tried the red-handkerchief trick on
birds other than the emu. The wild-turkey or
“ bustard ” of S. A. is. however, very susceptible to
the dodge. I have been amongst bustards in salt-
bush and mallee, put up a red flag and potted many
an inquiring fool. The bustard can also be
stalked with horse and buggy, driven oautiously in
diminishing circles, until the man (who, of course,
walks always on the further side of the vehicle) is
w : tb : n sbot
t , *
u ,, r| , „ m, /<< t? W S ” B
j 4 ', e „ n ‘ ’’i 1
12/5/00) who induced fire by friction a
a » hour must have suffered a lot from cold
weather. - Bushie (B. 14/7/00) eviden y
stands the biz., and his time would be a good
average. Writer has often seen lom Nornsli,
manager of Brassey’s Goblup estate, in W.A.,
make fire in this way in about Bmin. to 12nun.
t.N. used to place so' much stress on the accom-
plishment that he invariably gave a special prize
at the annual Broomehill agricultural show for
the best time in this department of bush lore,
Choice of wood was, I remember, an importan’
factor in the competition,
“ Jimmy S.”:
Re ‘Jack Shay,’
(8., 7/7/’00). I
can’t say whe-
ther these are
old or new.
Have been had
with ’em all.
Chap fills a glass,
puts his hat over
it, and says—
“ Bet you I
empty that glass
without touch-
ing the hat.”
Done ! Puts his
head under the
table and takes
a deep draw.
“There you
are,” says he.
You’re curious,
and lift the hat,
whereupon h e
whips up the
glass and emp-
ties it. He has-
n’t touched the
hat. Another
man bets he will
get the same
answer to the
same words from
12 people in suc-
cession, andthen
goes round with,
“So poor old
Smith’s gone at
last.” Everyone
says “What
Smith?” and
your pocket gets
lighter. Again,
somebody lays
you any odds
you can’t drink
two glasses
“ full ” of beer.
What a cheap
thing you think
you’ve got! But
you drink ’em
empty— and the
band plays.
* * *
Dear Bulle-
tin. Can any
reader speak
precisely about
the mopoke’s
vocal abilities ?
Much difference
of opinion exists amongst bushmen as to the bird’s
various cries.—A.P.R.
* • • »
“Xerxes”: Black cockatoos will bite off
limbs 4in. and sin. in dia. in search of wood-grubs,
and I think those gang-gangs and galahs must
have some such object in view. The black cocky
is never mistaken as to the spot where the grub is,
and does some honest, hard graft for his food.
• • • •
“ Booboo ” : Old-timer used to tell how,
whilst telegraph-line-making near Cootamundra,
the party used often to find that the insulators
placed on the poles during the day were on the
ground in the morning. Kept watch, and caught
a native bear at the wild-monkey cocoanut trick.
A CROYDON (N. QUEENSLAND) CRUSHING.
Golden Gate 3 and 4 South Tribute, 1069 tons, 9165oz. 14dwts. gold.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
v a notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
—*■» «*> <-*»» «*«• - »*•
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in : and in no case will MS. be returned un-
<v-»*"-*«> —we
Glenira : You might make a good Presbyterian,
never a poet G.S. : Looks like a no-romance in real
... tTTI . . , , __
life Demos: Why curse America when you have so
much to curse at home? Sybil: You can mix kisses
with your ink; but bother your clothes! H.M-
-(Wooll): Read “John Jenkins” in Bret Harte’s “Con-
\ '• T . „ „~ ~ „v. ±. „ rnr ,
densed Novels F.S.M. : He contributed , butwas
he printed?... .L.H. : Good wishes accepted; verse re-
jected with blots (nearest we ever get to tears) G.B. :
“ The sun shone on the lea, And the morn was cool and
»■ *»« “■« «”•>'• *'»■ A.he fl„„ e
the rest away S.H.L. : Fine tender melancholy, like
grease on cold gravj'... .Pat: No doubt she’s a splendid
girl; but it’s only rudimentary poetry.... A.H.T. : Blue
ink, green ink, ink-and-water, and faint pencil—we know
them all; but your yellow ink on blue paper is worst of
the lot. Stick to black on white ; our cursing is
already too variegated G.G. : Go, Ghoul! H.R.W. :
Your love’s eyes might be a new patent mangle,
for all the poetry they inspire... .J.J.M. : Prefer you to
publish 20-col. tales elsewhere, unless you insist... .J.P. :
You write like one H. 8.8.: Please don’t tell us about
“ our valuable paper.” We never take any notice of the
MS. of anybody who talks like that P.S. J.: You
can’t make us believe that the W. A. north-west squatters
are angels in their relations with the aborigines. We
have too much good first-hand evidence to the extreme
contrary... Hobartonian: Unprintable, of course
K.L.M. : You can do nothing; N.S. Wales is the
Paradise of Quacks, who somehow can always find a
majority to support them in the Leg. Assembly
Snell: A desert in the oasis Uncle R. : There’s a mouse
in your piano.... Shillinana : Eat the first chapter of
Colossians.... Fortuna : Guess you’ve mixed your god-
desses... .Ficus : “The masculine man is not interested
in Woman.” Confusion of ideas. It is precisely the
masculine man who is most interested in Woman —as
Woman ; though he is not, like the sub-feminine man,
muchinterested in the things that interest Woman....
O.S.W. : The Bulletin has two black beasts : the man
who labels his verse “poetry,” and the man who, in
forwarding addressed envelope for return of MSS., sets
himself down as Smith, “ E5q.”.... A Meuser : You can
have any amount of goods carried from Sydney to San
Francisco in an Australian—or British—owned ship, but
you are not permitted to even ship a box of cigars for
trade-purposes, or a passenger, from Honolulu to ’Frisco,
or vice-versa, in such a vessel. Honolulu is now an
American possession, and under the American navigation
law the trade between U.S. ports is absolutely reserved
to U.S. ships.... A.W. (M.L.) : It doesn't hit all round
O.J. : That officer-no-soldier gag is a,:tique W. J. : The
cat can swim well, when put to it. So can all the feiidse,
the tiger and jaguar being notably good performers
Yril: That station-master incident is good, but inade-
quately handled. The sentence you censure involves no
Judge! 0 " He inis ter'the" Uw asTeTld
Trotter : You calmly ask us to state that that politician
received 250 sovs. from the Chinese. The Bulletin isn’t
a libel-factory.... Esther M.: As to “stealing bare-
facedly ” from you, you sent along a news-item which we
had already met with in a dozen papers, and sending
With’°rfgard < ’to .’SSI ’SI
is, of course, different.... Jim Crow: “Miss Crossley
has achieved remarkable success by the richness
and quality of her voice, and she lias sung before
the Maharajah of Kuch Behar.” Your news is
indeed startling By the way, who told you that
we fancy, has extended cash patronage to a good many
soprano strugglers from this country H.B. : There are
no real sufferers in “punting” transactions. The
man who gets welshed out of his winnings is
merely relieved of the trouble of losing them
afterwards in a more commonplace way. And
he has the fun of pursuing the welsher
K.CJ.Q. : The Bulletin pays for all it prints G.F.D. :
An unpleasant thing, too brutally put E.V.J.: Your
initials in print, anyway ; and we’ll stop there, thanks....
Bert J.: Not enough interest.. ..Gilaomi: Several clergy-
men were victimised by a woman, afterwards convicted
of false pretences, and the only one who refused to prose-
cute belonged to the religion. Now, what religion
would the public guess ?... .Cornstalk (8.H.): Obviously
malicious Dr. J. : Cold as yesterday’s porridge
William J. : You seem to be getting an idea of things, but
they’re not life-like yet -E. Job : And pray, how would
you feed horses in such country? M.Mac. : Not good
enough....K. : “Townsville” is pretty stale, and not
amusing Blackbutt: Will print O.J. : Variant of an
ancient and well-known anecdote A.B.C. : Poem could
only be used to fry you Pipe : Some facility; no value,
...R.S.M. : Small raw poem, like a skinned rabbit....
H.Q : Our Grief!... Cynic : Mere spite.... Microbe : You
don t cover the sentiment—in rhyme or otherwise
J.L.O’B. : Yes, send the 17-year masterpiece along; and
see notice heading this column... .Otto J. : No use for
print; but “ One Night” would make a popular recita-
tion-piece T.H.M. : Can’t use; but with your
imaginative eye you can see our weary grin
Snowy : About 15 flakes only-no time to tear ’em
smaller H. S. Dunlop: Story-material only
D.F.L. : Better drop didactic verse Annis M. :
Sketches too indefinite.... .P.M. : Well enough done, but
no interest Treb. 2 : What is it all about?—P.J.B.:
Don’t preach !....M.F. W. : Unusable. No address on
M-S W.M.F. : Declined. “ Ranjut“ Naked Lands,”
W. Baren : Copy sent to hunt the Breelong blacks
Cornel: Try it on an evening paper Ahau : Use your
metrical skill on a more interesting subject S.TAV. :
Considering. W.T.P. : Good incident; bad style.• •-^
Plymouth S. i “Rejected” is. W.P. : “Temptation
tr g at „ ien t Henry 11. : Avaunt, Henry H. 1... .Rock-
hampton : Better seen than described Abataleptos :
Sorry unsuitable M.F.W. : Not bad ; but rather light
-iSri Vpjif
reality Corker: Final idea of “Night” good; treat-
ment uninteresting Nestor: Point not worth that
space unless better told. But try again. ...P.H.C. :
Trite reflections. Caste of some kind there will always
be _ on eart h. About Heaven, The Bulletin’s just as
w j se a 8 anybody else—it “dunno.” G.H. : Yarn has
the force of simplicity, but is otherwise not quite up. For
all we know about concern mentioned, see “ Wilid Cat
Column,” Sept. 1 Mansfield: Verse—skill badly lack-
. Kelpie : Not finish enough P.A.: “Chantey”
very far from the real thing... .V.K. : “Paean” doesn’t
ring; “ Plated ” hardly bright enough Airlie : Too
weakly sentimental.. . .L.R.M. : Neither up....Fairplay
ft**
mon M . Thanks, but W.M.W. : Common-
place Nil: “Westerly” a fair picture, but small
interest: ditto “ Wakefield.” Are you getting a little too
casual ? A.W.S. : Not bad ; but why not try Australian
topics? Poisoned Bullet: Don’t believe a word of it.
0.5.8. : What on earth would people like the Wilkses,
Laws, Hawthornes, Andersons, Daceys and so on do in
the Federal Parliament? W.M.W. : Handling of triolets
insufficient distinction.... Anchorite : Interesting; not
enough L. A. : Unsuitable Gobung : Still gone.
Hal F. : “Not a drum was heard, not a funeral
note;” but it got there just the same E.A.V. : Un-
usable A.L.O.N. :It isn’t unique. The M.L. Jingo
journals also resorted to devious means to get free pas-
sages to China for their representatives... .T.P.O. :
“Founded on Fact” too weighty... .A. M. : We person-
ally don’t like the obstetric drama F.C.S. : Black-
smith item unintelligible, as put Frank H. : Fire-stick
subject hung up—barring a finisher from “ Tom Collins,”
not yet typed. Bagnio incident too “strong.” Others
may d 0.... H.C.: Unwise of you to send along a probable
lie (cards) in company with an undoubted one (snake)....
H.S.R. : When Lord Salisbury said, “We seek no gold-
fields,” &c., he was like the small boy in a tight place
who promises “not to do it again, sir,” but when the
small boy gets into safe quarters there is nothing to pre-
vent him putting his fingers up and “ taking a lunar.”....
P.H. : “>' 1 Tom” is long-winded enough for a steeple-
chase—elsewhere.... 61 : Have we suffered so many'?....
W.A.F.: “ The cold wind was howling.” Well, let it howl.
Magnet: Noted... .H.H.A. : All the interest would go
in a pin-hole Westerner: “Two Tragedies’’—and
there’s luck in odd numbers J.J.W. :“ Lost Chance ” is
best; but none quite usable... ,W. : Thought every
literary body in Australia knew Barcroft Boake wrote
“ Where the Dead Men Lie.” See any bookseller for his
collected verses L.L.: “Oh, bury me out alone,
alone 1 ” Sorry we can’t; but you have* the hoith of corn-
pany Treb A.: Poetic small change merely.
A Goulburn Resident Nearly Suffocated.
Mrs. Thomas Austin, late of Taralga, now re-
siding at John-street, Goulburn, has passed
through an experience which might well try the
nerves of any woman.
Indeed, the rumors concerning the occurrence
were so extraordinary that a local i eporter called
upon the lady.
Mrs. Austin, a pleasant faced lady, when called
upon told her experiences in the following words.
“One morning, whilst engaged in household
duties, I was alarmed by a peculiar tightening at
the chest, and a little later found myself almost
suffocated, being scarcely able to draw breath.
This, I was told, was due to flatulence; hence-
forth I became a chronic sufferer from indigestion,
biliousness, frightful headaches, and dizziness. I
lost my appetite, grew thin and pale-faced, and
what little food I ate did not digest till late at
night; many a night I have been forced to walk
the room instead of going to bed. At times I was
unable to perform domestic duties, so acute were
the fits of suffocation. After suffering for over six
years I consulted a doctor and took many bottles
of medicines without permanent benefit; then my
skin became quite yellow. Three years ago I
commenced Dr. Williams’ pink pills, and after
taking two boxes found myself quite free from my
complaints. I now eat my meals heartily with-
out fear of indigestion, sleep well, and wake
vigorous and refreshed in the morning, ready for
the day’s work. Had I tried Dr. Williams’ pink
pills earlier I should have been saved years of
suffering.”
■ Any excessive strain on the system will cause
an entire derangement of the digestive powers
Dr. Williams’ pink pills restored Mrs. Austin to
robust health because they made rich, red blood,
thus enabling the digestive organs to extract
nourishment from.the food taken. By acting as a
nerve tonic and blood-builder, Dr. Williams’ pink
pills cure such diverse ailments as paralysis, loco-
motor ataxia, rheumatism, sciatica, ansemia,
scrofula, eczema, rickets, consumption, bronchitis',
hysteria, &c. Sold by chemists and storekeepers’
and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free—But mind you ask for
Dr. Williams’. Substitutes are valueless.


LAYING THE CORNER-STONE OF THE AUSTRALIAN COMMONWEALTH. — BY HOP’S UNDERSTUDY.
In t he picture above are depicted some of the features of the ceremony as now proposed. In No. 1 we recognise Mr. Earton, of course. The bottle of champagne in his hand was intended to be broken over the stone. It seemed a pity to waste it. 2. Prayer-competition for all denomi-
nations. 3. Commonwealth ode competition for poets, Australian and otherwise. The leader will have little difficulty in iecognis in ' (a) Mr. Kipling, (b) Australia's warrior-poet, (c) probably meant for Mr. Alfred Austin (or Allen?). 4. Musical competition, all-comers. 5. Terpsichorean
features. 6. Oratorical or talking competition, open to Australian Statesmen. 7. Fine-art features in the form of “lightning sketches.” 8. The masses —voters, rate-payers, etc.


FX /
. h%5)
x"V
LlUce '
'V/pr
K 4
1 fWle*.
fye WsililiH v ..
5^ K * e v 'k
iv<Aee<l te
sioi/r"^
r
% sortojyi
■'fnltyo Vvill ff
,o^be.\
-roie^^l'i
' rule L-
' be *gjn
Cnf?rcci
Jf- I^o7
nkl vie W e w r" °“* c *'
k u'ji°7!s'
Ik, qoive
I^fV
Si. ■ i-.
kj: \ /XJ/A \
jkghk
I
sfyk
“A DREAM OF MUSICAL UNION.”
“About a hundred musicians met at the Trades-hall yesterday afternoon for the purpose of forming a union. Mr. Thomas Smith, M.L.A, moved: ‘That, in order to unite the orchestral
and professional musician of Australasia for their mutual benefit and protection, and to improve the status of the profession in general, it is, in the opinion of tins meeting, absolutely necessary
to form a union, having its headouarters in Melbourne.’ He said it had come to the knowledge of the committee that civil servants were taking up musical engagements after their regular hours,
and so unfairly with the professional men. That was one thing the union would have to stop. Mr. Stephen Barker seconded the motion, which was carried. -MELBOURNE ARGUS.


Handsome $ Useful Wedding Presents.
Call and See our Displayed Showrooms.
An Up-to-Date Shoiv.
We lleplate Old Silverware Equal to New .
A. SAUNDER&
Cake BASKET, chased, 18s 6d ; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, and £2 10a.
We guarantee the quality.
Send lor illustration.
• A. SAUNDERS.
GENT'S FRIEND,” Letter Book, Pure Solid Silver,
mounted, 15a, 20s, 25a. A Useful Present.
Ruby JAM, 12s 6d and 15s 6d, Pure Silver-
plated. Guaranteed Quality.
Send for Price Book.
LADIES’ FRIEND.
Pure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISOUIT, first-class,
20s, 22s fid, 265.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silrer-mounted, 15g.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure SiWeP
plated Mounts, lCs 6d t
Fluted Bands, 20s ;J
Shield only, 12s 6d.
FLOWER STANDS.
168 6d pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 20».
Pure Silver-plated.
COFFEE POT,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER,
25s ; similar, very neat and pretty,
20s, 22s 6d.
*»** <vaA«»V .
Pure Silver Manicure SET, First-class,
20s ; smaller, 12s 6cL
TEAPOTS. —Pure Silver-plated, First-class, 80s.
Dther styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. Send lor Book of Patterns.
Pure Silver-Mounted PURSES, 15s, 20s.
Cheap Styles, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Solid Bilrer PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plate Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given. • Send Your Address.
4 o’ch ck TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inai e, pure Silver-plated.
20 Tears’ Guaranteed.
£2loa, worth £4 4s. * Other stales, 36ft, £2, £3, £4.
Ladies 1
KINDLY CALL AND
OUR DISPLAY.
-Y ——
' ■'.: V ■*. i * ,:+-: v :•-*;:■•'*■■ .-. ;■ -
••■ . v,'-. ":c ; -•'.
■■■-
■ ■ - 5 ~
-J -A
£ Pure Silver BRUSHES and COMBS, in Silk Case,
£2 15a. Special Value. Send for Illustration,
TEAPOT.
SUGAR, with Dover. MILK, with Dover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and OOFFEE, £8 6a.
Other styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s. Send for List.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6d
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.
- ". ..
2 Butter KNIVES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper style,
7« 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6cL Send for List.
CRUETS —4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, 30s, 355, £2. Cheap,
20s, 255. Pure Silver-plated.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pare Silver-plated GOAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 265.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s paifc
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, as above, 15s 6d ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6d.
Special Value.
St
Silver-plated SERVIETTE RINGS, 3s od.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s 6d pair.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d.
PUSISBK
r | i |p) |vj|\|
t: •' *
l: H
-> V
i
•V V
1:1:1
• I -.. V
:.u' ;
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o'clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 12s 6d ;
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 265.
without Case, ss, 7s 6d, 10s half-dozen;
Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 265;
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles,
8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure Silver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 35s ;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£2 10s and £3 tor same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.—Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons or Forks,
4s half-dozen ; Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate (on Hard White Metal)
Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM.
A. SAUNDERS. —Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s
Pearl Handle, 3s 6d ; Extra Mounted, 6s 6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s 6d and 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.—Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, ss, ?s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, 32s 6d.
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller $ Silversmith,
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
A BEAUTIFUL BISFLAT OF PRESENTS.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BUIE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking 08.
The Perfect Sheep-Marker-
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
K«pt by ALL MEROHANTB and STOREKEEPERS.
“Where the Dead Men Lie!”
In far-west N.S.W. for six or eight years there
has been only an occasional shower, and because,
in the seven months of this present year, six
whole inches have been registered the settlers talk
of a “grand season” and a “revival of pros-
perity.” In the bad seven years sheep died by
the million; one after another, runs and selections
got into the hands of mortgage companies; station
improvement was suspended ; £BOO-a-year man-
agers were replaced by £l5O-a-year jackaroos,
shearing-sheds on out-stations were nailed up; the
slieds at the home-station were not a quarter full;
immense areas of country were abandoned ; and
the permanent native growths —saltbush and the
like —were wiped out of whole districts by drought,
over-stocking, and rabbits combined. Before this
present wetness (6in. in 7 months) set in, Govt.,
as the easiest way out of a maze, appointed a Com-
mission to take evidence and suggest measures for
the relief of present holders and for the improve-
ment of the conditions of future settlement; and
the interested parties are now wisely trying to
agree upon the things to tell the Commission.
The particular group that wants The Bulletin’s
opinion suggests: (1) That no resumed areas
should be attached; (2) that a homestead lessee
should be entitled to take up country to run 6000
sheep; (3) that appraisement should be by the land-
boards as at present ; (4) that “ the blocks be taken
in rotation starting from two given points on each
resumed area” ; (5) that present holders be en-
titled to add to their holdings enough to enable
them to carry 6000 sheep in all. This is the
“ cocky’s ” budget. The squatter, of course, puts
in his little claim, too. He wants wholesale
attachment of resumed areas and a 42 years’ lease
(he has 28 now). Some of him also asks for a
fixed rent for the whole term (it is _ re-appraised
every seven years, now); and a third lot wants
rent to be paid according to the stock actually
carried. Also, there is a fourth lot that wants
rents to move up and down with the rainfall—
irrespective of the small fact that all depends on
how the rain falls.
* * * *
All the men who hold land out back are either
squattera or selectors, otherwise “cockies” ; and
between the two there is a deep and abiding love.
When legislation “ to assist the pastoral interest ”
is talked of the average squatter can think of no
other plan than to take something from the
selector; and to the cocky, legislation to assist
the selector can only mean giving the squatter an-
other nasty jar. So the squatter now wants to
shut out the selector for some years more; and
the selector now wants to get a freer grab at the
squatter’s open country. It never seems to occur
to either of them that, as both of them have had
cruel, hard times, both of them deserve a lift, and
that it isn’t a fair thing to help one cripple on by
robbing another cripple—crippled in the same
accident, too —of his crutches. If there are not
enough crutches to go round, and if one of these
two cripples must suffer, it’s better to let the
squatter suffer, for when land is selected about a
dozen people are generally maintained where the
squatter maintains one. But why take any-
body’s crutches? The Bulletin would like to
see the Commission try to show how both squatter
and cocky can be given a lift, seeing that the
same drought and the same rabbits have afflicted
squatter and cocky alike.
m • * *
Yet it is far simpler to give to one by taking
from the other. And in the end some of that will
have to be done, no doubt. The squatter, for
instance, will have to give up more of his country.
The selector on whose petition these remarks are
penned suggests that a selector should be able to
take up land enough to carry 6000 sheep. In the
Western division that would mean, on an average,
say, 45,000 acres. Far West, it would generally
mean, in the existing impoverished state of the
country, 60,000 acres. Still, 6000 sheep are much
more than enough to keep a family comfortably.
The present maximum (10,240 acres) is not enough
to carry, on an average, 1500 sheep; and a man can’t
put much by for a droughty day of seven years
out of a mob that size. When he comes to realise
that—if he doesn’t mind being a bit of a rogue—
he becomes a dummy, or employs a dummy.
Otherwise, he is a poor drudge, knowing no com-
fort, whose children grow up in semi-savagery.
Lately there was sent down a list of eight selec-
tions of about 10,240 acres each, on two neighboring
runs, which had not been able to keep any stock
whatever for 20 months ! A big station may spell
paddocks, and by putting stock on to those re-
served, when the worst conies, a fair proportion
may be saved. But this is a resource outside the
I lower of the Western cocky. He has all he can
do to ring-fence his unwieldy 10-acre-to-the-sheep
holding without sub-dividing it. If selection is
to continue out there, the area which he may take
must be enlarged.
• • • •
It is arguable, though, whether it would not be
better to discourage selection way-back, and cor-
respondingly encourage it closer in. South Aus-
tralia sees now that it would have been better if
she had encouraged farming in the south instead
of sending cockies to a hopeless battle in the far-
north • and the fact that cockies themselves
reckon as much as 50,000 and 60,000 acres a fair
thing for a selector seems pretty strong proof that
the country isn’t ideal for what the Lands Depart-
ment facetiously calls “close settlement.” On
the other hand, 50,000 acres isn’t an acre more in
proportion out of a two-million-acre holding than
2500 acres is out of a 100,000-acre run closer in.
And besides, the Western station - hand and
shearer reasonably want to know why they should
be driven out of a country which they have learned
how to work, and into a country which they know
nothing about. Also the old man wants to know
why his son should have to go hundreds of miles
away to get a bit of country when there are so
many million acres around him—to go hundreds of
miles away where the old man’s advice would not
be on tap. All things considered, there does not
seem any good reason why he (the son) should be
driven away. Yet, if he is allowed to select, he
ought to be allowed to select enough to live on
decently, rearing his children like civilised beings,
clothing them well, feeding them well, and edu-
cating them. And he must be able to run
3000 sheep to do it. In favor of fixing the
maximum in this way, rather than by a
stated acreage, there is a lot to be said. It is
fairest to the selector, and it is fairest to the
squatter. Especially if joined with the other sug-
gestion that the selections should tail on one after
the other—it will save the squatter from paying
rent for a lot of country which is no good to him.
At present his run may be riddled; strips and
patches may be almost, if not entirely, discon-
nected from the main area. Not being worked,
these fragments become the nurseries of vermin.
The tailing-on plan would end that. But the
squatter’s worst trouble, apart from droughts, is
that his choice patches, which naturally are, as a
rule, richest in improvements, are liable to be
selected if they are on the resumed half of the
run. If there is any movement towards selection 1
in the district (and on some runs boundary-riders
have to report all new tracks seen on selectable
country) stock are rushed on and the paddock is
eaten-out. When the Western runs were cut in
halves, the leased half and the selectable half
(called the “ resumed area”) were supposed to be
of equal value ; yet, on probably two-thirds of the
runs, the resumed areas are now of far less value
than the leased area—which is due largely to this
eating-out in order to repress selection. If, how-
ever, a selector could take up more country the
fewer sheep it would carry per square mile, the
squatter would not have this inducement to abuse
any particular part of his holding. Further, if a
selector could get more country, the poorer it was,
there would be no reason for keeping open large
tracts of country far away from rivers or railways
for the sake of the one or two likely-looking
patches, because the selector would take the
country nearer cheap carriage. All the same,
scores of resumed areas which might very well be
attached to the leasehold, so long as 10,240 acres
is the maximum area of a selection, ought not to
be attached at all if that maximum area is ex-
tended.
* • • *
As for the squatter, he would lose if the selector
could take more country; but he would gain if
selections had to follow on. Also, with larger
selections he would gain by getting better value
for his improvements. At present he dare not
Eut expensive improvements on his resumed area,
ecause, though they may be worth £lOOO to him
on his own area, they might be worth only £2OO to
the selector on his small area, and £2OO is, there-
fore, all the squatter can claim. These gains,
however, would hardly counterbalance his loss
through the larger area given to the selector;
hence, to his own gains might be added an exten-
sion of lease. South Australia makes it 42 years
for similar land ; and, for country subject to such
long droughts, during which it is a burden and
not a profit-giving asset—for country, moreover,
which is utterly useless unless it is improved at
great expense —a 42 years’ lease is not a long one.
The Military Gussie.
The first public utterance of a truth that will
presently take a lot of conceit out of Military
Spirit in Great Britain and her Jingo colonies
recently came along per cable. It was to the
effect that the various contingents are not getting
decent treatment from the “Imperial staff,” 1
which means, probably, not that the few brainy
officers who have retained from the first, or lately
arrived at, high places in the S’African army, are>
to blame for the trouble, but that a multitude of
minor johnnie snobs in buckram have made them-
selves hateful (by their mannahs, ordahs, and',
general incompetence) to the “meah outsidahs
who do such a mighty deal of the fighting work.
The British Army is an institution where the>
languid young “toff” does his very best to des-
troy Jingoism and Imperialism. He enters it for'
the purpose of putting on more frill, and.
he leaves it with the muttered curses of
Tommy Atkins on his empty head. And
he is the rule rather, than the exception.
His arrogance is everywhere. Plain Tommy
speaks of him in language unfit for publication.
Travellers who meet him in India wonder how it
is that the slight counteracting influence of the
more popular and diplomatic officers can prevent
another great black revolt against the military
rule of these abominable fools, whose life is one
long insult to their “ inferiahs.” The bitterest of
Boer-haters from the Cape—there are many of
them in Australia now—have nothing kind to say
about the Gussies and Algernons they met dur-
ing their recent brief campaigning with the
“regulars.” ' Their predictions of a popular out-
cry against Gussie seem to be already fulfilled.
The colonial troops all round are going to expose
the rottenness of the British army system, which
places the management of men in the hands of
insolent nincompoops. Tommy Atkins is pre-
pared to voice his disciplined, down-trodden dis-
content as he never has voiced it before, and
“military spirit” among the non-fighting masses
will suffer a heavy discount unless the Lord Tom-
noddies of the War Office admit the sinful failure
of Gussie, and take immediate measures to clear
him out of the business.
The Australian Fat Man is much troubled just
now about the excessive cheapness of money in
Australia. He can’t get large interest on his
investments. His banks can’t earn anything like
the dividends they used to do, for they have to
lend money at low rates or else they can t lend it
at all. In a country like Australia, which owes
an immense amount of money abroad, and which
is consequently being drained of gold to pay
interest, money should always be scarcer and,
consequently, dearer, than in a country like
England, which has immense investments abroad,
and has gold always pouring in by way of
interest. And just now, to the Fat Man’s grief
and discomfiture, Australian and English interest
rates are almost on a level. It is consoling, after
a fashion, to reflect that the Australian Fat Man
is only reaping the natural consequence of his own
cowardice and lack of brain. Australia keeps on
borrowing largely abroad because her Fat JVlen
think it is easier to borrow and let posterity take
the consequences than to tax themselves a little
more and pay their way. And the influx of bor-
rowed money makes a temporary artificial super-
abundance of money, and the artificial super-
abundance makes money cheap. Wherefore the
Fat Man can’t get the interest ne used to do—and
serves him right.
4.
If the official report of N.S.W. Comptroller of
Prisons is to be relied on, a startling number of
demented or insane people are sent to gaol as
criminals. Here are half-a-dozen typical cases :
(1) A miner, imprisoned for 12 months, on failing: to
find sureties for wife-desertion ; previously insane ; symp-
toms detected in two days; general paralysis of the in-
sane ; sent to an asylum. (2) Painter, 21 days for injur-
in or property I dementia detected on reception , kept m
gaol till expiry of sentence. (3) Cook, five years for
maliciously wounding ; dementia ; detected on reception ,
still in prison. (4) Seaman, four months for vagrancy ;
epileptic ; detected on reception ; kept in prison till encl
of term, and then discharged to police court. (5) Married
woman, six months for riotous behaviour; delusional
mania ; detected on reception ; passed on to an asylum in
ten weeks. (6) Miner, three months for stealing ; epilep-
tic ; detected on reception, symptoms of insanity showing
in six days ; served full sentence in gaol.
These are from the records of one year, and
there are some scoresof such cases. Obviously heaps
of these convictions for crimes ought not to stand
in the records against these unfortunates at all;
yet they do stand, and moreover are used against
the unfortunates if they happen to fall into the
hands of the police again—perhaps for the same
old mental sickness.
-
The Midland Railway Go. of Westralia wants
badly to sell out to the State. It got a magnifi-
cent land-grant for building a small, cheap rail-
way, and, in addition, the State lent it at a very
low interest half the money to build its railway.
But the co. wouldn’t risk its own money in its
own spec., and what money it couldn’t borrow
from the State it borrowed elsewhere at such
ruinous interest that it promptly got into trouble
and stopped payment. Then there were two
alternatives in front. One was to sell or lease
its huge land-grant at low rates, and' thus
create settlement and make business for
the railway. The other was to block settlement,
in the hope that the State would rather buy it out
than see a great portion of the best part of W.A.
kept a howling wilderness. The Midland Co. has
been trying the latter device. The Crown tenants
who were on the land when it was granted to the
Midland Co. are being refused new leases, and are
offered a yearly tenure at three times the old
rental, and some of them are Being simply thrown
out. As might be expected, these people are
weeping at Bigjohn’s door, beseeching him to
buy out the company “at any cost.” And it is
only ten years since W.A. was wild with joy at
the thought of how its Midland swindle-cat was
going to promote settlement, and make the wil-
derness blossom like the rose, and start a new era
of happiness and prosperity.
As a further proof of the evils of Protection,
Pulsford’s new paper, Our Country, strikes this
beautifully irrelevant argument:
The champion debt-creator of N.S.W. is our esteemed
friend, George Dibbs. During the time in the eighties
when that gentleman was at the Treasury he placed three
successive loans of £5,500,000 in each of three successive
years, bringing the debt up, with other little loans, to 41
millions at the close of 1886.
How beautifully accurate! Dibbs left the
Treasury at the end of ’B5. He was Treasurer
when only two of the 5| million loans were floated.
He was a Foreign-trader then—had been one
all his life—and avowedly remained one till the
early nineties —he was Treasurer in a Foreign-
trade Ministry, and he went on the tear in a true
Foreign-trade fashion. Even the faintest accusa-
tion of Protectionism wasn’t charged against the
Ministry until Jennings took the Treasury, and
his 5 per cent, revenue duties didn’t last long.
Also Our Country quite fails to notice that these
same Foreign-traders, Dibbs and Co., borrowed
£6,000,000 in 1883. That little crowd of Foreign-
trade politicians raised the N.S.W. public debt in
four years from 18f millions to 41 millions. And
the Parkes Foreign-trade Government boosted it
up in five years more to 53 millions. What a
time N.S.W. had in these bygone days, and how
the grand old Foreign-trade party did “go it” !
By the way, Dibbs, after his very brief spell as a
Protectionist, is again a Foreign-trader. He
lately denounced Federation on the ground that
it would deprive N.S.W. of the blessings of Free-
trade. The only respectable part of Dibbs’s finan-
cial career was while he was a Protectionist.
“F.C.” revives an old idea :
If they can spare the time, some of Melbourne’s public
bodies--the City Council, or the Board of Health, or the
awful ditto of Works—might do worse than put up a
small, air-tight chamber, to accommodate one or two
persons, with a supply of charcoal handy. The present
sinfully-wasteful way of dealing with derelicts is a gross
reflection on the Victorian’s commercial acumen. Con-
sider : Threepenn’orth of charcoal, 10s. for a State funeral
and half-a-crown as a death-certificate fee to the charcoal
official—l2s. 9d. the lot; whereas under the present ex-
travagant system, the bill shows Is. for body-recovery,
20s. for jury-fees, a guinea medical-fee, 10s. burial-fee,
besides polluting the Yarra. The plan would also greatly
simplify the process of dealing with those sick and aged
poor persons whom a lavish state now sends to an expensive
gaol for six months or so, repeating the dose as occasion
requires, until they finally uie of old age or too much
hominy. Look at the enormous amount of trouble and
expense to which Elizabeth Nurey, aged 32, put Victoria
the other day. Elizabeth was ill and destitute, and had
no where to go, so she took poison. A constable happened
to notice that she didn’t look any too fit, so he took her
to the hospital, where she was pumped out. The usual
course after such an occurrence is a remand, then six
months’ gaol to recover, then 12 months’ more if she
hasn’t got a job in the meantime. A day or two later an
old woman was found, after midnight, slowly freezing to
death on the steps of an Elizabeth-street warehouse. She
was homeless, and so destitute that she couldn’t buy
even the cheapest poison, so just lay down to die where
she was. She was duly accommodated with six months
gaol. The week previous two old men went to sleep in
the Yarra instead of in their beds, as all right-thinking
old men should do, and their remains had to be fished out
and identified and post-mortemed and inquested, and
finally planted ; and all this costs a lot of money, and gives
extra work to the police when they should be loitering
about easily. Wherefore, I cordially recommend the
lethal chamber, as specified—cheap, simple, and reliable ;
one trial will satisfy the hardest case, he will never use
any other. And a community that has stood the gaoling
of its old and poor so long and unconcernedly needn’t be
squeamish over such a painless, efficacious, and, above all,
inexpensive method as this.
HE HAD NOT LUNCHED,
HUNGRY DOSSER : "Mornin’, Mister. Could yer
spare a bloke a tanner? I ain’t ’ad”
MAN ON SEAT: “This isn’t morning; this is
afternoon .”
H.D.: “It’s mornin’ with me, yet , Mister”
He Shouted for Help.
It was not for pleasure that Mr. Wilson concluded
to take a walk in his garden ; it was rather an ex-
periment than an act of recreation. And, griev-
ous to relate, the result was against him. The
fact is, he had hardly covered a hundred feet of
ground before he stopped, gave a choking gasp,
and then sang out for help. His wife and two
sons came to the rescue, and got him indoors as
best they were able. And that ended his going
alone for six months or more.
By trade Mr. Wilson is a carpenter, one of the
most useful, peaceful and respectable of all the
forms of industry. He has lived and worked for
a long time at Given Terrace, Paddington, Bris-
bane, Queensland, and lives there still. About
four years ago—or it will be by the time this gets
into print—Mr. Wilson began to feel himself much
less of a man than he used to be ; lie was breaking
down.
The first thing he noticed was that when he set
out to walk a fairish distance, which he would have
done once with a kit of tools on his back without
minding it—I say, when he set out to tramp this,
he found his legs were weak, and he often had to
stop for breath. And he kept on getting worse.
Such a state of things was almost as bad for a car-
penter as it would have been for a postman.
Both these vocations demand good legs and good
wind.
On being consulted, the doctor said, “ Mr.
Wilson, your heart is so weak it can scarcely pump
the blood through your body, and your whole sys-
tem is out of order. There is no chance of your
getting sound again, and the sooner you lay aside
your saws and hammers the longer you are likely
to live.”
These were plain words, to be sure, but not
words which a patient would feel like paying out
money to listen to. All the same, friend Wilson
did as the doctor said, because he had no choice.
He couldn’t work, and so, naturally, he didn’t.
His chisels grew dull, but not so dull as their
owner. He left off making chips and shavings,
and went in for drugs and regrets —a bad land-
slide for him.
After about half a year of this sort of thing,
Mr. Wilson made up his mind to find out for him-
self if he was in fact so poor a stick of human
timber as the medical man had declared him to
be; hence the experimental walk in the garden
already described. For six months more he was
like a ship in a dry dock, of no use to himself or
anybody else. The doctor had measured up the
carpenter’s complaint to an eighth of an inch, but
as for curing it, why, that he made no pretence of
doing.
“ About this time,” says Mr. Wilson in a letter
dated Sept. 22nd, 1899, “Mr. Frank Percival
Peacock, of Manning Street, South Brisbane,
urged me to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup; he said
he was sure it would help me. I didn’t think so,
but I tried it. To my surprise and delight, it
enabled me to get about in three weeks, and in six
wee/is I went back to work ; and have had splendid
health ever since.
“ As I am 61 years old it wasn’t the rebound of
youthful elasticity that saved me; it was Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, and nothing else. I am known to
nearly all the people of this neighbourhood, who
can vouch for the truth of my statement.”—
H. Wilson.
Mr. Wilson’s ailment was of the digestion—the
heart and lung troubles being functional symp-
toms of that. When the stomach was made right
he picked up his saw.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World ...
•oJJtaoJ! ’099
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
5 £
mm
GrO TO TTT!T.T
lUOIjANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
MattaLasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE &' SONS, Brisbane, Viand.
D?MACKENZIETS
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
*55
Oh
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADLCY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Piotures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, oonducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
POLITICAL
POINTS
Works Minister O’Sullivan’s ambition is
the State Premiership of N.S.W.
According to ex-Premier Reid, not more
than 15 or 20 members of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
will be candidates for the Federal Parliament.
Melbourne papers fiercely oppose Best’s
Bill to fix the maximum for election expenses at
£lOO. You can’t abolish bribery without seriously
damaging the advertising interest.
Premier Lyne’s latest motto : Unity of
the Federation with the Empire.” Not even
Federal relationship, but unitv. The wolf in
the fable advocated unity, but ASsop Lyne makes
the lamb amble up and beg unity—on his usual
terms.
The Wbstralian Government of Bigjohn
and Co., now in its tenth year of office, survived
Illingworth’s rdotion of censure, the first one that
has struck it in all its long career, by 22 votes to
16. Bigjohn’s downfall isn’t due till next year’s
General Election.
The Victorian Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion wants the Commonwealth Proclamation to
take place on 26th Jan. next (because, you see,
the A.N.A. holds its annual celebration on that
date). But then Victoria wasn’t “lagged” out
here—and everybody isn’t in its position.
Tasmanian politician Hartnoll quite seri-
ously proposed, the other day, that every Tas.
soldier and volunteer should have a free railway
pass while he remained in the service. The idea
wasn’t entertained. If it had been Tasmania
would have had plenty of volunteers and mightv
little railway revenue.
The only Federal certainties in Victoria
are George Turner for St. Kilda and Alfred
Deakin for Ballarat—or Ballaarat, as it is pedan-
tically spelt in the Govt. Bill. M'Eacham thinks
he has a good chance for Melbourne City, but
Fink may score. Dr. Quick should win in Ben-
digo, but there will be a fight for the seat. Dr.
MTnerney (Warden of the University Senate)
will most likely pull it off in Moira, as one of the
Murray constituencies is called, if he works hard.
The rest is chaos.
SUBSTANCE AND
SHADOW.
“ What’ll ye get for yer
picture, Mister?”
“Oh, twenty-jive quid, may-
be.”
“ Ye can have the cuddy for twenty-five bob, an’
no maybe about it.”
“Wait for Victoria,” said a N.S.W.
Minister when reduction of members of N.S.W.
Parliament was mentioned. But Victoria has
already a reduced form of representation. Its
Council stands at 48 and Assembly at 95, whereas
in N.S.W. the Council numbers 78 and Assembly
10K Victoria’s two Houses total 143- N S W’s
AW ' > • • • >
~
Officially admitted that men are actually
being engaged by Q. Govt, to lecture in S’Africa,
with a view to inducing Boer farmers to emi-
grate to Bananaland ! Here we have “loyal”
citizens expected to receive into their midst a
people whom the Jingo papers have all along
described as ignorant, cowardly, murderous
savages.
S.A. Leg. Council so mutilated the House-
hold Suffrage Bill that Attorney-General Gordon
has declined to recognise it as a Govt, measure.
The Tory majority has now altered the measure
to confer the suffrage on the wives of the pro-
pertied minority which possesses the vote at
present. This is adding insult to injury with a
vengeance !
The U.S. Govt., it is cabled, has ap-
proached the Powers in favor of peace. This is
“ very excellent good ” ; but it is decidedly funny
to gather from the very next item that the Yankee
missionary societies are pressing the President
not to withdraw any U.S. troops from China.
It’s the spiritual arm, as usual, that wants most
to “ smite and spare not ! ”
Lord Lamington, the offensive Colonial
Office protege who is titular Governor of Queens-
land, and who made himself remarkable by
meddling with Federation, is credited with pub-
licly advocating more religious instruction in Q.
State-schools. Judging by all The Bulletin
hears, a little religious instruction in Q. Govt.
House is much more desirable.
Ex-Premier Kingston spends nearly every
Parliamentary day as an interested spectator of
S.A. Assembly debates. When Solomon tabled
his adverse motion, Kingston remarked, with fire
in his eye, that he would give all he possessed to
be a participator in the battle. Though out of
the Assembly, the ex-Premier distinguished him-
self by energetically “ whipping ” for the Holder
Ministry.
A healthy sign of the times is that the
blustering councillor John M‘Mahon was beaten
at the municipal election of Fitzroy. This loud-
lunged Jingo was one of the chief persecutors of
plucky engineer Seitz, of the Board of Works,
M‘Mahon being chairman of the Officers and
Servants Committee. His defeat ejects him from
the Board of Works. In refusing to re-elect him
the democrats of Fitzroy do themselves credit.
The miserable little Bill for reforming
Sydney Municipal Council is going to pieces in
N.S. W. Upper House. The Lvne Govt, said that
if the franchise was granted to all adult residents
it would give the Council a chance to reject the
Bill as too sweeping, so it gave a vote to the
householder and the lodger, but none to the house-
holder’s grown-up sons living with him. Then
the Council said that it was a disgraceful
inequality to give the son who lived in his father’s
house no vote, while the son who lived in some
other father’s house had one, so it cut out the
lodger vote, and put the franchise back very much
on the old unreformed basis. And it was the
half-heartedness and cowardice of the LyneGovt.
which supplied good logical excuse for the Council’s
attitude.
The latest Tory hoax is to the effect
that the Victorian banks are going to refuse
accommodation to all manufacturers whose
trades are brought under the Factories
Act, on the ground that these manufac-
turers are bound to be ruined and the
banks don’t wish to share their disasters.
Considering the kind of people (not under
any Factories Act) that the banks lent
money to a few years ago, and the conse-
quences thereof, their capacity to foresee
what kind of people are going to be
ruined seems rather limited.
The impossibility of the sects agree-
ing over appliances and means for intro-
ducing Scripture lessons into Vic. State-
schools is demonstrated by a recent utter-
ance of A.rchbishop Carr’s on the result of
the combined effort of the pietists to pro-
duce suitable religious pills for children.
“ At present the Catholic children in the
State-schools are starved,” said the R.C.
magnate, “but if these lessons are intro-
duced they will be poisoned.” These great
and good men will never agree as to which
is the most suitable poison to feed chil-
dren on.
M.L. Railways Minister Ward has
extended the great deadhead system by
granting free passes over all lines to mem-
bers’ wives during session. The whole
family-tree is now practicall v provided for,
as concessions are granted to sons and
daughters of legislators when visiting the
seat of Govt.
* ! Tasmania’s property-elected.Upper
House is even more notorious than that
of Victoria for the regularity with
whicli it throws out everything’ at all
resembling democratic legislation.
This session it got three chances and
seized them all. The Assembly sent
up a Workmen’s Compensation-for-
Accidents Bill, a Bill to limit dis-
traint for rent, and a Bill to limit
the garnisheeing of wages, and they
all came hurtling down the stairs of
the Chamber of Property. A Bill to
abolish the Meat Tax kept them com-
pany, but it matters little. The Federal
Parliament will fix its eye on the Meat Tax next
year.
Speaking in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly re the,
despatch of the China contingent, ex-Premier
Reid remarked that the men had been committed
to going upon the proposal of two officers; and
that, when the project was first mentioned to the
men, not one held up his hand to go. But
when twitted with being cowards and so on,
they volunteered to go, in order to keep up
the honor of the brigade. And 95 per cent of
those who went for the purpose named were, he
understood, married, and some of them had been
receiving £4 and £5 a week in their respective
callings. These things were all set forth by The
Bulletin at the time; but what punishment
should be awarded G. H. Reid for giving such
treasonable statements the imprimatur of his
political standing ?
ON THE SAME LAY .
URCHIN: “ Halves , Mister! I saw him first.”
The three Lynes : At first he hadn’t given
the question of dual seats “ very serious considera-
tion,” but compromised with his conscience by
remarking the matter should be deferred till the
general election; then he declared, at the Rock
(in his electorate) that he wouldn’t introduce any
legislation whatever to meet the case; and when
he again appeared in the Assembly he said Par-
liament would have an opportunity of at once
determining the matter.
Q. Minister for Education Drake should
now begin to realise what he lost by hurriedly
snatching that polluted portfolio. The fallen idol
would have been a sure thing for a seat in the
Federal Parliament in the Democratic interest,
and almost a “monte” for some position or other
in the Federal Administration. He might not
have got a portfolio, but his services to P'edera-
tion would have demanded some recognition.
But he defiled his hands, and is dead, dead, dead.
The chief plotters against the Holder
Ministry at present are Premier-for-a-week Solo-
mon and once-Treasurer Rounsevell, who happens
to be a colleague of Holder in the representation
of the Burra. Play ford for the present is watch-
ing and waiting. Ex-Premier Kingston considers
the recent no-confidence debate a most irregular
proceeding in that it is the first for 20 years with
which he has had no prominent connection on one
side or the other. It is suggested that some
public-spirited Assembly member should resign
so that Kingston may gain a seat in that body.
A remarkable instance of the well-ascer-
tained variability of Sydney Telegraph appears
in the fact that it now joins with its enemies in
denouncing ex-Treasurer Reid as a financial im-
postor, who never, never, never had a surplus at
all. Yet, all through his brilliant financial panto-
mime, that paper held him up as a noble man of
figures whose statistics were immaculate, and
blithered and blasted See, Lyne, M‘Millan, and
Wise, who said every time that they didn’t
believe there was no sich a surplus. And all
for revenge at his final attitude on Federation—
after many attitudes !
Victoria’s general election is but two
months off, and so far there is no Liberal organi-
sation for the selection of candidates and the
prevention of clashing; nor have any of the
alleged leaders put forth a programme or raised
an election cry. Yet if such as Peacock or Tren-
with were to start now with a promise to force
through the Upper House a popularly-elected
State-Constitution measure, with a suggestion of
the abolition of said House, he would sweep the
polls. Turner, Shiels and M‘Lean would find them-
selves leaders of mere remnants. And the then
real leader of the Vic. Democratic Party would be
sure of a place in the first Federal Ministry.
The Lyne (N.S.W.) Government promises
to tackle four large questions this session:
Woman’s Suffrage, Old-Age Pensions, the estab-
lishment of a State Land Bank, and the resump-
tion of large estates for Closer Settlement. Reid
had a look-in at the last three of these, and
dropped them all. Lyne doesn’t drop things
with the glorious agility of Reid, but he will
probably half-do them, and do that half only
moderately, unless Wise takes the contract out of
his hand;}. Since Lyne’s weak-hearted botching
of the Sydney municipal law, he lias dropped
to zero in public estimation. There was an easy
chance there to do so much, and he did half of
next to nothing.
Affer months of wrangling and scheming
Adelaide corporation and other municipal bodies
are still at loggerheads over their tramways. The
city body has now abandoned the Bingham tram-
monopoly scheme, but stronsrly opposes a Munici-
pal Trust or State ownership. It may be said to
have sunk into a state of cantankerous inaction.
Some time ago Premier Holder announced that,
unless the local bodies promptly agreed on a
scheme, the State would step in. The local bodies
are further from agreement than ever, and in view
of the fact that Adelaide Corporation deposits its
hoof on every proposal save its own company-
monopoly idea, there is no visible reason for delay-
ing State purchase any longer.
Queensland Govt, perpetrates a cruel joke
when it lands raw English new-chums in the
middle of Q. sugar district, where they are forced
to compete with kanakas, Hindoos and Syrians,
very often, too, on lower wages than the heathen.
It is, however, comforting to know that Philp has
cabled Tozer that Q. Govt, purposes spending
£.10,000 on immigration next year.
For the first three Parliaments of N.S.W.
under Responsible Govt. M’s.P. had no free rail-
way passes. It was not till the fourth session
, of the fourth Parliament that the conces-
pv sion was claimed. The argument in favor
of tiie claim was that the rail-
roads only penetrated a little -
way into the country, and that
as coaches and other vehicles
were frequently blocked on
one account or another, mem-
bers would more certainly
reach their places in Parlia-
ment by taking trains. This-
was buttressed with the fact
that members of those days
were not paid. But small as
the concession then was, a sub-
stantial part of the Assembly
protested against passes, as
they were certain to be used
more for business than poli-
tical purposes. In a thin House
the free railway pass was car-
ried by 19 to 13.
Price, M.L.A., sounds the
depths of eternal first principles
in the notice of motion he has
placed on N.S.W. Parliamentary
business-paper. The motion reads—
“It is inequitable to charge tolls on punts and
permit traffic on bridges to go free.” No doubt.
In Westralia the influential offender ap-
parently fines himself at his own discretion. Perth
Ice Go., which has many of the magnates of the-
province among its shareholders, got into trouble
lately over a charge of defrauding the State out
of large sums in railway freight. The statutory
fine of £lO a ton on the goods in question would
probably have run into some thousands, but the
Ice Co., with all the profound coolness of its own
product, fixed its own fine at £lOO, coupled with a
denial of all liability and a reservation of the right
to dispute the claim for arrears of freight. The
offer was accepted. Yet, if a humbler offender,
who had been sentenced to the “cat,” claimed the
right to flog himself, W.A. justice would probably
be quite surprised.
Mainly about Y. L. Solomon, S.A. Oppo-
sition leader: —
Solomon, who has been in cold opposition off and on in
S.A. Assembly for nearly seven years, and a}>ain chal-
lenged the Holder Govt, last week, is an energetic, excit-
able and Slieiky-looking Israelite with an intense ambition
for office. He was Premier last Dec. of the only Tory
Ministry S.A. has seen for seven years, and he officially
lasted just five days. Solomon originally owned and
edited N.T. Times, published at Pt. Darwin, then em-
barked in politics and has represented the Territory—the
largest Parliamentary constituency on earth —for the last
nine years. He is generally understood to be wealthy,
discreet Westralian land speculations having turned out
well. As a leader he is much inferior to another Opposi-
tionist, Play ford, and the latter is probably the only S.A.
politician outside the Holder Ministry who could com-
mand a working majority in the present Parliament.
S.A. G ivt. lias introduced a Bill pro-
viding for the election of a popular convention of
AO members to be selected by the adults of the
State voting as one electorate, members to be paid
£1 Is. daily during office, their duties being to
frame a new Constitution, to draft a Civil List,
and to decide on the electoral district boundaries.
When the Constitution has been framed there is to •
be an adjournment of from 30 to (JO days, and then
it is to be finally adopted by the Convention, after
which it is to be submitted to a popular referen-
dum for approval and then, if ratified, sent to the
Queen for assent. An alternative proposal by
Grainger M.P. is to have a joint sitting of the
present Council (24) and Assembly (54) to frame-
the Constitution.
Labor-member M'Donald raised an in-
teresting question in Q. Assembly by asking
whether the private railway bills being introduced
by Govt, should not be considered as private bills,
and submitted to a select committee before pre-
sentation to Parliament. The action of Premier
Philp in this matter looks very strange. Private
individuals or companies desiring to pass private
bills through the House of Commons have some-
times to pay as much as £50,000 in fees for lawyers,
Parliamentary agents, wii nesses, etc., and in every
Parliament in the world the cost of drafting, pre-
senting and all other charges are paid by the
petitioners. The generous Philp, however, is
introducing a batch of private railway proposals
as public bills, and using the administrative and
legislative machinery of the country to save money
for foreign concession-mongers.
The only strong point ex-Premier Reid
took in his criticism in the debate on the N.S.W.
temporary Supply Bill was the action of the
Govt, in allowing two newspaper-reporters to go,
at State expense, with the 200 men selected for
service in China, in the capacity of “assistant
paymasters.” It was a farce, he said, to send
three officials to attend to' the pecuniary matters
in connection with a handful of men. Premier
Lyne “fell in” at once. “You know very well I
only allowed them two.” “Surely,” persisted
Reid, “ there was a paymaster. An assistant pay-
master must assist someone? No? Oh, I see,
they are to assist each other. How sensible ! ”
Then he went on to accuse the Govt, of imposing -
unnecessary expense upon N.S.W. Whereupon
Premier Lyne announced that he needn’t , trouble
—Great Britain paid all their expenses. Reid
then congratulated the Ministry on having got
so much of the bill on to the shoulders of Great
Britain, and said he would like to be present when
the Imperial authorities discovered that the loyal
Premier of loyal N.S.W. had saddled the British
taxpayer with the maintenance of the representa-
tives of the two leading N.S.W. daily papers,
which were quite able to pay their men them-
selves.


KODAK
PHOTOGRAPHY
is easy Photography. It is
mastered by anyone in a few
minutes, and no dark room is
required for changing films.
Kodaks from
16s. to £7 15s.
KODAK
Pvll Illustrated Price list (A) Post
Pree on application.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at T ondon, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna,
St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
DOCTORS DIFFER,
VITADATIO
CURES.
HYDATIDS.
A New Arrival from New Zealand.
The Square, Palmerston North, N.Z.,
Mr. Palmer. 25th. April, 1899.
Dear Sir,—The case of M’Minn is a genuine one; the
doctor was in a fix about it, but said an operation was
absolutely necessary. I myself diagnosed it “ hydatids,”
and assured the father that Vitadatio would in less than
two days prove me to be correct. You have the father’s
testimony to that effect.—Yours faithfully,
JOHN HEPWORTH, Eclectic Chemist.
Palmerston North, N.Z.,
Mr. Palmer (VITADATIO), 25th. April, 1899.
Dear Sir, —On Bth. August, 1898, my son, aged 12, com-
plained of a swelling on his right side ; on examination
by a doctor it was pronounced to be “ hydatids on the
liver,” and an operation was ordered to take place im-
mediately for the removal of the growth. Meeting Mr.
Hepworth, eclectic chemist, of this town, to whom I
mentioned the trouble, he recommended me try a bottle
of Vitadatio before having resource to an operation, which
would be necessarily attended with more or less risk. I
procured a bottle, and within an hour after the first dose
an improvement in the system was perceptible, and
within a period of two or three weeks he was perfectly
well, and has remained so, enjoying excellent health
without any return of the former trouble. I obtained for
altogether four bottles, and the trial proved most
satisfactory indeed ; far beyond my anticipations.
Witness :J. Hepworth. ALEX. M'MINN, Journalist.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
t&r ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
M V
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling- Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
1M Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co.; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
tsar Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENSMORE,
MERCHANTS!
READ
MARK
LEARN
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S. W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough , Vic.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. A CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
INWARDLY DIGEST!
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
D
.
■
satisfac-
tion
to
cyclists
all
round
IN AUSTRALIA
these tyres are ridden
by 90 per cent, of the cyclists,
their
® FEED DURABILITY AND
EASE OF DETACHMENT
making them popular
with all
classes of cyclists.
Beware
of
Imitations.
DUNLOP TYRES
are only genuine
when the cover and tube
bear this &s?
TRADE
MARK.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia [td.,
ISO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, (Lie.
Dickson, of Queensland, has the
ineffable cheek to complain that N.S.W.
and Victoria are dilatory in deciding to
compensate Somers Vine’s Papuan land-
grab syndicate for its expenses in trying
to steal a very large share of the Posses-
sion. According to the agreement under
which Papua is controlled, Queensland,
N.S.W., and Victoria find most of the
money, and are to be consulted on all
important matters. The two latter were
not consulted on the proposal to hand
oyer the most valuable part of the pro-
vince to a syndicate for next to nothing
per acre. Even the Q. Parliament didn’t
know of it. The steal was illegally and
secretly engineered by the syndicate, the
Papuan Governor, and one or two mem-
bers of the Q. Government, and it cost
the two Southern provinces much labor
and cash to get the barefaced grab an-
nulled. And now Dickson insolently
says that their reluctance to pay the syn-
dicate for expenses incurred in trying to
grossly defraud them “ has led to an
unfavourable opinion in England of Aus-
tralian integrity.'’ Has it, really ? The
Bulletin hopes that any N.S.W. or Vic.
Ministry which agrees to dole out one red
oent to the hungry Somers Vine and Co.
will have to face a vote of want of con-
fidence.
Victorian ex-Premier Turner made
nearest approach to being a born fool
when , he jeered at the windy Shiels for
charging all last financial year’s war-
expenditure to that year, instead of de-
fraying it out of loans.|The loud-mouthed
Jingoes of Victoria yelled themselves
hoarse over their anxiety to “ make
sacrifices for the Empire,” and seeing
that most of them didn’t fight personally,
the only way they can make sacrifices
is by paying personally. And the only
way they can pay personally is by pay-
ing now, while they are still alive and
solvent. Shiels’ mistake lay in not
levying a special war-tax, and in letting
old-age pensions go overboard in order to cover
the war bill. But his conduct in settling that bill
right off was wholly commendable.
The alternative scheme for naming the
N.S.W. Federal electorates put forward by the
Piddington Select Commitee is sadly wanting in
originality. Fifteen titles already applied to seats
in the State Legislature have been appropriated—
viz., Cook, Botany, Lang, Wentworth, Illawarra,
Bathurst, Goulburn, Monaro, Robertson, New-
castle, Murrumbidgee, Hume, The Clarence, The
Richmond, and Broken Hill. Only two of the
commissioners’ names are retained—Maroubra and
Kurringgai. If the new names are adopted by
Parliament confusion must result in calling the
Parramatta and the Petersham districts “Parkes”
and Wentworth respectively. Both Parkes and
Wentworth are well-known towns, and are miles
away from the Federal electorates named. The
new names recommended are Sydney, Sydney
South, The Hunter, The Darling, New England,
Liverpool Plains, and Canoblas, the only native
name. The commissioners’ list is much the better
allowing for the strangeness of the new appella-
tions.
MRS. H. B. JAMES, as “Dunlop Tyres,” at the
Melbourne Poster Ball .
Photo, by Barroni & Co., Melb.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE*
cs>
$5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3VT.S.-W.
P|ont deplete o.^l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Ocean
A ccident
ntt<l
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
i Fidelity Guarantees. limp, liiaoi ‘ty- I
i Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Di.ecbors: W. M‘ Mill an-, A. W. Meeks, Sydney ; L. A.
Jessop, Adelaide.
Me’bourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N. M‘Faelane ;
Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W. Farquhar ; Wel-
lington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 Sc 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
-THE— (
Commei cial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4, ’OOl . . £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C.;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office; Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
Pondon. Office: 1 Jtishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
SOUTH wales:
B¥i)NF.y - 2,73 GEORGE STREET’.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAYINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Baik of |)orth Queenslaof’
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,00.
Capital Paid-up . . ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 8, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 15, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 8, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 11, 5 p.
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 15, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Sat., Sept. 8, 2 p.ra.
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 15, 2 p.m.
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Tb* TrCistccs, €*€cGtorS,
AND
Agsi)CV Conjpaijy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; O. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch; Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z'-aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Z aland Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
MEMORY,
LESSONS
>F
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
' Popular Prices.
St nd for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. W. LAKE, Student, Hobart —“ By its aid I can
now do with ease and certainty that which was almost
impossible. I find it a WONDERFUL HELP in learning
languages.”
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“ History
with its dates was always my dread in exams., but by
your system I have gained 92 per cent, of the possible in
it. I also used it in geography, Latin, &c., with equally
good results. It is easily learned, and cannot be for-
gotten.”
Rev. W. E. BROMILOW, New Britain.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it I learnt the
almanac for the year in about two minutes, and can give
instantly the day of any date, and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.”
fringes,
tf&turaf Curly, from 8/3 eacJfc
PLAITS and TAILS.
Jdin. lone, £/8. all real bait,
CUTTINGS <4 OOMBIN6B
up, 2/6 per 02.
We ora the ebeape/tiu a«s>
Iralla (or all Hair Work.
Send Color of Bair.
WiHfWißidl,
HO WILMASI STBEET,
comer of Palmer-street,
SYUNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Seed stamp* (or full Price List.
Pro(»pt AttooSkaTgiveD to Country Orient
AMUSEMENT for OLD and 'SOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
i-tonishnient of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
ourcharaeter, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail 7th September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, w r ith reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every Fol WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Erancisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Sienm Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS. ..
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
I
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCy PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART& GO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
N
Our Suit to order at 42*
is marvellous value, mad* 1
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast color
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. Od.
Dress Suits, to measure
£5, Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Riding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suita
315., 355.
Famous Ballarat Serge
\ uits, Indigo dye, 255.
Long Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s. 6d,
Tweed Overcoats, 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes, 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. lid., 3s. lid.
4».6d.. 5». lid.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs. 10s 6d., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. lid., Is- lid. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. 6d., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Tants Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors, la. White s hirts to measure.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9d.. 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Dress,” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
SUpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
September 7.
S.S. Wollowra, fromMelb.,
Tuesday, September 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
September 7.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S. N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U- S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
P assent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Roj'al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows ■—
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
VICTORIA
ROME
HIMALAYA
ARCADIA .
OCEANA
Commander.
6527 E. Crewe
5545 J. Cowie, R.N.R.
6898 T. Leigh ...
6603 A. C. Loggin
Sydney,
Noon
Sept. 8
Sept. 22
Oct.
Oct.
6603 L. H.Crawford,O.B.,R.N.R. Nov. !
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, Parker § (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
For MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. ITns Commander. | Leave Sydney.
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis September 22
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George . October 18
AUSTRALIAN ... 3000 P. T. Helms November 10
GUTHRIE 2500 W. G. M'Arthur ... December 6
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH‘|l(uraith, |f|‘Eacharn& (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR, LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-streot, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
_. ______ • • - , zv uec. 1
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7o’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters m
the passengers for London and give them every assista
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Custo
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between In
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offii
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.-
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agen


A Victorian charmer holds the record of
having been the mother of 15 children (all now
dead), with none of the fathers of which she has
yet faced the altar.
You can sit down in your arm-chair by
your fireside, with your nice wife, and take out
your G.B.B. Briar pipe and say : “Ah! A good
wife, a good dinner, a good arm-chair, a good fire
—and now my C.B.B. Briar crowns my happi-
ness.”
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc.,"from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
At a Vic. woman’s franchise meeting, a
long, slim-nosed sister burst into eloquence :—
“ And now, ladies, as to the way most men do vote. On
election days they will cease work and start for the hust-
ings in their best clothes.' As they go along the street
they will drink alternately with the canvassers of each
candidate, pledging their votes with each drink. Thus, a
lot of them never reach the hustings—because they are
not able. That accounts for there being only about half
the number of votes polled that are on the rolls ! Those
of this class that do arrive at the hustings generally see
twice the number of names on the ballot-paper that there
really are. And that accounts for the large number of
informal votes at every election ! Couldn’t we do better
than that?” (Loud cheers.)
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm lias a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they Will
be honorably treated.' H. Newfnaii' is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
tSAHCAI
« F. PEARS
SOAP MAKERS,;
Special Appointment <
TO
HER MAJESTY '
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
PLAIN HOMC TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Ur. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of voting and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts rctidy-mnd 6 for fill occasions &nd
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6<i post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning' any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
KNOW
OF NO
OTHER SAUCE
TO
EQUAL
THIS
OUR OLD AND TRIED
FRIEND
LEA & PERRINS’
SAUCE.
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
The Jolliest Book of the Year
“ON OUR SELECION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co,, Ltd., Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
There is an actor still living who came on once in
the city of —— to play the Inquisitor in “ Gondo-
liers.” He was mentally concealed behind a large quan-
tity of beer, but he got on all right till he tried to sing the
lines : “ And bishops in their shovel-hats were plentiful
as tabby cats.” What he did say was : “ And bishops in
their shovel eats were plentiful as tabby hats.” The audi-
ence laughed, and instead of going straight on he un-
wisely went back and tried again. This time the result
was : “ And bishops in their tabby hats were plentiful as
shovel cats.” The audience howled, and the obfuscated
one felt that he must do or die, so he reeled off these
seven versions in quick succession : “ And tabby bishops
in their hats were plentiful as shovel cats ; ” “ And shovels
in their bishop cats were tabbiful as plenty hats; ”
“ And tabbies in their catful shoves were bishop-
ful as plenty hats;” “And plenty bishops
in their cats were tabbiful as shovel hats;” “And
hatful bishops in their cats were tabbiful as plenty shoves ”;
“And shovels in their bishful cats were shoppiful as
—hie—plenty hats.” Just here the curtain came down,
but even after that a thick voice was heard saying some-
thing from behind about how “ Tabby hattops in their
bish were plentyshove as full of cats,” or words to that
effect. The result suggested something new in benefits.
Fancy an adv't. reading thus : “ Melbourne Hospital.—
With a view to lifting the debt off this deserving institu-
tion a great benefit performance of 1 Hamlet ’ will be
given at the Princess on Saturday night. All the leading
artists now in the city will take part. By way of lending
novelty to a drama which has become somewhat familiar
in the course of years all the gentlemen of the company
will be Drunk. It is expected that some perfectly new
lights will be cast on the text by accident. The ticket-
taker will be sober, but the lime-light man, scene-shifters
and stage-carpenters will all be paralytic. Seats may be
booked with a specially-intoxicated gentleman at ’s
music-shop. The local brewers have already taken up
two rows of stalls at 20s. each.”
He was a stage-manager famed in two provinces for the
volume and vigor of his slanguage, and she was a member
of the new chorus that was being hurriedly anathema-
tised into shape. He had worried and cursed himself into
a fever, more especially over the shy-looking maiden with
the tender eyes and the pale yellow hair, and she had
borne it uncomplainingly until, stung by her imperturba-
bility, the s.m. excelled himself in a tremendous burst of
eloquence for her especial benefit. Then suddenly did the
lady drop her back-hair, and let loose from her ruby lips
a torrent of such concentrated scorn as fairly took his
breath away. She didn’t swear at all. In a quiet, even
voice she told him that he was unfit to herd with dogs
and lepers ; that Judas Iscariot would shudder to be seen
in his company ; that his robust age was owing to the
.Tact, that Death was afraid to strike him for fear of being
dirtied by the contact, and his good health arose from the
circumstance that no disease dared come near him lest it
should be infected by something worse than itself. With
an angelic smile on her face, she told him that even hogs
would get off his grave in haste, and putrefaction would
pass him by in alarm. For a couple of minutes he stood
paralysed ;' then, as the lady was retiring triumphant, he
. yelled, “ Fetch that girl back ! ” She was brought back.
'“ Here,” cried he, “Take my job ' take my salary ! I’m
only fit for the blanky ballet! ”
A distinguished actor coming out from England does
not create so great a sensation now as in the olden time.
When G. V. Brooke landed at Saridridge (Vic.), in ’54, a
drag, drawn by six gaily-decorated horses, conveyed him
to the city ; and the line of route was crowded by shout-
ing multitudes of the sort that, in our day , reserve their
joyful bellowing for a rich Governor, who is supposed to
come among them to spend money. Even the fraud
Bandmann was wildly cheered the first time ha_poked his
well-oiled ringlets out of the manager’s box of Melb. Royal.
A lot of “unthinking thinkers who thought that they
thought,” believed that, because he was the countryman
of Goethe, Schlegel and Tieck he would present a perfect
Hamlet.
“ Old Jane ” : Re Helen Fawcett’s remark that G. V.
Brooke was incapable of bringing mind into the study of
a part. There is such a factor as instinct, which serves
genius as a royal road. A mental analysis may be neces-
sary to him whose perception does not instantly seize
upon the truth ; result, artistic mechanism. But what
people term inspiration produces that realism which no
mere intellectual effort can achieve. Brooke —common-
place and even dull off the stage—had a gift of intuition
which served him in place of mind-study. So had the
elder Kean ;so Booth ;so little- Robson. Also, they all
got drunk when the fit was over, and they had returned
to normal conditions. As to Brooke’s having- been a
failure in London, writer can remember when he took
that village by storm. But it didn’t last, for reasons not
necessary to particularise. Anyhow, the English stage
has not since seen the equal of Brooke as a tragedian, nor
in certain lines of comedy—lrish especially.
When Sarah Bernhardt was performing in Melbourne a
few years ago, the principal of a fashionable ladies’ board-
ing school took 12 of her pupils to the theatre one even-
ing in order that they might receive an irreproachable
French lesson. To the surprise of most people, the play
selected for the improvement of the girls was “ Camille.”
It did not matter, however, because they obviously never
understood a word of the rapid dialogue.
“J.A.C.”: The late Lance “ Lenton ” (with whom I
was intimately acquainted) was a son of the late Dr.
Keen, of Hobart, Tas. (Dr. Keen’s erstwhile Tas. partner,
Dr. Crooke, is still in active practice in Sydney at the
venerable age of about 90 years), and began his theatrical
career by playing the drum in the orchestra with
“Wizard Oil” Frank Weston’s minstrels, after which he
was assistant to Chapman, conjuror, at St. George’s Hall,
Melb. As he was an excellent mimic, and had intuitively
picked up a knowledge of dancing, he next got an engage-
ment at “Charlie” Wright’s, Colosseum, Melb., where
he did nigger apd Dutch song-and-dance business. Next
he was harlequin in a pantomime, and later on joined
Hegarty’s Variety Co. in Sydney. His first essay in
dramatic business was with Coppin and Greville. He also
-showed considerable literary talent, and wrote some very
smart parodies. He was a lineal descendant of Sir
Lancelot Shadwell, Vice-Chancellor of England in 1827,
and twice Commissioner of the Great Seal. Lance Lenton
was a true Bohemian and a good fellow. R.I.P. !
“ Nolo ”: The native drama has not yet made much head-
way in Australia, though 25 years ago W. M. Akhurst was
very successful in Melb. in the composition of some musi-
cal burlesques of the old H. J. Byron school. Garnet
Walch followed in his steps with inferior results ; and
from time to time local dramatic authors have tried their
hands at adaptation of novels. “ Robbery Under Arms,”
and “ For the Term of his Natural Life” hold the stage
with Alfred Dampier’s Co., but they are not of a particu-
larly high merit. George Darrell’s melodramas will
be chiefly remembered in the future on account of his
claim that he was the first to suggest, in “ The Forlorn
Hope,” the despatch of the Soudan contingent. It would
be difficult to point out a really good original play that
has been written by an Australian author, unless Haddon
Chambers is to be counted as one. The man of genius,
with a stirring drama.racy of the soil, has yet to arrive.
Brough has figured as lessee, or sub-lessee, of five show-
places in Melbourne. Firstly, the Opera House, where he
and Boucicault had the late H. R. Harwood for their
“associate-manager.” Then the old Bijou ; next the
•Hibernian Hall, for two or three weeks after the theatre
was burnt; then the new Bijou ; and, of late years, the
Princess’s occasionally. Williamson, as a member of the
Firm and “ on his own,” has touched six places—Royal,
old Princess’s, Bijou, new Princess’s, Athenaeum Hall, and
Her Majesty’s (late Alexandra). Musgrove, who has been
epneerned in all the J.C. W. specs, except Her Majesty’s,
is an e'x-lessee of the Opera House. Rickards has taken a
turn at St. George’s Hall, old Opera House, Gaiety-, Bijou,
and the Princess’s, and is now building a new Opera
House (or Tivoli, as it will prdbably be called). Bland
Holt has tried the Royal, the Alexandra, and the Prin-
cess’s ; and George Rignold is credited with seasons at the
old Opera House, the Royal, and the Princess’s.
Ohas. Arnold, a Swiss by birth, studied law in America
before he took to the stage. He is often spoken of as an
“ only-one-line-of-characler ” man, but, as a matter of
fact, Hans the Boatman went through the mill years ago,
playing dialect parts in drama, principal parts in comic
opera, and any parts he could get in Shakespeare and the
“legitimate.” He owns up to having been manager in
front of the house, and utility actor for a big stock co.
25 y-ears ago, and sometime before he struck the “ Hans”
reef he was running his own show. In the character Of
man-of-the-world, Arnold shines brightest.
“G. 8.”: Ayvay back in the ’so’s there existed in
Hobart an amateur dramatic club consisting mostly- of
shipwrights. On one occasion they put up “ The Lady of
Lyons,” and the man that played Claude—coining on with
a bellow of “ Give me joy, dear mother, I’ve won the
prize ’’—tripped in the ragged carpet, shot head-foremost
into the orchestra, knocked over the- leader, and broke
his fiddle ; whereupon said leader punched Olaude on the
eye. Claude’s friends in the pit rushed to the rescue;
the orchestra backed its man, and for a few minutes
Sheol reigned. Peace being at length restored, the play
proceeded, and by the time Claude came on to do the
wooing biz. he had an eye on him like a pickled walnut.
And mighty was the guffaw that went up to the roof
when Claude returned from the wars, with a lip, also,
like a well-filled sausage, and strove to hide those marks
of strife with his military cloak. The farce that followed
the “Lady” was dry hash by comparison.
They called each other “cully” with that familiar per-
sistence dear to the average “ pro.” Lona' out of a job
and heavily in arrear with board, they finally “ flew the
coop,” and the long-suffering landlady was again “ left.”
Some time after two other “ pros.” came to look at the
rooms with a view to residence. Being satisfied as to
their suitability, one said to the other, “ This’ll do, cully,
eh ? ” But the landlady intimated that she had had
“ two of the Cully family before and wouldn’t stand any
more of ’em.”
“Via”: Re “The Only Way.” Why has Dickens’
“ Great Expectations ” never been staged ? The dramatic
stumbling-blocks seem smaller than in any other of his
works. Wonder it was not done years back. For ex-
ponents, the original B. and B. co. would have got a
bull’s-eye every time. Imagine Mrs. B. as Miss Havisham,
Brough as the loutish Joe Gargery, Dot B. as the priggish
Pip, Tith. as Jaggers, Cecil Ward as the convict Magwich,
and Emma Temple as Stella.
A mean dodge is worked by some quasi-society people
to secure the boxes at theatres without paying the usual
fee. Turning up late thej' claim seats in the front row of
the circle, already occupied, and, when told that theirs
are in another place, they immediately proceed to make a
scene, and aver in loud and ungrammatical sentences
that they intend “seeing about it” in the morning. To
avoid trouble, the management will generally shove the
party into a box ; and it is a peculiar coincidence that
scenes never occur if the box happens to be occupied.
Jefferson made a competence out of Rip Van Winkle,
his favorite character, though Salem Scudder in “ The
Octoroon” was his best part. While he was one of the
most natural actors that ever trod the boards, he
could not compete against first-rate English performers
in such parts as Dr. Pangloss and Tony Lumpkin.
The Americans are patriotic in their dealings with
dramatic favorites. When Louise Pomeroy was in Aus-
tralia she told her friends that she always did her best in
her own country when following on the tracks of Adelaide
Neilson. The English actress having had a splendid
reception in the town, the people said, “ We must roll up
for Pomeroy and take care that bur native talent is just
as well recognised.” Australian patriotism is not yet
developed to that extent.
A voice from a N.S.W. country town: —“Visited the
local Oddfellows’ Hall t’other night to see Cinematograph
with alleged pictures taken at Ladysmith. One depicted
a shell bursting in a stable, and man leading out two fat
horses with spanking harness on—they looked as though
they had just been groomed for the brewer’s dray. Of
course it was a palpable fake, but the long-haired Ananias,
in his introductory remarks, told the audience how the
poor, starved brutes were rescued for food. And, as a
sample of what the public will stand, he wound up like
this : ‘ You people in the country perhaps wonder how
these pictures are obtained. Well, I’ll tell you. We
secure a few mules and attach the cine, on their backs
and send them away broadcast. Some return, some get
shot ; those that return are examined, and any good pic-
tures, such as battles, fires, &c., are preserved and
brought to Australia and shown as you have seen them
to-night.’ And the audience sat still and said as - one
man, ‘Well, fancy that!’ That lecturer had got his
story upside-down. It isn’t asses that take the cinema-
tographe war-pictures. It is asses who pay to see them.’
Dear Bulletin. —Probably a jealous mummer started
the yarn that Irving’s .eccentricities of pronunciation
were suggested to him by manager Bateman “ when he
made his first London appearance at the Lyceum ” as
a means of exciting controversy and calling attention to
the actor. Irving’s first London appearance was made
year’s before Bateman (a firm believer in his powers) gave
him the chance to play Mathias in “ The Bells.” Also,
the Irvingesque tricks of speech and gait had been
peculiar to the man in previous performances under other
London managers. He was an actor of note when he
took the part of Mr. Ghevenix, M.P., in “ Uncle Dick’s
Darling” at the Gaiety. He was almost famous by the
time he had finished playing Digby Grant in “ The Two
Roses,” at the Vaudeville, under the triumvirate manage-
ment of Henry Montague, David James and Tom Thorne.
And in both of those well-remembered successes Irving
walked and talked on the lines which took Bateman’s
fancy and gave that astute Yankee the idea of trying how
far the mannerist would go in a weird; character part.
To say. that Irving was “ faked ” into fame is ridiculous—
but, then a small mummer’s attempts to explain away
the triumphs of big mnmmers are almost invariably
foolish. —E.F.
“ Camille,” as “ La Dame Aux Camelias,” was first pro-
duced at the little Theatre des Varibt6s, Paris, in 1850,
with Madame Doche as Camille, and Fechter, a native of
Whitechapel, as Armand. That was the making of
Fechter, and awhile later he created in London the twin
characters of the Dei Franchi, in “Corsican Brothers.”
The study of English was not hard to him, but like most
Frenchmen, he never could wipe away the accent, his
talk sounding very like that of Bandmann—the German,
but not so bad. Yet Fechter, who played the part in a
flaxen wig, made an overwhelming hit with his Hamlet,
in London, influencing every Hamlet that followed.
Montgomery took the cue largely from him, and maybe
this was the reason why Montgomery’s Hamlet never
caught on so in London. He couldn’t well Fechterise
there, as in Australia.
A London critic draws attention to the fact that the
“ Pirates of Penzance ” opens on 29th February, a bitterly
cold season in England, and yet the girls wear summer
frocks and are about to paddle in the sea. He wants to
know how Gilbert came to make such a discrepancy.
While he is about it, he might also ask Gilbert how he
came to make the worse discrepancy of having any
pirates at Penzance at all. This writer arises to assure
the public in a deepl.v-serious spirit that there are no
pirates at Penzance except the one that sells you beer in
the local pub., and the pirate at the local branch bank,
and the buccaneer at the railway-station.


THE RECORD of the past makes
the MASSEY - HARRIS the Bicycle of the future.
Our fifty-three years of experience and fair
dealing is the guarantee.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Wndquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Aitencies almost everywhere Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 386 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
In Disease’s Web.
The following is the praise of A. Mackenzie,
No. 4. Knight-street, Williamstown, _Vic.
“For over a year I have suffered from indiges-
tion and kidney complaint; the latter used to
affect me across the small of the back, causing
me great pain and inconvenience. Seeing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills advertised, I decided
to give them a trial, and the results are highly
satisfactory. After using them the pain dis-
appeared. I used also to suffer slightly from
eczema, but since taking Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills that has entirely vanished. I find
the Pills a gentle purgative and very searching,
and can advise anyone to give them a trial, You
are at liberty to use this as an advertisement ”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills stand alone as a
perfect blood purifier and positively cure bilious-
ness, indigestion, dyspepsia, headache, sallow
complexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples’ and blotches. Price Is ljd per bottle,
or six bottles 6s 6d. Sole proprietors, The W.
H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot),
58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
Important Notice.—Piles. —Mr. Frank
Buekhurst, Chemist, of Mutual Store Buildings,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, has now a stock of the
famous “ Cannalin ” remedies for Piles. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, “ Piles and
How to Cure them,” sent free on application, or
from the head dep6t, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Cabled last week that Boer Commandant
Olivier—the man who met Gatacre at Stormberg
—had been captured. Seeing that his death in
battle was announced and confirmed about six
weeks ago, the best thing Roberts can do is to
bury him decently—and quickly.
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
-i?K -3K
A BIG POINT
You buy “ RED BIRDS ” direct.
The manufacturers of Red Bird bicycles maintain
their own branches in all important centres, there-
fore customers and agents are supplied directly
from the factory without the intervention of the
middleman. Maker and rider are in touch—the
result is a perfect machine.
Are we represented In your town?
Branches:
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
Bundle-street, Adelaide, S. A.
The Goold Bicycle Co. f
S 4 KING BTREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The “ Oxberry ” Spring meeting at Clarendon
(N.S.W.), Saturday, drew a profit-bringing crowd. Though
Mo. (as he always does) finished a bit in hand, he didn’t
fet quite the scoop that came his way at Rosehill previous
aturday. Accuracy of oft-repeated phrase, “ Horses for
courses,” was further verified when Lochiel-Lola mare
Jenny Moore won Flying Handicap (6fur.) easily in 1.15 J,
and, later, got home in Welter. Crack jocks F. Kuhn (in
Flying) and Steve Callinan were up. Same nag gathered
in a double at Autumn meeting of same club. Last Sat.
she started for first event at sevens—Lybian, Cast Iron
and Expectation 11. being better favorites, but none of
them had a hope from flag-fall. Jenny was top of the
market (3 to 1 agst) in Welter, and took the money com-
fortably by two lengths from unlucky Maranoa, who had
previously run second to Wooton’s Scientist. Cyanide
had most followers in Spring Handicap (ljmls. 100yds.).
Rock of Ages, St. Clare, Hi Hi, Butternut and Nevermore
were others legitimately supported. Butternut was in
front from end to end, but only squeezed home by a neck,
through sheer gameness, after a hot tussle with Rock of
Ages. Cyanide’s third doesn’t make her prospects in
Epsom or Metrop. look too rosy. Hi Hi—heavily backed
by owner (Metallician Beales) for to-day’s big mile, Tues-
day’s Metrop., and the double —shaped worse than the
favorite, as did others (Water-Color, the Bananalander
Malula, and Pelissier) fancied for coming big plums.
Butternut, who is by Eiridspord (imp.) from Buttercup
by Panic, and was bred by Mr. R. O. Allan, started 16
times last season and only won once.
* * * *
There will be a more numerous field than usual
in A.J.O. Derby this Saturday, but the contest will likely
resolve itself into a match between Vic. and N.S.W.
champions Malster and Hautboy. The latter’s superior
condition should pull him through.
* * * *
Epsom Handicap at Rand wick this Saturday
looks a good thing for Dandy ; failing him, writer thinks
Reviver and outsiders Melodian, Argo, and Range have
great chances. Won’t stand Ampier. The Mo’s suspect
he’s being kept atop of the market for laying-off purposes,
as a pile of money was secured about him at hundreds to
one, two, and three on strength of a “ wife’s dream.”
Ampier hasn’t done anything here to warrant present
position in betting, and t’other day was badly beaten by
Glenore—then asoto 1 chance. Owner of Range owned
Ampier two years ago.
• • • •
Dandy (Martini-Henry—Vain Glory) is now
perhaps the best handicap horse in Australia, and al-
though a very hot favorite for to-day’s Epsom, it may be
in accord with the usual “ cussedness ” of racing that the
Metrop. on Tuesday will be the race to set the seal on his
fame.
* * * *
Vocalist (8.9) has been genuinely backed for
Caulfield Cup and as he will probably be returned a
winner at A.J.C. Meeting which begins this Sat., his
astute backer may be able to “ stand on velvet.”
* * * *
By Paul Pry at Rand wick, N.S.W. and
Miltiades at Adelaide, S.A. the colors of S’Rupert Clarke
will likely be borne to victory during the coming week.
* * • *
Remarkable ill-luck has befallen “ Turanville ”
stud this season. Only two mares have foaled up to date,
and in these cases Splendora’s twin foals to the speedy
Ruenalf died immediately after birth ; while the death of
Myril’s foal to the same sire was followed by that of the
mare herself. The lottery of blood-stock breeding !
* * * •
“T.S.” writes: S.A. law made another exhibition
of itself over its latest attempt to put down the illegal
bookmaker. The police employed agents, who went
round and made bets with the unlawful bag-carriers, and
then they prosecuted the long-nosed brigade wholesale.
But the defending lawyer asked these witnesses if they
intended to collect the money supposing they won, and
they replied that they didn’t—probably lest they should
be fined or imprisoned for illegally betting in a public
place. Then it was gravely submitted that as the person
making the bet didn’t intend to collect the money if he
won, it wasn’t a real, complete, bona-fide betting trans-
action, and the law agreed with this view and sent Moses
about his business. Next time, probably, the defence
will be that the bookie was only a welsher and didn’t
mean to pay the money if he lost, and therefore it
wasn’t a real, complete, bona-fide betting transaction,
and Moses will be sent about his business again. Also,
next time the informant will doubtless be careful to say
that he did intend to collect the money if he won, where-
upon he will be prosecuted for illegally betting in a pub-
lic place, and for conspiring to incite an innocent Moses
to do an unlawful action, the same being the laying of a
disgracefully short price on an animal that was stiff.
If the S.A.' Legislature is in real earnest I desire to
suggest a way out. Let a list be made of the names or
professed names of everj r known bookmaker and a law be
passed making it heavily punishable for any one of them
to be found at large in the province after a certain date.
Then if more bookies arise put their names in a similar
law next session, and keep on doing it. The law can
almost always come out on top if it is sufficiently in
earnest. The trouble is that it is hardly ever sufficiently
in earnest.
* * * »
The “unlawful-betting” prosecution has brought
out an interesting law-point at Adelaide. Paris Nesbit,
who defended, hit back with an information charging the
prosecuting constable with infringing the Act by making
a wager with one of his clients. Crown solicitor produced
the Governor’s pardon for his man. Nesbit argued that
the pardon was ineffective inasmuch as the constable had
pleaded “ not guilty,” and the charge had not yet been
proved against him. Held—following English authority
—that “ the King may pardon any crime before attainder
or conviction,” and “ if a penalty be given to him who
will sue for it, the King, before suit, may pardon the whole
suit.”
» * * •
Marvellous how pug. Cribb draws. Saturday
night Golden Gate Club (Sydney) was full to bulging-out
point. Tariff ranged from 10s. down to 35., hence sur-
plus over purse (£75) must have materially added to pro-
moter’s banking account. The Maorilander was let loose
at Melbourne Tot Higgins a second time, and made short
work of him. Tot shaped as if he wanted it brief and
merry, for instead of standing off and watching for, or
making, openings (as the cleverer boxer of any two would
do), he hurled himself at the M.L. man —made the fight
as Otto liked it—with the inevitable ending—the thing
was over inside 4mins. of actual slugging, and Cribb owned
another scalp, together with attendant coin. ’Twas a
wild and woolly go from the jump—all swing, rush, and
crash. In first round neither got anything really solid
home, though both landed somewhere often. Getting to
it again, Cribb set a recent gash over Higgins’ left eye
going, making Tot a gory spectacle, but only for a few
seconds, as, a little later, he caught one on the point
that sent him to the boards, where he stayed just a
moment too long to claim any further interest in the
proceedings. Writer has seen many bruisers who’d have
got over that punch inside half the time, but perhaps not
if they were tackling men who had beaten them unmis-
takably before, as was the case with Higgins.
* • « •
“Jab”: The way the second meeting ’tween
Cribb and Higgins (Sat. night) was boomed by some of the
papers would be amusing if ’twere not so sickening.
E. News of said date printed that the two put up an
interesting battle before, but owing to Higgins not being
in the best of condition his seconds were compelled to sky
the towel. “ To-night both will be in best of condition and
battle should be a good one with exciting situations from
start to finish.” Star told a hungering public that
“These two warriors met before and it was one of the
best ever seen in Sydney, (a large order). The Melbourne
man not being in good condition was forced to give in.
This time they are both real well; it should be a great
battle, one that will bristle with exciting situations from
beginning to end.” Surely both pars emanated from one
source? The truth, of course, is that the previous battle
was anything but enthrallingly interesting, for Higgins
kept on the run the whole time, and instead of his seconds
throwing up the sponge he took the bit in his teeth and
insisted upon doing it himself—wanted to do it two
rounds before, in fact, though in first class trim and good
enough to go another 10 rounds had he owned the spunk
and been lucky enough to dodge a knock-out; but Cribb
scared him badly. Small wonder Sydney is getting rather
tired of a game boomed in this misleading fashion,
* • * *
M.L. bruiser Otto Cribb and Mick Dunn were
matched this week for N.S.W. middle-weight supremacy
(which Dunn holds); £lOO in stakes, and a purse of a
similar amount given by Gaiety A.C. (Sydney). Fight has
been fixed for Oct. 1. Otto will find Dunn the toughest
he has yet faced, and can look forward to being set a
merry jig round the G.A.C.’s 20ft. square throughout the
20 rounds stipulated, unless Dunn outs him previously;
for, as Otto couldn’t catch Sturgeon, writer doesn’t see
how he’s going to corner wily Mick. But that’s to be
seen. Cribb is coming on at every go. Erstwhile Cap-
tain’s Flat miner Dan O’Connell is waiting for a shy at
Otto and will have it whether latter wins or loses with
Dunn.
• * * *
“Old Timer”: Bulletin par. (31/8)’00) re
’Stralian Steve O’Donnell’s successive defeats at the hands
of Irishman Peter Maher reminds writerof time when Steve
and Owen Sullivan (another son of Erin, but from this side
of the sphere) fought at the National, London. Owen got
a jolt, and needing a spell badly went down and remained
on hands and knees, counting the 10 secs, to himself, re-
gardless of what the referee was doing, with the result
that Owen (as he protested subsequently) had only reached
7 when the responsible official yelled “Outl”) Owen
went crazy over the occurrence for an hour or two after-
wards, and offered to back his judgment of time against
the “ bist watch iver made.’’
* * * •
Cable last week told that world’s champion
bruiser Jim Jeffries had refused to fight Fitzsimmons
Aug. 31, and latter notified his “ permanent retirement.”
Fact of Fitz. insisting upon date named was due to the
law prohibiting fighting in N’York taking effect from next
day. According to latest Yankee files Jeffries’ right arm
was in plaster, so that he could hardly face the music at
such short notice. Nobody’ll look upon Bob’s announced
retirement seriously ; it’s about the third time he’s been
taken that way. Old Bill Beach is the only champ, who
ever did the retiring act properly.
**' » *
Coming ’Stralian champion man of thew “ Sam-
son,” now in M.L., met local crack Newton at Auckland
recently. Despite Samson being challenger, Newton
went on first with sheer lifts of from 56 to 2001 b. above
head—all done rather easily. Samson couldn’t follow
some, but subsequently came along with his own lot, and
most of ’em beat Newton. Referee here declared scores
equal. Newton now set a tough go ; while prostrate he
raised 2001 b. from back of head, stood erect, and resumed
recumbent position again. Samson cried ago here.
Referee’s verdict went to Newton. Samson contends he
didn’t get a square deal—his challenge was for Newton to
perform same feats as he (Samson) did nightly in Auck-
land.
» * * *
Olympian Games in Paris didn’t impress Stan.
Rowley. He says in a letter that “to treat these events
as world’s championships is a farce. Most of the com-
petitors take them as a huge joke. Thought of having
come from Australia to compete makes one feel ridiculous.
The tracks are (bar none I’ve ever seen) the worst in the
world ; there’s a dust footpath running right across them
at 30yds. Starter was a Frenchman. Foreigners be-
haved like jumping-jacks on their marks, and invariably
got yards the better of the gun. Americans and myself
decided to do likewise, with the result that in every heat
you’d see one man beat the report badly, and tear along
syds. in front of the others. No foreigner got placed in
100 metres first round, and, as Yankees and myself were
left in the second round, we clamored for an English
starter —and got one.”
• • • *
Latest particulars anent 100 metres world’s
supremacy at Paris Olympian games are that the four left
in final were Yankees Duffy, Tewkesbury and Jarvis and
’Stralian Stan. Rowley. Duffy fell at 30yds. (where the
dust-path crossed the track), but didn’t look like win-
ning. Jarvis breasted the worsted by a foot from Tewkes-
bury who was 6in. in front of Rowley. Latter is confi-
dent that if distance had been 120yds. instead of 100
metres (110yds.) he would have settled Tewkesbury and
probably Jarvis. Yale ’Varsity trainer said if he had
Rowley in hand for a while he’d make him top o’ the
heap. Appears now Rowley was third, not second in 60
metres—a foot behind Tewkesbury whom Kraenzlein beat
by 6in.
• * * *
“ Spike ”: There not much ’Ome about England
for Australian premier sprinter, Stan. Rowley, who writes
by last week’s mail: “ English A. A. A. have not up to
now shown me one little bit of courtesy ; in fact, I have
only seen the sec. when I’ve casually visited a sports
meeting. The only letter he wrote me was one saying I
owed 10s. entrance-fees for English A.A.A. championship
meeting. I only got one ticket for championship gather-
ing and that was kept back till day before.” Nice, hos-
pitable people, those down-under “ Amachaws.” Leaving
Rowley religiously alone (a stranger in a strange land) is
bad enough in all conscience, but billing him for entrance-
fees is piling it on thick. Wonder they didn’t make the
gentlemanly Stan, pay at the gate 1
* * * *
Latest mailed news re lengthy wrangle between
’Stralian scullers Towns and Wray over English supre-
macy is that Wray gave way and agreed to the Hunter
River (N.S.W.) man’s stipulation that bows of boats
should be level at start. If nothing has upset arrange-
ments in evidence they’ll come together over champion-
ship course, Putney to Mortlake, next Monday.
• * * . *
Fact of ’Stralians Wray and Towns going to row
for English championship Monday, recalls that Saturday
last was 14th anniversary of the big Sculling Carnival
promoted and engineered by London News op the World
W. J. Innes. Beach and Matterson were Australian reps.,
Teemer, Wallace Ross and Lee U.S., and Bubear and
Perkins British. Dapto (N.S.W.) warrior Beach gathered
in first money (£1334), Teemer second, and Matterson
third. Canucks Gaudaur and Hanlan were on the spot,
but wouldn’t enter; while Peter Kemp (N.S.W.) had to
drop out through lack of condition.
* * » *
Forthcoming N.S.W. swimming season pro-
mises more interesting sport than any seen for years.
Sprint wonders Fred Lane and Jack Hellings are expected
back from London, also Leo (whilom champion of Aus-
tralasia), who was among the defenders of Mafeking.
Followers of the sport are looking forward to some hot
tussles, as ’tis anticipated that “Mud” Bishop, Dick
Cavill, and Bob Craig will set the returning cracks a
lively go in all premierships from 100yds. up.
* * * - *
Arthur Eales, of N.S.W., goes to England
next February, to shoot against the best there. He says
he had great confidence in his match with Massey, that
he was dead-sure he’d last, because he trained properly.
His training was 10, 12, 18 miles a day in the field with
the gun, shooting everything that got up. Field shoot-
ing, he says, is the game to make you quick and sure
with the second barrel, because if two birds get up, you
have to be quick with the second barrel to get both
birds. He’ll shoot Massey again if Massey likes —at the
Gun Club, Botany—but he won’t go to Yass, where
Massey wants him to go. He says it would be just as
reasonable for him (Eales) to insist on Massey going to
Morpeth to shoot.
• •
First interprovincial baseball match ’tween Vic.
and N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket Ground only drew a fair
crowd (rain probably made some difference) but interest
was sustained throughout. It isn’t at all unlikely that
the Yankee craze will take on directly that ’Stralians
become versed in its fine points. Laver, M‘Allister,
Ingleton and Kemp, who toured U.S. as members of that
much-joked-about Vic. baseball team, pulled the market-
garden province through. Vic. started well and early. Home
players’ combination in stealing bases was effective at
times and in final innings they made a good recovery, but
too late to be of service. Boehm and Iredale did fine
work, while Jones and Diamond—on first and third bases
—gave t’other province’s reps, a set back often. Vic.
pitchers—Laver and Ellis—opened the eyes of onlookers
as well as bats. Laver’s “ drop balls ” were very trouble-
some. At one stage scores were 9 —nil in favor of visitors.
Sixth innings’ results showed Vic. 11, N.S.VV. 6. Nothing
more was notched on either side till eighth and ninth
innings when home men added 3 to their total. Play
ceased : Vic. 8 innings 11 runs ; N.S.W., 9 innings 9 runs.
Other two matches of rubber were to be decided Wednes-
day and Saturday this week.
• » • *
Football struggle (Saturday) on Brisbane Cricket
Ground—N.S.W. u. Q. —went to latter by Bto nil. Score
was accomplished in initial half and within smin. of spell.
Spragg secured first try and converted, and Henry got the
second. Q. forwards did great work, forcing the game by
a series of brilliant rushes throughout which Colton and
Carew shone. Backs also shaped well, especially
M‘Cowan. Rain marred attendance (which only numbered
2000) considerably and affected play a deal. N.S.W. pass-
ing was of a high order, despite ball being very wet and
slippery. Herein Halloran, Blaney, Smith and M‘Mahon
made themselves conspicuous while the effectiveness of
Joyce and Judd’s play among forwards was very notice-
able.
• * * *
Saturday’s makes 21st football match ’tween
N.S.W. and Q. —decided in Brisbane. First was played
17 years ago. Mother province has won 10, Q. 9, and two
have been drawn. Of last five, Q. got away with three,
N.S.W. one, and the fifth was drawn.
* • * *
Most important Rugby match in Sydney last
Saturday was played at Agricultural Society’s ground
’tween Northern (Newcastle) and Metropolitan branches.
Visitors came out atop by 14 to 9, and deserved the vic-
tory. Backs defended well, while forwards brought a
heap of power to hear in the scrums. Game was some-
what loose, but nevertheless interesting.
* » * *
N.S.W. great public schools’ football premier-
ship went to Newington College—with seven wins and
one defeat. Points scored totalltd 163, only 17 being
compiled by opposing sides. Sydney Grammar and King’s
Schools tied for second—five wins and three losses each.
• * • •
Re a possibly misleading par. in issue of
25/8/’OO, The Bulletin is now reliably informed that crack
batsman Joe Darling has no intention of giving up his
cricket and sports business in Adelaide.
• * ♦ •
Cabled that Yorkshire has come out top in
English county cricket. The Tykes owe their success to all-
round play rather than to the possession of cracks. To
illustrate, their top batsman, Hirst, was only 12th on the
averages, the next, Taylor, being as far down as 23rd.
Rhodes, however is top in bowling, and Haigh third.
Lord Hawke has now captained the team for 13 years.
* « • ■<
A. E. Trott was nowhere in the English bow-
ling averages when last mail left, although it has since
been cabled that he has captured 200 wickets.
* * * *
W. G. Grace took part in one of the Gentlemen
v. Players matches this season, and made top score. But,
of course, he has now ceased to rank as an indispensable.
He gets more and more bulky with advancing years, and
loses a lot of runs by his slowness ’tween wickets.
• * * »
Not a bad game being an English pro. cricketer.
Mold’s benefit last month panned out £2500. The Lanca-
shire bowler is 35 years old, and must be going off now.
He has never been to Australia.
* * * *
C. B. Fry made a new cricket record last month
in the match Sussex v. Surrey by hitting up 125 and 229.
The only player who has gone near this was Stoddart, who
several years ago made 195 and 124 at Lords.
* * * *
Cyclists will be interested to learn that not a
single tube is allowed to leave the Dunlop Company’s
factory until it has been subjected to exhaustive tests.
After the tubes have been tested in shallow pans of water
they are taken out, slightly inflated, and hung in rows on
racks for a few days, and then again finally examined
before leaving the premises.
The Maoriland law-courts have taken the
Styche sensational-novel story seriously enough to
commit Styche for trial on a charge of attempt-
ing to procure the murder of his wife, and yet the
cheap and unreal Wilkie-Collinsism of the story
so far impressed them that they let the accused
out on moderate bail. At the preliminary hearing
the chief evidence was that of the doctor who was
offered by some anonymous correspondent the
billet of family murderer to the Styche household,
which favorable opening first presented itself in a
type-written letter to this effect:
Christchurch, June 4, 1930. —Dear Doctor, —The writer
of this letter will not give you her name, but simply tell
you that she is a woman. What lam going to write to
you I depend on your keeping a secret to the end of your
days, and I will do the same. I know a woman who is
continually ailing off and on, but she hates doctors, and
consequently has not consulted one for a very long time,
and I know that her husband has often wanted to call one
in, but she objects, and I once advised him to call you in,
and I think I could persuade him to do so if I go carefully
and cautiously to work, as he told me once that his wife
told him that she would just as soon die as be continu-
ally ailing as she is. What I wish co tell you is this : If
you are called in to attend this woman, and she doesn’t
recover, I will pay you two hundred pounds. Bear in
mind, you will never know who I am, so you will not be
able to get me into trouble over this, if you wish to, and
it is not likely that I will ever peach on you, as, if I
did, I should get myself into trouble as well; so you
quite understand that you have only to play your
cards well, and be able to give a certificate of death to
make the £2OO your own, and if the woman dies I will
post you the money in bank notes, but not before she
has been dead (say) three months, as I shall have to sell
some of my property to raise that sum, but I will be true
to my word, and do ic, and you must be true to yours, or
have' nothing to do with it. I might tell you that the
woman has no children dependent on her. Of course, I
must make myself secure, so will not give you the chance
of finding out who I am by writing to me, so, if you are
ready to make £2OO easily, put an advertisement in the
Press as follows“ Wanted to buy, a good dog-cart.
Apply Medico, Press office.” If you agree, put the ad-
vertisement in the paper either on Saturday, June 9, or
on June 16 or 23.—Unknown.
The medico didn’t reply, and another letter arrived
as follows: —
Dear Doctor, —I did not see your advertisement in
Saturday’s Press, and I hope you are not lacking in pluck
enough to make £2OO so easily, so I will look in the Press
every day between now and Saturday, June 23, for it, so
don’t be afraid. I will be true to my word, and pay up if
the event happens. You may never get such an easy
chance of making £2OO, and with no risk whatever. I
know that the woman’s husband thinks she will not re-
cover from her present illness, so he would not think that
anything was wrong when it happens. I have had a
little experience in nursing, and my idea of how you
should act is to tell the woman she must go to bed for a
week or two ; you can then give her medicine that will
not make her improve, and then call one evening and give
her something that includes the power to send her to
sleep for ever. You may, of course, know a better way than
this, but in any case you may rely on me for secrecy for life,
and to be true to my word. Perhaps you will think I am
terrible, but I am desperate, so for God’s sake do what I
ask. If you do not advertise between now and June 23 I
will conclude you do not want to make the money, so I
will then sell up and clear out of the country. In case
you have lost or burnt the advertisement, it is this :
“Wanted to buy, a good dog-cart; apply Medico, Press
Office.” Insert it in the Press. I will not write to you
again, but if I have occasion to address an envelope to
you it will contain nothing but this £2OO in notes. ' I am
to you and to all, for ever, Unknown.
This time the doctor advertised for the dog-cart,
and two days later he received a letter from
Styche offering to sell him a piebald horse, and
stating that Mrs. S. was ill and would call in next
day to consult him. The letter was not an answer
to the anonymous “ Medicus ” about the dog-cart;
it was a direct offer to sell the doctor a horse, and
it stated that the writer had heard, per medium of
the baker, that the doctor had a craving for such
an animal. A month later a letter from Styche
complained that Mrs. S. was getting no better.
Later still another anonymous type-written com-
munication incited the doctor to hurry up and
earn his £2OO. There was no visible connection
between “ Unknown ” about the dog-cart and
Styche about the horse, but by piecing
all these things together, and by the aid
of a mechanist who gave it as his fixed
opinion that the type-written letters were
done on a certain ancient and battered machine
in Styche’s office, the law became sufficiently
interested to run Styche in. At the same
time, the man who expected any doctor
to commit murder on the chance of receiv-
ing £2OO from an unknown party after three
months’ delay, was such an impracticable dreamer
that he could hardly be taken seriously, and it
seemed rather as if he were practising with a view
to becoming dramatic author to Billolloway.
Even if he was real, and if he tackled the crime
himself with an axe, such a mentally-unfinished
person was almost certain to miss his aim and
only wreck a picture, or a cat, or a ceiling. The
whole thing read so like the Incriminating Docu-
ment in a bad Bill Hollowayism that the court
had to sit on a thistle to make quite sure it was
awake, and even then it was less positive than it
could have wished.
The Bulletin has received the following
from the attorneys of R. Bell and Co. :
Some recent paragraphs in your paper in reference to
the manufacture of matches in Maoriland demand some
protest, and a brief statement of the facts may interest
you. In your issue of Ist inst. you state that Messrs.
R. Bell and Co. received a Government subsidy of £l5OO
“to start the match-making industry in Maoriland.’
This is untrue, and palpably ridiculous. Messrs. R. Bell
and Co.’s factory in Maoriland was started in July, 1895,
under precisely the same duties as the Dunedin factory,
which had been working for some time. The statements
in regard to Messrs. Bell’s treatment of factory girls are
grossly unfair, as the girls brought from London were not
intended to, nor did they, displace any local girls. The
former are paid exactly the name rate as the latter, and it
is a fact that the wages paid by Messrs. Bell and Co. com-
pare most favorably with those paid for any factory-work
in the province, and that far more than a living-wage can
be made by any ordinarily industrious girl. The fact
that all hands are on piecework, and that many of the
girls employed have for years made good wages, speaks
for itself. The idle and incompetent will never make
good wages at anything. The factory in question is one
of the finest of its kind in the world, and no possible
objection can be taken to the industry if the facts are
studied. Messrs. Bell and Co. have no “sweating policy ”
and no “ cheap labor traditions,” and the English records
will show that their factories are deemed as nearly as pos-
sible perfect in regard to the comfort of their employes.
Knowing your love of fairplay, and that you will always
support properly-conducted local industry, you can at
any time, if you desire it, obtain proof that the damaging
statements complained of are uncalled-for, and unworthy
of a fair-minded Protectionist paper.


“Every Swing of the Pendulum”
m
* V
ADDS TO THE
REPUTATION OP
Derbv)
TOBACCO.
%
SWEET,
FRESH,
FRAQRANT,
PUT THIS IN YOUR PIPE AND SMOKE IT.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY GO.,
I Sc. Gold Sovereign Purses, Price 95/-
15c. „ „ „ 75/-
9c. ~ „ „ 40/-
Sterling Silver Sovereign Purses,
Engraved, 8/6 ; Plain, 7/6.
Handsomely Chased Sterling Silver
Carriage Clock, from 45/- to £3.
187 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telephone 3490.
Sterling Silver Heart-Shape
Matchbox, Price 9/0.
Other Designs, from 4/0.
The union unK of nusTßiicn [kiiited.
BALANCE-SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
Capital £4,500,000
Less reserve liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up .. .. .. .. ..£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund 750,000 0 0
Invested as per contra .. £600,000
Balance employed in the
business of the bank .. 250,000
Contingent Account .. .. .. .. 250,000 0 0
Circulation .. .. 489,083 0 0
Deposits (including inscribed stock de-
posits) 15,793,602 1 4
Bills payable and other liabilities (includ-
ing reserves held against doubtful
debts) 2,307,641 17 6
Balance of undivided profits ... 122,364 10 9
£21,212,691 9 6
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and cash balances ..£3,240,526 15 8
Bullion on hand and in transitu .. .. 97,972 13 9
Money at call and short notice in London 685,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols, and other stocks
of, or guaranteed by,
the Imperial Govern-
ment £79,231 18 9
India Government ster-
ling stocks and Indian
railway guaranteed •
stocks 230,953 12 4
British municipal and
colonial and foreign
Government stocks and
debentures .. .. 335,561 0 7
£645,746 11 8
Reserve Fund-
Consols, £250,000; local
loan s—l mper i a 1
Government stock,
£150,000; India
Government sterling
Stock, £lOO,OOO .. 500,000 0 0
—£1,145,746 11 8
Bills receivable, loans and other securi-
ties at London office 3,682,149 17 8
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans
and other securities at the branches .. 11,730,557 2 1
Bank premises and property in the
colonies .. 601,603 10 0
London leasehold premises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£12,943 10s. 3d. ; six
months’interest thereon
at 3£ per cent., £226
10s. 6d 13,170 0 8
£129,134 18 8
£21,212,691 9 6
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits at 31st August, 1899
Out of which a dividend was declared of
£75,362 12 10
45,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of £30,362 12 10
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts £203,459 6 6
Less—
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries and allowances to
the colonial staff £69,661 6 10
General expenses in the colonies—including rent, taxes, stationery,
&c 26,616 14 9
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery, and general expenses 14,450 18 7
Income tax ~ .. 828 9 4
111,457 8 6
92,001 17 11
Balance of undivided profits at this date.. m •» _ £122,364 10 9
ARTHUR FLOWER
A. P. BLAKE
O. E. BRIGHT
Directors.
W. E. CARBERY, Manager
T. C. C. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
London, 11th July, 1900.
We beg to report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets
in London, and have had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the
colonies, and having examined the same, and the books and accounts of the Loudon office, we are of
opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to ex-
hibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs as shown by the books of the
company.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY
(Chartered Accountants), Auditors.
During the early stages of the South
African war Premier Salisbury laid the hand of a
true British gentleman on his waistcoat, and de-
clared on his honor that Britain sought no increase
of territory. Then she took the Orange State and
is obviously going to take the Transvaal. Russia
said the same thing re China, and has already
laid hands on a piece of Manchuria. And British
papers are deeply reproachful about the unrelia-
bility of the Muscovite person.
Some Australian birthdays for Sept :—
John Henry, ex-Treas. of Tasmania, on the 1st;
Chief-Secretary Jenkins (S.A.), 49 on 8th ; ex-
Demon-bowler Spofforth, 45 on 9th; Cardinal
Moran, 70 on 16th; Chief-Justice Darley, 70 on
18th; ex-Premier John Colton (S.A.), who first
fave Kingston office, 77 on 20th; Gov.-Gen.
lopetoun, 40 on 25th ; Sheriff Booth by (S.A.), 71
on 26th; Symon, Q.C., on 27th; ex-Speaker
Abbott, 58 on 29th.
The Impossible.
Is the creation of ignorance; it is the excuse
of the man who cannot understand, and
wherever education comes, there the dogpna of
impossibility dies. “It is impossible,” said our
fathers, more ignorant than their sons, because
earlier in the world’s history than we, “toharness
the lightning—to float iron—to make iron wheels
grip an iron road —to command the sun —to be
despots of the wind ’’—and to-day we attempt air-
ships ; we photograph colors; we drive loco-
motives eighty miles an hour ; we flash a thought
from meridian to meridian with little less than
a thought’s speed ; we collect the atoms of a
thunderbolt in a carbon point, and produce the
only light that can penetrate to the depths of our
old-time ignorance. Medicine triumphs over the
knife —the surgeon-butcher abdicates to the
physician. We solve, we do not destroy. Some
medical men even now say that it is impossible to
cure Bright’s disease of the kidneys. The pro-
prietors of Warner’s Safe Cure beg to differ, and
in the face of the facts of the many cures of
Bright’s disease through the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure, who will venture to contradict ? Read the
following from a physician of established repute,
being a sample of many more on file of similar
tenor.
Dr. Robert Shaw, L.S.D., M. 8., Rockhampton,
Q., says: “I have much pleasure in stating that!
prescribed Warner’s Safe Cure very frequently
whilst acting as Medical Officer on the Cairns-
Herberton Railway contract, and obtained more
satisfactory results from it than any formulae of
my own prescribing.”*
The Bulletin is reminded—with refer-
ence to some recent remarks about Tom Playford
and coloured labor—that it was Playford’s Govern-
ment which, in ’BB, got together the Sydney
Chinese Conference ; and is assured that Playford
has ever since been steadfast in his antagonism
to both yellow labor and black.
Editor Bulletin. —Have the goodness to
give our emphatic denial to “Cuss’s” statement
(B. 14/7/’00) that we are losing sheep on Yandama
at the rate of $5O per week through wild dogs.—
Richard Dawes, for R. B. Dawes and Co. [The
information in question was supplied, and printed,
under the signature of a correspondent who has
hitherto proved reliable, but its accuracy, under
the circumstances, was not vouched for.—Ed. B.]
Reported by the daily press that the two
outlawed black Governors are, at time of writing,
“doing pretty much as they like,” and setting the
law at nought, and making a good many thousand
people shake in their shoes. Isn’t the Governor
disgrace just about balancing the “ glory ” gained
by the Cornstalks in Africa ? It is all very good
to talk about the heroism of the man who has gone
to the Transvaal; he is too far away to be in-
spected. It is the painful want of heroism in the
man who didn’t go that is the trouble.
The Guide-Book to Japan, issued by the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japanese Mail S.S. Co.),
is a neatly got-up and beautifully-printed pub-
lication, containing every possible information for
the use of intending passengers, and abounding in
capital photographs of what is most noteworthy
to be seen, not only in “ Rising-Sun Land ” itself,
but also upon the pleasant voyage thither.*
Amidst the whirl of the Melb. Poster Ball
several ladies were charmingly conspicuous by
reason of a wealth of glittering hair “a-hanging
down their backs.” For this gracious display of
“woman’s crowning glory,” E. Holland, proprietor
of the “ Marvellous Hair Restorer,” was respon-
sible. Holland’s Restorer, by the way, has
caught-on in Europe, America and England.*
Allan and Co. were an easy first in the
prize competition at the Melb. Poster Ball. Their
set was conspicuous for its artistic simplicity.
Four charming ladies, clad in bars of music, repre-
sented a harmony in white satin. Said silvery
harmony, though not audible, delighted all the
senses by its sweet visibility. This happy design
was the inspiration of clever young Tait, one of
the firm’s directors.*
In hair-dressing, wig-making, &c., Mr.
W. H. Wigzell, of 110 William-street, Sydney,
holds a first position. He makes a speciality of
hair-working, importing the hair from London,
Germany, and France, and he employs a large
and able staff in making it up to suit each
customer’s requirements. He has Ladies requisites
in infinite variety, and any lady in the country,
who wants her needs attended to with every care
and despatch, should write to Mr. Wigzell.*
There has been a great and disastrous
hurricane at Mafeking. Some of the Baden-
Powell advertising-gas hustling round, no doubt.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that London advises an advance of 6d. per quarter for
wheat at Mark Lane, and cargoes have been placed at a
corresponding hardening of rates. So far the local mar-
ket is as flabby as ever. Shipping freights and exes, pre-
vent large operations, and millers do not speculate beyond
actual requirements. The co. reports some quotations •
Prime samples, 2s. 9d. to 2s. 9Jd. ; Good, 2s. Bd. to
2s. BJd. ; Pinched and chickwheat, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. per
bushel. Coming harvest still seems likely to break all
previous records.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS
'TO CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN
D®“ YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels COOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
London Outlook has discovered a quality in Lord
“ Fauntleroy ” Hopetoun hitherto quite unsuspected by
his gushing Melb. admirers. According to the. print in
question, the coming G.G. frivols as an amateur in comic
opera. The paper does not say in what department the
lordling performs, but, remembering the general tendency
of the British peerage, The Bulletin has a horrible sus-
picion that the first Governor of the Commonwealth is an
Earl who feels that he has a natural call to the Ballet.
Lovely balderdash from S.M. Herald re music at the
Sydney King Humbert commemoration.: “ The full
orchestra rises at times, however, to just such an
anguished outburst of rageful and mutinous sorrow as
the present senseless crime might excite.”
“ S.S.” : The fortnightly free concerts started by Mayor
M'Eacharn at Melb. Town Hall, and run at Smalcolm’s own
expense, an immense success, according to the
appreciative daily press. Certainly they have drawn
great crowds, and they have been no end of a boon, if it
was Mister Mayor’s intention to provide cheap shows for
that section of the Melb. public which can best afford to
pay to see acrobatic musicians hammer the piano, and
hear songsters hunting top notes round the rafters. But
if Smalcolm’s intention was to give a sort of musical eight
o’clock rush to those people who cannot pay for a shil-
ling’s worth of music without going short of a shilling’s
•worth of something more substantial, he would be edified
to see these latter held back in the streets by fat police-
men whilst the “ higher orders ” troop in on the glorious
nod and jump all the accommodation.
Hundreds, not to say thousands, were turned away
from the doors of Her Majesty’s, Melb., on the Nance
O’Neil farewell night. And those who were not turned
away got the most barnstorming entertainment of the
season for their trouble. Nance as Partjienia, Nance as
Bill Sikes’s girl (not the gory scene), and Nance in her
amateurish attempt to play old Meg Merrilees simply made
the uninfatuated smile. As the “Jewess,” a character
she played in Sydney before the press booming had begun
to work the public, Nance shouted with much success.
Her “ curse ’’-scene seemed to give the audience a genuine
knock—the first and last suspicion of a genuine knock
that Melbourne experienced during the season. As a
hearty uproar, accompanied by an energetic display of
not inappropriate gesture, Nance’s curse was all right,
though it gave little idea of the full possibilities of the
scene. Miss Bateman, of yore, could shake a multitude
of people out of their seats with that same curse. “ Leah ”
Bateman—an actress of no great importance in any other
part—was convincing, as well as strong, when she cursed,
so much so that the late Wills (author of “Charles the
First ”) wrote a- “ curse ” play specially for her. Nance is
never convincing. There is nothing at the back of her
voice. But she has great physical strength and self-
confidence. She lets herself “ go.” And if she serves to
encourage other girls to stretch out their arms and roar,
Nance will have some claim to our gratitude.
Now we have the inevitable rumor that the “ aston-
ishing of Miss Nance O’Neil in Melbourne (but
why ‘ astonir .ig’ if she were only half as good as the
stereo’d press appears to think she is?) has encour-
aged two or three of the greatest American actors to
contemplate an Australian tour.” A male actor is a
very different matter to a 15-stone Nance, anyhow, so
if the contemplative persons are men, The Bulletin
would advise them to think of Nat Goodwin, and pause.
And if there are any lady “stars” making arrange-
ments to come along and show this country the true
meaning of histrionic art, The Bulletin would advise
them to pause likewise. Melbourne lost its head over
Amy Castles, the Bendigo girl, but when a gifted young
Australian artist in Maud M'Carthy came along from
London with her violin, to walk in the tracks of Amy’s
phenomenal success, she was ignored. The public had
just begun to realise its previous foolishness, and had
Maud been an angel singing songs of Heaven to her own
harp accompaniment the public, at that time, would not
have rushed the show. They were then suffering a re-
covery from their Castles illusion. A gifted American
actress might strike Australia just when it was recovering
from it’s O’Neil illusion.
“ Seesaw Melb. Age critic, re Nance O’Neil’s “fare-
well ” appearance in Melbourne, congratulates himself on
his early prophecy that Nance “ is destined to recogni-
tion in the world’s centres as having been born to the
imperial purple of the stage.”. ’Also, he thinks “it will
be held an honor to Melbourne to have been the scene of
her first startling triumph.” All of which is very in-
teresting to people who have watched the manufacture of
the Nance Boom, and the credulity of the Melbourne
public. The Age critic states indirectly that the large,
loud lady had not been a startler previous to her Mel-
bourne season. What a satire on the Age para-
graph of June 2 : —“ Miss Nance O’Neil, the celebrated
American emotional actress, will make her first
appearance in Melbourne this evening. Miss O’Neil is
one of the recognised leaders of the American stage.”
Somehow the Age and all the other newspapers whose
“ critics ” and interviewers have talked about Nance’s
imperial purpleism and forthcoming conquest of Europe,
&c., &c., have given us nothing about the fact that Nance
was matineed in London on June 27th last year. Did
they (the Melb. critics) know of this important fact before
their personal acquaintance with Nance had begun, and
if they didn't know of that expedition to London, did
Nance refer to it in the interviews? And if she did why
didn’t we hear something about it ?
J. W. Sweeney, popular and clever Sydney actor and
general good fellow, proposes, in conjunction with English
theatrical-manager G. J. Staples, to tour N.S.W. with a
dramatic co., strong in numbers and not weak in talent.
The home province finished with, the co.’s next “dart”
will be N.Q.
A noted fiddler, James Storragh, known as the “last
minstrel of Bungaree,” died recently in Ballarat hospital.
For years he was the recognised musician of the local
Irish settlement, which recalls the jibe of 0. E. (“ Mint-
sauce ”) Jones: “ Electors of Ballarat and Savages of
Bungaree! ”
Died at Inverell the other day Florence Hunter, who,
until she married a year or two ago, was, as Florence
Fowler, one of S. Australia’s most popular semi-profes-
sional singers.
When Dorothy Vane came to Australia—it’s two years
ago now—she told her interviewer that she did not like
men, “ although,” added Dorothy, “ men are very use-
ful.” Later on she talked about her own sex. “ I love
women,” said Dorothy, “ but best of all, I love a dear
little baby.”
“S.S.”; The most marked characteristic of Nance
O’Neil’s audiences at Melb. Majesty’s was the unwavering
constancy of the gallery. Biz. ran thin now and again in
other places, but the galleiy never once failed the majestic
O’Neil, and although the rarity of the gaudy bouquet that
is humped up by the cynical, conductor has been noted as
a peculiarity of the season, the gallery frequently dumped
its little pile of salad at the feet of the star with a swish
and a thud suggestive of anarchistic outrages, and the lob
of a muffled bomb. The affectionate regard of the gods
has been instrumental in determining Williamson to ex-
tend the accommodation of “ high Olympus.”
“Edson”; “Snorter”, in correcting me re Nance
O’Neil’s record of heavy parts points out Mrs. Bernard
Beere’s heavy run, but he overlooks the fact that the
American was dealing with some parts quite new to her—
Hedda Gabler and Tess were then in hand—whereas Mrs.
8.-B. played only stock characters with which she had
long been familiar.
W. E. Hammond, late of the Maoriland Observer and
N.Z. Sporting and Dramatic Review, is in Sydney as
business representative for the Ancelon Dramatic Co.,
which combination expects to shortly go on tour again.
It has been doing well in Maoriland for some time past.
♦
Tasmania’s Great Western Railway syndi-
cate continues its humorous career. After doing
nothing for five years it put on 20 men to dig a
hole —tliis was when the time allowed for starting
work was just expiring and Parliament refused
further renewals. Government intimated that 20
men digging a hole wasn’t really starting work.
Syndicate replied that if it got a year’s extension
of time it would put on 200 men, and proceed with
the floating of the co. immediately. Govt,
noted that there was no guarantee that the 200
men who were to be put on wouldn’t be taken off
again immediately the extension of time was
granted. It also noted that there was still no
sign of anything except the 20 men mooning
around and digging an occasional hole. So rela-
tions between it and the humorous land-grant
railway syndicate continue strained.


Died recently a West Coast (Tas.) identity
—“Jack,” the dog who used to run with the N.E.
Dundas tram. He was fighting with another dog
and both were run over and killed. “Jack” had
run from Zeehan to Deep Lead (18 miles) and
back daily with the tram ever since it started.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The man Arnold, lately extradited from
California to England in connection with some big
business-frauds, had “laid-out” to raise the
question of the legality of his extradition under
the law of every State through which he should
be taken in his expected journey eastward to the
Atlantic sea-board ; in which case—even if he had
“gone-down” upon the legal point every time —
the delay would have been something prodigious.
The English ’tecs, however, are going to “stiffen ”
that game by simply taking their prisoner back
“ west-about,” via Australia.
A correspondent of Glasgow Herald re
present troubles in China ,
The Chinese are about the most tolerant people in the
world, and have no word against any form of religion as
such. What they dread is political action masking under
the form of religion. The R.O. religion in China is an
absolute imperium in imperio. Its converts extort money
from and torture their neighbors in every province in
China. They are supported in their defiance of Chinese
authority by the R.C. priests, who again rely upon the
ever-ready assistance of the French Minister in Pekin.
This unscrupulous action of the R.C. Church in China is
the real cause of the “ Boxer” movement, which was first
of all a “ mutual protection society.” The R.C. bishops
and priests have for many years arrogated to themselves
the style, status, ar.d authority of high officials of the
Chinese Empire. Hence the wise decision of the Govt,
to deny any such political status to Protestant mission-
aries who desire to follow the example of R.C’s.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair .Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The Q. Factories and Shops Report is an
interesting document. It bristles with tales of
insanitary conditions ; of puny girls and puny
youths working incredible overtime, of hapless
female, apprentices who sweat away at 2s. lOd. a
week through summer and winter, of waitresses
who regularly work from 8 a.m. to 9.30 p.m., and
up to 11.30 p.m. on the Saturday. European
females to the number of 15 are employed in
Asiatic factories ; thousands of hours’ overtime,
without compensation, are put in by pallid
youngsters ; a considerable percentage of dress-
making employes earn no wages at all. A magnifi-
cent triumph, however, is achieved by the sys-
tem, inasmuch as slop trousers are manufactured
at ss. a dozen. Prosecutions for breaches of the
Act are practically non-existent
“Banjo ” Paterson, in Melbourne Argus,
narrates how a Maoriland detachment, newly
arrived and eager for blood, went into action:
They were sent to cut off a retreating body of
Boers. Limping painfully in the rear of his com-
rades, a wounded Boer was seen traversing the
path from the kopje. This unfortunate became of
special interest to the Maorilanders. One and all
took aim at him; still he limped on slowly. Pi’e-
sently he disappeared around the neck of the hill,
unstruck by the bullets of the braves from
the land of the Moa. What a picture ! The
efforts of a wounded bird or beast to escape appeal
to an honest man’s sympathies. But this crippled
Boer, toiling behind his compatriots in full sight
of the enemy, and daring their efforts to finish
him, seems to have suggested no other impulse to
the Maorilanders but a desire to shoot him in par-
ticular. Brave work!
“ J.A.C.” gossips to The Bulletin about
the late King Humbert and his father:—
During an extended residence in Italy I had special
facilities for learning a good deal about the reigning
family. The late king, then Crown Prince, was not quite
so popular, owing to a certain stiffness of manner, as his
brother, Amadeus, ex-king of Spain, but he was respected
as a man of great personal courage, having, at the battle
of Custozza, resisted for a long time, with two regiments
of infantry, the charges of the brilliant Austrian cavalry,
and being himself seriously wounded. His beautiful wife
—then Principessa Margherita—was simply idolised. She
mixed with the people in an unconventional way, and
was a great theatre-goer. I have seen the .young men
of Milan, once when she was leaving the theatre on
a damp night, spread their coats on the ground, Walter
Raleigh fashion, for her to walk on. When Humbert
ascended the throne he displayed a solicitude for the wel-
fare of the masses which had not been expected of him.
During the Naples cholera epidemic he went everywhere
amongst the stricken, and at a time of great distress
among the poor of Italy, he devoted a very large part of
his income to helping the destitute. Our own Royal
family might do worse than take a leaf out of his book in
connection with the present famine in India. The Italian
socialists say, however —and not without show of reason—
that, had Humbert exercised his prerogative during the
’9B Milan riots, he might have saved much bloodshed.
The principal cause of the riots in question was
oppressive taxation, arising from the necessity of
maintaining an enormous standing army, in' ac-
cordance with the terms of the Triple Alliance.
Humbert, on the whole, however, was a worthy son
of Re Oalantuomo. The latter term, by the way,
means “ honest man,” and is not to be confounded with
uomo (jalante (a Lothario), an error made once by a S.M.
Herald critic in noticing a performance of “Ma Mie
Rosette.” Victor Emmanuel was of a most striking per-
sonality—with his herculean build, swarthy skin, rugged,
good-natured face, and portentous moustache. When
the railway connecting the Mediterranean sea-board with
Lombardy and Piedmont was in course of construction
and the tunnelling through the Alps had to come to a
standstill for lack of funds, Victor Emmanuel, recognising
the importance of the undertaking, sold a valuable estate
of his to provide the wherewithal. He afterwards refused
to participate in the resulting profits ; but the property
was bought back for him by public subscription. Victor
E. was also brave to rashness, and at the battle of Palestra
he pushed so far forward that he was on the point
of being captured by the Austrians, when a regi-
ment of French Zouaves rushed to his aid, and,
surrounding him, asked him to retire. He said,
“ There is fighting enough for us all here ;
let me have my share ” ; and he insisted on pressing for-
ward with them, whereupon they elected him, on the
spot, honorary corporal of the corps. He spent all his
spare time in shooting excursions, never taking any food
with him but bread and raw onions, which he carried in
the pocket of his shooting-jacket. Another peculiarity
of his was that he would never, if he could avoid it, speak
anything but Piedmontese patois. Although he was ex-
communicated when he deprived the Pope of the tem-
poral power, yet, when he died, Pius IX. had requiem
Masses said for him in Rome—a liberal example, which
Cardinal Manning (like most proselytes, a bigot) refused
to follow in London.
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr It assmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
ladies’ Tailoring
-SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming: Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Jre you foo Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
“'wring nvnr wsrrTS! srowmoo
THE
DEAF
HEAB
pOMP L E TE L Y restore the
Hearing' and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
TIICOM
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you'love. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
AVaterloo Chambers, dr>B George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
this paper when writ ing.
ANY GENTLEMAN
can, by sending us his address on a Id.
Post Card, have a set of the
NEW PATTERNS OF SP KING
SUITINGS
sent to him Free, gratis, for nothing.
For GENTLEMEN’S WEAR for the Spring.
Also, Self-Measurement Forms, Tape
Measures, &c., &c.
You can then see what is going to be worn, and
most likely will favor us with an order.
ipF“ Send for them, Please !
hordernbrothers,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Publications.
LADIES.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopsedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for t'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, R 93 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sjdney.
FOnEXGrM STAMPS
ipif,
pHEAP SETS.— 24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
40 Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d ; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DON NE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ILLUSTRATED
■BOOKLET of ßO R o A Ks E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
IX.LITSTRA.TED
TTTITH numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
, THE FAMOUS nEMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
(TJMTTTCD),
DAPTO (Ijalse near SYIDOTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
m
mm
M
wm
m
MM
'
n. '•*< '
, m f
V.. . ••■ . > • '■ ■ ■ •
• •" , -r . “Sc •••** - tf*saf&f*jKKwg
rw
mMm
HI
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. • BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD ana COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SSWEEF REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeeg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S W • or Martin Place SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
INFANTS
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF THE
North Chillagoe Mines
ONTo Liability).
IVAN
WANLOCK
u
INLEV
Tartan ■ "V™
Tartanam
Tartanajsb J
Madrasbb
9 D ELO.
z%
m
®/y
SH
*
St
DAR
REDCAP
(■Vtgf SQK \
Cv
?Co
/6 Miles
<S3£la
QC
Or
UN CAN A
'■Vv
\t
C 2^CO
Va
zillmanto
/ -«M . | C I UL.tris-i
CHILLAGOE.
/vor/’h Oueecris/ctna. —^
Scale 7rni les To V n .eh for distances only.
A valuable group of 12 mines, marked, with black circles in above sketch, in the celebrated CHILLAGOE DIS
TRIOT, containing 230 ACRES acquired from the Queensland Government. SEE PROSPECTUS FOR FULL
PARTICULARS.
BENJAMIN DUNSTAN, Esq., F.G.S., Assistant Government Geologist, Queensland, says
“ The group of properties undoubtedly bear a most favorable comparison with any other group of properties in the
Chillagoe District. . . . They have been selected simply on heir own merit. Their value is not in any way
influenced by their proximity to other successful mining properties.”
CAPITAL, £60,000, IN 60,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
00008
00008
FULLY PAID UP SHARES WILL BE ALLOTTED TO THE VENDORS in Full Payment for
these valuable properties, on which several thousand pounds have been expended in acquiring
and in exploratory work.
CONTRIBUTING SHARES NOW OFFERED for SUBSCRIPTION, payable 2s. per share on
application and 2s. per share on allotment, no calls to be made payable before January, 1901.
Calls not to exceed 6d. per share per month.
Provisional Directors
SYDNEY:
HON. A. J. GOULD, M.L.C.
HARRIS WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary for Mines and
Agriculture, Vice-President N.S.W. Chamber of
Mines). ,
PATRICK DUFFY, Esq. (Merchant, N.S.W. and Queens-
land).
ROBT. MACKENZIE JOLLY, Esq. (Merchant, Sydney
and Hobart)
BRISBANE ;
HON. F. T. BRENTNALL, M.L.C.
HON. JOHN ARCHIBALD, M.L.C., Warwick, Q.
MELBOURNE:
ALEX. CAMPBELL, Esq. (Chairman Directors Block 10,
Broken-hill).
ADELAIDE :
BENNETT JOHNS, Esq. (Member of the Stock Exchange).
BANKERS ;
(In all the Australian Colonies)
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SOLICITORS :
SYDNEY : Messrs. GOULD and SHAW.
MELBOURNE : Messrs. SNOWBALL and KAUFFMAN.
BRISBANE : Messrs. ROBERTS and ROBERTS.
BROKERS:
SYDNEY : Mr. ERNEST L. DAVIS (Member of Sydney
Stock Exchange), 135 Pitt-street.
MELBOURNE : Messrs. EDWIN ELLIOTT and THOM-
SON (Members of the Stock Exchange), 377 Collins-
street.
ADELAIDE : Messrs. W. A. KINGSBOROUGH (Member
of the Stock Exchange).
BRISBANE : Mr. TOM COVENTRY, 5 Telegraph-cham-
bers.
TARTANA-HILL, the most valuable of the group, and on which the most exploratory work has been done, gives
hundreds orthou.snd. pound,’ worth o. J"“-
msTe ob‘rtin‘“y jS'cSly »d» high
GObV-A rich goid mine within n rich oo—. g “ gg
fifLVER^—At acme She’S”, of thfe grtuptt* *«r »'“ M be » highly p.y.ole ,
Where cop,., is found in combination with GOLD or .il-er, or both, the scheme of
FACILITIES FOR TREATMENT AND RAPID REALISATION.-Dr. R. L Jack, F.G.S F.ILG.S says, page
‘ In place of having reduction works at each of the group of mines, a vast economy will be effected by transporting
theores of evlry class to central works. The Chillagoe Railway and Mines Company own mines will send all their
ExtracUromTeport of A. C. HALDANE, Esq., Warden, at Chillagoe, to the Under-Secretary for Mines for the
year ending BEEN DQNE QN TARTANA . H ILL, Ashtonville. SEVERAL
WAFTS UR TO 40ft IN DEPTH AND A TUNNEL HAS BEEN DRIVEN A DISTANCE OF 82ft. INTO
twf wtt T THE ORE FOUND IN THE MINE consists of green carbonates, tile ore, grey sulphides, &c.,
and HAS GIVEN ABOUT 22J PER CENT. OF COPPER.”-Page 72. (Full report at Brokers’.)
All the properties are very fully reported on by B. DUNSTAN Esq., F.G.S Assistant Government Geologist,
Queensland copy of whose report, and also Dr. ROBT. L. JACK’S &c„ may be obtained from the Brokers
Ue Agreements Memo, for Registration, and Rules at Messrs. Gould and Shaw, Solicitors, 121 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Tt is estimated that after fuller and more extensive development these properties will become worth many times
the present proposed small capital, and will probably command a very high value for flotation in London or elsewhere.
It is also estimated that while developing a good profit can be made. ~ .. , , , , ~
These shares are being offered in the first place to the public instead of to capitalists, and shareholders will
become the original proprietary and reap the advantages of fuller developments.
Prospectuses and Forms of Application may be obtained from the Brokers, and Allotment will be made as nearly
as possible in the order of application. Allotment may be made when 15,000 Contributing Shares are applied mr.
1 Write for Prospectuses to MARSHALL MOORE,
Secretary and Legal Manager,
Barker-street. Svrlnev
“D. 8.11. One of the most successful and
economical ways of evading the labour-conditions on a
mining lease is, for two friends to start an action-at-law.
Two smarties have managed this quite a long while in
connection with a well-known and promising N.S.W.
mine, and are likely to continue till someone comes along
to buy. There is not a miner in the locality who dares to
petition against this same for fear of not getting a “ job ”
when work does start. This mine has virtually not been
worked for years, and it is just about time that the
Department took a hand in the matter.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.—When Cullinga gold-field
was visited by the local Warden some time back, he
marked out several leases, very few of which have been
since worked. The pegging out of leases in a lot of cases is a
mere blind, as those taking them up do not intend to
work them. The warden also cancelled some leases that
had been taken up eight years ago ! Surely Govt, could
do something in the way of removing the pegs. After
the 14 days for fulfilling labour conditions have expired
faw prospectors care about putting a pick into ground
that is pegged on private property, knowing the difficulty
of getting it from the former applicant. Another appa-
rently strange thing was the granting of “ suspension of
labour ” to a claim employing two hands; no notice of
application having been posted.—Fuze. *
Suggested in Maoriland that Govt, should ap-
point competent experts to report on any mining claims
applied-for, in order to safeguard the gullible public.
Only the other week present writer met a one-time hotel
porter attired in frockcoat and topper. He said he was a
“ M. E.” When this scribe remarked that he had cheek he
only laughed and said : “ Well, I’m as good as most of
’em, and the shareholders seem quite satisfied.”
* * * *
The third annual report of M.L. Hartley and
Riley Dredging 00. contains some wonderful reading.
There are 7000 shares in the co., £1 fully paid-up, of
which 500 remained unallotted, leaving 6500 to share divs.
The dredge has this year won £52,459 of gold, an average
return of £lOOO per week (or 2500 z.). Of this, £lll7 has
been paid Govt, as income-tax, and as on all divs. Govt,
also gets 6d. in the £ it is time Seddon thought of further
encouraging the dredging industry in the way of railway
freights, &c., as the difficulty of getting plant forward is
responsible for the non-starting of many half-completed
dredges. Divs. on the £1 fully-paid-up shares had been, for
this year, at the rate of £6 17s. 6d. per share. The shares
are held by 322 persons. As showing the business done on
’Change in these shares, 23,740 shares have been trans-
ferred, bought and sold. At 2J per cent, the brokers
shared £5OOO, transfer value being £182,309 4s. 7d. The
Govt, also gets £lOOO in stamp-duty. An example of
what one successful dredge can accomplish in circulating
money. The dredge-master reports prospects ob-
tained show that the ground in the claim will provide
payable work for years to come, and has every appear-
ance of being as good as that already worked.
* * * *
During the past six months, 21 Otago dredges,
with £152,876 capital, paid in divs. £42,118. Hartley and
Riley heads the list with £16,250; Electric next with
£5200 and Junction Electric £4550.
A correspondent tells The Bulletin that on
M.L. West Coast, owing to the dredging-boom, carpenters
are offered 18s. per day and travelling expenses, while in
Central Otago offers of 14s. per day meet with no response.
Forty teams and wagons are regularly employed in cart-
ing dredging-material between Lawrence and Rosburgh
(40 miles), in Central Otago.
“Shareholder”: Quartz King Lansell, by re-
stricting development work to one shift, is quietly but
surely becoming the sole owner of the valuable machinery,
huge claim, and rich prospects of “ The Prince of Wales
and Bonshaw C 0.,” BaHarat. Holding two-thirds of the
shares (although not on the board), he practically
muzzles the directory, which, while enjoying
continuous board fees for several years, seems
strangely indifferent to the immense benefit the
speedy development of such a large area would be to
Ballarat. Meanwhile the regular monthly calls of 6d.
wear out the. patience and pockets of smaller holders, who,
seeing more than half of the call absorbed by surface and
machinery care, board fees, office management, &c., &c.,
would briskly and cheerfully respond to heavier calls if a
more vigorous underground policy were pursued.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —Here in Tarcoola, S.A., the
warden holds that one camel represents 21 men (the brutes
can be hired at 10s. per week each) and one horse, 2 men
—provided the animals assist in the working of the lease.
People are wanting to know whether if a miner kept cows
and cocks and hens the3 T would be considered in the work-
ing of his claim. There is no mention whatever made
either in the Act or Regulations of other than manual
labor. A prominent M.L.C. and a publican together
hold an enormous area of the field, and up to date only
employ about 35 men, though according to the regula-
tions they should have 4 men to every 20 acres—which
would mean work for more than 100 men. It staggers
those who have been mining in the other
provinces to find State officials here living and messing in
the same camp with a surveyor (who acts for city people),
speculators and representatives of sharebrokers and
mining syndicates. This isn’t much calculated to inspire
confidence in those who have to deal with the mining
department. There may be nothing wrong, hut the thing
is most unseemly. The country is pegged for about 10
miles in length and an average of 3 in width, but at time
of writing only 3 leases are fully manned ! How long will
it take at this rate to develop the mineral wealth that
undoubtedly exists? In many cases also leases have been
granted months ago, yet not a pick has been put into the
ground. According 'to regulations, pegging and ad-
vertising intention to apply &c., must be simultaneous
and it is then usually 8 weeks before the lease is granted
—when the claim is supposed to be fully manned.
Nevertheless, though all the at present known gold-
bearing leases were pegged early this year the lessees are
still evading the labor covenants. Again, there are scores
of 20-acre blocks merely pegged—and neither advertising
nor application conditions complied with, and it is a
howling scandal that parties coming here fully equipped
and with bona-fide intention of prospecting and working
the ground, should be blocked by such an impudent
evasion of the law.
* * • *
“Old Miner” writes from Herberton that the
prospects of Chillagoe are not cheering ; that after two
years’ development work he was somewhat surprised at
the smallness of the ore-dumps and the limited amount
of ore exposed. He describes the Chillagoe formation as
only surface ore bunches scattered over 20 miles of coun-
try. A much greater authority assures the writer that
the lateral copper formations of Chillagoe are so numer-
ous that the great expenditure in railway-building and
mining is warranted —that the public won’t “ go down ”
even if the mines don’t.
* * * *
Murrin Murrin copper-mine, Westralia. “ Pros-
pector ” writes that the discoverer was David Lambie, one
of the oldest prospectors of Mt. Malcolm district. In ’94
he took up a mineral lease, and after spending £3500 m
sinking and driving, it was jumped through the men
Lambie had it under offer to leaving it unworked for three
days (Lambie being laid up in Kalgoorlie). Then the
Warden granted the once-known Lambie Reward copper-
mine to present owner—Taylor. Poor Lambie ! Lambie
seems to be a most unlucky name in Australia.
* * * *
Mt. Hope (N.S.W.): The Melb. people who
took over and have apparently been left with the Central
Mt. Hope Freehold mine evidently mean business, and
have already a great number of men employed in prepara-
tory work. They have also secured an option on the Mt.
Hope mine itself, the tribute of which has just expned.
In continuing the tributors’lsoft. level a fine body of
prill ore has been cut, and though it may be but a bunch
it shows considerable development, and as there has been
very little work done between the 150 ft. and 340 ft. levels
there is plenty room for ore. With a railway from Con-
doblin or Oobar Mt. Hope would become an impoitant
mining centre. Without a railway, Heaven help •
The New Sulphide Reduction Process is to be
merged into the British Sulphides Smelting Co. Capital,
half-a-million ; a working-capital of £lOO,OOO to be raised
by issuing shares carrying a fixed div. of 10 percent.
Much was said of this process last year and of the great
things it was going to do with sulphide ores, no matter
hpw base. Mt. Reid mine, Tasmania, was to become a big
thing under its influence. Something seems to have gone
wrong with the works. Although it has been running for
nearly three years nothing has been advanced to prove
that it can be worked on a practical scale.
♦ * * *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British 00. is also erecting
more of these superior machines.*
* * * *
By the way, The Bulletin has probably for-
gotten to mention that the Soldier’s Hill Diamond Mining
Co. paid a div. of 3d. per share last year, and hopes to
repeat the brilliant achievement pretty soon. The co. is
getting diamonds in a small way. Balance-sheet for the
year ending May 31st reports that 4412 J carats of dia-
monds, value £3023, have been raised thusfar, also tin (14
tons odd) worth £lOB6, and gold to the modest amount of
£l3 13s. Bd. Say £4123 in all. The cost of producing this
lot was about £3849, so the 3d. div. (£600) was paid
mostly from a 2s. 6d. call on contributing shares. And
the nominal capital of the mine stands at £47,250.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * •
.*
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Adelaide underwriters had to lift a pretty
heavy swag of the shares in the South Blocks Co., the off-
shoot of the B.H. South. Still, it is a very good sign that
mine-manager Mayne, of the South, who knows that pro-
perty better perhaps than anybody else, has accepted the
management of the Blocks.
* * * *
N.S.W. Mines Minister Fegan has a bill well
through the Assembly enacting an eight-hour day for
miners ; but, as on a couple of former tries, trouble is
feared from the “ other place.” And yet the Bill is so
tame a little pet that it will feed out of the hand. There
are only three things in it: a workman must not be in a
mine more than eight hours in the 24 ; the time must be
computed from bank to bank (in other words, the incom-
ing shift must relieve the outgoing men at the shaft and
not at the working face) ; and anybody who works longer
hours is liable to a£2 fine. The only contentious scrap
of this relates to the place for changing shifts —at the sur-
face or at the working face. That- is an old bone of
contention; but the miners got the sweet end of it years
ago, and now the almost universal rule is to change at the
shafts’ mouth unless there is a dangerous place or an un-
exploded charge which it is necessary for the incoming
men to know of. The Bill, therefore, even as to this lets
matters stand just where they are ; it takes the well-
established and smooth working conditions of an industry
and seeks to put the stamp of law upon them in the
interests of industrial peace. The owner who knows
what mining is is quite satisfied that an eight hours’ shift is
a fair thing, so the proposed law will not affect him at
all; the man it will affect, if anybody, is the new-chum
English manager sent out to the blawsted colonies to
make divs. for a J. Bull 00. And it won’t affect him
unless he tries to do something that custom has con-
demned long since.
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne. *
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.): Chairman Lan-
dau admitted that last year’s directors’ report, based on the
manager’s, gave no indication of the disasters that were
so soon to follow. Manager’s careful estimate of ore in
sight and blocked out was 739,296 tons and the average
assays loz. 16dwts. per ton. He ventured to say that if
the Board had not sent a special mission to the mine the
whole of the co.’s money would have been squandered
and reconstruction would have become inevitable.
Financial position, six weeks ago, £240,000 in cash.
Frank Gardiner did not get on the Board—he surrounded
his nomination with too many conditions. Landau sym-
pathised with the idea of prosecuting servants of the co.
who had grosslv deceived shareholders and was willing to
head a fund with £5OO for this purpose, but did not care
to use his co.’s money in this direction. But if it is not
the co.’s business, whose is it ? Waddington denied that
the directors had received any private information and
used it for their own benefit in speculating in shares,
and declared that the directors as a rule knew
less about the mine than men in the street.
It was common knowledge that there were spies
in every mine in the world in the pay of London
speculators, and directors were often blamed for not pub-
lishing information which they did not possess. Having
been through the Are, he hoped the experience he had
gained would be of use in preventing a recurrence of
local mismanagement. The meeting accepted Hewitson’s
appointment with acclamation, and the chairman said the
property was being worked without loss. The mine rose
over £lOO,OOO in value the day after the meeting. It had
another good rise when the mill shut down, so it cannot
now be working without loss. Meeting terminated with-
out a vote of thanks to the “ Bears ” for keeping up the
price of shares in a mine which would not have half its
market-valuation without them.
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for ail sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
Hannan’s Oroya: Another reconstruction-
capital increased to £250,000 by the creation of 50,000
new shares. Proposed, to erect a 100-ton-a-ciay sulphide
plant. This will cost between £40,000 and £50,000. And
the estimate gives some idea of the expense of treating
Kalgoorlie sulphides. The problem is now supposed to be
solved hut with many mines out there the sulphide
problem will be to find the money. Manager’s estimate
of ore in sight on North block 22,085 tons, and on South
block 26,500 tons ; estimated value, £143,000. Mill shut
down as the oxidised ore available cannot be treated
without loss. The chairman’s appeal to shareholders to
take up new shares was remarkable. He says that had
the new scrip been issued some time ago buyers would
have had to pav £3 10s. a share for them while now they
could get them at 305., thus giving shareholders who had
bought at £3 or £4 a share a splendid opportunity of
bringing down their average price. Possibly a fine thing
for shareholders, but a missed chance for the co.
The Sydney Anglican clerics have a club,
named the Broughton, named after N.S.W.’s first
bishop In its first days excellent lemonade and
tea were on tap at the Broughton, but of late, it
is rumored, Gaston Lievain, of Pans House, next
door, has been providing- the place with pate-de-
foie gras and cold asparagus. No authentic news
has yet reached the office as to the poker-limit at
the Broughton.
From a Gippsland, Vic., paper: “a death
occurred on Saturday unde? rather peculiar
circumstances. A little girl, three years of age,
the daughter of a maiden lady named •” etc.,
etC rv • r. j , , , ,
Ooncermng bydney s recently-established
foundling-hospital, “Yarrum” writes to The
Bulletin
Recently ran up to see the “Foundling Hospital” at
substantial buf no 11 ! shnlv 18 w CoS , t * y ' looki f ng strlu ; fcure ;
bunsranuai, Dut not showy. Was shown into a ward con-
taming two rows of tiny cots, all occupied by little dots,
ranging from a few days to, perhaps, six months old.
Some had bottles at which they were pulling, and others
—who had been fed—were industriously sucking and
biting their little fists. Was told there were 80 children
altogether, and that they came in at the rate of two or
three daily. Two had arrived that morning. The sickly
ones are in the “hospice,” some hundred yards away,
and the death-rate there averages 10 weekly. Grounds,
about 20 acres of bush-land. Sturdy little feilows capered
about in the sun, looking the “ picture of health.” One
five-year-oki discussed the weather with me, and asked if
that feiww p Vrag ;P\ Wouldn’t be surprised to see
tnat fellow first President of Australia ! Afterwards, saw
30 or so of the bigger ones dine, and the amount of bread
and milk they put away was a caution. And, as soon as
each one had finished, the arms were folded, and not
another move till ordered. A bright little girl sang
“Little Jack Horner” for me, and the “President,”
n 'r n F ° ned ’/-°i tGd i‘‘ with d,ie re T s P ect
to punctuation and intonation. Hardly necessary, I sup-
pose, to sa.v a word in praise of the noble efforts of the
sisters in charge. If a man or woman wants to have a
good think, that’s the place to go and have it. Two
questions I kept asking myself were : What is to be done
with the kiddies when they grow up? and, Is it possible
that all this trouble will only tend to increase immorality?
though, after all, immorality, in this connection, is a fig-
ment of the imagination—whereas population is a solid
fact.
There was a big missionary jubilation
(Anglican) in Brisbane t’other day. Sundry in-
fluential big-wigs testified as to the value of
missions in Papua ; among the testimonies afore-
said, was that of Gov. Le Hunte. Perhaps the
proudest boast made at the meeting was that of a
rev. dignitary, who told with pride that, no matter
how licentious the traders, they were still so gen-
tlemanly that they observed the tacit understand-
ing that there should be “no immorality under
the shadow of the mission ! ” Note herein several
beautiful im lications. Firstly, the missionary-
advocate admits that the trader is of licentious
bent; and, secondly, that he finds numbers of
Papuan ladies by no means averse to his endear-
ments. Thirdly, one is led to infer that mis-
sionary influence is only powerfu I enough to ban
immoral proceedings from under the sacred
“shadow of aforesaid mission.” Lastly, it was
not asserted that the Christianised girls are more
virtuous than the heathen ; it was only said that
their chastity is invulnerable—in the neighborhood
of certain buildings. Altogether, it doesn’t look
like a very big boast to make when you’ve weighed
the pros and cons, but it loomed up wonderfully
in the columns of Brisbane papers, and was re-
garded by the orthodox as a set-o!f to the late
massacres of Christians in China, .fust ask any
old hand who has come in contact with the “ con-
verted ” aboriginal in N.Q., or rubbed noses with
a Sunday-school kanaka in the sugar-districts,
what he 'thinks of the regenerated heathen, and
he’ll give you his opinion in a style that would
drive a whole army of clergymen to drown their
sorrows in the accursed drink.


LA.DIES !
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30a each. English Hair Tails, from Ss 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything- you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales • • . \
Jlarbers’ Supply Ttouse '
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
RealQerman hollow Ground
icsss
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. V.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Real Hearty Australian Welcome Greeted
THE THREE HAYTORS.
A Brilliant Success. Gigantic Reception of America’s
Greatest Horizontal-bar Experts, THE PATTERSON BROS.
Unqualified Success of England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
OLAF SCHRADER, Billy M'Clain, M. Cordelia, Walker
and May, and all our Great Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
Emphatic Success but Last Nights of
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Grand Farewell Revival of
ROBERT MACAIRE.
Splendid Success of DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, Roy
Oashin, Alma Gray, Will Whitburn, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee,
E. Brinkman, Bob Bell, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, LAST NIGHT of
SERVING THE QUEEN.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 8, Last Six Nights of the Season,
the Great Sensational Drama, by Frank Harvey,
The Land of the Living:.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson. ,
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, LAST NIGHT of
TBILBT.
SATURDAY, SEPT., 8, for the First Time in Melbourne,
The Christian.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
Medical.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Ia a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain & blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6. Kocke,
Tompsitt & Co., Druggi- ts, 292
Flinders-street W., Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
m- THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
i.
BARGAINS!
(Join Slot Graphophone £c
Same as formerly, £l6. **
Gem Phonograph, 30 -
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR. QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try 1
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
Amusements.
Museum of art, physiology and
ANATOMY.
QUEEN’S HALL, VISITED
(Late Temperance Hall),
Pitt-st., Opposite
CRITERION THEATRE. THOUSANDS.
CLERGY, PRESS AND PUBLIC UNANIMOUS.
A REVELATION.
LECTURES AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
Matinee Lectures for Ladies Only, Mon., Wed. and Frid.
OPEN DAILY. ADMISSION, 2s.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
Circus and Menagerie
WITH THE
NEW EUROPEAN COMPANY,
sent out by
MR. T. F. FITZGERALD,
Will Open in Sydney
OK
September 8,
Opposite the Railway Station.
J. MORRIS, Agent.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of the WILLIAMSON OPERA CO. in
THE ROSE OF PERSIA.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, lOLANTHE.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
“J" HE AT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
BLAND HOLT’S
Absorbing and Fascinating Story,
HOW LONDON LIVES.
LONDON TYPES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER
by the
FAVORITE DRAMATIC COMBINATION of AUSTRALIA
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
AND THE POPULAR COMPANY.
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY, SEPT. 7, HAMLET.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 8, Charles Reade’s Masterpiece,
“ DRINK.”
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD
and his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in George H. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES —6s, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
Eair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
. . A HOME . •
FOB
PEER OB PEASANT.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
CORNER COLLINS and KING STREETS, MELBOURNE,
The Federal Palace Hotel, Melbourne,
offers a Choice of
Rooms and Accommodation Unequalled for Variety and Range of Prices
by any Hotel in Australasia.
All Intending Visitors to
Melbourne should note
the following . . .
TARIFFS.
SIAIOOSJ
Single
Double
/25., 2s. 6d., 35., 45., ss. per day.
6d., 155., 18s., 215., 255., 305., 355. per week.
/45., 55., 65., 75., Bs., 10s. per day.
1255., 305., 355., 425., 505., 605., 635. per week.
According to Size
and Floor.
BOARDERS
Inclusive
Rates
per
Adult.
{ss., 65., 75., 7s. 6d., Bs., 95., 10s., 12s. per'
day.
255., 305., 325. 6d:, 355., 425., 455., 505.,
635., 70s. per week.
According to
Dining Room
and Accommo-
dation selected.
MEALS
Can be paid for separately as they are taken :
In Lower Dining Hall, a la carte , from Is.
In Upper Dining Hall, Table d’Hote, 2s 6d.
In Cafe, Light Refreshments, 3d., 6d., &c.
RECEPTION ROOMS
These are numerous and attractive, and include
two Drawing (one lately added), Reading,
Writing, Smoking, and Billiard Rooms, &c.,
for use of all Visitors.
FAMILIES
are specially catered for. Inspection of Suites (including private Bath-
room, <fec.) invited. Special quotations given immediately on application to
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
Sydney Evening News is moving for a
new trial of the libel-action brought against it by
a policeman, to whom a monumental jury awarded
£6O damages, carrying many hundreds of costs.
Major Holmes (secretary of Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board) isn’t going to get his
salary, as such, for the time he was away “swash-
ing ” as an officer in S’Africa. The Board pro-
mised him said salary, but Premier Lyne says that,
as the Board had no right whatever to make such
a promise on its “own,” he sees no reason why in
this respect an exception should be made of the
Major.
The will of Miss Elizabeth Jenkins, one
of two eccentric old maiden sisters who, for many
years, lived at Long Reef, Narrabeen district,
Sydney, will shortly be haggled over by a big legal
brigade in N.S.W. Supreme Court. The Misses
Jenkins, neither of whom died under 80, were
daughters of an Imperial soldier who got a large
and valuable land-grant at Narrabeen in the old
days, comprising Long Reef, one of the loveliest
coast-sites in all Australia. In their old age they
got in tow of the Salvation Army, to which they
made large gifts; and now that they are dead it is
found that all the Jenkins estate, valued at per-
haps £150,000, has been bequeathed to the Harmy
aforesaid. A nephew of theirs is kicking—avers
that his aunt Elizabeth was silly and the subject
of undue influence. Hence the lawsuit.
In Sydney Supreme Court last week a
Sydney resident was sued by the mother of
a girl for damages for loss of her services,
owing to the girl having, as was alleged, been
seduced by said resident while in his em-
ployment. Want, Q.C., raised the technical point
that, as the girl was in defendant’s service
at the time of the alleged seduction —which, by
the way, defendant entirely denies—the mother
could not have lost her services, and had no
interest in them. The Chief Justice considered
the point fatal, and the mother was nonsuited.
It is a solemn fact that N.S.W. law only allows
damages for seduction on the ground of the loss
of the seduced girl’s personal services to her
parent, and yet on that point the damages may be
absolutely unlimited. Therefore the rich parent
who can afford to keep his daughter at home, even
though she renders no services there, can get, say,
£5OOO damages on the alleged ground that he was
deprived of £5OOO worth of household assistance
from her during the period when she was incapaci-
tated—perhaps £250 worth of household assistance
per week. And the poor man whose daughter
has to go out to earn her own living can’t get
damages for her seduction because he didn’t
lose her services—it was her employer who
lost them. And yet she may give a great
part of her wages to her parents, and
therefore her seduction may make a real loss.
According to the law of N.S.W. as expounded by
J. Want and the Chief Justice, if a man can afford
to hire a girl for a fortnight as his servant at ss. a
week he can seduce her with impunity, so far as
damages are concerned. And if he is too poor to
hire her as his servant, and seduces her without
that formality, he is liable for unlimited damages.
The poor man is struck both ways, and the richer
man crawls out both ways. Apropos, a few weeks
ago a Cornstalk mother who was affluent enough to
keep her daughter at home got £l5OO damages for
loss of services. Jack Want was her lawyer, and
the moving picture he drew of how the finger of
scorn would be pointed at her all her days as an
illegitimate grandmother (if the expression is
correct) was calculated to draw tears from an iron
post.
From figures recently to hand, it would
seem that N.S.W. oranges, of a quality which
realised locally only 2s. 6d. profit per case, have
been sold in London at an average profit of Bs. 6d.
The exporter, Mr. Bennett, of Hawkesbury dis-
trict, who made the shipment merely with the
view of “filling the breach” and keeping the
trade alive, has thus met with the pecuniary
reward his public spirit deserved.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
r
as
■
$■
IHB
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Jiemedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERE, RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVICe FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, consumption, Bronc hitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into ttiat of the most, perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of YVorms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, YVarts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BlilSBANE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO UBNE ; 150 Bourhe-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
PERTH : Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street,.
Enteric fever is very fashionable just now,
even the pheasants in England being decimated
by the disease. The pheasants that gamekeepers
rear by hand for the entertainment of shooting
parties are very susceptible to enteric, and they
probably prefer to die that way.
Maori description of the effects of lyddite :
By cripes, the shell, he the boy to kill the Poa (Boer).
The time he burst, as soon you hear the smell, you dead.
One flaw in N.S.W. Municipalities Act is
that there is no provision for formally winding-up
hopeless municipalities. Deserted Silverton, the
early depbt for the Barrier silver-field, has for
years past been uncertain whether it is a munici-
pality or not. It knew for certain that there was
not any Mayor or aldermen dr council clerk ; but
yet it was assured that the Municipal Council
was still the owner of some buildings and the
trustee of the common and a lot of other things.
By a round-about process this anomaly is, how-
ever, now being ended; though Government
officials say they don’t know how the thing can be
disposed of satisfactorily.
“ Pukaki ” tries to figure things out : —
Kipling lately told “ Banjo ” Paterson that it would be
very foolish for Australia to separate from Britain, as “it
would be a dead snip for Germany.” Kipling is given to
hasty generalisations, and this statement of his wants
looking into. The Boer population with which Britain is
at war numbers about 150,000. The population of Aus-
tralia is some 3,500,000. It has taken 250,000 soldiers,
“ the finest in the world,” to conquer the Boers. If an
Australian is one-tenth as good a fighting man as a Boer
it would, on this basis, take 600,000 German soldiers to
conquer Australia. Then we are told that the most mar-
vellous thing in the war has been, not so much what the
British did when they got there, as how they got
there. It is said to have been a marvel in the way of
transport. No other nation could have performed the
feat. Now, Australia is twice as far from Germany as
S’Africa from England. The difficulties of transport
would be at least doubled. And Germany has not half
the facilities for transport that Britain has. Therefore, if
the Australian is only one-tenth as good for fighting pur-
poses as the Boer, the conquest of Australia by Germany
still looks impossible.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
bounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
*ne remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
inay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
oend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copjwight).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
M EDICATOH.
{"'IATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is m i arrested it invades
the passages uhich lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Con.i'iete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>e Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation-
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/8
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Go., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAMLT’S '
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAUIiT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Dr. Boxwell’s
PILLS.
N on-poisonous, harmless, always effec-
tive. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. tW Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Box well having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f NLOROPYNE.
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
/
a
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
■ Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-,'we prefer that you send
,for our Electric Era and Price List (post- free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
/ Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot Irom any Chemist.
/ Proprietor .—STEP HEN GREEN,
/210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
f should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY
tor my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering EUCHASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASV COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
fT'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere, 5s 6d
per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, & Co., Dru«-<d s ts
272 Flmders-st., Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-
st., Prahran, Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave
me immediate relief, although I had during two months
previous tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
safes
; \sr >
4
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
all W f.°, unds and Skin Diseases,
Sore Eyef, &c S ’ Ulcerated Le^s - P^P^s,
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
niP PricS IS. iJd. b and d 2S. gd! each of Sf D^g
Sole & BARNICOTT, Ltd,
_ BRIDPOBT, England.
SEQ
DEAF
sJjflliJ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address
A. M. NASTj 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS ->■
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbour; e.


m
Starved Hair
Do you bring out a combful each morn-
ing ? Has it lost its natural brightness,?
Is it beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
Feed Your Hair
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough
hair. Such hair needs feeding. This
is why Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops fall-
ing of the hair.
Gray Hair
If your hair is gray, and you don’t care
to look at thirty as if you were sixty,
then you should use Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
It always restores color to gray hair.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food
It gives nourishment to the roots of the hair, and a long, rich growth is pro-
duced. The hair no longer splits at the ends, but keeps soft and silky.
All Druggists and Perfumers.
.Of? OER
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having-
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORdIr » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic, and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
,£lOO Policy.
r Age IB 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
\ Monthly Ppemtum Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for ,£lOO, £2OO, £4:09, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
2r.3 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Bates, &c., on Application.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Some curiosities in life-assurance medical exam-
ination. A recently-retired ex-chief of a Govt, department
applied to a N.S.W. life-office for a loan on the security of
his pension. A policy was necessary, but the examining
doctor declined to recommend the life. Heart was sound,
lungs ditto, kidneys seriously affected. The rejected
candidate thereupon tried an American office, and the
result of the overhaul was that the examiner found heart
right, kidneys ditto, lungs affected. Still not satis-
fied, the pensioner proposed to a third office, with the
further result that kidneys and lungs were found right,
but heart seriously affected. In sheer desperation, appli-
cant consulted another medical officer attached to office
No. 1, with the astounding result, that lungs, heart, and
kidneys were declared to be in perfect health. Thi* reads
like a snake-yarn, but it is absolute unvarnished truth.
• • # ,
“ Been There ”: Business agency fine work.
A places his hotel in your hands for sale ; you advertise ;
a possible buyer comes along ; you let him have a look at
the business, and then tap him for 10 per cent; deposit
(your own commission is only 5 per cent, and ex’s). Then,
during ensuing negotiations, you arouse buyer’s sus-
picions, and, by judicious hints, make him think the deal
not a good one. If he “ jihs-out ” you forfeit his deposit,
and tell the seller he never paid one. Keep seller and buyer
apart all the time ; and, even if seller should come to know
of the deposit, halve it with him, and you still have the
business on hand to make 5 per cent, out of. By working
things thus, bluffing the buyer off by talking of action for
“specific performance of contract,” and holding on to
the forfeited deposits, it is possible to live without selling
many businesses.
♦ * * •
What’s in a name ? A Melbourne tobacco-
twisting damsel lately told me that her smoke-
factory put on the market a certain brand of
cigarette—with enormous unsuccess. “ Hard luck,” said
I. “ Rats ! ” said she. “We just took ’em all back and
put ’em in noo boxes with a noo nyme—and now they’re
sellin’ like mad 1 ”
• * * «
The cook on one of the large Sydney-coming
liners landed the other day 4 hogsheads of fat, of which
3 were delivered at restaurants, but the 4th into the base-
ment of a city warehouse. Here careless handling stove-
in the top of the cask, and lo ! a false head containing
6in. of fat—the rest of the cask being filled with cig. .
and tobacco.
* * * *
“L.R.”: I know a young man whose father
lately died, leaving everything to his widow. The widow
next day died of shock, leaving everything to the
son. Will probate-duty have to be paid twice —first on
the father’s estate and then on the mother’s (who had
nothing to leave except what her husband left)? [Yes ;
probate-duty will have to be paid twice.—Ed. B.]
* * » »
Dear Bulletin. —Re medical attendance on
Westralian mines. At a certain N.S.W. mine there is
posted at the office a notice that anyone refusing to pay
his contribution to the medical fund will be sacked. The
money is stopped at the office, and amounts (at 9d. per
head of 200 men or so) to £7 10s. a week. A nice little
sinecure, because nine-tenths of the men will have no-
thing to do with the doctor (who was employed here once
before). Why don’t the men object in a body ? Because
they would all be marked men—to have their places
gradually taken by others. A large percentage of them
are married men with families, to whom the sack wohld
mean ruin, the mine being the only one in the district
which employs any labor to speak of.—Yakker.
* * * *
“ Ped.” : Recently took my watch to alleged
jeweller in N.S. W. country town to be cleaned, and 3 days
after getting it back it stopped dead ; couldn’t make it go
anyhow. Examined it, and made the interesting dis-
covery that the “innards” had been lifted bodily, and
replaced with worn-out works of some more ancient
ticker.
* * » *
As a keen, hard-headed business man the
average successful advt.-canvasser is hard to beat. But
many canvassers have been badly beaten in Maoriland.
Two men started a manufacturing biz., and represented
by a few preliminary prepaid advts. that their prepara-
tion had a huge sale there and abroad. The man who
was supposed to be the financial partner attended solely
to the (alleged) manufacturing department, and left the
advertising solely to the other fellow. The latter, by
delicate innuendo, gave the hordes of advt.-searchers to
know that a share of the commission might induce him to
work the “ financial ” partner to contract for a page or so.
Result, contracts all round from £lO to £lOO, and at
least £ISQ (half-corns.) from the poor devils of canvassers—
who, in many cases, had to borrow the bribes, which they,
of course, will have to doubly repay to those they repre-
sent. The firm’s suspension of payment is to last inde-
finitely.
* « * *
N.S.W. Supremo Court recently decided that
the publication in a trade journal of particulars of a duly-
registered bill-of-sale is privileged, because, according to
Darley, C.J., “ it is absolutely essential in a mercantile
community such as this that persons should know to
whom they can safely give credit. The Bills of Sale Act,
which provided that records should be kept in the offices
of the Supreme Court, and that they should be open for
public inspection, was specially designed to secure the
widest publicity of such matters.”
* * * *
A Queensland man recently entered for a
bazaar-raffle, which was to be decided in one throw, and,
having thrown the “possible” (18) when there were but
two or three more chances to be tried, he came away
assured that he had won. On going round next day,
however, to claim the prize, he was surprised to hear,
from a sweet innocent in book-muslin, that Father O’Raf-
ferty had thrown 20! Who says the age of miracles is
past ?
* * » » •
Wanted badly, a law to prohibit shopkeepers
from acting as directors of trust associations. In a cer-
tain province, lately, a retail-trader, on two separate occa-
sions, garnisheed the trust co. of which he is a director
for the amount held in trust for a debtor. Admitting his
right to collect debts by any legitimate means, has not
this particular merchant a much better “ look-in ” than
his fellow-tradesmen?
* * * *
“R.A.” : Note in one issue of a Melb. daily 11
different offers of “ Stradivarius ” and “Cremona”
violins, all “ genuine,” at prices from 255. to £3 IDs., bow
and case included. Yet Pentridge hasn’t had a pawn-
broking guest for quite an age.
Mr. J. Joynton Smith, of the Hotel Arcadia,
Sydney, to a Sydney daily on the tied-hotel question
“ The unfortunate publican who once gets into the hands
of a brewer, for no matter how small a sum, has no pos-
sible chance whatever of escaping from his captor. I
shall mention, as an example, one instance of many which
have come under my notice. A certain publican became
indebted to a brewer to the extent of £lso—a trifling
amount to a man of business—and in consequence of this
his house was tied, not for six months or 12 months, but
for the term of his existing lease, ‘or any extension or
renewal thereof,’ which means, practically, for all time.
It is also well-known that brewers frequently put salaried
dummies into hotels which they find it difficult
to let, and it is owing in a measure to this prac-
tice that disorderly houses flourish. ... In Victoria a
duty of Bd. per lb. is charged on hops, while on sugar it is
6s. per cvvt., or if it is to be refined in that State ss. 9d.
per cwt. ; whereas in N.S.W. refined sugar is admitted at
4s. per cwt., and raw at 35., hops being free. Notwith-
standing the great difference in favor of N.S.W., the
great and powerful local brewing ring here exacts £3 12s.
per hogshead from the ‘ tied ’ houses, or about
17s more than the current market price in Vic-
toria. Also, it is an'open secret that houses which
are free can purchase their beer fully 10s. per hogs-
head cheaper than their less fortunate rivals—say at
about £3 2s.—which shows the great anomaly of the
‘ tied’house question. Though a barrel is supposed to
contain 54 gallons, the most a publican can get out of it
is 50 gals. ; and when he has to retail, it at 3d. a pin., the
o-ross return to him is about £5, leaving a profit oi only
£1 Bs. Out of that he has expenses to meet, such as rent,
servants, counter-luncheons, rates, taxes, lighting, &c.
The average publican is only human, and when he nnas
that he cannot pay his .way legitimately, owing to the
exorbitant prices which he is charged for his purchases,
he resorts to adulteration, &c. Therefore, the sooner the
present state of affairs is remedied—and that can only be
brought about by most drastic legislation—the better it
will be for the public health and the general conduct of
the trade. So long as * tied ’ houses continue to exist,
adulterated spirits will be sold.”
» • * •
“Jack Shay ” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin.— You print (30/6/’00) : “ The man who
expects the run of a bottle of high-class spirits, with
mineral water, for sixpence, is a fool.” I—having myself
served a term “ at the bar” —say the publican who does
not give a man decent whisky and m.w. for 6d. is a rogue;
and I show cause. The ordinary bottle of whisky, or
other spirits, costs the trader from 3s. 3d. to 4s. 3d., said
bottle averaging 14 or 16 drinks. I have seen 10 drinks
only half-empty a bottle. Then, one dozen m.w., Is. ;
average cost of whisky, 3s. 9d. (lower where bulk whisky
is sold from decanters) ; total, 4s. 9d., as against Bs. for
16 drinks. Again, therefore, the publican who can’t be
honest on a margin of 3s. 3d., and over, is a rogue 1 Re
draught spirits : You can buy o.p. whisky at 245. per gal.
Breaking it down about one-sixth gives you a whisky
worth about 21s. per gal., so at the Bs. for two-thirds of a
quart average, your gal. of whisky brings you in £2 Bs.
Watch how ready even the best bars are to dump down
their draught decanters in default of your asking for
some special brand. By faking, profits can be increased ;
while “ untied ” publicans, who buy in bond and speculate
in bond-certificates, holding large stocks bought cheap—
well, to them, 6d. spirits with m.w. is a veritable gold-
mine.
* » • *
A M.L. up-country Mayor recently hit on a new
way of collecting arrears of rates. Halfway through his
term he resigned. As faction ran high in the place,
everyone wanted to vote for the new Mayor ; and, as no
one could vote who was a defaulter on the rate-roll, .the
arrears' came in with a rush.
• * * *
A person calling himself “ Colonel ” landed
at Auckland, from ’Frisco, a few years ago, and lived in
great style, giving many champagne-lunches, and getting
into clubs and society. A confederate, starting from
Invercargill, had meanwhile sold cheap to every club and
leading hotel in the province numbers of packs of playing-
cards, of good quality, but all marked. When the pear
was ripe, the Col. began his tour. He entertained and
played cards right through from north to south and back
to Auckland, ending up by taking down a party of very
keen bookies, and making in all at least four figures, ft
was long after the “Col.” had left that a Wellington
hotelkeeper found the cards were “ trick.”
• * * ¥
Interesting advt. of a London tailor in a remote
suburban paper—the Surrey Herald and Middlesex
News “ Free Railway Ticket to London. In order to
introduce our famous * Geelong Tweeds ’ and ‘ Empire
Serges ’ to parties living in the country, we will pay, 3rd
class return fare to London (providing the distance tra-
velled is not more than 30 miles) of every purchaser of
one of our celebrated 30s. Suits (made to measure), style
and fit guaranteed. Geelong cloths take their name from
the town in Australia where they are manufactured ; they
have long been recognised throughout our colonies as
being unrivalled for beautiful texture and having no
equal for hard wear, and we are quite sure a trial will
convince everyone of their marvellous value and dura-
bility.—So & Co., Economical City Tailors, :
street, E.C. (near Blacltfriars Bridge).” The so-
called “ Geelong tw r eed ” at 30s. the suit is purest British
shoddy, of course, but the fact of a Cockney tailor using
the term as an advt. catch-line show's that Australia is
getting on as a manufacturing country. The name of its
wares begins to be worth stealing.
* * * »
Legislation for the suppression of bogus bidders
at stock auctions is suggested in Maoriland. Numerous
A. and P. associations written to on the subject refused
to support a measure disturbing the existing pleasant
arrangement, but a big petition is nevertheless being pre-
pared, requesting State interference. It will, however,
take a stiff Act to knock out the bogus head-wap ger.
* * • •
Various Acts of Parliament exempt “bedding”
from distress and execution, but Shylock-landlords and
their admirers interpret this word as not including “ bed-
steads,” and have instructed their bailiffs accordingly.
These harpies will now be distressed to hear that the
English Queen’s Bench Division has decided that the
“ bedding” privileged from distress includes a bedstead
used by a tenant as part of his sleeping accommodation.
• * * *
Two wood-carters battling Little Bourke-street,
Melbourne, with a load, tackled a Chow and received the
shrewd reply “ No feah: load too muchee likee house
insi.”
* • • •
A Sydney van-man was one day engaged by a
person who took him to an empty house and loaded up a
36-gal. cask, with which they drove around from hotel to
hotel, till evening came and the vanman had about 15s.
due to him. But the “traveller” now confided to him
that the cask contained about £7 10s. worth of illicit
whisky, which he had been trying to sell. He also gave
the vanman a good nip from his sample-bottle, and told
him to take the cask home in the meantime and meet
him (the “ commercial ”) on the morrow, when a couple of
quid would be forthcoming if a deal were made. Half
the next day, accordingly, the vanman waited vainly for
the other one—then he took the cask home and stored it
as security. But as the owner never turned up the van-
man rested content with possession, until, having - a big
shifting job on a wet day, he took his mates around to
have a nip of prime stuff, and a bottle to take home with
them. They tapped the cask, and drew off a large jug
full of—water ! and upon opening the head they found
a tin tube, fixed against the spile, and containing about a
quart of the crathur. The vanman sold the cask for 55.,
and is waiting anxiously to have 355. in either money or
stoush should he ever meet his gay deceiver.
» * * *
This apparently-simple confidence game was re-
cently played off in Townsville : Three thil sty gentlemen
enter a pub. and call for drinks, which Brown pays for with
gold coin. “Let me see—was that half-a-sovereign?”
asks the shouter on receiving 9s. 3d. change. The half-
sov. is handed back at his request, whereupon he adds 9d.
to the 9s. 3d., hunches the change and half-sov. together,
and asks the barman to hand him a pound-note in ex-
change for the lot. The barman, slightly confused, does
so, and discovers his error when the financiers have de-
parted. Rumpus and police.
* » • •
“Theo. B.” : If I owned a controlling interest
in a railway or telegraph-line, and wanted to get a real
A 1 advertising scheme worked out cheaply, 1 would pro-
pose to extend said line to the South Pole or Mars or the
moon, and instigate my fellow-shareholders to slang-
whang for and against the proposal in letters to the press.
My venture would thus get scores of columns of capital
advts., giving statistics and facts,and showing that the affair
was so very gilt edged that no possible extension could
hurt it. The value of this ad. merely at space-rates
would be anything from £lOOO to £l5OO, but otherwise it
would be simply incalculable! Worked about every 7
years, this plan would boost my concern ahead of all
rivals, and pull the collective newspaper leg to an enor-
mous extent.
* » • *
An old woman has the princely income of £26
p.a. Her trustees, in error, pay N.S.W. Taxation Dept,
income-tax on estate, and charge old woman with her
proportion. Error discovered, and old woman applies
for refund. Commissioners refuse, because applica-
tion was n't made in t'me-limit.


Great Weakness and Anaemia
An Interesting Case
And a Perfect Recovery.
The Case of
MRS. SARAH DILLON.
(by our own reporter.)
As our reporter was one day pursuing his
Usual mission, involving the collection of
items of interest to the reading section of
the community, he happened to hear of the
remarkable recovery from weakness and
continuous headaches of Mrs. Sarah Dillon,
who was then residing at 5 Norton-street,
Surry Hills. He accordingly called upon
that lady, who cheerfully offered to give
him all the information he desired.
“ My case must have been a particularly
interesting one to the doctors who attended
Upon me,” began Mrs. Dillon, “for the very
simple reason that they were of the opinion
that I was beyond the scope of medical
treatment. I can assure you it is exceed-
ingly dispiriting to be told by your physician
that your condition is the natural result of
old age creeping on, and anything he
prescribed for you could not possibly do any
good. And it is especially so for a woman
like myself, who had previously enjoyed the
best of health. I had never before that
time known what it was to have a day’s
sickness, excepting as a child, when I met
with an accident to my hand, which soon
got all right again; but I clo not call that
sickness. And then to be suddenly
conscious of an ailment which was gradually
drawing all the vitality from me, and to be
told that nothing could be recommended by
my doctor to cure me, you can easily
imagine how despondent I became.”
“What were the symptoms of your
malady, Mrs. Dillon ? ”
“Well, I cannot very easily describe them
at the commencement of my illness, because
they were altogether too complicated. 1
knew that my blood was not in good order
on account of the alteration in the colour of
my complexion. My lips assumed an un-
healthy paleness, and my eyes became dull
and heavy. I cannot say that Isuffered a great
amount of pain, although very frequently I
would become possessed of a sickly feeling
which left me languid and extremely weak.
It would have given me a great amount of
relief if I could have slept when I retired to
bed at night; but even that luxury was
denied me, for I would turn in feeling so
jaded and worn out that I felt quite sure of
getting a little repose; but I was invariably
disappointed. As a result, it was almost an
impossibility to get up in the mornings, and
when I did manage to do so, after much
perseverance, I was too weak and exhausted
to stand. During the day I would be
afflicted with a feeling of a drowsy languor,
as though everything taking place around
me was no interest or importance; and the
next development in my failing health was
something entirely new. I had never
before known what it was to faint; but now
it was a frequent occurrence for me to go
right off without any apparent cause, and
when I regained consciousness I would be in
a depressed state of mind for a long time.
It was enough to frighten any woman at my
time of life to experience such threatening
indications of a general break-up of the
system; and when I tell you that my
appetite had abandoned me altogether, you
can understand how dejected I was. The
most tempting food failed to make me eat,
and the robust appearance I had so long
been proud of gave way to a condition of
emaciation. The sight of food was a source
of trouble to myself, as my inability to eat
was an additional reminder that I was
gradually wasting away. And the hopeless-
ness with which 1 thought of the future was
brought about through the doctors’ opinion
that there was nothing in the way of
medicine which could possibly restore me to
health. The idea of being in a state of such
utter abandonment occasioned me no end
ofworry and anxiety, which, I’m sure you will
agree, was quite natural. No matter how ill
a person may be, I think they can always
keep up their spirits to a certain extent if
they are following out a course of treatment
which will encourage them to "believe that
their health may ultimately be regained.
But in my ease I was apparently left without
a chance. However, I made my mind up
that it would be foolish to continue in such
a state of misery without making an effort
in some direction, because I did not think
anything in the way of physic could have the
effect of making me worse, my condition
then being so forlorn. By a stroke of good
luck I secured the right remedy at the first
attempt.”
“How were you so fortunate?” enquired
the reporter.
“ It was through listening to the advice of
a lady friend of mine, wlio had benefited
through the same medium, that I was so
favoured by Dame Fortune. She strongly
recommended me to try Clements Tonic,
assuring me that if I did so there would bo a
decided change for the better in a very short
space of time. It was with a certain
amount of doubt and misgiving that I con-
sented to give it a trial, although it was a
pleasure to think that there was something
which might have the effect of recuperating
my wasted system. I was really too
dejected to place confidence in any medicine;
but I sent for a bottle of Clements Tonic by
way of experiment, and, would you believe
tne ? I felt myself improving after the first
few dose*. Day by day my appetite gained
ground, and I was soon able to sit down
and enjoy a comfortable meal. The old,
worn out, despondent feeling of weakness
entirely left me, and the vigorous blood
that, imw ran through my veins had such a
stimulating effect upon my spirits that I
soon became quite cheerful again. The
racking headaches from which I had
suffered were but a memory of the past; and
I can tell you they used to be very severe
indeed. They never attack me now,
however, for I continued taking Clements
Tonic till my vitality was thoroughly
restored, and my health is now as good as
ever. I think in a country like this, where
the heat is so oppressive in summer,
Clements Tonic is a grand thing to have in
the house, and I always have it on hand
during the hot weather to take as a stimu-
lant. I believe that is why my strength
keeps up so well.”
“Do you give your consent to the
publication of this interview?”
“With the utmost pleasure. I owe my
recovery exclusively to Clements Tonic, and
now I always recommend it to my friends.”
statutory: declaration.
I, Sarah Dillon, of 5 Norton street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, rlo
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her pre cnt
Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations
in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
a/7.
Declared at Sydney, this 30th day of July, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
CHAS. E. WIGZELL, J P.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
fouis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U”l“S a °d in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10kS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete -in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and for Banquets and
Private Balls Tenn° s naWe Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCKITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
H
AYMAN’S
BALSAM
I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1898. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung • Duerdin ;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk,
CURES CO UGH
This is the Latest Type i
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONEI
Price, £7.
TALKS! SINGS
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d ; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
iJSF Also on Sale —Phonographs and Graphophoner ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a sum. „
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company;
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldersiiaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o COMPiITITIOISr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL'S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Cess Time and at Halt the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DKLICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DPU.ICIOUS to all kiuds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone..
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W. A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
s>
m
y,
m
USE
SPOONERS
JJ
SPOONERS
V
*
*
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED IU0S«
a',** #**'•►*«
»ii* ***«. *•*«•*<
Misin 1
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(1 n bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Ta* e
t*
0^
N\
Q AOfc
<£7
&fnp°r*
ai
inW
S'
?ses
throughout Great Britain* the Colonies.
Linum Catharticum Pills purei/%tabic,
i
COA.CUL.INE •
Transparent Cement, for ail Broken Articles
M*OUT v
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMEAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjrodt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout' the
Australian Colonies.


THE. LEAD I NC HOUSE.
THE SIX PREMIER • ESTABLISHMENTS
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE
o
T-
AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
N O «,M IDDL. E M E N
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
No. 201a— Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 15-carat Gold, £2;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Olip, set
Pearls and Turquoise, 18s
with
6cL
No. 116a —9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193—Set Links, 9-
earat, 15s 6d ; 15-cai - at,
£llos ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. E7478—9-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11a 6d.
No. 021--15-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E 7347. —Solid Silver Shaune; Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chased ; Best Silver*
plated, 18s 6d and £1 6s.
mm
►v*
Cut-Glass Toilet Box, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d ;
Medium, 21s ; Large, 255.
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 10s.
No. 284. —Out-Glass Puff Box, with
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558.—Very Massive 15c. Gold Broo h, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, i Diamond, 2 Rubies, &i 7s 6d.
No. 017.—9 c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 5
No. 139.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. P3739—Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box,
7s 6d.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, lls 6d, 13s 6d, £1 is, £1 12s 6d.
No. 383 A.—Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371 —Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Nancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
Um
-
No. 373—Beautiful Silver-plated Toaßt
Rack, 6 divisions, 7in. long, 12s 6d
No 177.
Cold Keeper, 18c.,
£1 la.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
oc. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 178. Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. ±(jj.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, ISc. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
8a Gold, £1 6s ; 15c. £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
6 Fine White Dia-
' monds, £5 5s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 215—Pearl and
Ruby Heart, 9e.
Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18c. Gold, £2 6s.
Silver-plated Egg Frame 2-Cup,
£1 5s ; 4-Oup, £2; 6-Cup, £3 3s.
No. E6Bsl—New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
13s 6d. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. EyOOl Beautiful Silver-plated Bis-
cuit Box, £ll6s.
No. E 7849 A Charming and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416—Handsome Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and' Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
gyggggpjf
“T '*-** | "^ >| Bn
No. 103. —9c. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130. —15c. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No. 137. —9c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
Others at £2, £2 6s, £2 10s, £2 15s.
-,-No. 319—Silver Button-Hooks and Shoe-Lift’
10s 6d ; smaller size, 11s 6d.
No. 295—Silver-plated Serviette Kings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
No. E 946 Morocco Case, containing
Solid Silver Shell-Pattern Butter-Dish
and Knife, £1 5s
Eg
■ •
No. 268a —Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d.
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10a.
Any of the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
Free and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Free.
i 412 St. 4 Strai)d, SYDNEY.


and HOIGESTIOD and RK-ISSMUTHI
KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
London:
41, FARRiNGDON ROAD, E.C.'
REGISTERED TRADE MARK..
EXACTjfSIZE
OFTHEBOTiILE
EXACT SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE
Kutnow’s Powder Checks the Excessive Generation of
Uric Acid by Remedying the Indigestion and
Rial-Assimilation by which it is caused.
If your blood and tissues have become poisoned with excessive uric acid deposits you need a course of
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, as the accumulation of uric acid in the system is due to
derangements of the digestive and assimilative functions.
Sufferers from uric acid diseases, such as Gout, Rheumatism, and Sciatica, can only secure relief by the
restoration of the stomach, liver, and kidneys to healthy activity.
Kutnow’s Powder does this better than any other preparation offered for sale, as it cleanses and
strengthens the digestive organs and thus remedies the imperfect digestion and the mal-assimilation by which
the poisoning of the system with uric acid is caused.
Kutnow’s Powder is an aperient in which the drastic, lowering, and nauseous features of the ordinary
aperient medicine are entirely absent. It is composed of the most curative, healing, and purifying elements of
the European mineral-spring waters, plus a few other simple and health-giving ingredients. It contains all the
curative, cleansing, and medicinal properties of the most famous of these waters without any of their undesirable
properties. It remedies and relieves practically every ailment for which the wealthier class of people visit the
European spas, and has a cleansing and strengthening on all the digestive, assimilative, and excretory
organs, increasing nutrition, purifying the blood, restoring lost appetite, dispelling languor and low spirits, and
enabling those that use it to work harder, sleep sounder, and enjoy life better.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors> See that the Registered Trade Mark, ‘‘ Hirschensprung 99 (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTJS'OJV & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “ KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes; they are worthless.
PROPRIETORS
S, KUTNOW & 00., Ld., 41 Farringdon RcL, London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
“And Nations Wept!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Universal grief is expressed at the tragic end of the late
King.” —The Press — everywhere.
The children wept in the fetid slum and fought
for the empty bowl;
We gave them crumbs in a careless mood and
dealt them a careless dole,
But Peace and Calm and the dreams of balm lay
sweet on our sated soul.
We heard a wail from a land afar of Misery dark
and drear;
The distant howl of the Hunger Wolf, it fell on a
heedless ear.
For We were fatted and we were fed —and never a
Want was near !
There came a cry from a stainhd field of a myriad
men in pain ;
There rang thedire of a fusilade that flashed from
the ranks of Cain,
And the bells they* rang, and the people sang and
told of a*thousand slain.
There fell a shot in an olden town, and the blood
of a prince was shed;
A gasp, a groan, and a parting moan, and the
crowned life was sped :
And the Nations cried in the morning-tide to know
that a King was dead /
Q.
F.
A Night in a Pocket.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thb everlasting rain fell from the tops of the
towering mountain ash (which is not an ash) to
the soil-seeking limb-roots of the native fig-trees
(which have nothing to do with figs), thence to the
lawyer-vines, and thence to the sting-trees and the
unfortunate travellers. Rain in drops, sheets,
showers, waves ; rain in feather and in powder;
and, when no rain, then an atmospheric saturation
—the wraith of fog—and emulsion.
Along the narrow track the packers’ horses
struggled, treading only in the great furrows of
the miry volcanic soil—the furrows that earned
for the squdgey alley through the scrub the name
of “ the potato field ” —the furrows that, flank-
deep as they were, were luxury compared to the
treacherous slimy crowns between them. Easy
enough for a leg-break here. The soil fell away with
traffic from the entanglement of roots and left un-
speakable traps, but the horses struggled and
schemed as only a packer’s horse can, balancing,
their two-hundred weight of load —stream tin,
corn, anything—swinging themselves down the
walls with the careless exactitude of cats, giving
their buttocks to the steepness and somewhile
sliding on their quarters.
Billy King’s small party first followed, and later
preceded, the packers, and like most men who go
ahead had the worst of the deal, for there were
places where great trees had blocked the narrow
track. So Billy King, sometime something else,
and now a mining - promoter of wonderful
and spasmodic luck relieved by cataclysmal
failures, and John Majendie his mate, and the
others of Billy King’s party, cut a new road in the
wall of fern and lawyer-vine and hazel, using great
scrub-knives which occasionally fell away from
the spineless sting-tree and gave that delightful
vegetable to the hands of the operator. After
these frequent road-makings, Majendie and King
walked ahead towing their grunting horses.
“We ought to reach that pocket before
sundown, ” said Billy. Majendie thought similarly
and stopped to curse his horse.
“Everything’s a fraud,” said Billy again.
“ Distance is a fraud ; we should have reached that
pocket two hours ago. Here’s about 40 miles of
holes calling itself a track, and there’s that sting-
tree that looks so green and innocent —like the
little boy who died —and yet it killed a horse
yesterday and gave me particular rats to-day.”
A scrub-turkey started before them, made his
run and got his way on, mounted drunkenly into
the humid air and dived into the green surf of the
scrub top. A wallaby stopped prospecting for
ticks and made into the close undergrowth.
“Fraudsagain,” continued King “ just like you
and me. That scrub-turkey looks as pretty as a
cookery-book, but outside of his bones he’s all
feathers and inside he’s all worms —like a jay.
And that wallaby is a flourishing colony of ticks
and he’s been scratching ’em on to the track so
that our horses will pick ’em up. All of ’em
crawlers, all of ’em 1 ”
“ ‘Pediculi’ is the polite word,” murmured the
demure Majendie.
“I like that fine christening-party air of yours.
Why that word ‘Pediculi’ is a fraud, and all this
is a fraud like most prospectuses and experts.
Think of ’em ! There are some of ’em who reverse
the swindle by giving an indiscriminate negative
to everything they report on. In the majority of
cases they’re bound to be right, and that’s what
makes the fraud worse.”
“I knew one of ’em,” said Majendie; “he went
to see some mines in the West and he damned
twenty of ’em and lauded the last one unto the
third generation. And, my grief ! the twenty are
paying divs. now and the twenty-first is playing
Icliabod on its stampers.”
“ Verily and of a trewth,” said Billy nasally
“there be but two righteous men in Gomorrah,
and them’s us.”
There came a break in the scrub wall and they
saw patches of sky, the air lost its balsamic
moisture, they heard the tinkling of water on
metallic pebbles, the impervious scrub broke into
belts ana patches, making a running fight with
the open country and dying hard. The potato- .
fields ended. The interlaced roots were succeeded
by tussocks of silver and kangaroo grasses; horses
and men became new again, and strode quickly into
a small circle of open billowed grass-land—an
exercise-yard in the gaol of the scrub.
When 60 or 70 miles of scrub are cleared
the traveller may yet see from that pocket
the reflection of the Pacific Ocean; he may view
Bellenden Ker and Bartle Frere and the mountains
that hide Cairns and Trinity Bay. Certain
learned men who can take up a chance stone and
tell you when it was made, and who its father was,
and are able to describe how a red-hot mud spring
was overwhelmed and crushed and indurated, and
became something else, will tell you that Australia
—millions of years before man invented theology—■
reached into the sea hundreds of miles further east
than it does now. They will tell you that the
Barrier Reef, which is coral, superimposed on
granite, was at one time a chain of mountains in
the mainland, and that it sprung a leak, or was
scuttled by Titans, or something, and sank, taking
some thousands of square miles with it. On the
Russell River at this moment men are hydraulic-ing
for gold old river-beds that have been lifted to
mountain tops—Boo feet below, the river runs its
new course. In the great convulsion that abased
the mighty mountains from their seat and exalted
the humble and meek river-beds, the volcanic
deposits that are now scrub-lands rose and
swamped the plains. But in spots and patches
the plain-lands rose with the volcanic flow and
formed these silver-grassed pockets, so that Billy
King and Majendie and many others might have
the pocket for their camp.
They loosed the horses, ate their own meal of
tinned mutton and bread, and then sprawled and
smoked in the long grass which the heavy dews
had begun already to drench.
The big, electric, overflowing moon had left the
scrub in darkness, as if it only shone for Tecoma
Pocket, and as the moon was very large and
Tecoma Pocket is very small, the rays saturated
the night and the light appeared to drip into the
darkness of the scrub. At the scrub-foot the fire-
flies barred the blackness with sparks.
Billy King sat up cursing, and counted the
leeches as he detached them from his legs.
“Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen; that’s
nineteen thousand quid to be added to the
Vendor’s cut.”
“ But it’s up to two millions now, is’nt it?” en-
quired Majendie lazily. “ It was the grass-seed
at Chillagoe last year that put it to a million and
a half. I charged a tanner for every speaigrass
seed I found in my pants, and I lost count of ’em
at forty millions; but if I never get’em it does me
proud to write ’em down and gloat.”
“ But what w’d you do with ’em if you did get
’em ? ”
“Well, fust of all I’d buy up all the police-
force and a few judges, and then I’d take my
enemies and hang ’em in front of the Exchange;
make ’em do the Cromwell trick, and poison the
air they once ruled. I might half-roast a few of
’em before the hanging, but I’m not sure. After
that I’d buy you a kingdom, Jacky, and a spare
crown for Sundays, and I’d make life pleasant for
some old friends I know.”
“ And what would you do for yourself ? ”
“ I’d do as I liked. If it liked me to be a pirate
—I mean the old honest sort of pirate—instead of
being the furtive highwayman on paper that I am,
I’d be a pirate, and pay the bill when settling-day
came. And for the rest I’d buy a bale of copy-
paper and write such verse that the shade of
Shakespeare would be sorry it didn’t collaborate
with me.”
After moonrise other travellers made the pocket.
There was a young Britisher (engaged in sugar-
planting) named Tottenham, who came to Australia
for experience, and found an overdraft and the
fact of his own grit—who lived by the grace of the
Colonial Sugar Company and in spite of his
mannerisms, which moved people as much to
laughing ridicule as the resultant fights with him
moved them to grief. He knew King, and having
freeted him in the wonderful tongue he called
Inglish, loosed his horses, took his rug from the
pack and joined the party at the fire.
There was Sampson, an agent at Cairns —
a man who sold everything sugar - farms,
mines, town - lots, pianos, and some alleged
pictures, the fearful and wonderful productions
of a local artist. There was Smith, the Labor-can-
didate (for just then it was the silly season in the
land) and the great white man who lives by signs
and fetishes like his black relation became swollen
with the importance of his vote ; and finally there
was a very beanpole of a Queenslander —Nazarenio
in his ignorance of a razor, and as a result his face
was almost hidden in something which was
not hair, but a tissue like silk or thistle-down. He
was a packer. Year in and year out he tailed his
sagging string of mules through the eternal
slush and over the limitless plains—travelling al-
most naked —knowing little more joy in life than
his wretched cattle, which were moving sores.
He stopped his weary beasts near King’s fire, un-
loaded them silently, not even cursing at the
brittle pack-straps and rotten gear, removed the
muzzles that had all day kept the animals in agony
but had protected their loads, asked for hot water
from King's fire, made his tea, and ate some livid
cow-beef, so hard that he made his one feeble joke
again—saying that “ the meat had been cut off the
horn.”
They asked him to their fire and he accepted
silently, for his long, lonely work had made him
dumb nearly always. But, as they talked on to
his exclusion, he felt more at home, and. at last
this long, ragged packer took his Familiar from
his saddle-pouch, and breathed into it all his
longings and the misery he could not feel to the
full. A mouth-organ, making the expressionless
articulate—
“ Whack-fa-101-ri-tooral-addity
Billy, get out of the bo’sun’s way.”
Newson —one of King’s men—had been singing
ribaldry, and while the packer played “ After the
Ball ” and other heavenly things, Newson had not
been stayed.
King spoke in an undertone, but the packer,
entranced with his own music, could not have
heard him shouting.
“Look at that chap,” said Billy. “He walks
those fraudulent tracks for ever and ever. The
gear of his harness is so spent that every time he
buckles a strap he splits a nail. His clothes are
rotten, his gear’s rotten, the tracks are rotten, the
tucker’s rotten—he’s as badly off as Sefton’s party
when they crossed York Peninsula. There’s
nothing before him for ever and ever and ever but
the potato-furrows, and the muzzling of horses to
prevent them eating their loads, and all the end-
less cruelty to them that he can’t help. And yet
he’s contented, and when he blows into that bit of
tin—he’s happy. And I grumble, and you grum-
ble, Jacky ; and Sampson grumbles, and there’s a
lot of skunks in-Melbourne who weep when the
market doesn’t jump with their swindle. Truly,
the packer-man is better than any of us—worth all
of us—his twenty shillings is worth a quid.”
“Such troubles as his,” said the Labor-candi-
date, “is just what the Labor-party is intended
for. Vote for me, and I’ll amelyerate his condi-
tion.”
Tottenham smiled. Majendie fell off his tus-
sock, and laughed himself helpless; and into
Sampson’s blue eyes came the light of battle.
“ It’s this black-labor that makes packers
poor,” continued the Labor-candidate. “If we had
no black-labor, there’d be plenty of other work for
a white man than packing.”
Sampson waxed shrill. “Man, man, man !” he
said, “are ye out of your egg? Have ye
senses and brains ? If there were no black-
labor here there’d be no Labor-candidates possible,
because the country ’ud be in the hands of the
aboriginals again. The Kanaka is the bullock-
waggon that must go before the locomotive.
When the country’s cleared and in crop the white
man can weed the cane with a motor-oar and a
cultivator. But ye don’t know. Ye’re all
wasters. Ye don’t know!” For Sampson was
full of the Tired Gospel of the North, which is


WHEN THE KIDNEYS ARE ILL,
THE WHOLE BODY IS ILL.
DOAN^
Backache Kidney Pills
A.RES THE CURE l
m
m
■
s.»s<:
sa'
tfgm
m
I
c
jjgH
\\>
Ik
m.
;-x
/;• <
mIM fijll
a Ilk'
'SsBS-»?- , «
ifyP§®W® ,!: '
MR. RICHARD TRE9ISE.
Did you ever notice a man suddenly place his
hands on his hips ? Did you watch his face con-
tract with pain ? Do you know why he does it ?
Ask him about it. He will tell you it is the re
suit of years of hr i work —his back has given
out —would not stand the strain any longer. It
aches nearly all the' time, with sudden twinges of
pain which make life miserable.
What have J done for it? I have rubbed it with
liniments until my skin was nearly raw. I have
worn plasters for months at a time. No, lam too
old to be cured now.
Now, here is a case where age and experience
are wrong. We want to tell him where, he is
wrong, to explain how the aches and pains in the
back come from disordered kidneys, and how, to
cure the back, you MUST CURE THE KID-
NEYS. We cannot do this in a better way than
by giving the experience of an old gentleman who
suffered with his back'and kidneys for years, and
who has at last found relief.
The gentleman is Mr. Richard Tresise, and his
photograph is given above. He is- 74 years old,
and is a resident of Daylesford, Victoria, living in
East-street. He has iived in Daylesford for 40
years, and is, of course, well known.
“My sufferings covered a period of six years,”
said Mr. Tresise, “and consisted of severe pains
in my back, together with a form of kidney
trouble. My back was so bad that I could not
stoop over, except with difficulty, and it made me
very miserable indeed. This was only one of the
symptoms of kidney trouble, however, for the
kidney secretions showed hie the kidneys were
diseased. In' the first place I couldn’t sleep well
at night, as my kidneys interfered with my rest.
Then the kidney secretions were unnatural. This
condition went on for six years, as I said, and I
got no relief until I got Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. These pills proved to be just what I
needed, for their action was directly on my kid-
neys. They regulated their action, greatly re-
lieved my back, and I am much better since I
used them ; and this from a man of my age (74
years) is saying a good deal. You are at liberty
to publish this, as it is all true, and may help
ethers who suffer as I did.”—(Signed) Richard
Trksise.
When your kidneys are not doing their work, it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pains, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day and to get
up during the night, uric acid, sleeplessness, ner-
vousness, irritability, sallow unhealthy com-
plexion, puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss
of energy and ambition. If your water, when
allowed to remain undisturbed for twenty -four
hours, forms a sediment or settling, or has a cloudy
appearance, it is evidence that your kidneys and
bladder need immediate attention:
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done for them.
These pills do not act on the bowels, they act on
the kidneys, and deserve the serious attention of
any sufferer from this most dangerous disease.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six: boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on recteipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pi'tt-street, Sydney
(main office); or from . any of our branches, as
follows:—292 Flinders-street, Melbourne:; 54 King
William-street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “ D-O-A-N-S.”
Itching Piles.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES PER-
MANENTLY BY CURING THE CAUSE.
A REMARKABLE REMEDY WHICH IS
BRINGING COMFORT TO THOUSANDS
OF SUFFERERS.
Probably half the people who see this article
suffer from piles. It is one of the commonest
diseases, and one of the most obstinate. People
have it for years, and just because it is not imme-
diately fatal they neglect it. Carelessness causes no
end of suffering. Carelessness about so simple a thing
as piles has often caused death. Hemorrhages occur
from no apparent cause, and loss of blood causes
death. Hemorrhages occur under surgical treat-
ment, often causing death.
Piles are simple in the beginning, and easily
cured. They can be cured even m the worst
stages, without pain or loss of blood, quickly,
surely, and completely. There is only one remedy
that will do it —DOAN’S OINTMENT
It allays the inflammation immediately, heals
the irritated surface, and with continued treat-
ment, reduces the swelling and puts the mem-
branes into good, sound, healthy condition. The
cure is thorough and permanent. Here is a
T. W. Hickson, of No. 170 Cumberland. T street,
this city, says :—“ For a few weeks I was very
much inconvenienced by an attack of itching piles
from which I could get no relief. Doan’s Oint-
ment was first advertised at that time, and I
obtained a pot from Newman’s Pharmacy, in King
Street. lam glad to say that the piles completely
disappeared, after a short treatment with, the
ointment, and I’ve not had occasion to use it since.
I will not forget to recommend Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one single moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our word
for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box. The
large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally from
your chemist or storekeeper, same will be posted
on receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-
McClellan Co., 7G Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
that the white man oan do nothing himself, and
if a black man won’t do it for him it must remain
undone.
Tottenham weighed-in. “I have severwal
hundwed akars of land which would cost me £25
per akar to oleah. I lease those severwal hun-
dwed akars to a—er —Chow ! First three yeahs
he pays me nothing, fourth yeah he pays me ten
shillings per akar; fifth yeah,fifteen; sixth yeah,
one pound; seventh year, one-pound-five. So
that in seven years he has paid me ten shillings
per akar per year and he has cleahed my land.
And if he wasn’t so allowed to cleah my land I
wouldn’t —aw —cleah it at all.”
The Labor-candidate made a further attempt at
justification.
“ But the black-labor is slavery,” he said.
Sampson blazed again ; “ Why, ye don’t know
anything. They’re cared for and fed and paid
wages and they’re helping a great country to the
settlement it must have before the white man oan
take proper hold.”
“And, anyway,” said Billy King, “what is
slavery and what is freedom ? I’d rather be a
slave with the slavery of the horse—well-fed, well-
groomed, well-stabled and no whip, than I’d have
the liberty of a vote and the right to howl about
my freedom, if the vote and the howl were accom-
panied by an empty belly.”
“ But shouldn’t a democracy give every man an
equality of opportunity?” said the Labor-candidate.
Sampson, vitriolically: “ And doesn’t every man
in Australia have equality of opportunities ? Grit
enough and brains enough and the world belongs
to any man.”
“ But the world should belong to the People.”
“So it does—to some of ’em,” said Majendie—
“a few kings and queens and a few Rockefellers
and Rothschilds.”
“Well, I’m against you there,” said King.
“ Monarchy is a superstition.”
The Labor-candidate was roseate with congratu-
lations.
“As a stoodent of political science,” said he,
“you must be a Republican.”
“ It isn’t that,” Billy answered —looking at the
smoke rings from his pipe. “If I lived in a Re-
public, and I made the forty millions that I’ve
decided to wind-up with prior to becoming the
new Shakespeare- —”
“ Colossal cheek ! ” said Majendie.
“Damn front!” muttered Tottenham, regard-
ing Billy lovingly. ' 1
“Prior to becoming the second Shakespeare,”
repeated Billy ; “in a republic I should beg, bribe,
and steal my way to the Presidency—be just and
generous at the' same time to the people until they
thought me greater even than I think myself—
found an army who should be my mercenaries, buy
up all the principal newspapers ; and then, one
fine evening, put the Ministry in gaol—which they
would probably deserve anyhow—and proclaim
myself King.” ■
“As a stoodent of scientific politics,” said
Sampson, “you would do as you dam-well-
pleased.”
The Labor-candidate called Billy an enemy
of the people, but otherwise lie held his peace.
From the other fire came Newsoms new
ribaldry—
“ When first she got the rilm
Her blood began to smoke.”
But Sampson rose and cursed him into silence,
for the packer had exhausted his music-hall
idiocies and was playing “ Abide with me ” very
softly ; so softly that by-and-by even Sampson
forgot his middleman’s Toryism, and the
candidate forgot the slavery and his campaign,
and all differences of shibboleth faded into
nothingness. The argumentatives were as dumb
as parrots in a thunderstorm. Not four men sat
there, but four children—while the ragged packer
played on the foolish little mouth-organ that rest-
ful music which made the instrument not so foolish
after all. The weary, martyred horses stopped
cropping the rank grass, and, probably forgetting
their sores for a moment, looked at the humans —
for whom they did so much and who returned
them so little —with some of a human yearning.
And the eventide fell fast and the darkness
deepened as the big, shimmering, tropical moon
went to its early setting.
The packer rose, replaced his Familiar in the
saddle-pouch, and kicked the face of a salt-
hungry horse that was vainly nosing .round
the salt bags in the loading. The animal grunted
its pain, but only moved a few paces, too weary
for flight and ready to die for a lick. The packer
went to his unwashed blankets and slept—
snoring as weakly as his whiskers grew.
“Jacky Majendie, Tottenham and Sampson,”
said Billy King, making his bed as the moon
foundered in the scrub-tops—“ after that Johnny’s
playing on the dotty mouth-organ, I feel that I
forgive everybody. I won’t hang one broker.
I’ll merely make ’em apply for shares in my next
‘ cat,’ even if I have to use a revolver.”
Some great bastard-ash fell in the heart of the
scrub-lands, and the pocket echoed the crash.
The heavy, damp darkness closed on them like
curtains, and they slept. _
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
An Irishman was fined 10s. for drunken-
ness. At once another Patrick of same initials
advertised that he had no connection with the
drunken Patrick. Now Patrick, the drunkard,
advertises: “I, «T. Patrick, fined 10s. for drunken-
ness, beg to thank J. Patrick, of Ballyhooley
Lodge, for notifying that I am in no way con-
nected with his family.”
Letter received by Dunedin (M.L.) Bene-
volent Institution Trustees from an inmate of the
Institution who applied for the position as wards-
man
As you intend to advertise for a warder at £65 a year, I
respectfully apply for the situation, and can give a first-
class reference. I hold the responsible position of head-
warder in No. 3 ward. If appointed I will give £2O a year
out of my salary to some able-bodied inmate, who would
do all the dirty work, which I would superintend, and see
it done properly. With reference to my medical exper-
ience, I wish to state that I was under Surgeon-general
Stokes, of the College of Surgeons, Dublin, in 1854, where
I met with an accident from a collision with a policeman’s
baton, which knocked out a portion of my brains. Dr.
Stokes filled up the gap with a portion of the brains of a
mad doctor, who was dying at the time. I got wounded
in the back at the battle of Bull Run, America, in ’63, and
have been in all the hospitals of Maoriland with
broken ribs, broken legs, black eyes, broken head,
and numerous other complaints (external and internal)
too numerous to mention. I got burnt in the great
fire of Chicago. I have been in the Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, Timaru, and Dunedin hospitals,
and in each I was given up, there being no hopes for my
recovery, my temperature being over 66. In all these
hospitals I cured myself, thereby saving a most valuable
life, my own prescription—brandy and milk 24 times a
day. Gentlemen, I refer you to the medical staffs of the
above hospitals, who will satisfy you as to the above
statements. Gentlemen, I had the honor of shaking
hands with His Excellency Lord Ranfurly and the Right
Hon. R. Seddon, Premier of Maoriland, which I hope
will be sufficient guarantee of my respectability. Should
Ibe appointed, I would require £5 in advance,to buy.an
outfit. I cannot call on you personally, as lam a.prisoner
(by order) for three months, and not even permitted to go
to church on Sunday. If not appointed, I would thank
you very much if you would grant me a pass for Timaru,
where I could get work.
Gonfessio Amantis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I gave you my heart. Be it much or little,
The gift that I gave was without reserve ;
And now that I know you, no jot or tittle
I take back from you; Ido not swerve
From the bond once bound, from the vows once
plighted ;
All yours to the end is the gift I gave—
(Would God at the first I had been clear-
sighted !) —
And you are the mistress and I am the slave.
My last illusion has passed for ever;
I have sounded your shallowness through and
through;
But the seal of my thraldom shall vanish never,
While I am I, dear, and you are you !
You’re a pestilent fraud in a comely setting,
Your falseness lacks e’en the grace of art.
But there’s no help for me, and no forgetting,
I’m damned beyond hope; you are queen of my
heart!
A month ago (think !) I never had heard of you,
Never been touched by your siren-spell.
Then mv senses were stirred by some light slight
word of you,
And I met you and fell with you—down to Hell !
So here is the body and soul (triple-cursed) of
me—
Yours to eternity ! Why repine ?
Choose your own way, since you must make the
worst of me.
What will you do with me, mistress mine ?
• Wrecked are my hopes of a life full of joy with
you—
. Toys of your granting are cheaper than dirt.
I will not rank with young asses that toy with you,
Crowding like curs at the tail of your skirt. •
Here is my case : all your favors I leave to you ;
Strike out my name from that pitiful roll.
But, spite of my manhood arid knowledge, I cleave
to you,
Love you and loathe you with all my soul !
TAS.
FRANDK MORTON.
A Bush Funeral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ever been to a bush funeral ? I went once. Miss
Duncan had been dying for 18 years, and finally
did die on one of the hottest days of the hottest
month of the hottest year on record. Next day is
the very hottest of that awful month, and the
funeral is to leave at nine o’clock. Being a Scotch
funeral, none of the female relations go; so old
Donald Duncan, the father, is sole near mourner.
About ten buggies and twice that number of riders
are scattered around under the trees on the un-
fenced road that the four-roomed slab - house
seems to back-on to.
At last we get a start. Out from the friendly
scrub into the blazing sun, and on through a bare
crab-holey lane, following the waggonette that
does duty as a hearse. Old Donald, with shoulders
drooping, leading on his draught-chestnut; the
rest of us following in free-and-easy groups.
About two miles on, I look back. Only three
buggies in sight, but a cloud of dust on the horizon
in a paddock to the left shows that all the rest
are making for water, to fill jars and water-bags
again to last a few more miles. Next gate some
more riders join us, and three miles on we strike
a house, the last on the track. More water; more
filling of bags; more riders. Some that are
fagged turn back. We go on, only to find we have
lost the funeral, but strike the trail on a sandy
track and hurry to catch-up. At last we see them
camped under trees, all off their horses and lying
down under stringy-bark and ti-tree.
Half an hour’s spell; then on again, across a
white, sandy, blazing plain; no shade; the sun
glaring on the white sand makes us shut our eyes
and trust to luck to go the right way. Our dog
fives up here; he has had enough, and his feet are
listered, so we take him into the buggy. At
last we sight a hill, and at the foot of it—welcome
sight!—fresh' green ti-tree, showing that there is
a spring somewhere handy. Some of the riders
have located it when we get up—fresh, cold,
sparkling water. After we have all drunk they
tell us there is a dead bullock in it; but that is a
mere detail to us to-day. We camp again, scat-
tered over about a mile of country, but the day is
going and we must push on. A couple of miles
more, and we meet a buggy coming back. Finlay
M‘Fee has given in to the heat. He is lying in
the bottom of the buggy, green boughs stuck up
round him, and he is going home, 25 miles.
At last another hill, and we sight the cemetery.
The little parson, locally known as the ‘‘Jockey,'
is waiting. We form in line and follow in soberly.
“ I am the Resurrection and the Life,” drones the
quaint little white-gaitered figure, with the huge
umbrella held over his bare head. Two faded
wreaths are placed on the grave, and we file out,
to discuss sandwiches, and cake, and water, while
we look down on the little town three miles below
us. A pub., one church, a school, a bridge,
ferns, sand, scrub, and rabbits —that’s all.
We turn our backs and start wearily for home;
even yet the sun glares down fiercely. We can
only walk our horses through the deep sand ; and
so, when the stars are out, we get home.
FRAULEIN.
Apparently the Maoriland Government
has decided to throw overboard most of its goou
traditions of honesty and economy, and be a Jingo
and boom and loan-swindle Ministry, pure and
simple. Last year it had a surplus of £500,000,
and transferred £500,000 of this to the Public
Works Fund for railway building and other essen-
tial purposes. For this year it is proposed to
sacrifice £BO,OOO a year by reduced postage, to
take off duties, &c., to-the extent of another
£220,000 a year, to make, in addition, a large re
duction in the tax on mortgages, and to spend
about £200,000 a year extra on military prepara
tions. And as this is calculated to reduce nr
surplus to about nil, the good policy of paying f .
public works in part out of revenue is apparent,
to be abandoned. A £1,000,000 loan is, there
fore, proposed to go on with. So The Bulletin
holds an inquest on the corpse of Seddon’s financial
principles and hands in the verdict: “ Fatally de-
moralised by the war-drunk.”


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age ; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle Made the Cure.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
a
m
ms
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograp’ ..
from which the above illustration was made. Ho is known as the “Father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was w ritten in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says : ' •
“I consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many’years. Lhvas asked to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and so I
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and T have liot felt the slightest return of
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of It in the house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this Vtter you ate certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s'Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
Dlood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and reffesh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYE R ’S Sarsaparilla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER'S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
■Empire, for Diseases of the T roat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much, safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 id., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d ,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corTKioBT.
Eyesgßight!
Head Right!
Stomach Right!
All’s Right!
WITH THOSE WHO TAKE
>ver
6,000,000 Boxes
Sold Yearly.
' ’ h". v
1
(56 Pills) and
t,"-'<
r.
xh e Uni versa,]. Remedy for Acidity o; ti.o Stomacu,
Headache, Heartburn, Indices? ion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK for DINNEFORD’S magnesia.
sEN
DSFA
%
, Sen-Sen & ,
EEARRINGDON AVENUE!
' LONDON.
m/mm to
51NGEB5 X SPEAKEHS
cP
m
t*
fet
BONNINGTON'S
B
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
I Ask for Bonn mg ton’s
and see that you get it.
COLOS,
BRONCHfTIS.
ASTHMA.


DTDHET
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAR 10Y STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
Citt Office:
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AN* . . _
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broolcman’s Building, Adelaide.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S Cnjbrocatioij
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints u. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s embrocation).
THE
RTH
.... IS THE ORIG
PLEX
INGTON
IN Al
PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
*" ' " r _" —— I'!-'",..,'- m irn.— % I.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
TANG YES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best.
Sale Representatives in Australia
. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
gennieJeare&Co.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
' •
BTOCKB CARRIED IN —*
sypn€y
MELBOURNE
PERTH -
COOL6ARPIE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE UDIE>.
■W". C- 3i!X.X5 _ R.TI - 'rT- _ E] Sc CO.,
DYERS As CLEANERS, '•
40 ¥ Oilli ST It I'J I’JT, S Yl) ft Ifi Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Ctuntry Orders by post irvm all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’
George and RJ TT ET 1
Market-Sts. WM +M ■ ■— »
Board or Apartments at Option.
gs
■
& IGE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
+ Wit to milk armlvemiallv to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
Ihe same remarks that apply to milk appl * on] p astem . isation oan give . There are a few, we are
oreaill, consequ . idiotic folks tv ho will not be convinced of the vn' vo of the process ; but it is satisfactory
——_ l )lea " ed * Say ; j .; The’di le. ence in price between Pasteurised, beautmilly-flavored blitter arid th|
to know that these are getting ? !ess times this difference. Heads ’of households should ir
ordinary make is only 2 d. pei lb. I } ;f .\ -n t couid votir orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors,
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and . he: wtll i»ot MOd your Oraer.JO bntter is dear
finnd hntt.er siich as we have described is appreciated always, ncieas at ... , .. ~ • h. pateson, Manager,
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter cat. be obtained only Irom this Company.
COMPRESSORS.
papa
*335
ZI
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated m fie* competition
, • , , ; ■ . +ll „ m „ nd have never failed to sustain their reputation for
every machine brought against them, anu navt,
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
rpu I*v nyas (i Tlt CL tiv €S til A. VLStVCtItW of
ROCK
DRILL
Vr
“ New Ingrersoll.”
THE INCERSOLL-SERCEAJORILL CO.,
PARKE & LACY C°! L T .?
i S-X-J33ST3ESTET, ZKT.S.'W.
Blake Steam Pumps
EBEEHI
“DUPLEX”
Vertical &. Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ngineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN + SONS L*""™ ' ll
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
“SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. .JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY
'OUOWAY'B BILLS AND OINTMI
■ ■ There to not a country In the civilised work
the healing virtues of these u i.mkl medicines have uc
trnised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the or
enta of humanity their beneficent action is i
sed. Fullest directions are supplied for * u
r disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THE'
1 only at 78 N«w Oxkok»-st., London,
should look to the Label on the P*'"'"
ROCHESTER LOPS'
Collins Place East, Melbourne*
Private Boarding Establishment
Most Central and Healthy Position i»
City* Within three minutes' walk of Twww 1
Clowe (rates, trains and theat res.
Terms Modoatre.
