

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISK'S
Reid*s London Draught Stout
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
Cr„ sz, cso.,
XO7 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
wt
mi*
iri
WINE l
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WSME4^>
AUSTRALIA.
63T Send for Price List
Mention this 'paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SIDNEY.
mm
’’Bs Pitt Street,
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
Jhes e maeMnes have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
lestimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
I
HOBART.
. *
Hadley's Orient [jotel.
tS'i
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
wIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
a/i
to
“i ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarin© !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’l-Sce, l«s. (id.
Sole Agents :
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
PEBPETIISE DITEi.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
he DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
I'Wr.
PIONEER
LEATHER
Belting!
The .Leading iseitoi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Governmenii.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
TET ork Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
/RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
op RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
HIGHLAN
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
T33HEC CKR-lEJLT • • •
CASCADE ALE
IS HEI IIEI TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. PLUMMER, LOVE, and. CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
u
Manufactured by the Celebrated
T. C. Williams Co.
BEST AMERICAN MAKE. FINEST AMERICAN LEAF.
. . . Obtainable of all Leading Tobacconists ...
PHOTOS
*
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Aic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20a.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. 6ENNCRT,
89cFaubourg, St. Martin, Paris, Franoe
THE
Edisvan -
.1,11.1:
IWMIi-g.l:.’ •
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EBISON & SEN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-sti-AAt
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY ’
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin s, Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Vol 21.— N0. 1068 j
[Saturday August 4, 1900.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a, Newspaper.


BOOKS BY POST.
STIRRING WAR STORIES.
"piITOHETTS “ Deeds That Won the Empire," 9d. ;
**• Baden Powell's “ Matabele Campaign,” 9d.; Griffith’*
“ Boer or Briton," 9d.
STEPHEN CRANE’S BOOKS.
“ Open Boat,” “ Third Violet,” “ Pictures of War,” &c., Si.
ALL PBST FREE. Stamps or Postal Notes.
W. W. PEARSON, 6 •“SV'SKKr."*—
The Bulletin Publications.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with. Other
Verses:
By Will H. Oqtlvis. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Rodkrto Quinn.
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out ov Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodgk. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *»* The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by; Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood ; 6s. post-free. *** “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
itarSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale-Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Stonst and Brisbane
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds I
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug ... °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d 5 from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Cheoust, Ipswich. Qiieemlft&d
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PLAGE.
THE RED PAGE.
Hodgkinsoniana.
WILLIAM OSWALD HODGKINSON
was born at Wandsworth, Worcester-
shire, in February, 1836, so that he was
62 years old when he died in Brisbane
the other day. He was one of the finest speci-
mens of bulldog Englishman that ever reached
Australia. A little, square, chunky, man, full of
blood, with a square jaw and a noble head —the
best brachycephalic type —he was as full of grit as
an egg is full of meat. But he had more than
grit—he had a good brain an pa bright wit, with
an excellent foundation of book-knowledge and
man-knowledge. A versatile fellow —he spoke as
well as he wrote; and in his best days he wrote
well. He sketched a little too; had a taste for
the arts; scribbled verses. But his action-side was
uppermost. All his life he wanted to do and dare.
He would have been at home with Sidney, but
more at home with Drake. And his pluck never
failed him ; his spirit never failed him until
nearly the last, when, broken in health and for-
tune, he returned to Queensland, the province oi
Australia most endeared to him by friendships—
returned to take a humble post in the service of
the Govt, where he had been a Cabinet Minister
—and returned to die.
* * » *
All his life long Hodgkinson loved (as becomes
a man) fighting, drinking, adventure, and the
ladies. That he occasionally loved to excess may
have been his fault, but on the whole it was not
his misfortune. He was never content with exist-
ing : he wanted to live, and he lived. - His fighting
he learnt at historic King Edward’s School, Bir-
mingham. Edward Benson, late Archbishop of
Canterbury, was one of his school-fellows ; Joseph
Chamberlain, Rhodes’s co-conspirator against
Transvaal liberties, was educatedatthesamescbool.
All King Edward’s boys had to fight as a matter of
course ; and there were well-recognised classes or
grades of pugilistic capacity through which every
youngster mounted by degrees, with much nose-
blood and buffeting. They called Hodgkinson
“Fighting Billy,” He hadn’t heard the name
for 40 years till within a year of his death, when
an old schoolmate tapped him on the shoulder in
George - street. Sydney. “What! Fighting
Biliy ! ”
Hodgkinson’s chief opponent in the early days
was a big lump of a butcher-boy. If they fought
once they fought a dozen times, and a dozen times
the butcher-boy licked Hodgkinson. He used to
get in a favourite blow under the chin that
knocked H. out, and made his throat swell up
like a pumpkin. Then he’d go home and inter-
view his father. This was their regular colloquy :
“Hallo, Will! Fighting again ? ” “ Yes father.”
“ Licked again ? ” “ Yes, father.” “ Come along
to the stable.” Then they adjourned to the stable,
where Hodgkinson would get another licking—
with a strap—for being licked by the butcher-boy
with his fist.
But Hodgkinson-’s turn came at last. The thir-
teenth contest was fought in a tunnel, with a
policeman to see fair play, and Hodgkinson
managed to avoid the throat-blow and pummel the
butcher-boy into saying he’d had enough. Then
Hodgkinson told him he must come up and see
Hodgkinson’s father. They went up, a sorry-
looking pair ; and Hodgkinson’s father satisfied
himself that the butcher-boy had been thoroughly
beaten, and gave him half-a-sovereign. Hodgkin-
son got a pony. Half-a-dozen years afterwards he
came back to England and Birmingham, and,
passing along a well-remembered street, saw a fat
young man in a blue apron bending over a carcase
in a butcher’s-shop. It was his old antagonist.
He stepped up and hit him a vigorous whack on
the back. He turned in astonishment—“O,
Master William ! is it you ? ”
* * * *
In 1851 Hodgkinson was taken up to London to
see the great Exhibition. That was the chance he
had been pining for. For long he had yearned to
be a Pirate ; and, first chance he had, he gave his
father the slip, and made his way to the East ludia
Docks. There he found what looked like a suitable
ship, stepped on board, and confided his ambition
to the captain. The captain warmly approved
of it, but told Hodgkinson that as an essential
preliminary of piracy he must give his full name
and address, to be entered in the ship’s books, and
state where his parents were to be found. With
the Spanish Main before his eyes, Hodgkinson told
everything. The next thing he knew he, was
in a cab, with the captain alongside, bowling along to
a hotel, where he was delivered up to Ins father.
But Hodgkinson insisted on going to sea, and
shortly after he was shipped as third midshipman
on a barque bound for Australia. Things were
very different from what he had expected. But
the incident of the voyage which finally turned
him against salt water smelt strongly of—eggs !
It was before the days of freezing-rooms and
patent preserving methods, and Hodgkinson’s
captain, who had a weakness for eggs and poultry,
had the waist of his vessel lined with hencoops
full of cacklers. It was the duty of Hodgkinson
and the other middies, Green and Tompkins, to
go in rotation round these hencoops, and collect
fresh eggs for the captain’s breakfast. When they
were fortunate in finding a good number, the cap-
tain was occasionally graciously pleased to invite
them to breakfast in his cabin, where they got
potted-meat and marmalade and other delicacies
which they much preferred to the salt junk and
hard biscuit of the midshipmen’s mess. When
theydidn’t get eggs the captain let them know they
were in his black books. It was a long voyage,
and the hens were very erratic. Some weeks they
wouldn’t lay an egg, though the middies dosed
them with lime and ashes and all sorts of specifics.
At other times eggs were a drug in the hencoops.
Hodgkinson set his wits to work, and determined
to save a stock from the feast-weeks to carry him
over the famine-weeks. So he did. By judi-
ciously doling out the supply in the good
seasons, he was able to accumulate a stock
for the bad ; and after that, while Green and
Tompkins were cursed at frequently, he basked in
the captain’s sunshine all his watch long.
However, one morning about half-past nine,
Hodgkinson was sitting down in his berth
reading, very well satisfied with himself.
The hens had been off the lay for a
fortnight, and Green and Tompkins were
desperate, while Hodgkinson produced his two
eggs, or three eggs, or four eggs, when his turn
came, as regular as clockwork. That very morn-
ing he had given the captain’s steward four ad-
mirable eggs ; and, though he hadn’t been asked
to breakfast, he consoled himself with the thought
that the pleasure was only deferred. So when the
captain sang out, “ Pass the word for Mr-
Hodgkinson !” he expected that the old man
wanted to say something complimentary, and got
into his uniform coat in a very well-satisfied frame
of mind.
Hodgkinson found the captain on the breax of
the poop. He was pacing quickly up and
down with his hands behind his back, and looked
excited. “Ha!” he said, ‘‘Mr. Hodgkinson!”
“ Yes, sir,” and Hodgkinson saluted. “ Er-00-yh !
you young devil ! ” and the captain glared.
Hodgkinson couldn’t understand what was up,
but put a bold face on things, and suggested,
“You sent for me, sir?” “Yes, I did.
Er-00-gh! ” And he grunted again ferociously.
“You gave my steward four eggs this morning,
Mr. Hodgkinson?” “Yes, sir.” “Four fresh
eggs which you found before breakfast ? ” “Yes,
sir.” “Do you call that egg fresh, you young
whelp? And that egg? And that egg? And
THAT egg?” And as he spoke his hands came
from behind his back, and he dashed four rotten
eggs one after the other into Hodgkinson’s face.
“Up to the masthead, sir!” roared the captain.
“Up to the masthead !! ”he screamed. “UP TO
the Masthead ! !! ” he howled, dancing with
rage, as Hodgkinson stood dumbfounded, drip-
ping eggs and odours. Hodgkinson went up to
the masthead, and remained there eighteen hours,
without a word of a lie. Long before that time
had elapsed he had decided that the sea did not
suit him. There and then he sacrificed his hopes
of becoming a Pirate—and he never regretted the
sacrifice.
Long before the ship got to Hobson’s Bay
Hodgkinson had determined to quit her first
opportunity. The fo’c’s’le hands had a nasty habit
of growling, in a thick sea-voice, whenever
Hodgkinson neared them, “Isay, Bill, were them
eggs fresh this morning?” and exploding in a
hoarse chuckle. The Bay, when they reached it,
was full of ships—ships without men. It was the
crisis of the gold-fever, and the crews deserted as
soon as they touched port. The day after they
arrived Hodgkinson deserted too. He smuggled
himself into a kind of bum-boat—a vessel of small
rig that came down the Bay with provisions, and
travelled up to Melbourne in the cook’s copper.
They got there at sundown. Hodgkinson spent
the night in a tank on the wharf, and next morn-
ing walked up to town for breakfast. He came
to a pastry-cook’s, and ate a dozen of tarts “ while
you wait ” —remember, he was an English public-
school boy, fifteen years old. He had only a
two-shilling piece in his pocket, and when he had
finished he tossed that down and waited for the
change. He had forgotten that he was in Aus-
tralia, and at gold-rush time. The tarts were 10s.
a dozen ! Luckily, the girl in the shop took pity
on him—somehow, all through life, whenever
Hodgkinson was in a fix, a girl took pity on him
—and having ascertained that lie had deserted his
ship, she told him to wait and see her father—he
was a bootmaker, and wanted a boy to help in the
business. The bootmaker came along presently,
and Hodgkinson stayed with him for a day or two,
But he hadn’t come to Australia to learn shoe-
making ; and presently, a man came along who
was going up to the diggings with horses, and
offered to take Hodgkinson.
* * * *
He jumped at the chance, and off they went.
They had a mob of about sixty horses, and the
uniform price was five ounces of gold apiece. On
the way to Bendigo the mob rapidly grew less.
They would meet a lucky digger returning to
Melbourne, only too glad to get something to
carry his swag. He would get out his chamois-
leather bag of dust; the drover would produce a
pint-pot, and the digger would dribble dust in
until the drover reckoned there were five ounces.
Then he’d fix himself and his bundle on the horse
somehow, say good-day, and off.
Hodgkinson was full of zeal and eager to find
customers, and one day he had gone a little ahead
of the party when he met a man who took a fancy
to the mare he was riding. As the fellow seemed
eager Hodgkinson made the price six ounoes; got
it; and expected to be praised for his smartness
when he handed over the dust. To his surprise,
his employer called him a little d d fool.
Hodgkinson couldn’t understand it. “Why,”
said the drover, “didn’t I tell you the price was
five ounces ? Why didn’t you stick to the other
ounce yourself ? Fow’ll never get on in Australia!”
However, he was a very good fellow, and when
they reached Bendigo he gave Hodgkinson a £lO
note and left instructions with the storekeeper to
give him a lot of provisions and watch to see he
didn’t come to harm. So Hodgkinson started life
on the diggings in ’52. The sixteen-year-old had
his own claim, but mostly he was cradling for
others. He got the name of being a good and
lucky cradler, and had plenty of work. The
tailings were his share, and if they didn’t come to
much lots of men would throw in a few weights
with the next load. After a bit he made a rise,
got about £3OO worth of gold, and went to the
escort-tent to deposit it—before that he had fought
shy of the Commissioner, for he hadn’t a license
for his claim.
As soon as he saw Hodgkinson, the Commis-
sioner—his name was Bull—said : “ Your name
Hodgkinson ? ” Hodgkinson said that was so.
“ Arrest that boy ! ” And a trooper took the lad
in charge. “Do you know, you young rascal,”
said Bull, “that your parents don’t know what
has become of you, and there are letters all over
the place asking us to look out for you ? I’ve got
you now, and you must drop digging.” So he
made Hodgkinson license-clerk, and a couple of
months after he was sent to Tarnagulla as Assis-
tant-Commissioner —when he was 17 years old.
* * * *
Hodgkinson never knew how his life would have
gone if the Crimean War hadn’t broken out. He
was on fire at once ; took the first ship home, and
sent in an application for an army commission on
the strength of his service as Assistant Gold Com-
missioner of Victoria. They wouldn’t give him the
commission ; but he managed to get into the War
Office as junior clerk, which he considered next best
to being at the seat of war. Hodgkinson
held that clerkship until the spirit moved him
to write an article for The Times. To his surprise,
they put it in as a leader, and sent him £lO 10s.
for it—which he spent chiefly in purchasing copies
of the paper and posting them to all his friends.
The article was about the conduct of the Crimean
campaign, and most of it was a warm attack on
the War Office administration. Hodgkinson was
too proud of his coup to keep his authorship quiet,
and a few days after the article appeared he got a
note from Lord Panmure’s secretary, requesting
him to call on the Secretary for War at 11 o’clock
next morning. Hodgkinson went, and there was
Lord Panmure, with the chief of nis own depart-
ment, and two or three others. He was taxed with
writing the article, and asked if he considered it
was part 'of his duty as a junior clerk to criticise
the administration of his chief. Hodgkinson
admitted that technically his conduct was open
to question; “but,” he said, “it was your Lord-
ship who was the real cause of that article being
written.” “What, sir!” said Lord Panmure.
“Yes, your Lordship; I applied to you for a
commission in the Crimea, and if you had granted
it assuredly I should never have written that
article. So I think your Lordship must take at
least a share of ,the responsibility.” Panmure
couldn’t help smiling; and “What did I tell
you ?”■ said the departmental chief ; “ I said the
young rogue would have his answer pat.”
The end of it was Lord Panmure said he per-
ceived that there were excuses to be made; still,
it was an act of insubordination, and he thought
Hodgkinson had better leave the War Office.
However, he would recommend his oolleague in
the Treasury to take Hodgkinson in—and the
colleague did.
* * * *
So Hodgkinson got a junior clerkship in the
Treasury, and six months afterwards went up for
his examination as a second-class officer, and
passed with flying colours. The only subject he
failed in was book-keeping; and one of the
examiners came to him and advised him to with-
draw his paper in that subject. Hodgkinson
could see, of course, that if the examiner gave such
advice his other papers must be considered
exceptionally good, so he said his thanks and took
the recommendation—in all the other subjects he
came out head of the class. He was then 21, and
the youngest second-class officer in the Depart-
ment. (All his life, Hodgkinson might have
added, though he succeeded in nearly everything
else, he failed in book-keeping.)
* * * *
Presently the Treasury chief, Lord Manners,
took Hodgkinson into his office as private sec-
retary. Hodgkinson had by this time passed the
examination for first class—and brilliantly. He got
along well with Lord Manners, though occasionally
tumbling into scrapes. Among other things the
Treasury department had charge of was the regu-
lation of the Royal Pensioners, and on one occa-
sion the Prince of Sausageschwillenstaufen, or
something like that, made a formal complaint to
the effect that the ranger of Greenwich Park —
where he resided, with right of entry —had intro-
duced a, number of breeding sheep to the Park,
with the result that the modesty of the ladies of
his family had been so continually shocked that
they were obliged to cease promenading in the
Park. Hodgkinson replied to the effect that he
grieved exceedingly that whatever was done by
the sheep in the Park was done according to the
immutable laws of Nature and the changeless
cycle of the seasons, and these laws were not, at
the time of writing, included in the list of things
over which Her Majesty’s Department of the
Treasury had the honour to preside. Therefore
Hodgkinson subscribed himself, with expressions
of the greatest possible regret, his Serene High-
ness’s most humble and unworthy servant, &c.
Hodgkinson put the letter before Lord Manners
to sign, and of course he never read it. Next day
in came Sausageschwillenstaufen—foaming ! Lord
Manners rang for Hodgkinson at once. “Mr.
Hodgkinson, did you 'write this disgraceful
letter?” “I did, your Lordship—and it bears
your Lordship’s signature.” “Oh !—ha ?—hum !
—yes ! —you can go, Mr. Hodgkinson. And may
I ask what your Serene Highness finds to object to
in this very accurate statement ? ”
That was all Hodgkinson heard before he got
out the door ; but half-an-hour afterwards he was
sent for again and told by Lord Manners that ho
must n’t play any more such pranks, or he would
have the whole Royal Family down on his Lord-
ship. But Hodgkinson couldn’t help himself—he
was full of blood and spirits, and always in a state
of ebullition. The head of the Contract Depart-
ment had a habit of stroking his face with his
hand as he talked ; and one day he told Hodgkin-
son there were complaints about the quality.of the
service black-lead, and enquired if he knew any
means of testing it. “Why, yes,” said Hodgkin-
son ; “ just take a little in the palm of your hand
and rub it. If it is good black-lead it will leave a
substantial mark, with a good body and colour;
if it is bad it remains gritty in your palm and
makes no mark.”
The head of the Contract Department thanked
Hodgkinson ; and a day or two after all the black-
lead contractors were summoned to attend before
him with samples of their product. Hodgkinson
was present to see the fun. The chief seated the
contractors in a row, and began taking samples of
their stuff, and rubbing it in his palm, orating
upon the iniquity of supplying an inferior article
to a paternal Government, and—stroking his face
as he went along. By the time he had reached
the fourth contractor the room was full of smiles,
and Hodgkinson was choking behind his handker-
chief. The chief turned and saw him. “ Mr.
Hodgkinson, I see nothing ludicrous O Lord! ”
—as his reflection met him in a mirror on the
other side of the room. Before you could say,
“Victoria by the Grace,” those contractors had
been hunted down the stairs, and Hodgkinson
was being lectured severely for his failure to inter-
pose in favour of an absent-minded colleague.
But that was the first and last Blacklead Parade
in the Department.
* * • *
Such a high-spirited youth was not fitted for
English official departments bound together with
the crimson thread of red tape; and in 1859
Hodgkinson returned to Victoria. He joined the
Ape staff as reporter, and in a few months was
sub-editor; but resigned his place to accompany
Burke and Wills’ exploring expedition in 1860.
He quarrelled with Burke, as everybody quarrelled
with that incompetent leader, and returned to be
second in command of the expedition which
McKinlay headed in 1861. He did his duty loyally
and well; but maybe Hodgkinson was impatient
of control, or maybe McKinlay exercised his
authority too forcibly; for when the expedi-
tion ended there was disagreement between
leader and lieutenant. McKinlay was a fine
fellow and a big man ; Hodgkinson was a fine
fellow and a little man ; and McKinlay couldn’t
keep his temper. Rightly or wrongly his lan-
guage to Hodgkinson was abusive ; and one day
he threatened to strike Hodgkinson. Hodgkinson
presented his revolver at his leader’s head, and
told McKinlay that if he struck, he would
shoot; and McKihlay turned on his
heel _ raging. When the expedition, after
crossing Australia, reached the Burdekin,
Hodgkinson stayed in Queensland as a journalist,
and began his thirty years’ career in that province
as newspaper-proprietor, miner, goldfields war-
den, explorer, magistrate, politician, member of
Parliament, and Cabinet Minister. In 1875 he
led an expedition to explore the country west
of the Iraniantina, and returned successfully
after sixteen months, having bridged the gap
left by Sturt and Landsborough.
Everywhere he made his mark. His manhood
was as much appreciated by the miners of North
Queensland as his talents were admired. The
Hodgkinson goldfield was named after him;
the Royal Geographical Society named him
Fellow and awarded him the Back medal for
his services in exploration. In politics he
did not succeed so well ; his character brought
him to the front, but was too genial to keep him
there. As a lieutenant of Griffith, he lost popu-
larity along with his leader; and political exigencies
made him espouse projects and policies—such
as the introduction of coloured labour—to
whioh his best friends and supporters were
strongly opposed. When the old Queensland
political parties died in the Coalition of 1890,
Hodgkinson followed Griffith, and was for nearly
three years Minister for Mines and Education.
Never was seen such a jovially reckless Minister.
The fossilised officials of the Department still
shudder at the mention of his name. His
chief clerk once brought him an educational
report carefully endorsed in a precise hand, “This
matter is still in nubibus.” Hodgkinson seized
the document and scrawled across it, “Wait till
the clouds roll by! ” And the incident was typical
of his administration.
In the crash of 1893 Hodgkinson failed to find a
Parliamentary seat; and went to Westralia. At
first he did well in mining speculation, making
£3OOO in a few weeks. Then he did badly,
and returned to Sydney sick at heart and
sick in body, to live as an invalid in a little cottage
at Waverley. His doctor told him to prepare for
death; but Hodgkinson would not die. He
resolutely got better; though his improvement
was only a flicker before the end. His pluck was
unquenchable ; but his years would not be denied.
* * *, *
Scores of good stories are extant concerning
Hodgkinson in his prime. One of the best relates
how, at a rough Queensland mining township
where he was warden, he was invited by an
assembly of Irishmen to preside over their St.
Patrick’s Day dinner. The dinner was held in the
dining-room of the public-house. Hodgkinson sat
at the head of a long table, opposite the door,
with all the Murphies and Flanagans of the neigh-
bourhood in two rows down the table on each side
of him. Hodgkinson led up to the toast of
the evening wit*h a long and eloquent pre-
amble extolling the ancient glories of Ireland
which (with the liquor) excited the O’Briens and
Mulligans to enthusiastic frenzy. It was
“ Hark to him ! ” and “ Glory be to you, Mister
Hodgkinson!” And “O, Mister Hodgkinson,
Oi love you ! ” and “Iloquent! he’s the bhov for
iloquence ! ” all the length of the table. Then
Hodgkinson closed his long exordium. The toast
that I have to propose you—are all your glasses
filled?” “Yis, Mister Hodgkinson, yis, ye
darling ! ” The toast that I have to propose to
you, gentlemen, is Bloody end to the Pope!” There
was just one instant of paralysis before the pan-
demonium. Hodgkinson seized it, slipped from
his chair, dived under the table, got between
the legs of the Muldoons and O’Flahertys to the
door —where he had a horse waiting—and didn’t
come back for three days.
• * * *
That incident, too, was characteristic of Hodg-
kinson. May the turf lie lightly on him ! —for in
an age of timid and emasculated self-seekers he
was a brave man, a generous man, a White Man.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge\
for Selling Wool J
2t per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock-Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
ASTORAL
INANCE
SSOC’N HaTD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYIDKTEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~t6 WOOLGROWERS
111 New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower : .
COMMISSION f per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising fid. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of IVEa.x-s’ia.iaia.l Sliins Helcl Weekly.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE,
i
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is “ MONTSERRAT ” LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy: —
“I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
J s!vc3rsitv'i , s =
SYDNEY —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
w
&
o
V
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimavade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
THE
PLUM
Price —SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with-Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEA RS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CR.A.IG &; AITKIEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., S'^TJ33XTES3r
Kangaroo, Wallaby,—
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. no.
B YDINTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
—LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season :
2
1 o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
THE
Co-Operative Wool*Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
§»
sfi LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
“/ «
CUUMd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
dTnnefords
'magnesia
Sold Throughout the World.
ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
\ A /i/,\
mmiam
1 1'I I 122*
i «
'Oj'/n
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If yon are tired of STOMACitf DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
j strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
jDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘Debility, Weakness,Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc
IThey impart vigor and potency to every function
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
K€MPS Pat€i)t Sb€«p-Brai)diDg LiqOid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injuiw Ua Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Black, Red, and Blue. 3s 6dL per gall. in. Melk). artel Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, xml Brislaane.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & Go,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Adelaide G.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5«
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Sprin
mg H.
August 11,
50,000 Subaoribera at 5. t
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in above
Name
Address.
£ • «
Sept. 11
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
» __
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
Metropolitan S. (special).
DEAWN MORNING OP THE RACE.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
J 3
Address
Demonstration H. ° ct 1
50,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address -
October 20
Caulfield C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame.
Address
Melbourne 0. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —_— nbaraa in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
w r
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
->«*“'
- 9 *°* -X
«•
6^l°^
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE'S
BABY,
says?—
“ Most
decidedly ,
use ‘KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, a/6 and 416 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO.. LTD..
16, Beyis Marks, kondon, England.
LA.DIB9 !
—*«ar- Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30a each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to t‘3 3s each
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmafeers.
Bend to u* for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
&&w South Wales , , ,
Barbers’ Supply House
680*2 Oeorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
■Queensland Aborigines Protection Act.
Reported that Sydney Police Swimming
club is snuffing out. Reason—refusal of support
from superior officers. When the club announced
races for members, requisite leave of absence for a
few hours was refused. Yet, in the height of the
plague-scare, 30 men could be spared for a band
performance. This, in face of a promise that
swimmers should receive preference when appoint-
ments were being made, sounds most peculiar.
It is about time that that commission of enquiry
arrived.
Australiao WOttial ProVideot Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P.
LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List. ‘Eft
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send lor a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
# PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD I® of the highest value for the weak and sickly bahe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
POOD AND MEDIAN'S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
MELLIN’S
SampUs and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMZFOR'T'A.KrT ANKTOUKTCBMEBiTT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OE ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
Tailoring:
v Tailoring:-
POOR OLD HATTE
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T)UT he turns out a REAL GOOD
- 0 SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £ 2 25. ; and a clinker for
605. ; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Silk--faced,
from 635.
A CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT
for 555. upwards.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS AND SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. G. HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO TUBftK.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
““LINCOLN, STUART& CO.
' PHOFHIETART LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 ni oes of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 42a,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas. or Serges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. Gd.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5. ,
Kid ng Breeches, 25a.
Riding Habits. &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
•>ls. t 25s-
Famous Ballarat Serge
i uits, Indigo dye, 255.
bon jt Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Exc> llent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. I Id.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s Gd.
Tweed Overcoats. 218.
W terproof Coats, full
capes 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2»- Gd., 3s- Gd.
4s. Gd., s*-Gd.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs. lOs Gd., 13s. 9d.
All wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. Gd..7s. Gd. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. Gd., all colors.
Hard Hats,4s. od,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Tants Is. 9d.
IT.cktiM.Tll shapes ami colors Is. White shirts to measure.
,«.la
Write for them.
U.s.w. Carriage & Sadtllery Mlanf.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-tip ring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, 17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
oent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf ar
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO lOh
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.!]
His Last Asset.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Near the camp of Mangy Dingo, somewhere on
the Upper Russell,
Where the scrub has blanched the faces to the
pallor of the dead ;
Where existence is a gloomy and a sordid sort of
tussle,
With the leech and flea and fever in the chilly
river-bed —
Where a claim is mostly stripping, and the wash
goes just a fraction,
And the gold is fine as powder, and the men
are slightly cracked;
Where there is no change of seasons, and the
principal attraction
Is the lady aborigine (in defiance of the
Act*)—
Stood the shanty of M‘Vicker, looking peaceable
and placid ;
For his dangerous explosives were all kept behind
the bar,
And his very strong solutions broken down with
nitric acid,
Always took at least a fortnight to corrode a
whisky-jar.
I had travelled through a twilight that was not
exactly cheering,
Since the morning glow had vanished at the
borders of the scrub ;
And I drew a breath of comfort as I entered on
the clearing,
Where a glimpse of sun was playing on the iron
of the pub.
What the deuce is on ? I wondered, as I saw the
crowd collected
Round the place that represented Mangy
Dingo’s pride and boast,
And a gent, of aged aspect unmistakably
ejected
From the premises (I heard him bumping hard
against a post).
What in thunder is the matter? And they
swelled and grew important,
And the facts that they related, intermixed
with dash ! and blank !
Made a tale on which a parson might with ease
become exhortant
In the interests of water and promotion of the
tank.
Loamy Harry (they had given this euphonic
appellation
To the gentleman reposing in the mud beneath
a tree)
After months of sober diet had succumbed to a
sensation
That had led without the option to a flaming
jamboree.
With the absolute abandon of a thirst that had
been growing
Into all the pomp and splendor of a Lowe r
Flinders drought,
He had started on the snake-juice; and he kept
M Wicker going
At the still that had been fashioned from a shot-
gun and a spout.
He had drunk a six-months’ washing—oh, the
time he had been having !
He had sold his claim, and sent it on a scintil-
lating burst.
He had jumped the ancient packhorse that was
suffering from spavin
'Cross the bar—and yet his efforts had not laid
his giant thirst.
And his blankets and his billies he converted into
liquor,
And the boots he wore on Sundays, and his red
Crimean shirt.
Till the last belonging vanished down his gullet,
and M Wicker
With a final objurgation threw him out into the
dirt.
So we stood around and marvelled. And the
corpse grew animated ;
With a grumble of displeasure and a blessing
for old Mac,
Loamy Harry slowly staggered to his feet and
softly skated
Through the mud in curves and zigzags, dis-
appearing down the track.
Late at night—the land lay sleeping, and the
moon hung o’er the clearing
Dreamily—l was awakened by the barking of
my pup.
There was wafted through the silence to my camp
a sound of cheering,
And a husky voice that hiccoughed : “ Fill ’em
up, boys, fill ’em up ! ”
It was Harry ! Made resourceful by a thirst that
knew no shrinking.
He had gone and struck a bargain with the gar-
dener, Ah Sin,
Which had. brought him many shekels ; and at
present he was drinking,
In a state of maudlin sorrow, what he’d got for—
Loo , his gin !
YON KOTZE.


lightest Wines in Australia.
The jjuitralian pdouis’ Fund [ifc insurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
THIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OEFICE IN AUSTRAL! V
winch issues. Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy, in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors : '
Hon.’Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; . Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accum/iilated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Ml.
-L--
*" 'lv • 'V II n
I iStc"IUCSXsWK
illliWisfrf!
iMKnHESg
FEU nun HOTEC,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER,
CENTRE OF CITY.
ivery Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. Perceval Smith,
manager.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
John Bridge S Co’s Ltd Clients Grow M.
Ask any SENDEE, or GEOWEE REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
Thedirect result of our determined efforts on your behalf.
For past 30 years or every year since 1870.
Wool.
Tallow.
Hides.
Skins.
Finance
THE ENJOYMENT OP TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON .THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
B
BB
MAKE
ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
Oi*caicst demand
Cameo
Because the Best
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading- Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, foi' Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vox,. 21.—N0. 1068.
SATUKDAY, AUGUST 4, 1900.
Pmca sn.
THE KAISER’S
CHARGE.
ADDRESS TO HIS TROOPS. /
“AVENGE THE MASSACRES." I|
F“GIVE THE CHINESE NO QUARTER."
ct
•*«£» **
LONDON, Saturday—The Kaiser, !u bid-
ding farewell yesterday to the German
troops, who were embarking at Bremer-
haven for flilna, concluded his address by
saying:—
When you close with the enemy, re-
member that no quarter must be <qv t . u
aDd no prisoners token y
Use your
weapons so that for JOOO years to come
no Chinaman will dare look at a Ger-
man askance.
Prepare the way for
Ohtlstian civilisation! Good-bye com-
radesl” * r*
LONDON, Monday Afternoon.—lt now
trat spires that the Kaiser’s “No quarter”
not for publication. .
ike Emperor’s utterances have caused an
i^T Se . SenSatiOU ’- *ke German,
qualffyaS neWSPaPerS " e en^eav '°rin§r to
But Gott in Hiintnel! dose remarks were not necessarily
for publication ! ”
A FEW REMARKS, ”MADE IN GERMANY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
•publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Ouri.ng to the imposition of l|d. postage, the subscription
to Thf, Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—\\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—mow
exacted by the Queensland Post ojfi.ee, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
&*lsizZZe£toi.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4. 1900.
The Commonwealth Capital.
Tiie seat of Government of the Commonwealth shall be
determined by the Parliament, and shall be within terri-
tory which shall have been granted to or acquired by the
Commonwealth, and shall be vested in and belong to the
Commonwealth, and if New South Wales be an Original
State, shall be in that State, and be distant not less than
100 miles from Sydnej’.
Such territory shall contain an area of not less than
100 square miles, and such portion thereof as shall consist
of Crown lands shall be granted to the Commonwealth
without any payment therefor.— Commonwealth Constitu-
tion, Clause 125.
When the report of the Commissioner sent
forth by the N.S.W. Government to spy out
suitable situations for the Commonwealth
capital has been judiciously put in the fire,
and the Federal Legislature has sat down to
seriously consider what kind of a Common-
wealth City it wants, then Australia will
have a chance, probably its first chance, to
find out whether its new Government is, or
is not, equal to the chances that lie before it.
In the matter of the capital, to begin with,
it has a great and wonderful opportunity.
And the reason why, in The Bulletin’s;
opinion, the Commissioner’s report should
be burnt unread is that his investigations
have, to a great extent, started at the wrong
end and on the wrong basis. Because the
Federal territory on which the capital stands
is to be of not less than 100 square miles
there has been a tendency to look for a con-
venient spot of that area (ten miles by ten)
and not much more. Because it is to be not
less than 100 miles from Sydney there has
been an inclination to consider spots 101
miles or 100| miles from that city. There
has been manifested an unfortunate habit of
considering the alleged “ claims ” of this and
that town, and of receiving deputations of
the inhabitants ; whereas the central idea
should be to disqualify every town,
if a suitable site with no town on it
can be discovered. Also it should have been,
explained to the inhabitants who deputa-
tionised the Commissioner that they were so
many separate and individual drawbacks ;
that each one of them made the chances of
his district less ; that his very existence was-
one more reason against selecting his town,
and that if two equally suitable places could
be found, one with inhabitants and the other
without, the one without inhabitants would
be unhesitatingly preferred.
* * * •
The Federal territory that is wanted is an
area of at least 5000 square miles —say, 71
miles long and 71 miles broad, or more if
possible—on an elevated region, with a cold
climate, good scenery if obtainable, a reason-
ably good water-supply, no inhabitants or
as few as possible, and no railways or mayor
or corporation anywhere near it if a place
without these drawbacks can b"e found. If
there are inhabitants they must be put up
with as a necessary evil, but they shouldn’t
be sought for. The site decided upon
should be as far from Sydney as it can
be without getting more than half-way
to Melbourne or Brisbane. It should lie at
least some little distance back from the
coast, to guard it against attack. And the
Federal Government should not only be
sovereign of this area, but it should be sole
ground landlord of every inch of the 5000 or
more square miles for ever, and the law
which fixes the Federal capital should de-
clare the soil to be absolutely inalienable.
* * * •
The political capital of Australia must
needs grow, sooner or later, into a large city.
This is especially so if it is located far away
from any existing large city ; in that case
it will probably become a great indus-
trial and commercial centre, as well as
a political one. But in any case it
must necessarily become, in time, a
place of magnitude. The people of Austra-
lia, by making it their capital, will give
the land a value it doesn’t now possess. The
people will create that increased value, and
it should therefore be the people’s property.
The land on which the Federal city stands
will have the greatest increase of value ; but,
for miles and miles around, the agricultural
soil will rise in price through the establish-
ment of a new and adjacent market. If the
part of the selected territory, which is State
property now, is sold when the site of the
Federal city is selected, the great bulk of the
unearned increment will be given away gratis.
If the part of it which is private property
now is allowed to remain private property,
all the unearned increment will be given
away gratis. Therefore, the State land in
the selected area should be made the inalien-
able property of the Federal Government,
and the private land should be compulsorily
purchased—at a liberal price as so many
acres of wilderness, but as so many acres of
wilderness only, and with no consideration
at all for the extra value which the people
are going to confer upon it by building a
metropolis there.
* * * m
The people who created Sydney and Mel-
bourne may be excused for missing their
opportunity. There was no evidence to
show them that Sydney and Melbourne
were going to be great hives of humanity,
and that the State was throwing away a
magnificent revenue by selling instead of
leasing the street frontages. But the people
who make the Federal city cannot be ex-
cused if they throw away their opportunity.
They know that they are laying the founda-
tions of a metropolis, and that, if they part
with the fee simple of the land, they are
throwing away a prospective rent-revenue of
hundreds of thousands per annum. The
Federal territory should be let out on build-
ing and agricultural lease only—probably
the best method would be to let it on per-
petual lease with a re-appraisement of value
at frequent intervals. In doing this
the Federal authority would merely be
following the example of London—with a
difference. London is also built very largely
on leasehold ground—the difference being
that the ground landlord is a private indivi-
dual instead of the State. Doubtless the
State would prove a much less grasping
ground-landlord than private owners do in
London, and the case is quoted merely to
show that there is no practical reason why a
great city should not be built up under such
conditions. The reason why the area of the
Federal territory should be at least 5000
square miles is sufficiently obvious. The
Federal authority should seek to annex, for
the benefit of the people of Australia, every
penny of the additional value which the ex-
penditure of the people’s money in building
up a capital will bring into existence. In an
area of 100 square miles (JO miles by 10), the
Commonwealth might be sole ground land-
lord inside, but for many miles beyond its
narrow borders the boom in land values
would extend, and everywhere outside the
ten-mile radius the private landlord would
gather in the profit. And while the people
at large, by the expenditure of their good
legal tender, make these additional land
values, the people at large should gather in
every penny of the profit.
* * * *
The Commonwealth city should be high
up on the N.S.W. tableland for a number of
reasons. Australiaisgoingtomakeanewcentre
•of population. It is going, in course of time,
to gather a million, or many millions, of people
in and around that centre. It is going to
practically create a million or more new
Australians, and it wants to make them of a
hardy race such as Australia may be proud
of in the future, and such as will prove an
iron wall of defence for this country in
some coming hour of need. All the
existing great cities of this continent
lie low, in the hot, muggy, relaxing atmos-
phere of the coast. Australia is too
new as yet to see the results. There
has not been time for the Australian
to grow weak and nerveless and effeminate
in these surroundings. But all the world
over it is known that the man who comes of
twenty generations of mountaineers is far
more than a match for the of
twenty generations of dwellers on a steaming
coast, and when this country is going to
grow a million, or a few million, new Aus-
tralians it wants to grow the best sample
obtainable. When it is going to draw popu-
lation to a new site it wants to select a site
which will grow such population ■' as this
country, and every other country, wants.
* » * *
The site of Australia’s metropolis should
be as beautiful a one as can be found because
its beauty will attract population, and be-
cause any person who would select a com-
monplace location when a beautiful one is
obtainable is only fitted to be an aider-
man. It should be as far away from
the coast as is possible without sacri-
ficing other advantages, partly because
it is from the coast that our invad-
ing enemy must come when he does come,
and the capital should be so placed that the
arsenals, the Treasury, the military head-
quarters and the banks can’t be seized by
any sudden raid, and the Government be
scattered into the hills just when Australia
needs all the wits its Government has got.
Also it should be away from the coast
because the coast is low and hot, and it is
there that the degenerate Australian will 1
grow when, in courseof centuries, his environ-
ment begins to tell on him. The Federal
city should be as far away as possible from
any existing city, partly because land is
cheaper there, and partly because this
country wants to attract population to
places where there is no population,
and not to further congest the few regions
which are congested already—as congestion
goes in this thinly-peopled land. For the
same reason it should, if possible, be away
from towns and railways, and mayors and
corporations, and other alleged civilisation.
All these things make land dear, and, if a
suitable area can be found where there is
only wilderness, it should have the prefer-
ence. The stock gag of the Australian poli-
tician is tliat it is necessary to “ open up the
country,” and the most magnificent chance
of opening up the country which Australia
ever saw here presents itself. Why waste it
on country that is already opened up 1
* m m *
The theory here advanced is one which is
not likely to be received with any enthusiasm
in New South Wales outside the 100-mile
limit from Sydney. Nor is it likely to
appeal to any wealthy inhabitant inside that
limit, or in the other provinces. It is likely
to be cursed by land-jobbers, capitalists,
syndicates, banks, building-societies, and by
country mayors and corporations generally.
Its adoption would shut out every country
town of any importance from becoming the
capital; some small townships might be un-
avoidably included in the Federal territory,
but nothing of the kind would be
done if it could be avoided. Places like
Albury, Bathurst, Goulburn, and Armidale,
w'hich claim consideration by reason of their
importance and their population, would be
regretfully told that their importance was an
absolutely incurable bar—that the Common-
wealth didn’t desire to buy an expensive
city and draw population where there was
already much population, but to acquire
5000 square miles of prairie, and start with
a clean sheet. The whole tribe of capital-
ists would necessarily be hostile, for the
idea of Federal landlordism pure and simple
would shut them out from the grandest
land-booming prospect they have yet
seen. Therefore, the capitalist tribe
will necessarily state that out of its
large experience, gained amid the ruins of
many land-banks, and out of its knowledge
of finance, evidenced by the many institu-
tions it has steered to insolvency or recon-
struction, it can say confidently, with its
hand on its overdraft, that the idea of
Federal landlordism is a chimera. And the
support of the inhabitants of the district
selected would be worth little, for they
would be few. The best chance of intelli-
gent consideration for such a scheme lies in
the more distant provinces. The people who
are too far aw&y to rush for allotments in
the Federal city, and who consequently fail
to see why the land-boomers of Melbourne
and Sydney should divide the unearned
increment which these outlying people’s
money helps to create, may be better dis-
posed to give the idea a hearing.
V * * *
As for the money required to carry out
such a scheme, the raising of that must be a
subject for a future article.
To the Poreign-Shoddyists of New
South Wales.
a small Foreign-trade publication, designated
Our Country, has been started in Sydney, its
chief and most visible mission being to howl that
Victoria under Protection isn’t getting on so well
as N.S.W. under Freetrade. To the N.S.W.
Shoddy apostle there are only two places in the
world—N.S.W. and Victoria. One is allegedly
Freetrade. and the other isn’t, and the whole fiscal
question lies in comparing the two. The fact that
a wider view of the fiscal question might be
arrived at by also taking in Queensland and
Maoriland, which are more strongly Protectionist
than Victoria, and are also a little nearer to
N.S.W.’sown size, never enters into his calcula-
tions. His faith is brief and quaint, and goes into
these two propositions:—
(1) N.S.W. is nearly four times as large as Victoria ; it
had 50 years’ start of Victoria ; it has more people though
not one-third as many as it should have if it had got on
as Victoria has; it has abundance of coal, the great
essential in manufactures, while Victoria has only just
discovered a scanty supply ; it has now a far larger and
more valuable mineral production than Victoria ; it has
£1,500,000 a year more land revenue by reason of its extra
size ; and it has coddled its industries and created an
artificial prosperity by borrowing to the extent of over
£47 per inhabitant as against Victoria’s £4O.
(2) And if the very small and new Protectionist pro-
vince isn’t ahead of the very large and old Foreign-trade
one, that shows Protection is bad. In fact, if Goat Island
was Protectionist and all the rest of Australia was Free-
trade, and Goat Island wasn’t ahead of all the rest of
Australia in wealth and industries, that would prove that
Protection is thoroughly awful and disastrous.
* * • *
Our Country then proceeds to demonstrate, by
comparing the number of persons (55,640) em-
ployed in N.S.W. industries in 1899 with the
number (54,778) employed in the province one-
fourth the size in 1898, that N.S.W. is ahead after
all. If the numbers in each province for 1898, or
the numbers in each province for 1899, had been
compared, the very small province of Victoria
would have been ahead both times ; but a curious
inability to go straight and to be honest seems to
be in the shoddy party’s bones. But this, after
all, is a very small question. The big question is
that Freetrade and Protection are not everything ;
and borrowing has more to do with the present
state of Australia than either of them. Industries
may be artificially fostered and built up on a solid
foundation by Protection, but they mav also be
artificially boomed into an unhealthy and
transient semblance of prosperity, and built
up like a house of cards, by borrowing.
Borrowing for productive works is a dubious
pdlicy at the best, but borrowing for
unproductive works which should be paid for out
of revenue—borrowing to make employment which
can be credited by unreliable faddists to the bene-
ficent effects of Freetrade—borrowing because the
Freetrade tariff won’t yield enough revenue to
keep the country solvent and its advocates haven’t
.the common honesty to acknowledge the fact and
to face the consequences—is simply laying the
foundations of future ruin. And that is exactly
what New South Wales has done since its great
Shoddy policy came into vogue, as witness those
figures, taken from Coghlan’s “ Statistics of the
Seven Colonies ” for four years —the latest for
which statistics are issued:—
New South Wales.
1895- Net Customs revenue .. £1,974,827
Borrowed for unproductive works 559,552
£2,534,379
1896- —Net Customs revenue .. 1,367,431
Borrowed for unproductive works 562,658
1,930,089
1897- —Net Customs revenue .. 1,239,084
Borrowed for unproductive works 650,514
1,889,598
1898- —Net Customs revenue .. 1,250,289
Borrowed for unproductive works 833,491
2,083,780
£8,437,846
Victoria.
1895- —Net Customs’ revenue . .£1,718,582
Borrowed for unproductive works.. Nil.
£1,718,582
1896- —Net Customs’ revenue .. 1,749,036
Borrowed for unproductive works.. 49,417
1,798,453
1897- Net Customs’ revenue .. 1,729,130
Borrowed for unproductive works.. 157,060
1,886,190
1898- —Net Customs’ revenue.. 1,908,051
Borrowed for unproductive works.. 222,949
2,131,000
7,534,225
* * * *
The sum and mystery of the Foreign-trade Lie,
so far as it concerns the eternal comparison of
N.S.W. and 'Victoria, is based on the suppression
of one-half of these figures. It is very beautiful
to say that “ Under the bright and enlightened ,
and beneficent policy of Freetrade we exacted, in
the last three years, £1,529,413 less from the
people in N.S.W. than the cruel and exacting
policy of Protection exacted in Victoria,” when
every care is taken not to add, “ And we made it
up by charging to loans £1,617,237 more than Vic-
toria did of the unproductive works which should
have been paid out of revenue, so that the alleged
relief which you experienced under Freetrade was
wholly owing to misappropriation of the loan
funds.” The fiscal policies of the two States
simply boil down to this: Victoria exacts more
customs revenue from her people now; N.S.W.
exacts less now and leaves every penny of the
saving to be a debt and a load on posterity. All
the calculations about the extra prices paid in
Victoria through Protection (even if they were
true, which they very seldom are) amount to
nothing without the corollary: “ The extra
cheapness of goods in N.S.W. now, is arrived at
by leaving the difference in the form of a debt for
posterity to pay.” All the tales about the burden
which has been lifted off N.S.W. through Free-
trade are less than half a truth unless it is added :
“and the amount which we took off is charged to
your children and your children’s children by the
simple process of paying so much less of our own
current expenses out of income and adding so
much more to their future burdens.”
* / * * *
Up to 30th June, 1899, N.S.W., in addition to
charging practically every penny of the cost of its
reproductive works to loans, had also spent
£10,915,047 of borrowed money for unproductive,
or purely revenue, purposes. Victoria similarly
misspent only £3,060,767 (these are the official
figures of N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan), and that
province paid for over £1,000,000 worth of its pro-
ductive works out of revenue, which may be
fairly said to reduce the real misappropriation to
£2,000,000. The moral is that every penny which
N.S.W. has saved from its people’s pockets by
taxing them lightly under a Freetrade tariff has
been made up by stealing the loan-funds to fill
the gap in the Treasury. Until the N.S.W. Free-
trade party is prepared to raise another £600,000 a
year by taxation, so as to reduce its loan steal to
the comparatively low figure of Victoria’s loan
steal, and then to compare the relative state of the
two provinces when the process of creating an
artificial boom out of loans has been brought to a
common basis, there is no possibility of fair com-
parison. It isn’t a case of Freetrade v. Protec-
tion. It is Freetrade and a big swindle v. Protec-
tion and comparative honesty.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Chinese Maelstrom.
“ Jerome Darnet ” writes on the Chinese com-
plication :
When so many who really know little of China and
Chinese character are gravely expounding, or are being
solicited to expound, their opinions in connection with
the Chinese upheaval, surely an Australian who speaks
Chinese (or rather a few of the myriad dialects which ex-
press the written language) at least as well as he speaks
English may reasonably ask audience.
Therefore, my countrymen, lend me your long ears.
The time has certainly arrived when certain of Australia’s
legislators should be tied with strong ropes until they de-
sist from pursuing a military policy which is quite un-
necessarily draining the provinces of this young nation
of their strength, in quarrels the issues of which no man
can clearly foresee, and of which little more can be de-
finitely said than that they promise to be baleful and
doubtful. It may be freely conceded that it is desirable
that the Australian nation should possess a high military
spirit, for the task of defending the lengthy shores of this


bf
island continent may, and probably will, yet require hosts
of resolute men, but it can be just as emphatically
affirmed, without fear of logical contradiction, that a
paltry five millions of people inhabiting this vast Aus-
tralian territory must not yet make military essays,
except in defence of their own soil.
Why should Australia assist in keeping open the Chinese
door, when her avowed policy is to keep the Chinese out
of our continent ? The massacre of unfortunate foreign
civilians is, of course, to be deplored, but few Orientals
are capable of making a distinction between combatant
and non-combatant enemies. The Turks, who have had
centuries of association with Europeans, are notorious
offenders in these matters, and infuriated Manchu sol-
diers can hardly be expected to be any better.
There have been many massacres of foreigners in China
in ages past. Once they were killed to a man. Over
300,000 persons, principally Arab and Indian traders, are
said to have perished. Of all the many writers on China
and the Chinese, the Frenchman Hoo and our own
“Vagabond” appear to have understood the Chinese
character the best.
The newspapers seem to generally voice the idea that
all Chinamen are at present raging against Europeans.
It is principally the Manchu troops—the Normans of
China—who are attacking the foreigners. The “ Boxers ”
who are assisting are real Chinese, but they are princi-
pally inhabitants of those districts in Northern China,
fairly close to the capital. The people of those districts
have been impressed by the glamour arising from the
proximity of the seat of the Imperial residence and power,
and have cultivated a sort of loyalty to the present foreign
Manchu dynasty. But throughout the rest of China proper
a great slaughter of the slaughterers is preparing. Every
true Chinaman has cherished the idea —handed down
through nearly three centuries—of the destruction of the
“Woo”—the barbarians—the foreign usurpers —for such
the Manchus are, and there is little doubt that even now
the clock is about to chime the fateful hour.
Western foreigners and Japanese—the violators of
Chinese territorial integrity—may be attacked by the
wrathful Chinese at the same time, for the troubles of
China can be classified under three heads —Inter-racial
(between Chinese and Manchus), Dynastic (being the
Court intrigues of the Manchus themselves), and Inter-
national. The Manchus are at present in the position of
the Norman lords of England when their native Nor-
mandy passed from their power.
There is this difference, however —the Saxon speedily
assimilated the Norman, and the Englishman was evolved;
but, although the Chinaman has so imposed his civilisa-
tion on his conquerors (as he always does) that the Man-
chu tongue and literature are almost as dead as Sanscrit,
the Manchus are still a race apart. The Chinaman has
compelled the Manchu to govern him according to
Chinese methods, as he has compelled all his various
evanescing conquerors, but the Manchu is ever the mark of
the patiently-waiting Chinese butcher, who, with Oriental
inscrutability, has watched the preparing of the situation.
The Manchus, finding their motherland —Manchuria—
passing under Russian influence, are conquerors without
a country, and naturally hate the innovating nations
who have brought matters to this pass. But, as already
foreshadowed, the whole Manchu race in China totters to
its Golgotha. Like previous conquerors of China they
will be swept away in a deluge of blood.
The reason of the harmlessness of China to outside
nations is that the strength of China is only that small
portion which the Manchus could contrive to get
exerted. The Chinese mass has always been unresponsive
and inert under Manchu rule. Soon the Empire,
with its complicated troubles and its fighting foreign
aggressors jealous of each other, will be a cauldron of
seething Hell-broth.
The Japanese sword, too, is thirsting for blood, no-
toriety and power. Let not Australia strain her strength
to secure any useless bays which may be with difficulty
gained in this tangled quarrel. Rather let our Govern-
ments, or, better still, our first Federal Govt, see to wise
measures for the populating of our tropical shores ; for
behind these shores are hundreds of leagues where our
land is empty of men.
+
The Woman and the Vote.
The thoroughly factitious, fictitious character of
the “agitation” for woman’s suffrage in N.S.
Wales was exposed in a recent Assembly de-
bate. Indeed and in ’ truth, there isn’t any
“ agitation.” There is a small wave of metropoli-
tan emotion, and even that is mostly composed of
oratorical froth with “ Miss Rose Scott ” atop,
and various “chivalrous” M’s.P. bobbing about
like corks in her enthusiastic wake. The average
woman of N.S.W. apparently knows nothing
about the suffrage. She has never given any
sign that she wants a vote. If she is un-
married, she is usually and properly occupied
in looking for a man—and The Bulletin hopes
she will get him. If she is married, she is usually
and properly occupied in minding her home and
her family—and The Bulletin hopes they will
repay her trouble. Politics do not interest her.
Politicians do —occasionally. She was interested
in Parkes, because he married three wives, and
brought the romantic fascination of Bluebeard
into real life. She is mildly interested in Arthur
Griffith, because he is “ such a nice young man,
my dear,” and follows the fashions in clothes.
George Reid is “ such a funny man, you know.”
The average woman is not sure that she under-
stands him ; but he makes her laugh,, and she likes
to be made laugh. And if you talk to the rare,
occasional woman who says she is interested in
politics, and reads the leaders in S.M. Herald,
the mystery of the “agitation” for woman’s
suffrage thickens as you listen. While she is
declaring that it is a mistake to support the
Indian famine fund, because she once saw
an Afghan beat his camel dreadfully, you
can follow her; but when she declares that
she is in favor of Federation because Mr.
Barton was quite horrid to her at a ball
once, and she is sure that anything he opposes
must be rightthen the clue through the maze
becomes indistinct again. The Bulletin's own
attitude to woman’s suffrage is one of modified in-
difference. The experience of Maoriland and
South Australia has proved that the woman’s vote
has little power to affect current politics. In the
main, the women vote as their nearest mate friends
do ; so that the strength of parties is left unal-
tered. They have more important things to
think of than political principles and details—
the price of meat and the trimming of baby’s
bonnet. And (The Bulletin is not jesting now)
these are more important things in the woman’s
sphere than politics are. It will be a bad day for
the community when woman becomes so interested
in Freetrade versus Protection that she neglects
her vital home interests. There are those who
suggest that a woman may become a publicist
without permitting her home and family to suffer.
As regards the average woman, that may fairly be
doubted. Her brain, her time, her energy, have
all decided limitations. But it is certainly
unjust that exceptional women should be
tethered to a domesticity for which they have no
vocation. “ Miss Rose Scott ” is at least as well
qualified to vote as the average man is. But it is
impossible to formulate an intelligence-test for
women where it is not applied to men. Therefore
all women may as well have votes —and for this
reason, that the innovation does not seem likely
to do harm, and may be productive of good. And
responsibility is apt to breed power; the responsi-
bility of the vote may breed in woman the power
of intelligent voting.
An Unripe Government.
In discussing his futile and ludicrously-inadequate
measure for the amendment of Sydney’s municipal
government, Premier Lyne explained that:
He had been asked whether the Bill would not check or
positively prevent the creation of Greater Sydney. He
thought the time was not ripe to carry out that proposal.
It was necessary to get the consent of a very large
number of bodies. The Bill he was presenting was laying
the foundation for the Greater Sydney when the question
was ripe, because if they remedied the somewhat deplor-
able state of things which had been existing for some
months past, and if they found in two years’ time that it
works well, they would know that it could be safely ex-
tended to the Greater Sydney proposal. He looked for-
ward to bringing about Greater Sydney, as it would mean
a reduction in the expenses, and would give a greater
standing and credit to the citizens than was possible with
the present system of smaller municipalities.
Which is all feebly absurd, not to say
imbecile. The time is as ripe for the estab-
lishment of a Greater Sydney as for the
building of the North Shore Bridge —only the
Greater Sydney scheme requires brains, while the
bridge only requires a plentiful shovelling out of
borrowed money, and the Lyne Ministry is a
better shoveller than constructive legislator. The
attention of William the Futile is respectfully
invited to these propositions :
(1) His amendment won’t necessarily bring much better
men or more intelligence into Sydney Municipal Council
than are there now. The Council will still be a very small
affair (only one among the 41 municipalities of Greater
Sydney), with very small powers over a very small area.
Big, capable, ambitious men, who want to do big things
and make a name for themselves, will still hold aloof from
that narrow area of narrow Bumbledom. When it is a
question of helping to govern all Greater Sydney, with
almost unlimited powers to make Greater Sydney one of
the model cities of the world, such men may be obtained,
but not till then.
(2) The reform of one municipal government out of 41
doesn’t necessarily bring union a whit nearer. If Lynb
holds that widening the municipal franchise will bring in
a class of men who will have a better understanding of
the advantages of union, then the obvious course is to
reform the 41 municipal governments, and get 41 councils
with an enlightened tendency towards union. To have
one reformed council with a reformed leaning to union,
and 40 stagnant ones that won’t listen, leaves things just
as they were.
(3) The short and simple explanation is this : It is easy
to build a bridge with borrowed money. It is easy to
reform the municipal franchise—that doesn’t involve any
intricate financial problems. But it isn’t easy to devise
some means of uniting 41 municipalities in all stages of
solvency and insolvency without injustice to any one of
them. And it is much pleasanter to say, “ I postpone
this question in a spirit of large and cautious statesman-
ship because the time is not yet ripe,” than to say, “ I
shirk this question because I don’t know what on earth to
do about it.” After all, it is the Lyne Government which
isn’t ripe.
And as it is a cheap and easy tiling to jeer at the
Government for not knowing how to do it, and
then leave the thing at that, The Bulletin offers
this suggestion as to how the financial difficulty
of making a Greater Sydney might be overcome —
in a sort of way, anyhow
(1) Greater Sydney to consist, at first, of 41 wards,
being the 41 existing municipalities.
(2) Representation in the Greater Sydney Council to be
according to population. The more populous wards could
be subdivided into districts, with an alderman for each
district. In very thinly populated ones there might be
an alderman for a whole ward, or one alderman might
represent two wards. But the existing boundaries to be
strictly preserved for the present.
(3) Assets which yield revenue to be valued by an in-
dependent commission of experts appointed by the
Government. Greater Sydney Council to take over these
assets and pay for them by assuming a corresponding
proportion of each ward’s debt.
(4) The rest of the old debts to be consolidated at a re-
duced interest as occasion offers, but to lie recorded in
the Council’s books as the debts of each separate ward.
(5) A general uniform rate to be levied to pay for light-
ing, cleaning, improvements, &c., and to pay the interest
on the Council’s debt— i.e., the proportion taken over
from the 41 separate wards, and any new debts con-
tracted.
(6) A separate rate to be levied in each ward to pay the
interest on its old separate debt (the portion not taken
over), and to provide for its gradual extinction. This
would not be uniform, but would vary according to the
amount Of each ward’s debt. It would be so graduated as
to extinguish all the separate old ward debts at about the
same date.
(7) When all the debts of the separate wards were ex-
tinguished, then Greater Sydney could be subdivided
afresh on a more sensible plan, there being no longer any
need for preserving the old municipal boundaries.
This is at least a possible way of combining the
41 municipalities, and saving an immense amount
in interest by consolidating the 41 separate debts,
without piling the burdens of the insolvent muni-
cipalities on the solvent ones. When, in the slow
procession of years, the time becomes ripe perhaps
the Lyne Government will seriously consider this
possibility.
♦
Exploiting' the Northern Territory.
Under the guise of an interesting account of the
Arafura, Melb. Age publishes what looks exceed-
ingly like an expert’s report to a syndicate on the
said country. The district described comprises no
less than 20,000 square miles (!) of the N.E. corner
of the Northern Territory, and has apparently
been leased (or temporarily donated) for 42 years
from Oct. 1, ’99, at an annual rental of 6d. a sq.
mile, the lessee having the sole right (transferable)
to acquire mineral permits over any portion of
the territory, and also to acquire portions of it at
10s. per acre in fee simple, by the consent of the
Minister. The report of the expert—one J.
Bradshaw, F.R.G.S. —is a gaudy ana glowing
circumstance, and sets forth that large districts of
the region are very rich in gold and other minerals,
also that numerous herds of nuffaloes and wild
cattle abound and multiply. Says expert Brad-
shaw :
The eminent geologist, Tenison Woods, F.G.S.. after
making personal inspection of Arnheim’s Land—the N.E.
corner of Arafura Territory—expressed the opinion that
it would be found immensely rich in gold, silver, copper,
lead, tin and other minerals ; the recent discovery of
large lodes of galena on the Macarthur River tends to
confirm the opinion of Tenison Woods, as a few weeks
ago several tons of this galena were smelted at Mary-
borough, Q., and found to contain a large percentage of
silver. There is no doubt but that these lodes travel
northward and radiate into Arafura.
Also there are quartz and ironstone outcrops and
indication of coal in several places. The in-
genuous Bradshaw’s peroration concludes with a
fine flowing outburst:
The thermometer rarely rises above 95 deg. and the
monsoons are regular, cool and bracing. A considerable
revenue might be obtained from the buffalo now depas-
turing on the country—their hides being worth £1 each,
their horns from ss. to 10s. a pair, while their carcases
yield £4 per head in meat extract. What information we
have suggests possibilities rivalling those of Rhodesia or
any modern Ophir. No other similar area in Australia is
so richly endowed by nature as this ; ocean steamers
could enter any of the Arafura harbors and fill up with
cattle direct from the pastures. Apart from cattle-raising
and mining, I opine that your (the syndicate’s) country
might be able to supply in a few years the whole of the
artillery and cavalry horses for the entire British and
Indian armies.
Which is indeed a pleasing prospect for the in-
terested syndicators. But the reference to
Rhodesia is somewhat unfortunate, for the delect-
able Bradshaw proceeds :
By a system of firmness and tact I have had no diffi-
culty' in making good workers of the worst Australian
savages, and I have no doubt whatever but that the
natives of Arafura can be profitably utilised for all manner
of work, their remuneration being only food, tobacco, and
other trifles.
Also, the transparent Bradshaw thus charmingly
exposes the intentions of his employers, the Shin-
dy kit :
Should it be necessary to fulfill the pastoral covenants Oj
your lease, I estimate that 5000 head of cows could be
placed on the country at a cost of £12,500, thus, with this
increase, complying with the conditions—one head to each
square mile in three years.
There is, sad to say, one fly m the ointment :
The newly-revised land laws of the N.T. preclude the
granting of any future concessions on such terms as this
is held.
Apparently the intention of this amiable syndicate
is to evade as much of its covenants as it conveni-
ently can, to work the local nigger for all he is
worth and pay him as little as he can be induced
to accept, and to float sundry sub-syndicates to
work the transferred mining rights. The British
(the thing looks and smells British) boomster has
obviously got his paw on the N.T., despite all
warnings and precautions, and the Commonwealth,
when it takes over the Territory—which it should
do as soon as possible—will have to keep a very
sharp eye on that rapacious individual, lest he
swallow up the whole of the Northern province.
The most magnificent mineral-bearing district in
the country at Cd. a square mile—and don’t forget
to ask for coupons !
♦
Woman Suffrage—for the Fifth Time
Victoria’s collective Fatman, he of the stolid and
immobile nature, is busy rounding up his few
fighters to battle once more against woman
suffrage. Four times have his representatives re-
jectee! the idea, and he hopes to delay matters by
asserting that there has been no demand for such
—and the time has not yet arrived for it. When
the Bill was first before the House nine years ago,
a petition bearing 30,000 signatures was presented t
in favor of it and nary a woman or even a small
girl petitioned against it, but this time (the
Bill comes before the 48 Fatmen this week) the
Tory remnant is getting up an anti-League
whose purpose it is to get a prayer signed
by the halt, the blind, the lame, and every-
body who can hold a pen. The League was un-
fortunate in its choice of secretaries, said ladies
being Misses Reid and Derham, but the speakers
at its first meeting were worse than unfortunate
in their alleged arguments. Said one: “He
objected most strongly to the forcing of the fran-
chise on the women of Victoria when they
had not asked for it, and he might say when
they did not want it.” And another pain-
fully illogical individual enquired how women
of the working classes were to form their
political opinions, and also whether politics would
not thus be brought to form a bone of bitter con-
tention between husband and wife. The gentle-
man’s tender solicitude for the working classes is
touching, but if he knew anything about those
erratic people he would understand that there are
457 different bones of contention between the
average man and his wife (including religion,
drink, the way she does her hair, and the brand of
tobacco he smokes) and yet the said bones do not
seem to interfere with their daily life to any extent.
Fatman objects to Woman Suffrage on general prin-
ciples. It is progressive, therefore it must be bad.
It would create a new set of voters who might de-
velop into original thinkers and workers; therefore
he views it with suspicion. Nevertheless, there are
signs that the 48 Landlords will this time put the
Bill through, with many distressing groans. It
has been rejected already four times, and even the
most refractory obesity tires of obstructing always.
The Voting-by-Post Bill—understood to have
been introduced partly to obviate the
necessity of Toorak’s delicate dames being con-
taminated by contact with the common plebeian
person at. a polling-booth—has passed the Lower
House. And, most powerful reason of all, Fat-
man wishes to stand well in the eyes of the coun-
try just now in view of the Federal elections and
the coming re-casting of the State Constitution.
So the 48 obstructives will probably come in out
of the wet.
♦>
Pants and Petticoats.
Trousers are well paid for in N.S.W. Education
Department, as witness the difference between
the salaries of pants and petticoats in the following
list, taken from the Public Service Act and Regu-
lations :
Now, as the examinations for male and female are
exactly the same, and the school work exactly the
same, why in the name of justice and common
sense aren’t the salaries the same ? Also, if it is
the pants that ai’e paid for, what is the matter
with the breeches of the two classes of male pupil-
teachers last quoted ?
Bananaland Parliament opened the otherday with
as little palaver as possible. Premier Philp’s
programme contained two noteworthy items, viz.,
a promise of an early introduction of one-adult-
one-vote, and a further promise of the introduc-
tion of certain private railway schemes. The
most obtrusive feature of the attitude of Banana-
land towards its present Govt, is the simple,
happy, undisguised desire of everybody to grab
something. North, South, East, West, the whole
community (despite its alleged financial pros-
perity) is imploring assistance from the Treasury.
Firstly, the graziers come along with a wail about
the rabbit invasion ; secondly, the Western pas-
toralists want a reduction of rent to compensate
them for their losses during the drought; thirdly,
everybody wants a new railway or a railway ex-
tension in his particular direction; and, lastly,
the Chows of Cairns are to the fore with a petition
for Government assistance in transporting their
bananas to Westralia, alleging with pride that
they are the backbone of the place. And, inas-
much as the present Govt, was returned to power
simply because it did promise nearly everything
to ev6rybody, it goes without saying that the
Philpocracv must make big. concessions some-
where ; otherwise the rabbit-infested grazier, the
drought-ruined squatter, and the Yellow Backbone
of Cairns will rise up as one man and cast the un-
satisfactory Govt, into the outer darkness. The
spectacle bids fair to be amusing. Between the
utter impossibility of satisfying everybody and
the urgent necessity of satisfying most of every-
body, the Philr Govt, is likely to have a happy
time.
As the various conferences of Melbourne’s subur-
ban councils on the question of creating a Greater
Melbourne have resulted in leaving matters as -they
were, and as the Govt, is too tired or too careless
to take the matter in hand, the Metropolitan
Committee of the A.N. A. proposes to grapple with
the subject. Its idea is to start by obtaining
Legislative enactment for a convention, popularly
elected, to draw up a scheme of union and a muni-
cipal constitution. Melbourne is at present gov-
erned by 24 municipal councils and seven practic-
ally-nominee boards and trusts, including the
supine Tramways Trust and the awful Board of
Works ; and, as each and every one of these sets
of councillors and commissioners is imbued with
an exaggerated sense of its own importance,
nothing visible or explosive or combustible is likely
to cause them to move in any desired direction.
The idea of taking the matter out of the hands of
aldermen and mayors, and relegating it to the
citizens themselves, is the best, most practical and
most democratic idea the A.N.A. has got hold of
in all its career.
• ♦ :
John Haynes, M.L.A., of N.S.W., is an ill-used
man in that, each time he brings forward his
Capital Punishment Abolition Bill, some miscreant
commits a specially horrible murder, apparently
for the express purpose of stirring up afresh the
blood-for-blood brigade. The notorious Butler
first played Haynes this scurvy trick, and now
the Breelong blackfellows have blocked him
again. All the same, capital punishment has got
to go. Barbarisms often die hard ; but die they
always must in the long run. Haynes,
however, was not wise in asserting that
all murderers are, ipso facto, insane. Con-
structively, this is doubtless pei’fectly true,
but the shallow-pated average advocate of
capital punishment would be but strengthened in
his opinion by an utterance which, to him, would
be mere foolishness. U.S. Congress, by-the-way,
has abolished the death-penalty in all federal con-
victions except those for treason and under the
articles of war of the army and navy, and for
murder and rape —thougli in these two latter
cases a jury is allowed to qualify its verdict by
adding “ without capital punishment,” this adden-
dum carrying with it the penalty of life imprison-
ment. Haynes has now given notice of a Bill to
abolish the extreme penalty for all crimes save
deliberate murder. This, The Bulletin thinks,
is the furthest step which N.S.W. Parliament is
likely to take at present —and it would be ex-
pedient to, as in America, place the power of life
or death in the hands of the jury.
—*
N.S.W. Roads Department has struck a new
and what seems a very shabby method of dealing
with tenders in the distant backblox. The plan
followed is to call tenders for certain specified
road repairs, and when the offers are opened to
reject them all, at same time stating the price
named by the lowest tenderer. Next, to call for
tenders afresh. Obviously the tenderers, mostly
the same body of men, will judge that their next
try must be something under the quoted “lowest,”
and so the cutthroat game proceeds. Here is an
instance, from Scone Advocate :
Tenders were called in Feb. last for road contract No.
48, and on March 2nd. A. Windsor’s tender (£60115.) was
published as the lowest. Fresh tenders were called for,
and on March 20th., A Windsor’s tender for the same
amount was again published as the lowest. Still, fresh
tenders were again called, when A. Dickenson’s for £6O ss.
was accepted. It would be interesting for outsiders to
know what is the object of this. If £6O ss. was not too
high on May 18th, then £6olls. should have been accepted
on March 2nd.
This is indeed a fishy game.
The excision of the Lyne-Jesse? Orange duel
from N.S.W. official Hansard is a small thing in
itself but should lead to the establishment of a
principle on which proper excisions should be
made. Speaker M ‘Court is supposed to have
control in such matters, but is the House quite
satisfied to leave Hansard so wholly at the
scissors’ end as this latest incident seems to make
it? Politicians have little difficulty in “doctor-
ing” a newspaper or several newspapers. Recently
a wink caused the reporter of a “ great ” paper to
erase four indiscreet lines thoughtlessly uttered
by an angry Minister. In fact newspapers are
open for “suppression” in Parliament and else-
where unless the speaker be an enemy, and it was
the knowledge of this that incited the public to
go to the expense of setting up Hansard. If the
Speaker or other official can “doctor” Hansard
as it has been recently “ doctored,” the use of the
institution may be well called in question.
+.
Maxwell, Jingo and “ Democrat,” sometime paid
factotum to Vic.’s National Ass., who was so
fully convicted of hopeless Tory bias during his
chairmanship of the Vic. Whiteworkers Board,
has been supplying the Murray party in
Warrnambool electorate with plentiful ammuni-
tion from his own speeches and faux pas. The
statutory declaration of the secretary of a Bible
League, read at one of Maxwell’s meetings, to
the effect that Murray (in a private overheard
conversation) larded a reference to a division upon
Scripture Education in State Schools with a
favorite Australian adjective on a specified but
ludicrously impossible date, has already passed
into the facetiae of hustings’ history. His denials
of a sympathetic leaning, before the Murray
episode, to the views of those English Noncon-
formists, like Stead, who oppose the Boer war
on traditional, religious and historical grounds,
are taken for what they are worth by an electorate
from which, as a candidate of the viciously Jingo-
istic, he wishes to eject Jack Murray, the honest
critic of exotic swashbucklerism in Australia.
Even afternoon meetings of select farmers
cannot ensure him a calm field for the
exercise of his acrobatic earnestness. Unlimited
enthusiasm pumped into skeleton political ideals
warranted to adjust their bones according to pass-
ing circumstances, may satisfy the average simply-
convolutioned brains of Maxwell’s favorite
Pleasant Sunday Afternoon audiences, but it will
hardly pass as current coin with a constituency
accustomed to the brainy and breezy democracy of
Jack Murray.
“Matabele” (who has “been there” to The
Bulletin :
What do all these people (mostly artizans) now rushing
off to the Cape think they are going to do there ? For
months before the war was in sight the Rand had its un-
employed problem, the good times of the early Nineties
were gone, wages were falling, and the Relief Committee
had its hands more than full. The RiiODES-owned press
said the depression was due to the “ oppressive exactions
of a corrupt oligarchy,” practical men knew it was due to
the fact that Johannesburg was built. During the war
there has been little destruction of property, and unless
a new Johannesburg requires building immediately most
of those now rushing thither will find themselves stranded.
Many people imagine that under British rule the gold
production of the Rand will go ahead by leaps and bounds,
bringing about general business prosperity and a great
demand for labour. The capitalistic project really is the
amalgamation (on same lines as Dp, Beers) of the three
great syndicates now controlling the Rand mines. The
effect of this combine will be just what it has been in
Kimberley—viz., great centralisation, great reduction in
wages total, great dividends, and great business stagna-
tion. De Beers Consolidated Ltd. was established in ’BB,


kJU
CCZV
x
SEES"!
THE TRANSVAAL WAR!
The PREMO CAMERA
,s IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st., Melbourne.
81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
and the distress caused by its closing down of mines and
reorganisation of staffs was so great as to bring about the
appointment of a Select Committee to consider the wis-
dom of acquiring and throwing open new mines or of
compelling the co. to work the old ones. The majority
report of this committee was adverse to these proposals,
but it brought to light the fact that under the De Beers’
management the number of whites employed on the
mines had fallen from upwards of 3000 to 1750, at which
figure it still remains.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Green Lanes of England.”
Palace British Biograph Co.
Lyceum War Pictures. 1
Centenary Hall Donald Macdonald’s Lectures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Tyranny of Tears.”
Her Majesty’s “Fedora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Orphan Heiress.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Scherek’s Orchestra (Saturday
afternoon).
Last week it was mentioned in this
column that the manager of the new Biograph—
the one which opened last Saturday at Sydney
Palace—guaranteed his pictures not to wobble.
This week The Bulletin chronicles with deep
regret that that new manager was less reliable
than he might have been, and that the new Bio-
graph does wobble. At the same time it has a less
agonising flicker than any other Biograph that
this writer has seen, and it seems to mark a dis-
tinct improvement in the science of these strange,
uncanny shadows that eat their food on a white
sheet in a dark theatre, The pictures, too, have
an air of comparative honesty about them that is
refreshing. None of the thrilling military epi-
sodes are obviously the work of a lot of dressed-up
supers in a circus. They are at least possible.
There is no evidence before the court that
the Palace war-pictures are genuine; The
Bulletin merely says that there is no posi-
tive evidence that they aren’t, and that
their improbability doesn’t fall on the spectator
like an infant that has just won the leaning-out
competition at a top window. Some of them
are very beautiful. One is exceedingly beautiful,
and worth the price of admission in itself —a view
from the front of a fast-moving engine in a hilly
country, in which bridges, tunnels, cuttings,
curves, and sundries rush headlong at the spectator
in an alarming fashion. The way the longest and
darkest tunnel throws itself head-first at the
audience, wraps its blackness round them like a
garment, and then dissolves again, is a thrill in
itself. Writer has done a spin on the front of an
engine, and the ’Graph gave exactly the same
sensation, all exoept the breathless rushing of
the air, the lost hat, and the cinder which
got in his eye. A certain painful tendency to put
on pictures of a monarch arriving somewhere, or
leaving somewhere, or looking at something, is a
painful feature of the Palace ’Graph, but all
’Graphs appear to have that drawback. As a
joy, and a work of art, and a scenic effect, the
railway picture is worth more than a view of 16
monarchs arriving everywhere, or one monarch
leaving 16 places at once. And there are al-
together too many pictures of somebody reviewing
troops—a number of soldiers standing in a row
and being stared at by some person of eminence.
The picture of one man staring at another man,
or at a lot of men, is not so very much of an
episode after all.
** * #
War-correspondent Donald Macdonald,
from South Africa, gave the first of a series of leo-
tures on the recent unpleasantness, last Saturday,
in Sydney Centenary Hall. Two pictures on the
programme represented the stout Donald as he
appeared before the siege of Ladysmith, and (in
the same hat and the same spotted tie) the thin
Donald who emerged from the beleaguered town
when Buller hammered his way in. A medium
Donald, half-way between the two pictured ones,
delivered the lecture. He did not get a very ex-
tended view of the war, having been shut up in
Ladysmith almost immediately after the armed
coolness commenced, and being invalided home
when the siege was over. But as regards the
siege of Ladysmith itself he can speak as
one having authority—that and a half-eaten
rat and a great resolve to hold out being
almost all they did have in the latter days
of the siege. Macdonald is a tall, strong, bony,
deliberate man, with a bad cold. He has none of
the airs and graces of the professional elocutionist
—the high top note in moments of excitement, the
deep premonitory rumbling in the boots when he
wants to be impressive, the studied flappings of
the arms that look as if they had been practised
before a mirror. He doesn’t stop to take a drink
just when he has worked up almost to the climax
of a great thrill, so as to give the thrill a chance to
soak in, but takes a drink whenever he feels so
inclined—which is frequently. In short, he is
straight, direct, easy, and natural —a big, vigor-
ous, impressive-looking man with a bad cold, who
has a good story to tell, and has learned that the
best way to tell a story is just to tell it—and who
flaps his arms after the manner of an
unspoiled child of nature, who simply
flaps as he wants to and doesn’t care
about the finer details. As he lectures
he prowls up and down the platform as a man
might who had been besieged a long time and
wanted exercise. There is nothing very new in
his lectures, but the same news that looked cold
and inky in the paper sounds very differently
when told by the man who was there, and who
personally sought for copy on the kopje and fished
his facts out of swollen drifts. Altogether Donald
Macdonald promises to be a success in N.S.W.;
£2 wouldn’t pay for the boot-leather which was
worn out on the floor of Centenary Hall last
Saturday, and five good umbrellas were crumpled
up in the applause.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “Absent-Minded Beggar
continues to betray its principal mental charac-
teristic at Sydney Royal, and Bland’s advertise-
ment states proudly that “this latest melodrama-
tic production takes the palm.” The Bulletin
has already recognised that it takes something,
but the palm wasn’t exactly the thing that this
paper was thinking of. Yet it recognises that the
piece is about disreputable enough to take almost
anything that might happen to be lying round
loose, and if a palm was foolishly left in its
vicinity it would probably be as ready to take
that as anything else. No change of programme
is announced yet, but the writer has hopes.
** * m
To-morrow (Friday) night Alfred Dampier
varies the programme at Sydney Criterion by
doing one consecutive production of “Hamlet.”
Inasmuch as Dampier is a vastly better Prince of
Denmark than many persons who have put on
enormous frill, and got the members of their co.
to write long letters to the papers about them,
the Shakespeare-loving public is cordially invited
to roll up. The “Green Lanes of England”
arrive on Saturday.
** * *
The mild gloom that has hung over Syd-
ney Tivoli off and on the last few months is now
partly dispersed by the re-appearance of Billee
Barlow in Elizabethan locks. Billee’s humor con-
sists in calling various portions of the audience
Gussie and Charlie, and imploring them in
agonised tones to come up on the stage and cheer
her up. Each song requires a different costume,
and the Charlie and Gus ditty is specially honored
with one that looks as if made out of gold and
sunshine intermingled. Ferry the Frog does his
turn at Rickards’ now, and emulates successfully
Lewis Carroll's crocodile which walked along its own
tail till it finished by marching down its nose.
Th 6 Coon Ballet is a pretty study in red and
white, and Miss Daisy Coppin makes her first
appearance (under Rickards) in a dance where she
forms into a wheel part of the time. The
Emmonds-Emmerson trio have introduced into
their latest sketch a patriotic song about the girl
who married a man for his wealth and is conse-
quently a bird in a gilded cage. Some day a
genius will arise to weep over the girl who never
gets the chance of a gilded coop, and has to take
the common iron variety or do without.
JACKY GOVERNOR, “ Wanted ” as one of the
alleged Breelong murderers. —From photo.
taken while he was a police-tracker.
“Fedora,” one of Sardou’s best, but
longest-winded tragedies, came to pass at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) on Saturday night. Everybody,
m a r olite way of speaking, has been familiar, at
one time or other, with the story of the modem
Russian princess who came to grief over her own
misplaced vengeance, but hardly anyone seems to
get it riveted to the memory. It is a story in a
prologue, three acts, and a suicide, owing its
tragedy on the stage to the assassination of three
people off the stage, three people who don’t
appear in the cast. The first victim was
Princess Fedora’s best boy before the curtain
rose. His assassination (“off”) is discussed
in the prologue, and the evidence of things
unseen is said to point to Count Ipanoff
as the slayer. Fedora, being very Russian
in her loves and hates, follows Ipanoff _ from
St. Petersburg to Paris, and enchants him into a
confession of the deed, and meanwhile loses her
heart to the man. He is quite a nice Count, as it
turns out, whereas the fellow who perished in the
prologue was an undeserving object of Fedora’s
affection, but she has set her royal vengeance
moving before the whole truth is revealed, and
although she manages to save her Ipanoff in
Paris, she can’t prevent the official murder of his
relatives in Russia. The news of their decease
and the discovery that Fedora was responsible for
the little mistake would probably lead to some
vengeance on Ipanoff’s part if the regretful
Princess didn’t take poison to avoid further
unpleasantness.
* * * *
To say, as doubtless the Melbourne press
will say, that Nance O’Neil gives a fine perform-
ance of the name-part is to ignore all the obtrusive
features of the lady’s personality. Author Sardou
gives Nance O’Neil no chance to shape con-
vincingly in such a character. Fedora, firstly,
lastly, and all the time must be a Russian princess
with a true Parisian polish on her, a woman of
courtly arts and graces—in short, a “dream” of
bon ton. Now, Miss O’Neil, as Fedora, is simply
a reality of Nance. She talks to men with the
intonation and gestures and hard commercial
frown of a stock-broker laying down the law to a
minor clerk. True, there is force in her
misrepresentation of the character, the natural
force of a weighty, self - confident Nance
O’Neil. Her capacity for acting as though
she thinks she is doing the right things may
impress those who can’t see that she is doing
the wrong things. The present scribe is bomb-
proof as regards Miss Nance O’Neil. She can’t
blow his critical faculty away with the breath of her
heavy declamation. As Magda, she had novelty, in
so far that she was a vast and not too-artistic
actress playing in a bossful manner a part that
only a very first-class artist could do full justice
to. And as Camille, in which character her
pathos sounded rich, though artificial, Miss O’Neil
was also interesting at the first time of hearing
her. But as Princess Fedora, grabbing her
silk skirt like another Charley’s Aunt, the effect
of Miss O’Neil is eminently unsatisfactory to the
Philistine who records this opinion. The fine
play of emotion that Sardou asks of his heroines
is not even attempted by the lady. She just slogs
at the bowling, and the public like it. Kingston
would be a better Count Ipanoff but for his ner-
vous grimaces. Plimmer and Carne are pleasing,
but not very incisive, as Jean de Lerieux and
Gretch; also, Miss Roxy Barton is a pleasing
young failure as Countess Olga. The staging is
so-so, and the small parts —no matter. Besides,
two or three are neatly filled.
** * *
At the Princess’s, where business seems
to suffer from the Nance boom, “ The Tyranny of
Tears ” was warmly received on Saturday. Had-
don Chambers has written nothing else half so
good as his latest play ; the quality of his dialogue
is so remarkable as to lend certain colour to the
London assertion that Oscar Wilde —another
version gives the credit to a very brilliant woman
—had a hand in the piece. However this maybe,
the play slips along at an even pace, never going
too far in any direction, and it leaves one in doubt
as to whether it was a moral lesson or a charming
study of cause and effect. Brough, the married
man of the plot, has been writing novels and things
for five years, without once getting out on the
loose. His devotion to his wife (Miss Noble) is
sincere but irksome at times. She’s a dear little
woman in her way, and would be even dearer if
she were less often in his way. Just when poor
Brough is busy with a violent leading article for
the Daily Buster his domestic angel thrusts tea
and sentiment upon him, and whispers a mysteri-
ous something in his ear, whereat he laughs con-
jugally. The audience would give sixpence each
to hear her say that something aloud, but they
have to rest dissatisfied with the whisper.
Bachelor friend Lovell proposes to take Brough
away for a week on a small innocent yacht, built
for gentlemen only, and then his wife weeps. She
has been an artist at weeping for five moist, happy
years, so Brough seizes this opportunity for trying
to dry her up in moderation. He succeeds more
or less at the finish (or, rather, he seems likely
to succeed in the future), but the happy
ending _is delayed by the carelessness of
the spinster-secretary (Mrs. Brough), who
gets caught in the act of imprinting a motherly
kiss on his photo. Mrs. Brough’s kiss leads to
complications, and she weeps—but not much.
She is a calm, practical young sec., with a robust
appetite for seed-cake in the hour of trouble, and
bachelor Lovell arranges to marry her at an early
date. These four characters, plus a jaunty old sport
of a father-in-law, runtheshowadmirably. Brough s
performance has little fault, bar his old mannerism
of thinking with his mouth open. Miss Noble
scores another success. Her art is not broad, but
it begins to go deep. Mrs. Brough, who could be
brighter in the first three acts, takes a full half-
share of the honors in the scene where Lovell puts
the marriage question, and Lovell plays his part
to perfection everywhere. It fits him all the way
down. Dartrey is a joyous, wicked father-in-law,
and the scenic artist achieved a double encore for
his garden scene on Saturday. Also, the orchestra
had to repeat the “Cavalleria” intermezzo by
vociferous desire.
** * *
“The World Against Her” at the Royal
hasn’t been finding much favor with depressed
females on this occasion, so the sorrows of the
virtuous matron who gets relegated to the gutter
by her otherwise gallant husband will cease on
Friday. A very slow, sad and weary lady in the
character of chief mourner might have kept the
funeral on its legs for another week or two, out
little Miss Eugenie Duggan is not that sort of in-
jured party. Moreover her hats don’t appear to
be at odds with the universe. On Saturday, the
company will turn their attention to “The Orphan
Heiress” for the first time in Melbourne.
** * #
At the Bijou the Martinettis substituted
“A Terrible Night” for “Robert Macaire” on
Saturday night, and this second lesson in the art
of acting hit a crowded house pretty hard. Paul
Martinetti and his dumb show company are mat-
ters that naturally gather admiration as they go
along in cities where they happen to be new.
Irene Franklin, the ’cute Yankee damsel who
looks rather older than 16, was back at the Bijou
on Saturday, and the Bijou felt glad to see Irene.
Also, a new infant of the male persuasion proved
more acceptable than some recent atoms in short
frocks.
* * *
Scherelc’s Orchestrians spread themselves
again over the Town Hall platform last Saturday
afternoon, and were appreciated as per usual.
Miss Una Bourne, the demure young pianist, like-
wise added a couple of successes to her record, and
Stoneham, the flautist, came forth as the com-
poser of a tiny little dance piece. Scherek tries
experiments on the Melbourne public these times.
Probably he was glad to discover that a Strauss
waltz is a little too tinkling for them nowadays.
Popular taste in orchestral music has been edu-
cated to a point higher than Strauss. Two points
higher, perhaps. Another concert next Saturday.
THE ROSE OF PERSIA.
A love-tale quaint and flighty of old Persia’s
empire mighty as it was in the olden, golden
days of Sultan Mahmoud Khan,
When there were gauds and glory and a wealth of
curious story in Sultan Mahmoud’s palace in
turreted Ispahan.
Now in these ages dusty, in her lonesome halls
and musty, a Persian Queen was barred away
for the days of all her life.
And Queen Rose-in-Bloom grew weary of her
latticed chambers dreary, and forth on an
ancient Persian bust fared Sultan Mahmoud’s
wife —
On an innocent, ancient Asian bust, just to get
rid of her mental rust, fared the Sultan’s
cherished wife.
In that grey old town enchanted, down the
streets by asses haunted, where were beggars,
dogs and dervishes, and hairy camels tall,
She wandered on disguised till by her lord sur-
prised, when she wildly fled for refuge in at
Hassan’s open hall.
Hassan’s wives were five-and-twenty; he had ill-
got wealth in plenty; he was a kind of
Abdul-Hooley floating “cats” in Ispahan.
Also, he was charitable, and he fed the hungry
rabble, and just then he was drunker than an
ordinary man,
So wildly, joyously rushing on doom, with a
beery eye on his open tomb, he jeered at
Mahmoud Khan.
For, full of drink and laughter, heedless what
might happen after, Hassan dreamt he was a
Sultan, and gave orders cheerfully
That peers eminent and dreaded should forthwith
be beheaded, and chamberlains and tetrarchs
be slain promiscuously.
And the Sultan’s stricken minions said : “ In all
these wide dominions there aren’t trees
enough whereon to hang him for his sin,
And if, pausing not nor stopping, we keep him
for ages dropping, there aren’t wells enough
in Persia to drop this scoffer in.”
And the Grand Vizier was stricken dumb as he
felt that the world to an end would come ere
they’d sufficiently dropped him in.
So in the next day’s morning, to all drinkers as a
warning, they sat Hassan on the golden throne
in royal Ispahan,
And with Asjan oaths profound swore as they
fro veiled round that he was in the purple
orn as Sultan Mahmoud Khan.
And though he wasn’t quite awake yet, and his
nerves were all a-shake yet, and his hand was
so unsteady that his beer dropped on the floor,
And he had a giddy feeling that the Persian
throne was reeling, yet he ran the empire
wisely for half-an-hour or more
(Just then the writer’s ’bus was going, and the
sands of time were flowing, so he seized his
hat and ’brella and ran swiftly for the door).
Sheep to the Slaughter!
When is this insane folly going to stop? Here
we are, a nascent nation to whose development
ardent young manhood is essential, sending
away the flower of our population—the vital
element of which we have too little, of which we
can never have enough —to be used up in Britain’s
foreign wars. Thousands of fine young fellows
have been sent to the Transvaal at a heavy money
cost to Australasian taxpayers —and at a far
heavier cost in the loss of productive energy.
Already many have been killed, many are coming
home crippled and broken-down to be burdens on
their friends or on the community, and some,
doubtless, will be bribed to stay as settlers under
the Rhodesian companies. The Parliaments who
vote them away do not care; their skins and
salaries are safe; and that is all many so-called
legislators think about. The shouting crowds
■who saw them away do not care ; for a crowd sub-
merges all sense of individual responsibility. It
is true that already the bottom has fallen out of
the local Jingo bucket, so lately brim-full of froth.
Many of those instrumental in sending Australians
to leave their bones in Africa, or to colonise Africa,
are secretly ash aped of themselves. Neverthe-
less, Victoria and N.S. Wales are announced as
sending small contingents to fight in China.
The Legislative Assemblies of Victoria and
N.S. Wales are not wholly without sense.
They must know that the encouragement of this
haphazard militarism is cutting the throat of Aus-
tralian industry. “Glory” will not profit this
country. It will not profit this country that the
man who should be ploughing land or digging
minerals in Australia, making a home and rearing
a family, should be cut off in his prime and leave
his bones in the graveyard of China. Even if the
five nations who are grabbing China deserved
Australian help, we could not afford to give
it. That is the sheer truth—toe can't afford
it. We are living now in a fool’s paradise of bor-
rowed money, discounting our future and piling
up debts for our own children to pay. When the
stream of loan-money stops running and we have
to face our liabilities; we shall want every
ounce of energy, every atom of resource.
To waste men and money in foreign
warfare which does not intimately concern us is
suicidal. Many M’s.P., who dare not stand up
in the House and say so, will tell you that they
are fully persuaded of this. Yet N.S. Wales,
for example, has drifted into this Chinese-
contingent business just because nobody had
the courage to say No! We read that 154
men of # the Naval Brigade and Naval Artil-
lery have volunteered. There is no evidence
that they wanted to volunteer. Apparently some
officer buttonholed the Ministry, and the Ministry,
though no doubt (speaking for most of them)
utterly tired of war, lacked backbone to refuse a
conditional promise. By the time the promise
reached Parliament it was an absolute offer, and
Govt, cracked'the party whip to bring dissen-
ters to their places. Then the .men were called
on to volunteer “ for the honour of the
corps ? ” How could they refuse with the
example of Harkus before them ! The moral
compulsion of the corps-spirit bound them
just as much as convicts’ chains and fetters.
The man who thought of his wife and family and
hung back was confronted with the odium of the
“ white feather” which left Mrs. Harkus a widow
and her children fatherless. They were driven
like sheep to the slaughter, and 154 of them put
down their names. Some of them, doubtless,
really wished to go ; but scores did not, and The
Bulletin believes that the majority will live to
curse the day when they were dragged into the
contingent—if they do not curse it already. And
these men are fine fellows in the prime of life—
many of them men who, after service in the
Imperial navy, had got steady shore-billets and
settled down, as they thought, for life. The great
majority of them are fathers of families —the very
men that the community cannot spare. How
many of them will ever come back ? How many
will be sent to their death at the bidding of the
insane spirit of militarism, chattering politicians,
and esprit-de-corps ?
The s.s. Annerley, which, in a storm be-
tween Newcastle and Melbourne, recently, lost 221
out of 283 bullocks intended for S’Africa, has
since lost 201 horses out of 256 which she shipped
at Melbourne for Durban. A horrible record !


’WARE IMITATORS
I GEORGE ELAKELAR, of Kalgoorlie, in
9 the colony of Western Australia, Cordial
Manufacturer, do hereby apologise for having
infringed the trade mark of the Zetz Spa Pro-
prietary, Limited, of Sydney, in the colony of
New South Wales, by selling a mineral water
bearing the name of “Zet Spa” in labelled
bottles. I undertake not to continue selling water
labelled in any manner resembling the “Zetz
Spa” trade mark. I have agreed to pay, and
have paid, the legal expenses incurred by the
Zetz Spa Proprietary, Limited, in connection
with the said infringement, and have authorised
the Manager of the Company to make use of this
apology as he may see fit.
Dated this sth day of July, 1900.
ZETZ-SPA Wat«r
Has Many Imitators ; But No Equals.
Hoffmann, the London chairman of White
Feather Main Reef, speaks from South African experience
concerning machinery. He has learned the value of
heavier machinery than is usually erected in the West,
where the stamps should be capable of treating 4J tons
per day, instead of only 2£ tons —the general limit with
the batteries that he saw. Nor is it necessary to send
’Ome for the right stuff. Of the plant at Bayley’s, which
he instanced as “ one of the finest I have seen,” Hoffmann
said “ If people would only adopt that style of machinery
they would do much better. They make the mistake of
putting up stamps that are too light, small boxes, and
small surface tables.” Furthermore he mentioned that
the O.K. machinery in question “ can be constructed by
Martin and 00. of Gawler, at only about half the cost of
the imported plant, and is to all intents and purposes its
equal."*
Mr. F. W. Payne, Consulting Engineer to the
Kia Ora Gold Dredging 00., Ltd., N.Z., has placed an
order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Sout
Melbourne, for all the dredging and gold saving and
tailings elevating machinery for a complete bucket gold
dredging plant. This is one of a large number of plants
in course of construction by the Otis Co.*
» * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* • * *
The representatives of British, foreign and
southern capital are chasing all over the country for gold,
gold and silver, copper, lode and alluvial tin, molybdenite,
manganese, and choice mines in all stages of development
such as Queensland and Tom Coventry, Telegraph Cham-
bers, Queen-st., Brisbane, can supply. The deduction is
obvious.*
» • * •
Broken Hill South Silver M. Co.
The Mine, Broken Hill, 30th August, 1899.
Mr. T. Horsfield,
Bendigo.—
Sir,
I have much pleasure in stating that we have had
your rock drills on trial and the results given are equal, if
not superior to any I have seen.
I remain,
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) S. Ma.vne,
Mine Manager.
• * * *
Insurance Press, July Ist, 1899: “The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society has had another
season of prosperity and has increased its business and
bettered its financial position to a considerable extent.”*
* * * *
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in Tub Bulletin. A disencrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge,” with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by W.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “ Litofuge ” compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
• • * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• « * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
When Hartley and Riley (Molyneux, M.L.)
dredging record of 11890z5., was eclipsed by the Lady
Ranfurly, almost next door, with 1200ozs. for a week’s
work, the crew of the Electric dredge drove over in a
four-in-hand to Hartley’s, and demanded the champion
“ clock,” which was promptly handed over. Despite the
big return, Electric shares fell a few shillings. Cause
—£26,000 capital and the shares held by a few who
“swamped ” the market in their anxiety to get out.
'Cope tfebacce#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
pr
“ THE FINEST - *
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Cope Bros. & Co.,"Ltd., Liverpool, Agents; 1. Rutty & Co., Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°.
Caustic Soda, Oarb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street ,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, Nz. ;.
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Joint Stock Bank hasn t shared
in the improvement manifested by so many banking in-
stitutions this half-year, in fact its balance-sheet for six
months to 30th June, 1900, looks much worse than its
predecessor. Some recent results :
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1893 .. £12,221 Nil.
Dec., 1593 .. 51,040 5 per cent. = 22,951
June, 1894 .. 32,083 5 „ = 24,869
Dec.., 1894 .. 21,915 4 „ 21,530
June, 1895 .. 24,932 4 „ = 22,675
Dee., 1595 .. 25,825 4 „ = 23,354
June, 1896 .. 20,629 Nil.
Loss.
Dec., 1896 .. £48,200 Nil.
June, 1897 .. 53,507 Nik
Profit.
Dec., 1897 .. £1,725 Nil.
June, 1898 .. 3,746 Nil.
Dec., 1898 .. 266 Nil.
June, 1899 .. 1,358 Nil.
Dec., 1899 .. 2,912 Nil.
June, 1900 .. 2,057 Nil.
The profits represent 6s. 9d. per cent on the shareholders’
capital (£1,168,041) and the nominal reserve fund
(£52,000). If the special reserve fund of £109,473, created
by the repurchase of B deposits at a discount, is included,
then the profits represent only 6s. 2d. per cent. During
the half year the A.J.S. Bank has made a further sum of
£20,565 by the repurchase of its B deposits at a discount,
so it has now these amounts available for writing off
losses without trenching on the capital:
Accumulated Profit £12,064
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. . • • • 52,000
Special Reserve (discounts on Deposits purchased) 109,473
£173,537
During the half-year the reconstructed deposits have been
reduced by £320,752 and now stand at £5,369,289.
Probably the most remarkable feature about the
A.J.S. Bank nowadays is the dead silence maintained
as to its real position by everybody concerned. The
balance-sheet doesn’t even profess to state the real
situation, or anything like it. Nearly four-fifths of the
assets are described as “ Bills discounted and all other
debts due to the Bank and other assets at old valuations,
£6,719,518.” The fact that these assets were once
supposed to be worth the sum mentioned is in-
teresting but not instructive. The site of Babylon
was also worth a lot at one time. The point at
issue is : What are they worth now ? Assuming that a
bank which gets over £5,000,000 of its deposits very
cheaply, and has them fixed for so long a time that it is
unnecessary to keep any cash reserves against them,
should be able, when its assets are written down to actual
values, to earn 4 per cent, on its funds, which isn’t a
widely extravagant assumption, then the above-mentioned
asset requires to be written down by about £1,250,000.
This would mean writing off all the various reserves and
nearly £1,100,000 of the capital, and starting the A.J.S.
Bank afresh with a paid-up capital of about £90,000. The
directors never explain what the losses are estimated to
be ; whether they intend to clear them off some day by
writing down capital and reserves and calling up
fresh capital, and thus start the A.J.S. Bank
afresh as a small but solvent institution; whe-
ther they simply intend to wait till the slow
accumulation of profits, possibly aided by a rise in values,
wipes out the losses, and when they hope that that will
be ; whether the depreciated properties are further de-
preciating or not, and, if so, if the further depreciation is
swallowing up the alleged profits ; whether the capital
and reserves are likely to cover the losses —in fact, they
give no information at all about the real position of the
bank. And under the disgracefully loose banking laws of
Australia it is perfectly lawful to put admittedly unreliable
values in a balance-sheet, and thus make it a document
which isn’t of the slightest value as showing the real
position of affairs. If the Federal Parliament enacts that
the assets in a company’s balance-sheet must represent
real present values, and puts on Government auditors and
valuators to see that they do, The Bulletin knows of
several banks which will have to publish very different
documents from those they issue now.
* * * *
When The Bulletin suggests that the A. J.S.
Bank, with nominal paid-up capital and reserves of
£1,341,579, may be really worth as much as £90,000 it
takes a much more sanguine view than the share-market
does. The market estimates the shares (£7 10s. paid up)
at about fifteenpence per share, which makes the whole
value of the bank about £9BOO. The share-market,
therefore, assumes the losses still unprovided for to
be about £1,330,000.
* * * »
The Ballarat Banking Co., for the half-year to
30th June, 1900, shows the largest profits which it has
realised for four years past. Recent earnings have been
as follows: — _
December, 1894 .. £3710 December, 1897 .. £2637
June, 1895 .. .. 3449 June, 1898 .. .. 2785
December, 1895 .. 3463 December, 1898 .. 2906
June, 1896 .. .. 3250 June, 1899 .. .. 3022
December, 1896 .. 2936 December, 1899 .. 2991
June, 1897 .. .. 2881 June, 1900 .. .. 3154
The usual quaint and angular-looking dividend at the
rate of 5* per cent, per annum absorbs £2337 10s.; an
addition of £5OO is made to the reserve fund, raising it to
£56,000, and the other £316, added to £2617 brought for-
ward from last half-year, leaves an undivided profit
balance of £2933. The earnings are equivalent to
£4 9s. Id. per cent, per annum on shareholders’ capi-
tal and reserve. During the half-year deposits have
increased hy £11,390, and cash and securities by
about £lO,OOO. The Ballarat Banking Co.’s reserve
of coin and liquid securities is £87,293, representing 38
per cent, on all liabilities to the public. Also it has one
advantage which many small banks possess in a much
greater degree than large ones ; its capital and reserves
are very large in proportion to liabilities to the public—
so large that even if the value of its advances deteriorated
by a good deal more than one-half it would still be a per-
fectly solvent concern so far as its depositors were con-
cerned. During the last six years the Ballarat Banking
Co., in addition to paying its 5* per cent, dividend regu-
larlv, has added £9134 to its reserves, and its funds are now :
Paid-up capital, £85,000 ; reserve-fund, £56,000 ; profit
balance, £2933.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland reports that the
net earnings for the half-year which ended 30th June,
1900, were £8383, which is another slight increase, and
compares with previous earnings a» follows :
June, 1894 .. .. £6360 December, 1897 .. £7440
December, 1894 .. 6477 June, 1898 .. .. 7460
June, 1895 .. .. 5946 December, 1898 .. 7579
December, 1895 .. 6033 June, 1899 .. .. 7830
June, 1896 .. .. 6445 December, 1899 .. 8322
December, 1896 .. 6515 June, 1900 .. .. 8383
June, 1897 .. .. 7463
The earnings represent £3 17s. 9d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ capital and reserve-fund, which is
exactly the same rate as was earned last half-year. The
usual dividend at the rate of 2* per cent, per annum ex-
hausts £4815 ; dividend duty thereon is £241; and £-WX)
is added to reserve-fund, raising it to £48,000. ine re-
maining £1327, added to £2595 brought forward, leaves
£3922 at credit of profit and loss, and out of this the
management has decided to put £3500 to a contingency-
fund, presumably to provide for possible losses and depre-
ciation, leaving £422 to carry forward.
* * • •
The establishment of a contingency fund is cer-
tainly a wise provision ; still, it is so unusual a one that
it will probably create an impression that the Royal Bank
of Queensland sees losses ahead, and set people wondering
as to the possible size of the same. No reason is assigned
for establishing the new fund, apart from the general
reserve, so, in the absence of any special symptoms, it
should doubtless be regarded as a mere commonsense pre-
caution. Things in general look reasonably well with the
Royal Bank. Deposits have increased in the half-year by
nearly £45,000. Cash and liquid securities have increased
by a little over £45,000, and amount to £356,321 —equal to
nearly 40 per cent, of the total liabilities to the public,
which is a very Bolid line of defence. Also the reserve
fund is a real reserve, separately invested in Government
securities. The Royal has just paid the third instalment
of its reconstructed deposits, and in about 18 months
from now they will be finally extinguished.
* » * *
The Distillers Co., Limited (D.C.L. Whisky)
publishes a balance-sheet which shows that D.C.L.
whisky is a paying investment—for the makers anyhow :
Profit. Reserve Fund. Dividend.
May, 1899 .. £134,650 £50,000 10 per cent., £85,810
May, 1900 .. 134,775 50,000 10 „ 85,588
The Distillers Co., Limited, has a paid-up capital of
£887,680 ; a reserve fund of £210,000 ; and £13,513 un-
divided profit. Why doesn’t Australia make its own
whisky ? There is evidently money in the business.
* * » *
Some recent figures regarding the Mercantile
Mutual Insurance Co. (Sydney)
Bonus to Dividends
Profits. Policy- per
holders. annum.
December, ’93 ..£13,097 £4,395 29 p.c.= £4,395
„ ’94 .. 11,571 4,348 23 „ = 4,348
„ ’95 .. 8,765 4,239 22* „ = 4,239
„ ’96 .. 12,136 4,105 22 „ = 4,105
„ ’97 .. 10,989 4,152 16 „ = 4,152
„ ’9B .. 11,714 4,384 16J „ = 4,384
* year to
June, 1899 .. 4,321 2,149 16* „ = 2,149
„ 1900 .. 11,932 4,577 17* „ = 4,577
£84,525 £32,349 £32,349
The Mercantile Mutual has thus earned £84,525 in 7*
years, out of which £32,349 has gone in bonuses to policy-
holders ; £32,349 in shareholders’ dividends; £lOOO has
been set aside to cover depreciation of assets; £11,250
has been capitalised, thus increasing the paid - up
capital from £15,000 to £26,250 ; and £7577 has been
added to the undivided profit balance, raising it from
£lOBl to £8658. No additions have been made to reserve
fund, which remains stationary at £40,000. The addi-
tional capital having come out of profits, the dividend
has really increased instead of diminished, being over 30
per cent, on the capital as it stood in 1893. The Mercan-
tile Mutual is a rather silent company as regards the
nature of its assets, merely stating in a reserved sort of
way that these consist mostly of “ city property and
mortgages, £67,339,” and “ deposits, fixed and at call,
£24,063.” The interest earnings (£2255) represent only
£2lss. sd. per cent, per annum on the investments,
which is very low. Still the Mercantile Mutual is a
bright and shining business example in almost every
respect. Especially interesting is the fact that it produces
such excellent results by confining its business to one
province, when one considers the gall of the bogus in-
surance experts who declare that State fire insurance
can’t pay because it will be necessarily confined to one
province and “ a wide diffusion of risks is necessary to the
successful conducting of fire insurance.”
* • » •
Apropos, the once-great Palatine Insurance Co.,
of England, is arranging to give up the ghost and sell
out, being practically killed, as usual, by the fetish of “ a
wide diffusion of risks.” It bought up the Manufacturers’
and Builders’ Insurance 00. of New York, and diffused
itself in that country, and the far-off foreign business,
not being sufficiently under the eye of the management,
was an unspeakable disaster.
* * • «
J. S. Foster: The Mutual Life Association is
much the better office. It is impossible to say in advance
what bonuses you will get—they all depend on profits.
And bonuses are not everything ; safety is a big essential.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete (Sydney) presents
its balance-sheet for the half-year to 30th June, 1900.
Things have not gone too well with this institution of
late, as witness the following figures :
Profits Dividends, &c.
December, 1892 £380510 per cent. £2912
June, 1893 3089 „ 3118
December, 1893 4246 „ £3225
Written off 509 3734
June, 1894 431410 per cent. 3267
December, 1894 4470 ~ £3416
Written off 366 3782
June, 1895 423910 per cent. 3581
December, 1895 4766 „ ■ £3627
Written off 589 4216
June, 1896 469910 per cent. £3639
Written off 237 3876
December, 1896 4284 10 per cent. £3669
Written off 708 4377
June, 1897 4225 10 per cent. £3671
Written off 1126 4797
December, 1897 4297 10 per cent. £3679
Written off 960 4639
June, 1898 418910 per cent. £3687
Written off 848 4535
December, 1898 358910 per cent. £3689
Written off 2740 6429
June, 1899 2300 7* per cent. £2773
Written off 1182 3955
December, 1899 2801 7* per cent. £2778
Written off 7335 10113
June, 1900 3030 7} per cent. £2780
Written off 443 3223
Premiums on
new shares 811
£62,654 £70,554
• • • •
It is rather a serious matter to hint to any old-
established pawnbroking institution that its finance is a
trifle reckless, yet the fact remains that in eight years the
reserves of the N.S.W. Mont de PietC have diminished by
£79oo—from £16,305 to £8405. On three occasions the
dividend alone has exceeded earnings, and on nine
occasions dividend and provision for losses have exceeded
earnings. For 6* years the dividend was kept up to 10
per cent when the case didn’t at all justify it, and it is
now being kept up to 7* per cent when 6 per cent or even
6 might be much better. The present balance-sheet hints
that there are still losses to be provided for, though no
amount is mentioned and the allusion is very indefinite.
The most promising feature is that profits are again on
the increase.
* * * *
Commercial Building and Investment Co.,
Sydney :
June, 1897 Loss .. £3145 I June, 1899 Loss .. £2993
„ 1898 „ .. 4037| „ 1900 „ .. 933
The Commercial Building and Investment Co. has, after
writing off all reserves, a debit balance of £9293, though if
it wrote off its forfeited shares it could clear this liability
and have a small balance to the good and about £120,000
of real capital intact. Its troubles arose through owning
so much more property than it could pay for that ft
owed, in 1897, £155,678 on mortgage, and in the de-
pressed state of the market the interest on the mortgages
absorbed the rents and something over. The mortgages
are now down to £135,275, and as they are reduced, the
institution comes steadily nearer to paying its way again.
In fact, it looks as if it might become a good source of profit
again when it gets rested, and further reduces its mort-
gages, and is able to write down its property values out
of earnings.
* * * *
A. M.P.—Absent-Minded Proxy-paper.
♦ * • *
For the first time within the memory of the
oldest policy-holder the A.M.P. directors enclosed a
stamped envelope with the ambiguous proxy-forms. On
all other occasions members wishing to vote by proxy
had, rightly, of course, to return their papers at their own
expense, but this time the directors were anxious to get
in a large number of papers unaltered. Consequently,
with a stamped envelope ready to his hand, the average
voter, to whom the act of voting is a bore, slipped the
ballot-paper into the envelope first, popped the envelope
into the post, and thought about it afterwards. As a
large proportion of the members live in the twopenny
area, the cost of departing from their usual practice when
circularising their 150,000 policy-holders must have run
into an uncalled-for expense, approaching £lOOO.
Another curious fact in connection with the extension
controversy is that the Melb. Argus and Age agreed in
their views on the subject—a most astonishing circum-
stance. The rival journals advocated the rejection of the
proposed trip abroad.
The A.M.P. directorate worked its game all
right with the stamped-envelope-for-return-of-proxies
racket; but t’other day when A.M.P. chairman Abbott
stood for election as an A.J.S. director he somehow
forgot to send stamped envelopes to shareholders, and so
he “ got left ” by his opponent, who did send stamped
envelopes.
• * * *
B. North half-yearly report to June 30 is
issued very promptly ; it was in shareholders’ hands by
the middle of July. It would have been better perhaps,
though, if the board had been a little longer about it, and
had then told shareholders more. In fact, for all there is
in the directors’ report it might almost have been
written twelve months ago. Blasting among the few
figures at the end shakes out the fact (anyhow, it is more
or less a fact) that the co.’s profit was £11,261; but
neither new machinery nor depreciation is charged,
and one or the other ought to be. A co. must either
charge itself with the cost of its plant as it gets it or
charge itself term by term with depreciation. As to finan-
cial position, the North appears to have liquid assets
amounting to £14,530, of which £6331 is hard cash, while
it owes only £1823 ; and that, after paying £7500 in divs.
last half-year, cannot be reckoned bad for a co. which
gave only about £7OOO for its mine four or five years ago.
In fact, the co.’s paid-up capital amounts to only £lO,OOO
altogether. ,
B.H. Prop.’s half-yearly report (to May 30)
shows that the co. made its £96,000 of divs. and had £l9l
to carry over ; and that is sailing closer to the wind than
ever the co. did before since the div. was reduced to a
shilling a quarter. And yet to get even this result the co.
had to use up more ore than it has been doing since ’95.
Figures herewith
Ore Raised. Net Profit,
tons. £
May, 1897 202,556 .. 147,175
Nov., 1897 182,460 .. 111,128
Mav, 1898 204,731 ... 139,865
Nov., 1898 204,067 .. 122,151
May, 1899 202,693 .. 107,563
Nov., 1899 206,193 .. 110,362
May, 1900 232,487 .. 96,191
Which isn’t too “ grateful and comforting” ; and still less
when one comes to reckon up that silver has been a shade
better this last half-year than it was in the previous term
and that lead averaged a whole £ll4s. 7d. a ton better.
Here are the highest and lowest prices realised for the
co.’s principal metals for some years past:
Silver Lead
f 1 '■■■ -> f 1 1 * -*
Highest Lowest Highest Lowest
1885 .. 4s 2d 3s lljd £l2* £lo*
1890 4 6* 3 8 14* 12*
1895 .. 2 7 2 3* ll| 91
1896 .. 2 7* 2 5§ Ilf H
1897 .. 2 6 1 Ilf 14i 11*
1898 2 4j 2 1 14* 12*
1899 .. 2 4| 2 2) 17* 13
1900 (*-year) 2 3| 2 2J 17* 16
So that if lead had stayed where it was five years ago, and
other things had been the same, the B.H. Prop.’s divi-
dend would now be half of nothing. But things would
not have been the same; for if the old slump
price had been maintained there would have had to be a
selection of the ores, and the richest would have been
taken and the rest left ; and at that rate a few years at
the most would have seen the end. As it is, there has to
be some picking and choosing ; in fact the directors say
that in recently putting up ore-freights ’the S.A. railway
people “ prevent the co. from dealing with a portion of its
product owing to the fact that at such a rate it would not
pay to send it to Pt. Pirie for treatment.” Anyhow,
there must be a line somewhere between what is payable
and what isn’t ; and since, even counting in the rich oxi-
dised ores which are still available to some extent, the
average profit per ton of ore was only Bs. 3d., it is clear
that a penny or two must make all the difference between
profit and loss as to a great quantity of the poorer sul-
phides.
Supposing that all the recent sprightliness in
the lead market cannot be kept up (though the B.H.
Prop, directors expect that it will be sprightlier than
ever for a while), the co. does not expect to have its profits
much, if at all, whittled away ; though, when one comes
to think of it, the B.H. Prop, has not been much of a
success at foretelling the periodical reduction of profits
which has occurred. Present disbursements are only 25
per cent, of what they were in the days when the wicked
miners made sleeping-chambers of the underground work-
ings and the ore somehow got itself to surface. Several
things, it is said, are going to help the co. in the future.
First, the briquetting plant is at work now ; so the concen-
trates and fine ore can be made into cubes and then, fed
on them, the furnaces will run better. Next, the big
concentrating mill is also running better, treating more
ore and getting out a higher percentage of metal at less
cost. Third, the open-cuts will yield better results,
because there will not be so much surface waste to get rid
of. Fourthly to tenthly, numerous economies are being
introduced in machine construction. Eleventhly, the co.
has a good mind to erect its own coke ovens on account
of the irregularity of the present supply and the high-
deep-sea freights ; it has already secured a suitable site.
As to magnetic concentration and the marketing of zinc
concentrates, all that is said is that experiments are pro-
ceeding, but that results so far are not good enough to
launch out upon. Which is a different tune to that sung
recently by other directors.
• • • *
Wanaderry, N.S.W., gold-field is looking up.
The other day claimholder Owen washed half a load for
loz. 18dwt. Another man got 2oz. from one dish.
* » * »
Eldorado, N.S.W. —Said to have struck some-
thing at 275 ft. level which looks like the continuation of
the Drysdale shoot. Drillings assaying 340 z., but a bulk
sample said to have gone only three. Shares doubled in
value in a few days and are still very low if it is true that
the Drysdale shoot, or another like it, is in the^ground.
“A Shareholder” : Mine has no market value,
and when the market does not talk it’s time to think very
little of the mine.
* * • *
Q. Mining Items : Good work being done on
that neglected field, the Hodgkinson. Chillagoes and
Woodlarks still suffering a recovery. New copper
show with fair prospects starting at Moonmera, Mount
Morgan way.—-Gympie dead as the Jingo craze.
Great Northern, near Coen, for N.Q., crushed 330 tons for
6600 z. They deserve it at Coen. -Charters Towers still
bustling ; 10,000 shares changed hands at inflated prices
on one call last week. Some results : Brilliant, 1320
tons, 12050 z.; Kelly’s, 705 tons, 7520 z., 6d. div.; Brilliant
and St. George, 1400 tons, 15660 z., Is. div.
* • « *
Croydon half-year’s yield, 42,9G00z. 14dwts.
from 30,457 tons, and this despite drought, most of the
mills having been more or less hung-up during the period.
At latest, July 14, a sensational crushing was being
put through by Golden Gate 3 and 4S. Tribute. After a
run of 104 hours the accumulated amalgam without
cleaning up gave 13700 z. gold. Expected the 600 tons to
go through will give a cake weighing over 4000 oz. Tribute
expires in Sept. G. Gate No. 5 South crushed 468 tons
for 9330 z- It now transpires Federation (Bull) Co. is not
going to start work again, so the bank will probably sell
the extensive plant to clear itself.
* * * *
News of what looks like an important find is
wired from Kalgoorlie. A rich discovery is reported to
have been made about 12 miles from West Leonora by Mr.
R. Penny, a prospector, who found surface stone worth
160 oz. on a reef. He sunk on it 20ft., at which depth the
stone is s*ft. wide, coarse gold showing freely in the
stone. The reef outcrops the full length of the 24-acre
lease.
(Continued on ‘page SI.)


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan j cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 653
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
9
][eap in photography!
The marvellous accuracy of detail shown in
Photographs taken with a
Coerz Anschutz Focal Plane
Hand Camera
at the extraordinary exposure of 1/1000 of a second,
is more than an ordinary stride in photography.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
Carry a Stock of
Goerz Anschutz Cameras, amongst hundreds of others
varying in Grade, Size, and Price,
From ss. to £5O.
Every conceivable Photo Requisite is stocked by
HARRIN6TOH & CO. LTP.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
S3T Branches or Agencies in every Colony.
SOCIETY
Public opinion is based on scare-heads.
The papers are now devoting their scare-type to
Chinese cables, and the Boer kick-up receives
c[uite casual headings. Consequently, the public
is in a fair way to entirely forget Kruger and the
Boers, and to quite overlook the doings of “Our
Boys” at the very time when “Our Boys” are
engaged in real fight. A quarter-page of black
and rampant capitals would have been given to
those recent Orange State battles had they hap-
pened four months back. The average man buys
a pen’orth of opinions every morning, and they
last him all day.
* * * *
Gossip has it that the State Governor of
N.S.W., to take the post when Gov. Beauchamp
moves, is already as good as appointed, and that
Premier Lyne’s hurry to get Parliament to fix the
potentate’s house, salary, and allowances is the
outcome of another message marked “ confiden-
tial.” If the Leg. Assembly lets itself be hood-
winked in this matter it will deserve a general
scatter. The items of the proposed scheme pan out
thus : £20,000 for a mansion in its own grounds ;
£5OOO a year salary and £lOOO a year allowances,
with a five years’ term of office. The whisper is :
“This is the time to get it through; then, if,
when the Federation starts, Parliament talks of
cutting down, it will be tied for five years, or will
have to indemnify the officer with the whole
amount.” The officer designated has, it is said,
insisted tliEtt some such security must be provided.
*m• • *
N.S. W. Premier Lyne, in his anxiety to
get the Governor-General to fix his residence in
Sydney, proposes to evict State Governor
Beauchamp just as summarily as if he were an
Irish tenant in arrears with his rent, and cast him
forth to live in a terrace or some such place. By
this gross inhospitality he will get Government
House clear for Gov.-General Hopetoun. Vic-
toria, not having any State Excellency just now—
only a temporary Madden —can offer its Govern-
ment House without having to throw anybody out
in the cold, and when it gets a new State Gover-
nor can warn him in advance that lie will have to
live in a boarding-house, so that there will be no
misunderstanding. That may seem hard enough,
but it is nothing to bringing out a State Governor
to live in a nice house, and then throwing his
portmanteau into the street because a greater man
is coming.
“ WANTED , A TYPEWRITER .”
BOSS: “This is a wonderfully good recommendation Mr. Gaychap gives you
after only one Week’s job.”
TYPISTE : “ Yes, sir. Mr. Gayehap said I suited him tiptop—it was Mrs. Gay-
chap who said I was so good.”
An insanely-audacious puff par. pops up in
Melb. Table Talk, to the effect that Isaac Isaacs,
who went to London to put a Melb. Tramway Co.
case before the Privy Council, has been offered
the High Commissionership of the Transvaal or
Orange River Colony with “a peerage and £6OOO a
year.” Neither province is likely to want a High
Commissioner for a good while, anyhow; and
lawyer Isaacs is not the sort of distinguished per-
son who will get the job when the bungling majah-
generals have finished “ subjugating the country.”
But the Table Talk yarn doesn’t stop at £6OOO a
year and a peerage for Ikey Ike. It goes on to
state that the prospective Countess Isaacs “had a
personal interview with the Queen, the purpose of
which was to convey the Royal request to her
husband.” The Bulletin looks forward to an
epidemic of similar paragraphs concerning other
Melbourne men and their wives. For instance,
why shouldn’t the Queen cable for Lady Turner
to come along and see her on the matter of a
dookdom for poor old George ?
* m * *
The Brisbane clergy are indulging in some
pretty little recriminations on the Chinese mis-
sionary question. The Protestant parsons allege
that the ill-feeling shown towards their brethren
in China is due to the fact that R.C. priests in
that country are awarded the status of mandarins.
On the other hand, it is asserted that the same
position has been conferred by the authorities on
Protestant missionaries. It is alleged, further,
that much of the ill-feeling above-mentioned is
due to the usurpation by certain of the Christian
clergy in Chowland of civil (as well as spiritual)
authority—as one of their mandarinic perquisites.
Anyway, this phase of the question is interesting
* » * *
Ex-priest Slattery, who lives by saying
nasty things about one particular brand of religion,
had a disturbance at his “place of worship” in
Melbourne the other Sunday, and when two of
the disturbers were brought before Panton, P.M.,
that thoughtless moralist said: —“Speaking for
myself, I think it is much to be regretted that
any fanatic should come amongst us in this way
and provoke discussion, and cause insult to any-
one’s religion.” Which was an utterly unchristian-
like speech, although it sounded very nice and
proper.
A London Daily Chronicle ccm~°spondent in
S Africa tells
of some queer
military
punishments
The “ex-
treme penal-
ty,” he says,
is to blind-
fold a man
while a fati-
gu e- party
digs a grave
behind him,
making be-
lieve that he
is to be shot,
and his body
thrown into
the grave.
“Second-
class punish-
ment is “cru-
cify i n g ”
(spread - eag-
ling) a man
on a gun-car-
riage. This
latter is the
plunderer’s
penalty, even
a good many
noble Aus-
lian skiters —
by the show-
ing of their
own letters —
oughttohave
undergone it.
Both punish-
ments, how-
ever, are ille-
gal in view of
the alleged
abolition of
corporal pun-
ishment in
the British
Army.
REFERRING TO THE REV. GENTLEMAN.
ETHEL: “ Don't you think he's got a very fine delivery?” (She meant
elocutionary.)
TOM: “ What, him! Why, at the picnic last Wednesday he had the whole
Sunday-school roaring at his underhand lobs.”
“ Holy Roman ” to The Bulletin :
You must read all the papers to get all the news. From
the Protestant Banner’s report of the big Sydney Orange
gathering of 12th July it appears that one clergyman
publicly impugned the virtue of the nuns byremarking
that “ the less we say about their vows of chastity the
better.” (Cheers.) Another cleric said : “ Sisters of the
Poor ! Always the same name—' Sisters of the Poor.’
God help the poor, I say.” Well, the Little Sisters do help
the poor-as witness the long-ago Argus articles of the
Protestant-born Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”). “The
Vag.,” unlike the genial shepherds above-quoted (from
the report of their own especial organ), thought that a
refined lady might possibly be actuated by some decent
and utterly unworldly motive if she gave up her life of
ease and even iuxury to go round begging food for the
aged destitute whom she had taken under her care. Let
us gaze with admiration on that big meeting cheering
God, and wonder what He thinks of the splendid asylums,
homes, hospitals and orphanages which haven't been
built and endowed by the aid of the manly clerics who
sneer at and impute unchastity to the Sisters. The Little
Sisters don’t make any money personally by their begging.
When they die they leave nothing behind them but their
clothes, and from day to day they share with their desti-
tute charges the broken victuals collected from the
charitable.
• * • *
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners re-
cently secured a conviction against a passenger
from Goulburn to Sydney, for alighting at Moss
Vale, buying another ticket from Moss Yale to
Sydney at tourist rates, and journeying to Sydney
on it in the same train This transaction saved
the traveller a few shillings, and the Commis-
sioners were forced to haul-up the offender, for if
the practice became common they would be com-
pelled to discontinue the cheap trains to the
popular tourist resorts Since this conviction the
iT. ?WoT y °/ aC T t l y i“i ag f% te ’ °V hel V Vay
*?. a il nd™ w-7’ took tlc , ke ts from metrop-
? S f i ° Victoria, and thence fresh ones
to their destination, saving thereby some 8s or 9s
The matter was reported, but
owing, it is said, to the influence exerted by the
magnate no proceedings were instituted. The
case is to be ventilated in Parliament by .an angry
fnend ° f the originally-convicted
* , ,
. , , , , • , . ~ , .
A tough problem. Which is the bigger
liar—the Chinaman or the cableman ?
Vic. Chris-
tian Citizens’
League protests
against the use
of alcohol,
which “ en-
slaves its vic-
tim, squanders
his substance,
destroys his
health, weakens
his mental pow-
ers, lessens his
self - e s teem,
deadens his con-
science, unfits
him for li i s
duties, and
leads to his
steady descent,
morally, social-
ly and physi-
cally.” if al-
cohol really les-
sens self-esteem
there are many
saints who could
take it with
great advant-
age.
* *
The leading
up of ships with
frozen-meat is a
deadly busi-
ness. Men so
employed suffer
much from
pneumonia,
pleurisy, and
frostbite. It
was stated, the
other night, in
N.S.W. Assem-
bly, that, in one
case, a party of
laborers, who
had been work-
ing for 40 hours
on - end ! were
threatened to
make them con-
tinue —with the
boycott; which
would force
them either to
go elsewhere
for work or to
change their
names. It is
proposed to
take action by
amendments
upon the Shops
and Factories
Act.
A N.S.W.
South Coast far-
mer recently
“ illivated to a
sate ’’—has the
letters J.P. at-
tached to his
name o n his
milk - cans. Is
this a hint to
railway officials to “take them up tenderly
lift them with care ! or is it meant as a guaran-
tee that the stuff is not watered ?
* • . *
t-> __ . r>„ . i . , ,
R®X . He the recent murder amongst
others—-of a girl school teacher by the Breelong
blackfellows. I know a young "woman-teacher
who was sent to a provisional school, in the area
of whioh all the residents were from quarter to
i mu' • « i 1 »
three-quarter aboriginal. Their houses were
wattle-daub, and many of the children wore
barely enough clothing for decency. It is a crying
scandal that any young white woman should be
placed in a position absolutely lacking in protec-
+imi ap -airmt nf L-inH
tlon agam ® t brutality ot aii y kmcl-
. * * *
Quite a boom in fortune-telling may be
expected over the statement that Miss Kerz, mur-
dered bv the Breelrmo- blacks nn fwn rpr>pnl n,VI,h
tne breelong Oiacks, on two recent nights
told fortunes : You, Grace, you, Percy, and I
are a * A going to meet violent deaths. ’ On Friday
she repeated the statement, fixing that night for
the tragedy.” Again, we are told that a resident
of Gilgandra, with a “slightly affected mind,”
was being removed for a change, when she warned
her husband and brother: “You two be careful;
there is going to be a big tragedy here.” The
two yarns are, no doubt, equally true.
* * * *
Lady Randolph Churchill—her political
tendencies might have been expected to incline
her heart to some influential middle-aged Tory-
has just married the handsome 25-year-old son of
Mrs. Cornwallis West. The bridegroom is actually
junior to the lady > s other sort of Hoy,” Winston
Churchill, but he carries a considerable weight of
sassiety importance. For one thing his sister,
beauteous Miss West, became a German princess
awhi i e ago . Whicji makes the third instance,
within three years, of a notable woman taking a.
h us b a nd young enough to have been her offspring
-Adelina Patti, Mrs. Langtry, and now the
widow Churchill. And still w 4 have to go on
pulling a straight face when tHe re p res entative
“ brainy ” female in blue spectacles discourses
upon the vileness of Man’s animal nature as com-
pared with the calm, cold, spirituality of True
Womanhood !
The shriekings of the Slatteries
Provoke assaults and batteries
By Orangemen and Catholics. How very, very odd 1
All preaching folk are Slatteries ;
They don’t indulge in flatteries
Concerning forms of worship “ unacceptable to God.”
Ere ardent E.O. Bible-ers
Brand Slatteries as libellers,
And go to Orange meetings with a view to causing rows,
Why can’t they curse the vanity
Of blessed Christianity
In sending “ Slats” to China to insult the pious Chows?
At troubles termed sectarian
The ignorant barbarian
May well express derision when he understands the fact,
That rival cliques of cassockers
Go forth inviting massacres
From people whose religion they have bitterly attac


HARPY BROTHERS,
SHOWROOMS :
13 Hunter St., Sydney
JUST ARRIVED.
A Large Stock of
Nafyd&onje Pearl,
Neck Slides—^
From 403. to £lO.
Illustrated Catalogue sent Free on Application
ft *
-,o
pdii
SSaOmm.
■ ('
WATCHMAKERS, GOLD &, SILVERSMITHS, Etc
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian srems. *
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Africa
I9OQ
This illustration is a piece of Lyddite
Shell, from South Africa, gold-
mounted by Mr.. A. Saunders, the
well-known jeweller. It forms one
of the latest and up-to-date charms
—irrespective of the rarity as a
souvenir of the Boer war. Although
Mr. A. Saunders’ establishment is
away from the centre of the city, it
is without doubt the most up-to-
date and largest jewellery and
silverplate establishment in Australia. The large,
well-assorted and attractive windows always com-
mand a large crowd. The show-room is a brilliant
display of the jewellers’ art. A visit to Air. A.
Saunders, 815 and 817 Geofge-street, opposite
Redfern railway station, Sydney, will convince all
that he is hard to beat.*
The latest church to disapprove of the
Victorian Bible-in-State-Schools commission, and
to retire from the effort to decide on a course of
Scripture lessons that will suit all sects alike, is
the Lutheran. If any more denominations secede
from the scheme, there will presently only remain
a couple of monkey-shaven individuals grappling
with their futile fad, and even they will likely
quarrel over the final paragraphs of the report:
A HOPELESS PROBLEM.
CANVASSER (to elderly voter who can neither read
nor write): “All you have to do is to run
the pencil through the top name—the TOP
NAME— you understand?”
VOTER: “ Yes/Yes!! But supposin’ I gets the
paper hupside deown?”
Mrs. Isabella Downey, ciiarged with a
fatal act of abortion on 3rd Feb., has been finally
acquitted after standing four trials at Melb. Grim.
Court. The first trial went against Mrs. D. (who
seemed to have the sympathy of those who knew
the circumstances of the case) but the verdict was
upset on appeal. The second and third trials
ended iu jury disagreements, one or two of. the
twelye holding out for an acquittal each time.
The fourth jury seem to have thought that the
unlucky woman was sufficiently punished, any-
how, and they found a unanimous verdict of not
guilty.
* * * *
This little story comes from a “ lydy ”
connected with one of those estimable suburban
charities, the object of which
is to combine the discovery
of as much information as
possible with the payment
of as little money as need
be, so that the conduc-
tors get all the thrill of
a whole library of
French novels for a
mere fraction of the
cost. One young
woman suffering
from a bad leg had
been in receipt of
relief for three
days when the
lady visitor
wormed out the
confession that
she’had a baby.
“ Good Hea-
v e n s! by
whom ? ” gasp-
ed the good
woman. “By
—by mistake,
mum ! ” fal-
tered the pa-
tient. t
* * f
The mul-
tiplication
of holidays
plays sad
havoc
with the
48 - hour
inten-
tions of
N. S. W.
factory
legis 1 a-
tion. In
many
trad e s
the boss
simply
divides-
up the holi-
day time among the
working days, and the hands
must work so much earlier or later,
or both. And it has taken the factory
inspectors over a year to find out that the law
they at present, administer has no cure for the
evil.
Murray Prior, the Sydney usurer who gob
into trouble over the seduction of a young girl,
and was sent up for three years, has, for some
reason or other, been set free after serving two
years and a fortnight. The gentleman has thus
served only shixty per shent. of his shentence.
A Christchurch (M.L.) one-armed lady has
just passed her ambulance first-aid exam. She
bandages with her hand (left), and ties knots with
hand and mouth.
Ex-N.S.W. Education-Minister Hogue,
who loses no opportunity of pouncing upon the
present incumbent of the office, thought he had a
noble chance when Minister Perry averred that,
to his mind, “there was just as much danger in
sending unmarried male teachers into lonely
localities, where there were a number of girls
attending the schools, as there was
in sending female teachers there.”
But Perry is even righter than he
thought. Not only would there
be danger, in the case of a
young male teacher, to a school-
full of damsels in a lonely place,
but there would, in the circum-
stances, be to the said male-
teacher a much-greater danger
of hysterical accusations. For
every man who will unlawfully
tamper with a woman, the experi-
ence of the courts teaches that
there is at least a woman or two
who will falsely swear that they have
been so tampered with.
* * * *
“Outlaw”: Passing a certain
Melbourne suburban church, the other
Sunday morning, I noticed the sedate-
looking elderly churchwarden sitting
in the porch reading intently—not
his Bible—but his Bulletin ! And in-
side they were singing, “ Oh, sinner, cease
from straying.”
The Brisbane Chinese are in a state of
huge alarm over the troubles in their own
country. Last week they held a meeting (under
clerical auspices) whereat a strange medley of
sacred and secular performances eventuated to the
amusement of the profane outsider. A queer howl
in the Chinese vernacular was passed off as one of
Sankey’s hymns, and several other quaint howls
were accepted as Celestial renderings of well-known
“Clistian ” anthems. Finally the Chows essayed
“ God Save the Queen,” but broke down badly
until picked up by European spectators who took
pity on Her Majesty. The gem of the evening
was a Chinese orator who staggered the commun-
ity by asserting : “ Boxer he not leal Chinaman ;
he allee same Labor Party this countlee ! ” The Q.
Labor Party doesn’t quite know whether to take
this as a compliment or otherwise.
♦ * * *
The discredited Callan Park (Sydney)
Asylum (women’s branch) for the Insane will not
be restored to public confidence by attaching to
the Board of Visitors two hon. lady-members.
The ladies in whose perspicacity and judgment
the public are prepared to trust are such women
as the present factory-inspectors—women who
have devoted years to the business, and possess
eyes and noses of professional alertness. And,
again, before the public will trust even these, it
must know they are fairly paid by the State for
their work and the responsibilities it entails.
A BAD SIGN.
MALE CADBER : “ Wherever I sees that stuck up
sets’em down for a scabby lot.”
His Wife : “ Yus, if the truth was known there
ain’t no dawg at all—they sucks the bones
their selves.”
“ Melb.” : Gratifying to
note that prison reform is coming
on the tapis. Within the past
month or so, lectures on the
subject have been given here
by Pastor Halley, M'Kenzio,
M.L.A., and Cook, M.L.A. Mr.
Halley spoke of what he saw last
year, in the American Reforma-
tory Prison, at Concord. Won-
derful results in making useless
and expensive criminals into
workmen, able to earn their own
living ; 70 per cent, turn out well.
The pastor addressed 800 of
these fellows in Concord prison
(is any outsider ever allowed to
address convicts in an Australian
prison?) M’Kenzie, M.L.A., was
equally on the nail, describing what
is done at Elmira, U.S. Cook,
M.L.A., who is member for Pen-
tridge district, and is intimately
acquainted with the prison and
prisoners, showed the scope that is
open there for this Concord and
Elmira business.
* * *
Dr. Maloney has before Vic.
Parliament a Bill on the S.A. lines
to enable a prospective mother to
claim confinement expenses, up to
£lO, from the father of her unborn
child. The third reading is due on
12th Sept. The chief objection is
that, in some cases, the wrong
prospective father may have to pay.
On the other hand, if the law waits
till it finds a way of making abso-
lutely sure that it has got at the
right prospective father it will
wait for ever, and the infant die 3
meanwhile. Besides, the Austra-
lian is so addicted to being a pros-
pective father that the law,
though it may occasionally go
wrong in details, can’t go tar
wrong in the lump. Probably
nine out of every ten fathers
who are made to pay for
the wrong infant will also be
fathers who have dodged paying
for the right one.
* * *
Out of 300,000 children of
school age in Victoria, 12,000 are
growing up without instruction, despite the com-
pulsory clauses of the Education Act. In the
suburb of Hawthorn alone 800 children fail to
comply with the Act.
* * * *
Thus His Excellency the Lieut. -Gov. of
Victoria at the annual meeting of the Humane
Society: —
Mr. William Harries, owner of a brickyard, seeing- that
a stack of 18,000 bricks was about to fall on a lad of 16,
covered the lad with his own body, and received the full
force of the bricks. He was terribly injured, but sur-
vived . . . probably because God, seeing- an act so
like His own, was determined that the man should live.
Which is an observation that somehow doesn’t
seem to fit in. The reward, one might think,
would be an entrance through the jasper gates and
a free pass to Paradise. But His Waxcellency’s
idea is that God rewarded the hero in a more
material fashion and let him live on in enjoyment
of a hero’s reputation and the possible nervous
breakdown that followed upon the deed that
earned it. His Waxcellency’s conclusion as to the
motives of Providence are hardly in accord with
the calm, cold, dispassionate reasoning that may
be supposed to animate his legal decisions.
» * * *
Waxellency Madden talking about juvenile
morality to the Carlton (Melb.) Refuge subscribers,
thought it necessary to mention several times that
“ the nature of the subject made it a'diffieult one
to discuss.” Which sounded rather absurd, con-
sidering that His Ex. had taken the whole of his
family to a performance of “Hedda Gabler” a
few days previously, and didn’t seem to shudder
when the Gabler woman owned up to a natural
appetite for forbidden fruit. Anyhow, the subject
which his Waxmodesty found so difficult to discuss
seemed to come easy enough to Miss Jane Suther-
land next day. That honest outspoken spinster,
being interviewed by the Akgus, gave it as her
opinion that dancing saloons provide a lot of
candidates for refuges. At the saloon, said
Miss S., “a girl’s natural instinct to attract young
men gets full play. . . Then one night she walks
home with some young fellow through the gardens
—and finally she” comes to me.” What a refresh-
ing difference between the lady’s plain speaking
and the gentleman’s half-veiled hints.
* * *
Suggested for the Federal capital—
Parkeston.
* * * *
How would “ Phillipi ” do for the Austra-
lian Federal capital ?
* * » *
About the best soprano singer in Mel-
bourne at present is to be married to a musical
young man of means, the “ means ” meaning,
among other things, that he drew La Carabine in
a Tatt.’s sweep. In how many cases does the five
or ten “ bob ” investment in a sweep ticket repre-
sent an entrance fee for the matrimonial stakes ?
And after all, the best thing a man can buy with
money is a nice girl.
* * * *
Ex-R.E. to The Bulletin :
Col. Alphabet Smith, who took that expensive folly, the
N.S.W. “A ” Battery to S’Africa, has made a doleful
official complaint of the hard luck that has prevented his
command seeing service.” It seems his guns and
men are scattered about in various out-of-
the-way places on the Orange River. The
reason he does not state, but it isn’t hard to
guess. The battery is not in a state to be trusted in
action, and for that Col. Smith himself must surely be
at least a little to blame. He has been paid an extrava-
gant salary, as an expert artilleryman, to train the pro-
vince’s gunners. True, he has only had some 30 horses,
apd about 80 men, instead of the 131 horses and 166 men
he should have had to make the battery complete ; and in
Sydney neither horses nor men over got any prac-
tice in their proper business of manoeuvring the guns.
A field-battery is a machine, and, like other machines, it
won’t work unless complete in all its parts ; nor can the
men learn the working of the complete machine by prac-
tice with the incomplete. Also, the best of the few
drivers and horses the Battery had were taken for ambu-
lance work ; and when the Battery was to be sent, they
had to rake in 90 or 100 raw recruits, and over 100 un-
broken (for the purpose) horses. And General French and
Colonel Smith—both real gunners—must have well known
that that was much the same as manning a ship with
land-lubbers. But the authorities, under pressure from
the socially influential “ barracks-push ” had made up
their minds that the Battery should go. And it went,
and there it is.
» * * •
It has usually been the custom in the past
on the northern rivers for the Colonial Sugar Co.
to cut the cane-crops of the growers with their-
own gangs. An innovation was made this season
at the Richmond by the local manager, in allow-
POOR JOHN.
SUM UP: “Me go China fightee—per’aps get
killed. Mestay here, George-stleet, in Sydney.
No Jightum, all a same get killed ’lectio tlam;
you sabbee.”
ing growers to cut their own crops, and thereby
make an extra bit of “sugar.” No sooner was
the concession granted, however, than several
“mean whites” began making contracts with
Hindoos for cutting. The matter was brought
under the notice of Gen. Manager Knox, who
promptly replied that the concession would only
be granted on the stipulation that Hindoos were
not employed in harvesting the crops, and that
“ colored labor must be discouraged by the co. in
N.S.W.” The “mean whites” have not the
excuse this year of being unable to obtain white
labor, either, as at all the co.’s mills there has been
a far larger number of men offering than were
required.
* * * *
A case of plague having occurred near the
residence of a N.S.W. Govt, official, said official
was suspended during the illness of the patient
(who was too low to be removed to quarantine).
And when the official returned to duty he found
that his suspension-time was to be counted as his
annual holiday leave of absence !
* m * *
Sydney E. News correspondent, in an
. account of an interview with some of the Mawbey
family, re the recent Gilgandra atrocity, states
that the youth Reginald Mawbey, “stuttered a
great deal owing to an impediment of speech.”
Useful to know this ; otherwise people might have
imagined that the stuttering arose from an in-
growing toe-nail!
* * * *
Alex. M. : Asked cabbage-John, the other
day, what he thought of the situation in his native
country. He replied, “ Hi-ya—chang a wong—
muchem ti-ya ! ” or words to that effect —and de-
Earted (presumably) cursing. First time I ever
eard him drop into his vernacular. The local
Chows are evidently strongly moved over the
matter.
* * # *
One Sydney Chow is determined that he
at least shall not be taken for a Boxer sympa-
thiser. He has cut off his pigtail, and was seen
t’other night rolling along, exclaiming—“Wha’
pli’ my Austlalian ?—hail (hair) cut snolt! Me
Clistian ! —dlinkee lum (rum) like hell! ” Good
many white Clistians like that.
* ♦ • *
Two N.S. Wales solicitors were struck off
the roll last week by the Full Court, and one com-
Eelled to pay costs. Another Gent. One appears to
ave absconded. His alleged defalcations are
large, though he seems to have left almost penni-
less. By degrees the public will learn to put their
faith in the responsible trustee-companies. „


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming V ariety
AND
Profusion
df
Scarves, and
Ribbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TGIIS h » ve wo ***
Atcherley & Dawson Dnnited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 31, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
I was assured, the other day, that never a group
of Sydney men foregather at lunch, or for any
cause, but someone turns the conversation on His
Ex. From what I can hear, the process seems to
be somewhat similar to turning on an X-ray.
“ What do they say of him ? ” If they are society
men, they reckon up the cost of V.R. dinner-
parties. If they are pure commercials, they esti-
mate the value of a Gov. who draws crowds, and
decimate the consequence of a Gov. who thaws
them. If they are sheer snobs, they describe their
feelin’s at meetin’ Jones, the fruiterer, up there in
the V.R. halls. If they are golfers, they groan
for a Gov. who will elevate what they are pleased
to call good sport. If they are married, they tell
how their wives will never be seen at Gov. House
again. If they are single, they describe how their
invitations were for a Mr. and Mrs. Blank.
Sometimes, a widower joins in, and says his card
was made out for himself and the wife he buried
10 years ago. And sometimes a newly-married
man tells how he was invited en ctlibataire, and
his wife has never been quite the same since.
And yet, all the time, everybody is perfectly
well aware that never, never, never have we had
a Gov. who has Tried so Hard to be a good Gov.
all round, to please everybody—nobodies and
somebodies—from Potts Point to Waterloo, in-
clusive. Those in favor of the motion say aye !
The ayes have it.
According to His Ex’s, own self-supporting
statement, there has only been one perfectly
genuine description of his parties in a Sydney
paper. Other writers have imagined, invented,
spared the couleur de rose, laid on the inky black,
touched up, toned off, made simple, pretty,
unreliable, nasty, unveracious “copy” of the
Govt. -House entertainings. Done everything, in
fact, but paint them as they were meant to seem.
Strangely enough, the only one is a Poet.
His true story covered a lot of space in an
evening paper. I think I may safely say not one
detail was missing. He even dwelt on the white
arms stretching over the supper-table for cham-
pagne. And His Ex. liked the picture awfully.
The literary touch, perhaps, appealed to him.
Anyway, he ordered 250 copies, and “ An Evening
at Government House,” by Exquisite Amber, will
soon be fluttering in selected English circles.
The nick-name of . a prima donna and star so-
prano, is—behind the scenes —“ Come-now-no-
nonsense.” And doesn’t she look it? A funny
man convulsed the company the other night by
suddenly trilling, “Gome, now, no nonsense,” as
the soprano went to embrace him.
My second visit to the “Rose of Persia” was
at the Matinee for the Children’s Hospital last
Friday. Entering the d.c. the scent of lilies and
green things proclaimed that the Gov. was there.
Does that sound queer? I mean, that the V.R.
box was decorated out and in with flowers and red
and white ribbons, the work of Miss Birmingham
and Mrs. Aronson. Lady Mary was in all black,
Lady Bertha in brown, with shell-pink vest. A
smart circle filled the house with feathers and
furs. The Matinee hat—the nice, comfortable,
much-plumed black straw that shuts the stage off
so effectively from six people at a time, was every-
where. One weary man asked me : “Will these
big hats be in fashion long?” “Till the end of
next summer,” I answered. “Then this is my
last Matinee,” said he, “till the end of next
summer.”
Mr. Dowling, of Sydney Mail, and Mr. J. C.
Williamson, speechified in the interval. “You
are letting Melbourne get ahead of you,” said
Mr. Williamson, looking round the house. He
described the enthusiasm with which the whole
company volunteered to play-act for the “kid-
dies.” And perhaps it was a little disappointing
to find that where Melbourne had gone over the
thou. Sydney had only risen to the height of
£2OO.
All my first impressions of the opera were
deepened. I liked the music twice as well, and
the dresses twice as well, and the ballet, and the
magnificent grouping. Also, I liked the Rose as
little, except in madrigal and florid places, where
her high and flexible voice is often very fetching.
A wild controversy rages over the ballet. “ Are
the colours harmony, or just sheer daring ? ” The
ballet frocks are in four shades—sapphire blue,
vivid yellow, dead white, and the loveliest,
richest, warmest green imaginable. Against these
filmy spangled tints dances Tillie Woodlock in
bright pink. That is just a little bit impossible.
“ Dancing Sunbeam ’’—otherwise Dolly Vane-
on her wedding: “I am going to be married
sometime in August. Very quietly, you know-
just a tailor-made. The wedding will be in Mel-
bourne. I leave the stage in a fortnight. No, I
am not waiting till the “ Rose ” is done blooming.
There was a lovely part offering in ‘Florodora,’
too. ‘Won’t you wait?’ 3aid Mr. Williamson.
But no, it didn’t tempt me. lam tired and run
down. Hard work, opera in Australia, although
I love it, mind you. When I leave the R.O.P. I
am going away to Coogee, to rest quietly by
the sea for a fortnight. Then I shall settle
down in Melbourne, but not at Menzies’, I think.
In a house of our own, more probably. Mdme.
Beattie is making me such pretty frocks. I
don’t rave over clothes, never did. Still one must
have them, I suppose, when one is going to be—er
—married. lam looking forward to a rest. Now,
I am forever pinching my cheeks because people
say I am so white, and really I have been suffer-
ing frightfully from nervous prostration lately.
My engagement isn’t altogether brand-new. It is
several months old, in fact, but I have kept it
quiet until now, and now everybody seems to
and the invent— ” And certainly she
looked as little as possible like a convent with her
big, fair, fluffy fringe, and a long, trailing, blue-grey
frock, edged with white, worldly-looking fur.
Speaking of furs, this winter has been quite
Tema.rka.ble as a Fur Season, The warehouses
bave sold all their stocks, and there isn’t a woman
in . Sydney, probably, who hasn’t a bit of some
amma l’s skin when occasion demands (or doesn’t
demand). Catting has grown into a regular
in dustry. Your imagination can supply the pain-
I l . l * details. I am too much of a cat myself to
dilate on the horrid subject.
“ All women,” says Pinero, “look well in furs.”
Helen Mathers—who came Thro’ the Rye with
red poppies in her hair many a year ago—says
some clever things about furs in her new novel,
“Becky.” According to Helen, fair women
should never wear ermine. Black hair, dark eyes,
and damask cheeks alone shine out above a dead
white setting. She implores women with grey
eyes, or blue, to stick hard to chinchilla,
The new fashion of doing-up the hair right on
top seems a half-hearted revival of that other
fashion by which every one wore her locks twisted
on her forehead as if she wanted to butt some-
body. This latter is the chronic condition of
woman anyhow. In reality it is a complete re-
vival of the style in which the axeman did up an
about-to-be-executed mediaeval lady’s hair when
he wanted to keep it clear of his chopper. The
little knob was formerly necessary as a handle to
enable the executioner to hold up the severed end
of his customer for public inspection after death.
Also it came in handy before death ; he took hold
°I *t i n order to adjust the lady’s head in the right
position on the block. Now the old fashion is
revived—and, curiously enough, also for exhibi-
tion on the Block.
I hope you noticed how the S.M.H. announced
that “our war-correspondent, Donald Mac-
donald,” was the guest of the Proprietary Fair-
faxes! This is getting in ahead of William
Beauchamp.
Donald Macdonald, as a lecturer, is drawing
bne crowds in the Centenary Hall. The verdict is
tba, t tbe big gaunt brown-faced talker looks more
bbe Before than After, with a tinge of disappoint-
ment i n the discovery. (Need I add that
that verdict is feminine gender ?) He rattles
£ ood stories in a fine, incidental kind of
way > as . they just occurred to him. His
manno r is most simple, and he talks to you and
n °t at y° u - Women are bent on making a hero of
, Mr - Macdonald. A committee-woman had a
£ vely ldea last week. I want you to give us a
<< f, our bazaar and write on the icing
From the hero of Ladysmith. I fancy he wasn’t
glvin ? awa 7 y , cake of tbis sort \
J°Uy little hop was that given by the July
at Needs’ Rooms last week The dance
aS c h a P® entirely by Mr. and Mrs. Delo-
the day of °?e maid one duenna being dead
r * SeS +u yeBter " year - Fhose nineteen July
Maidens gathered quite a phenomenal number of
dan^? n B' raen together. It was quite like the good
° C to 7 5 e ? black coats piopping up a door-
MISS D . elo hery and Miss Bass were in white,
+iLT e su- nea f} y a 1 . t le Miss Fitzpatrick—
j;h® hrshionable music-maker of the dancing-world
* T yea^- muBt be congratulated on the full
+w me bn B» b * sound she managed to get from
nat one p ! ano '
, A new singer, as far as Sydney is concerned, is
5f lss Jessie Kin g, who debuted at the Amateur
Orchestral last week. Miss King is a tall, dark,
J ar ? e woman » and was well frocked in palest
heliotrope merv, opening over a petticoat of
bebotrope broca.de. The most remarkable thing
ab « ut the new singer was the height of her hair-
dr.®ssm?> which ran aloft to meet a black ostrich
liu 1 ’ f llOB up ‘ She warbles out of a rich, full
j'broat, more mezzo than contralto. Her voice
bnowB . lbs way about, and the bouse made an
° f' Elsl ® TO 1 ®
bite, with touches of green, played daintily,
S ™Z' y * 0 matcb her frock.
-The Dawn Club is the name of a new
feminine League. First Aid and Home Nursing
t 0 be J ,e . rau ° n d l et £ e of tbe cll h\ wh ! c s
“ eefcs , every Wednesday at three and will be glad
t° welcome any one who wants.tc. join. Madame
m Uy ’ r ?‘ Lptheringhame and
Lawson are leading spirits, and the
oria the wwse en scene,
Tbe many friends of Mrs. Stoddart will be glad
to hear of the high, praise her miniatures are fetch-
fron? London connoisseurs. Ere she had been
a ) ve . eb London she received two excellent corn-
missions from one of the Tate family, of Tate
Gallery Fame. It always seemed to me that we
didn’t make enough of Mrs. Stoddart when she
was in Sydney. If there is a more gifted
miniaturist at present alive I don’t know her
name. The Stoddart family has taken a nice
little house at Hamlet Gardens, Ravenscourt
Park, and the mother and her daughters are much
delighted with their new home, and the landscape
beauty all around it.
in N r s e t °; Neil list h of n° to -d s s es
Zt Austraba - Certainly we have heard this
be /? re - actress 18 nothing until her repu-
“d Maud Jeffriesbnd'lS slow”
f f °E““AS’ f^Tif'nSft Pl “ 1
n’NVi V B V l it l i u tr , u ? ° f
{»»*£
.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Mr. Deakin looks a little worn after his Feder-
ation labors, but seems otherwise unaltered, even
as to his spiritualistic leanings. His wife, sister,
and three little girls have all returned with him to
dear old Australia, and are gladly welcomed by
co-believers, especially the first-mentioned lady,
who still bears ner mediumistic honors thick upon
her. One can understand that an educated medium
must be regarded as a pearl of great price by mem-
bers of her own cult. These human half-way
houses, so to speak, are generally such ungram-
matical creatures that it really looks like cruelty
to spirits (granting the possibility) to conjure up
naice souls into such crude go-betweens. It’s not
an uncommon spectacle to see a refined, cultured
mourner trying to reach the ‘dull, cold ear of
death ’by the help of a medium. Very often, the
enquirer is a dear old lady, bereft of a presumably
charming daughter. In preliminary confabs,
the sibyl has gleaned family names, &c., from the
wistful questioner, and has her lesson pat enough
in her vulgar way. When in due course she feels
herself * inhabited ’ by the young lady’s spirit, she
assumes a giddy-girly air, and frisks as only a fat
frump can frisk to pumphandle the sobbing
mother. ‘ ’Ow are yer, mar ? ’ she giggles, ‘ and
’ow’s Hedith and Hethel and ’Erbert and ’Enery ?
I sy, mar, didn’t Hi ’ave a toffy funeral ’ Hi ham
’appy, mar. Par and granmar’s ’ere too. Par ’as
himproved. ’E’s not like the syme man! ’
Between times the medium trots out a racking
cough. ‘ The spirit passed away under those
conditions,’ whispers a believer, meaning that
deceased had ‘ a bad kauf which carried her off.’
What price Spirit-life, if it inherits all the ills of
flesh and parts with all its conveniences ?
“Chief-Justice Madden, who must talk about
something, has been following in the steps of the
tactful Willy Governor, lashing out re juvenile
immorality. His Honor is of opinion that the
sexes mingle too freely in youth, and that girls
should spend more time indoors. But, as a matter
of fact, it would appear that the more the sexes
mix the better the general morality. In America
girls and boys are mixed in the seats of all schools
promiscuously, and the ability of the Yankee girl
to look after herself is everywhere largely ascribed
to this fact. France, on the other hand, seems to
profit little by the fact that she makes her women-
kind prisoners, and that the Respectable French
girl never speaks to a man alone until she has
married him.
“Dr. ‘Charlie’ Molloy, late Supt. of Melb.
Hospital, is in the peculiar and unfortunate posi-
tion of being deeply affected by both the Boer
and Chinese campaigns. The relief of Mafeking
brought the news that his younger brother had
been killed by a shell during the latter days v of the
siege, while his only sister is now hundreds
of miles in the interior of China on a mission-
station.
“‘Reggie’ Bright, who lately rejoiced the
hearts of many dear old friends, male and female,
by recovering from severe pneumonia, has posed
as a gallant longer than any other man on the
‘Block.’ Over a quarter of a century ago debu-
tants took a flirtation with the handsome bachelor
as a hall-mark of success. A thousand times
captivated, Reggie still remains uncaptured in a
matrimonial way of speaking. With his hands
neatly folded under his coat-tails (not in prayer)
he takes his walks abroad, free as air.
“The Anti-Women’s-Suffrage movement in
Melb. should convert any wavering democrats to
the side of the suffragists. The Anti is the Fat
Woman in excelsis. Miss Reid and Miss Derham,
two very nice, well-dressed, pretty society girls,
are nominally bossing the show, but it only has to
be remembered that they are respectively related
to a big soft-goods firm and a big biscuit factory,
to see the real trend of the movement. Just now
it is considered quite the swagger thing to belong
to the anti-suffragists, and for a woman to leave
her name off the protesting petition means social
ostracism equal to having taken-in washing in
past years.
“A mild sensation has been caused in Mel-
bourne feminine and political circles by the
appearance of Colonel Goldstein at the head of an
anti-Woman Suffrage campaign. The Kernel’s
pretty daughter, Miss Vida Goldstein, is hon.
organising secretary of the pro-Suffragist body, so
that the gallant officer may be supposed to have a
happy time of it. The Kernel—perhaps un-
deservedly—bears the repute of being rather a
quarrelsome man, and has enjoyed the distinction
of having a special Parliamentary Committee en-
quiring into his conduct in relation to a Village
Settlement he has been officially running. The
anti-Suffragists think .him rather an acquisition.
They have not had him long enough for him to
quarrel with them, as yet.
“A golden-haired lady of sociable aspect is
trying, to form a club in, Melbourne for women
with time to spare and an inclination to be cosy.
One fears it will be hard to make an affair like
this jolly and sociable. Women mostly join
clubs for advancement, not for home comforts.
However, the golden-haired lady means business.
“Rink skating is fast becoming the rage again.
One long-abandoned rink has now the patronage
of five, different clubs, whose membership totals
750, with whom the proprietor contracts for three
months’ admission at 1J guineas per member.
“ In the ‘ Tyranny of Tears ’ Grace Noble, as a
pretty little nagging wife, looks almost dainty
enough to account for hubby’s long submission to
boo-hooism. That primrose afternoon gown is a
trim affair with straps of its own material en-
circling its long,, close-fitting sleeves, chic bodice
and clinging skirt, and no other trimming but
transparent jack-tar vest. With a delightful
dinner-dress of palest grey, the lissome despot
sports corsage-cluster of dark-red roses, while her
third frock —of summery maize-color—shows wavy
lines of tiny heliotrope ribbon.
“No excuse for the faults of a girl with such
clothes ! ‘ The consciousness of being well-dressed
is worth all the consolations of religion ! ’ Any-
way, Mrs. Brough, as a poor parson’s daughter,
should be judged more leniently, even though her
sins had been as scarlet (which they weren’t).
That kiss wasted on a married employer’s portrait
seems a convincing circumstance. An apostle’s
ewe lamb, as a rule, has quite the average share
of sentimentality to twine round the nearest peg
available. Failing a curate or a bank clerk, she’s
been known to make eyes at a Chinese convert
and cherish in her locket a tuft shorn from the
poll of a colored evangelist.
“ A sign that Nance O’Neil really does cry on
the stage : observe that after every cry-scene she
has to turn her back to the audience and blow
her nose. When women cry they always blow
their noses after it. A shrewd actress who could
not master the trick of shedding tears at will
might help the illusion by using her handkerchief
to her nose after the scene.
“ People who only know George Lauri as a low
comedian don’t know how well lie sings a serious
baritone song. Writer heard him not long
ago at a private shivoo, and heard Brownlow on
the same occasion. Brownlow is, of course, the
truer artist, but Lauri is miles ahead of many
baritones one has heard ; only if he booked dates
as a serious baritone people would insist on laugh-
ing at him. Lauri would be expected to be funny
if lie sang ‘ The Death of Nelson ’; and, for the
matter of that, so he might be !
“The abject littleness of the ‘great’ dailies
was never better exemplified than in the Age’s
report of the Melb. Hospital meeting, at which
the Argus’s cheque for £17,500 was received.
David Syme reported that a collection of this
sum had been made by ‘ a fund started by a Mr.
Iliffe, a well-known resident of the N.E. district.’
The sting of the Argus collection lies in the fact
that the Age tried to promote a rival one and
secured only one donation of £5OO.
Shanghai Villa, a garden-girt domicile of St.
Kilda-road, has been the scene of many happen-
ings. It was built by Mr. G. B. W. Lewis before
the banks lost him all his money. The Welch
family (the drapery Welches) took it, and the
head of the house died there. Next, the Everard
Brownes moved in, and there, with much sawdust-
laying of roads and muffling of knockers, baby
Browne was born. Then the W. R. Wilsons took
it for a term, and poor W. R. gave up the ghost.
Lastly, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest M'Caughan moved
in with all their bridal raiment and brand-new
suites, and there Mrs. M‘Caughan died —a bride
of two months only when she underwent an
operation which resulted in her death. Mrs.
M'Caughan was one of several daughters Of Chief
Secretary Collins of Tasmania. The marriage was
celebrated very quietly at the R.C. Church,
although the bride was of the Anglican denomina-
tion. They came over immediately from the nup-
tials, and finished their honeymoon tour in Melb.
gaieties. A tall, fair-haired, very pretty girl with
a taste in dressing and an air of coquetry in her
manner, many Melb. people had taken Mr. Pat
M'Caughan’s daughter-in-law to their hearts, and
are genuinely sorrowful over her death.
“ Some time back a certain young hopeful of a
much-gilded family bought from the widow of an
Australian station-holder an up-country mansion.
When the bargain was concluded, the fair seller
declared that it would break her heart to part
with a pair of marble dogs perched on pedestals at
the gates, and pleaded that they should be left in
her keeping. But young What’s-his : name stuck
out for his pound of flesh, on the just plea that he
had paid for the property, lock, stock and barrel,
and wanted the goods delivered intact. The
widow wept and argued without avail. Then a
friend suggested that she should appeal to Shy-
lock’s pa, “a dear old soul,” who could put a
finger in the pie if so inclined, on the strength of
having supplied the purchase-money. The lady
took the hint, bathed the Ancient’s feet with tears,
so to speak, and in return was anointed with
figurative butter and honey. Her hearer, ap-
parently bubbling over with sympathy, though
there was a cute twinkle in his eye all the time,
promptly volunteered to give her a letter to the
obdurate “Gussie.” She went off triumphantly
with the promised epistle, but, though the recipient
read it, he firmly and finally refused her request.
When the disappointing interview was over, the
tearful widow picked up a scrap of paper dropped
by the enemy. It was pa’s letter, and read:
“ Stick to the bow-wows, Gussie, my boy ! ”
A ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.
Dr. Frank Tidswell, assistant medical-
officer of N.S.W. Board of Health, whose portrait
is printed in this issue, had a distinguished career
at Sydney University, graduating in 1892 with
the degrees of M.B. and Ch.M. After service at
the Alfred Hospital as resident medico he visited
Europe, devoted himself to a course of study con-
nected with public hygiene, and obtained the
prized Diploma of Public Health of Cambridge.
Returning to Sydney, he was associated with the
Children’s Hospital, Glebe, where he applied him-
self to the modern treatment of diphtheria. He
subsequently became an official of the Board of
Health, where his skill and zeal as a bacteriologist
in connection with the plague epidemic has ob-
tained for him a wide scientific reputation. It is
proposed to send this clever young medico to
India to study the plague under indigenous con-
ditions. .
William the Unspeakable’s latest break-
out. Said he to the German officers proceeding
to China: —
Your mission is to avenge the death of the Ambassadors
and the Europeans. When you close with the enemy,
remember that no quarter must be given and no prisoners
taken. Use your weapons so that for 1000 years to come
no Chinaman will dare look at a German askance. Pre-
pare the way for Christian civilisation ! Good-bye, com-
rades !
This talk about furthering Christian civilisation
by giving the Chows no quarter recalls his saintly
grandfather’s mixture of slaughter and snuffle,
embalmed in the lines :—
William’s words, which, it is now cabled, “were
not intended for publication,” have “caused an
immense sensation in Europe.”
“ I write in haste, my dear Augusta ;
We’ve had another awful buster.
Ten thousand Frenchmen sent below—
Praise God from whom all blessings flow ! ”


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
it*!?-. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Guard's
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
NEURALGIA.
Winter brings with it many anxious
thoughts to sufferers from all kinds of
face-ache and neuralgia. You can obtain
immediate relief by taking a Special
JNeuraUjia Cure made by
C. E. NEWMAN,
King Street, Sydney.
Price, 2/- By Post, 2/3.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A Sydneyite remarks that he always de-
tested the editorial “We” until he read John
Norton’s “I’s.”
The nonagenarian Dean Cowper spends a
couple of hours daily compiling reminiscences of
Sydney. His memory is said to be clear back to his
fifth year.
There seems to be some trouble about
getting a Commander-in-Cliief for the allied forces
in China, owing to international jealousies. Why
not give Cronje a show ?
Count Rossi, who again figures in the law
lists in connection with that interminable ecclesias-
tical squabble, is now in his 77th year. His father
was appointed Superintendent of N.S.W. Police
by Earl Bathurst, and held the post till 1834.
John Bede Dailey, the son of Australia’s
W. B. Dailey who most resembles his father, was
at the end of June last called to the English Bar.
He studied at the Inns of Court, London. Forty-
four years ago, W. B. Dailey was called to N.S.W.
Bar.
Lord Howe Island, to which Frank
Farnell has been appointed visiting magistrate,
possesses peculiar charms for most has-been poli-
ticians. Nearly every flattened-out N.S.W. ex-
M.L.A. asks the Govt, for something to do at
Lord Howe.
Barrister “Dick” (Richmond Septimus)
Haynes, now so often mentioned in Westralia, is
a brother of John H. The Westralian man was
the first lawyer employed in Australia by mur-
derer Deeming, when the woman-slayer was
arrested at Southern Cross.
Rev. Dr. Zilluian, who left Australia a few
months ago for America to help in the presidential
campaign of W. J. Bryan, is returning to Sydney
in ill-health. Dr. Zillman carried greetings from
the little Silver League of Sydney to the gigantic
mother league of the States.
Stated that one of the members of the
S.A. first contingent has got into serious military
disgrace, and that his lather has been hastily
summoned to S’Africa to look after him. Names
are given in private whispers but it is not safe to
quote them openly yet awnile.
Robert Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke) sat as
chairman of the select committee / which half-a-
century ago demanded the abolition of Sydney
municipal council. Lowe described the council as
“a hotbed of villainy.” James Martin and
Charles Cowper also signed the demand.
“This gentleman’s name must also be
struck off the rolls,” said Chief Justice Darley in
a very bad, dishonest-solicitor case the other day.
Two minutes later, His Honor referred to him as
“that man.” The solicitor, you see, was a
“gentleman by Act of Parliament,” till disrolled.
Very old man Groom rose the other day
lo announce that he had been elected leader of the
Independent faction in Queensland Parliament.
Groom’s career can be put in a sentence : He has
represented Toowoomba for 38 years, and by
patient and useless continuance in one place he
holds the Australian record.
PAID FOR THEIR PLEASURE.
Whitewash: “My ole man's gain’ ter China. I
call it a fair cop bein' paid fer stoushin’
Choivs.”
Rumor thickens (and so does denial) that
John Forrest will, on Westralia entering the
Federation, take the position of local Governor.
John is, and has reason to be, tired of Westralian
politics, and his literary half is still more a-weary,
so that a haven of mellow sunlight would be agree-
able. Forrest at one time prided himself much on
his ancestry, and in several books he has had it
chronicled that he is of ancient French extraction,
with the surname of Foret.
Ex-Crown Prosecutor C. A. Smyth (Vic.),
who lately crossed swords with Pastor Rentoul on
Gladstone’s politics and other things, was imported
from London as a gallery-hand by Melb. Argus
in ’6O. He was a good shorthand writer, but
always destroyed his notes immediately after
transcription. He said it simplified matters in
case of tne accuracy of the report being questioned.
Attorney-General B. R. Wise’s published
denial of an intention to transfer himself to the
Victorian Bar is what most people expected.
From the day of his admission to N.S.W. Bar he
has been the white-headed boy of clients, solicitors
and Govt, after Govt. In his fifth year’s practice
his income passed £lOOO. No Australian Bar will
give him better times professionally than he now
enjoys.
Expected that Dr. Cockburn will resign
S.A. Agent-Generalship in time to contest a
Federal seat. He may find it hard to win any-
thing but a provincial seat, as he was a staunch
democrat with an avowed (and wide-published)
hatred of titles when he left S.A. From all
accounts Cockburn has metamorphosed even more
than “ Honest Tom ” Play ford did, and the latter
is still a tailor’s vision.
A little London weekly called New Ire-
land (naturally a very Hibernian journal) under
the heading, “ Irish Men and Women,” give a
portrait and a sketch of—Horace Tozer! Of
Horace, the journal alleges that “He likes the
Irish, and it is only right they should know that
he likes them.” Horace (who was the idol of Q.
Orangemen for a while) is apparently in good
form and seems to get ’em off his chest as freely
as ever.
W. H. Browne, the new leader of Q.
Labor-party, has been successively sailor, miner
and journalist, and has carried his swag from Hill
End, N.S.W., to Croydon, N.Q. He has repre-
sented the Croydon miners for 12 years, and is a
dead certainty for that constituency every time.
He is a well-read, even-tempered man, and as an
authority on mines and mining laws has no
superior in Q. Parliament. And no one calls him
“ Willie ” ; just plain “ Bill.”
Father Dunne, of Albury, who died last
week, aged 81, was the first R.C. clergyman to
officiate on Ballarat. Also, he was positive that
the genuine Roger Tichborne died in the early
50’s, in the Christian Brothers’ Hospital, Geelong ;
that he administered the last rites of the Church
to him, and read the burial service over his
remains in Geelong East cemetery. It was in
Father Dunne’s house that Peter Lalor sought
refuge after the defeat at Eureka Stockade.
Ex - Treasurer W. M‘Millan promised
Sydney Eastern Suburbs deputation the other
day that he will go for a representative seat in the
Commonwealth Parliament. M‘Arthur and Co.’s
business, of which the ex-Treasurer is managing
director, is growing by rapid strides, but the
effect, according to him, is that he will now be
able to give almost the whole of his time to
Commonwealth affairs. By the way, the firm has
purchased and will use as an annexe to its pre-
sent premises, the old York-street Opera House,
once the haunt of opera-bouffe, and later the scene
of the emotional triumphs of the elder Majeronis.
The late David Buchanan, while appear-
ing as advocate for a man charged with
“shooting with intent” in a N.S.W.
backblox town, cross-examined a medi-
cal witness somewhat as follows :—B. :
“Now, doctor, of course ye know of
‘ Brown on Gunshot Wounds.’ ” W.:
“Who?” “‘Brown on Gunshot
Wounds,’ doctor.” The doctor was
nonplussed, and had to admit finally
that he did not know of the medical
authority named. “Davie” sat down,
and at that stage made no further
comment; but when he “got to the
jury ” he laid enormous stress upon
the doctor’s alleged incompetency.
The prisoner was discharged, and
later on the same day “Davie” was
met by the doctor who at once
tackled him on “Brown on Gunshot
Wounds,” saying that although he had
looked up all his catalogues he had been
unable to find trace of any such work.
Davie’s eyes twinkled. “Hoot, mon,”
he said, “there isna such book; dinna’
ye ken it only exeests in ma imagina-
tion for the benefit o’ ma client! ”
A new story of Robert Lowe
comes from Campbell Bannerman,
leader of the Liberal party in the
Commons: “I remember an old
friend of mine, who is better known
as ‘ Bob Lowe ’ than by any other
name, saying to me in the House of
Commons that whenever a man took
a sip of water it was always in the
middle of a sentence. If he took it at
the end of a sentence there was some
danger of the House thinking that he
had finished what he had to say.” Cunning
speakers in Australian Parliaments try to raise a
cheer and take a drink at that opportune moment.
Pertinacious E. Priestman reports from
England that he has got “a nobleman” at his
back on the Roger Tichborne business and that
■Cresswell will be released from Gladesville within
a couple of months. Priestman will need to hurry,
as death has been playing havoc with Tichborne
stocks these few years. Jean Luie, Charles
Orton, Arthur Orton, Justice Manning, Barrister
Simpson and numerous others identified with the
Cresswell phase of the matter have lately passed
away.
When the late Prof. C. H. Pearson was
head-master of Melb. Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
he appointed the late Mrs. Fischer, afterwards
musical critic of S.M. Herald, to an important
position in the seminary. The lady had greatly
impressed him in an interview. But the appoint-
ment was far from pleasing to the managing
board, and it was awkward, as there was a signed
written agreement. The trouble that arose on
this account was one of the things which induced
Pearson to resign and go into politics.
“Socialist” to The Bulletin concerning:
a famous war-correspondent:—
Bennett Burleigh, of London Daily Telegraph, gets a
retainer of £lOOO a-3'ear in peace-time, and amuses him-
self by running for Parliament whenever an election is on
—he invariably gets defeated. He is a well-known
Bohemian, and once haunted a club called the “ United
Democratic Club,” Chancery-lane, London. Here all
sorts and conditions of male and female social revolu-
tionists assembled on Saturday nights to a “ house ”-
dinner (price Is.)—William Morris, in his soft blue shirt
and red necktie ; Keir Hardie, Ben Tillett, Tom Mann,
Ilyndman, Mrs. Besant and her handsome daughter,
Morrison Davidson, and various other socialists,
anarchists, journalists, and other discontented and down-
trodden classes. Every three weeks or so there was a
revolution in the management, and the U.D.C. raged
furiously and disunitedly until the new committee was
elected. These rows afforded Burleigh distraction
between wars, and, when the peace of Europe was assured,
you could nearly always depend upon a rovv in Chancery-
lane, with Bennett Burleigh not far off.
A conspicuous Melbourne musician and
several small literary and artistic familiars went
up into the mountains once for rest and change,
and to commune with nature, &la Thoreau. On
the second night a tremendous storm struck the
ridge, and it thundered and lightninged as if all
Gehenna had split. Then the conspicuous musi-
cian arose from’ his bunk, where he had been
prosing rapturously about Wagner, and strode
forth into the darkness and the racket of dismem-
bered nature, and when his friends followed they
found him standing out on a jutting rock, dressed
in nothing much, with a nimbus round his head,
and a stick in his hand, conducting the thunder-
storm !
John See’s effort to escape the title of
“ Colonial’’-Secretary merits sympathy. The
title had once a significance,
but was foolishly carried
into Responsible Govt, days
and allowed to stick in
N.S.W. In Vic. and
Queensland it was properly
changed to “Chief.” The
Colonial - Secretaries who
were what the phrase in-
dicates were, in N.S.W.,
three—Frederick Goul-
burn, Alexander Macleay,
and E. Deas - Thomson.
They were secretaries who
acted as such between the
Colonial Govt, and that of
Britain.
Of N.S.W. judicial
pensioners, ex-Judge Fos-
ter retired from the Su-
preme Court Bench after
six years’ service—£lB2o ;
D.C. ex-Judge Dowling after 38 years, ex-Judge
M'Farland 30 years, ex-Judge Wilkinson 33 years,
and ex-Judge Forbes over a score. Each of these
draws £750.
An old Melb. Argus compositor, who set
type for London Morning Chronicle in ’5O, used
to tell a story of the late Chief Justice Higin-
botham (Vic.), when a reporter for that journal.
The young man was sent to Apsley House to
report the annual banquet. When the Waterloo
heroes got up, one after the other, to make a few
remarks in response to toasts, he was so entranced
by the spectacle that he was incapable of taking
a note, and his editor had to send to another news-
paper office for the necessary account.
Purves, Q.C., gob home neatly on a Vic
doctor during a recent abortion-case. The medico
had testified that a number of things might be, and
many others could have possibly taken place, but
he gave no direct answer to anything. Purves
studied his brief steadily for several seconds, then,
in a preoccupied tone, he said, “Well, Dr. Shields”
The medico fell into the trap, and at once
rapped out, “No, not Dr. Shields—Dr. —
whereupon Purves, raising his head in a surprised
way, said, “ I beg your pardon, but really from
your answers I was thinking that I was speaking
to my dear old friend Dr. Shields.” Shields is
Vic. Govt. Medical Officer, and is so exact-minded
and conscientious that in 30 years he has rarely
if ever been known to give a direct reply in cross-
examination.
A Bulletin correspondent gives some
news of W. C. Piguenit:—
Australia’s well-beloved painter, Piguenit, as was lately
here mentioned, is in England, and likely to stay there
for some time. On his return to Sydney the year before
last he painted two pictures of English scenery, from
sketches taken during his visit to the old country, and
these he sent to the well-known firm of Henry Graves
and Co., 6 Pall Mall. In due time he received a
cable making an offer for both pictures, with all rights,
which offer he accepted. Both pictures are now in the
hands of the etcher, and Mr. Piguenit has again visited
London, partly for the purpose of signing the artist’s-
proofs, and also to obtain further sketches and study
English landscape. Graves and Co. have since purchased
a third Piguenit picture (English landscape) which they
also intend to publish. One or two of the etchings will
be issued towards the close of the year. According to a
letter received in Sydney Mr. Piguenit was at latest a
guest of the famous English landscape-painter, B. W.
Leader, R.A., at his home, near Guildford, in Surrey,
situated in the midst of a beautiful landscape, in which
is to be found almost every tree that grows in England.
The Australian intended to leave for North Wales, the
scenery whereof is in places almost Tasmanian in appear-
ance.
“Heretic” sends The Bulletin this
obituary:
Died at Casino (N.S.W.) on 17th July, Abbe Schurr, the
oldest and best-loved missionary on the North Coast. He
was idolised by decent folk of all creeds and no creed.
Born in Alsace-Lorraine 73 years ago, he had a dis-
tinguished University career on the Continent, was
ordained a priest at 23, and went to the Gold Coast of
Africa as a missionary, lost his health, returned to Europe
and was appointed Professor of Languages at the Catholic
University of Dublin. He was a master of all the European
tongues, and learned Irish while in the Green Isle. He
abandoned his professorship to accompany the first R.C.
Bishop of Grafton and Armidale to Australasia ; was the
first missionary on Richmond River, and lived for years
amongst the early settlers and timber-getters, travelling
along the river in a boat, drifting generally, trusting to
tide or wind with a bush for a sail, and often sleeping
in the craft. He was gifted with an inexhaustible fund of
cheerfulness and humor, and his simple tastes and habits
gave no indication of his mental attainments. Ha was
remarkable for his love of tea, children, and music, and
was as popular with those of other religions or no religion
as with his own flock and with dumb animals. He
suffered from a chronic hole in the pocket, and could
never keep a shilling while he thought another was in
want. There was no better loved, more sympathetic,
self-denying, humble being in all the world than the
venerable, wise, and patient Abbe Schurr.
Bryan O’Loghlen, in a letter to Judge
Molesworth (whose chief qualification for his
position when appointed was that he was
the son of his father), supporting the Judge’s
anti - Marshall - Hall candidature for Melb.
University Council, incidentally remarks that
the Judge’s father was Victoria’s greatest
Judge. This opinion is field by all Vic. lawyers.
He was the last of that great line of Chancery
lawyers of whom Selden was a type. Besides, he
moulded in its infancy the crude but common-
sense and highly original mining legislation of the
early Victorian diggers into the finest body of
mining law in the world. His daring construc-
tiveness overleaped precedents with such success
that he compelled, as in his assertion of the
famous principle of Critchley v. Graham, a
frontage - claim forfeiture case, trembling but
admiring superior courts to follow his sacrilegious
lead. His judgments were rarely upset, either by
Full Court or Privy Council. On the Bench he
appeared to be fast asleep, and very seldom inter-
rupted counsel in their argument. He invariably
reserved judgment, delivering it a few days after-
wards. Written on small pieces of blue paper, in
a hand that suggested a fowl putting its legs in an
ink-pot and walking over the paper, his judgments
were most difficult to decipher; and the only
persons who could read them were Argus reporter
M‘Kinley and the Judge’s associate, O’Grady
Rose. By the way, what strange stories the
ghost of O’Grady could tell, per Witch of Endor,
of attempts by jobbers in mining stock and such
like to get a peep at old Moley’s judgments before
they were formally delivered !
Prof. Pearson's “Life” shows that he
despised Greek and Latin, but was fond of modern
languages. In his “ National Life and Character,”
he predicted that China is the coming Power. It
is a common mistake that his S.A. farming was a
failure. He got on well at it, when he had bought
experience, and only came to Melbourne because
of his wife’s illness. Quaint is his account of
inventing a hydraulic axe, apparently to be thrust
right through trees. He and a friend lost £2OO
over this mechanism. Comparing dates, it seems
that Melba was his pupil at the Presbyterian
College. The squatters fired him out at about the
same time when Prof. Morris, as Higinbotham’s
son-in-law, had to give up the C. of E. College.
The earnest Australian democrat provides three
tabernacles —one for Higinbotham, another for
Wilson Gray, and the third for Pearson.
UPSIDE DOWN.
THE NEW-CHCM : “In England, donlchcrknow,
it is quite usual for an unmarried woman to
wear a wedding-ring when going alone on a
journey. Saves 'cm from undesirable attcn.
tions, you know, and gives 'em a sense of
security.”
SHE: “ Ah, but here we are at your antipodes.
It is quite the other way round in our
country. In Australia the wedding-ring
ensures attend ns and gives ‘ the other fellow ’
a sense of security.”
Reporters working in Melb. Age office
always know when 11 o’clock arrives, for at' pre-
cisely that hour sub-editor Stephens emits a long,
low whistle, like the cry of a curlew. Stephens
consults no watch or clock, but he is never five
minutes out, and the mystery of his whistle has
agitated David Syme’s office since the days when
Alfred Deakin was a sufficiently enthusiastic
spiritualist to attribute it to supernatural influ-
ence.
A sign of the tramway times. No less
than three ’bus-proprietors filed in bankruptcy on
June 20, in Sydney.
According to the last yearly report of the
N.S.W. Insp.-General of Insane, the proportion
of the insane to population was 1 in 321, and the
average weekly cost per patient was 11s. Id. It
is remarked as curious that “the wives of pro-
fessional men appear to be almost immune, only
21 being treated ” ; and, as regards causation, the
tender passion is only credited with three cases of
mental capsize. But 21 professional men’s wives
appears to be a high figure for one year out of
N.S.W. population.
How Hori Grey looms as a great man and
a great statesman since the African war began !
He was the great Imperialist—whose Imperialism
made for peace, whose policy was fair treatment
for native races, and friendship for neighbours.;;
Since the war the writers begin to see and to say
that had Grey’s policy on Federal lines been pur-
sued in S’Africa there would have been no neces-
sity for the war of to-day. He was continually
thwarted and snubbed by the Colonial Office of
his day, yet whenever they got into a mess they
had to send for him to help them out. Had Grey
been Governor of the Cape after, the gold and
diamond era, it is safe to say there would have been
no slavery in the Kaffir compounds, no alternate
disasters in Boer and native wars, and the Rhodes
gang of money-grabbing miscreants would have
been kept in their proper places. What there is~
of solid democracy—as embedded in the statute-
book—in N.S.W. to-day we owe to Grey, whose
passionate preaching of one-man-one-vote, in the
convention and out of it, made it impossible for
his rival, Parkes, who had resisted it up till then,
to do so any longer. And it was the great aristo-
cratic democrat who made it possible for Maori-
and to have a Ballance and a Seddon to give the
ountry old-age pensions.


THE
pEDERAL
SPIRIT
‘SddVk/IDS i.
S.3JIQM
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
In a little N.S.W. township, recently,
Mrs. Brown, on returning with her children from
a dance, heard a shuffling noise behind the kitchen
door. Hurrying into the next room, she got a
loaded revolver, went back, and stood on guard
whilst one of the children ran across the road for
Bob Smith. Bob turned up with a tremendous
waddy, three boys similarly armed, and one with
a meat-axe ; but after long conference as to the
best way to attack the desperado, Bob suggested
sending for the police. But the plucky Mrs.
Brown went in—revolver cocked—and challenged
the burglar to show himself or she would shoot.
With each challenge Mrs. Brown’s voice grew
shriller, and presently a crowd had gathered, and
Bob’s wife held him by the coat-tail (as if there
was any need to hold him back), saying, “ Don’t
go in, Bob; don’t go in—he’ll hurt you !” At
last the policeman arrived, and Bob and the boys
plucked up courage and guarded the doors and
windows, whilst the copper, in deep, commanding
tones, ordered the concealed ruffian out in the
Queen’s name. Then there was a rustle of feathers,
and a melancholy voice from behind the door
said “ Poor Cooky ! ”
* * * *
Tin-kettling still flourishes and breeds
feuds way back. Not long ago, near Cargo,
N.S.W., a man was terribly injured through a
fall from his horse, while fleeing from an infuriated
bridegroom whom he had tin-kettled.
* * * »
Truth stranger than fiction again. If an
author wrote a story "in which the hero beheaded
himself with an axe, the thing would be scoffed at
as impossible. Yet this feat was practically
accomplished by a Victorian bushman t’other day.
The man raised a, very sharp American axe high
over his head, the log he was cutting slipped from
under hjs foot, and the weapon falling on his neck,
nearly fevered it. He was dead in 3min.
» * * *
“ Yang Anyut” relates to The Bulletin
a few Chinese amenities
I have myself known a woman to be bound in a sitting
posture over a rapidly-growing bamboo-shoot, and, 48
hours later, the tip came out of her mouth ; yet the
miserable creature had been alive for a quarter of that
time. A nun who was 10 years ago residi rig at Ohi ngkiang
had no finger or toe-nails—they had years before been re-
moved by wooden pegs tapped gently under them ; the
period of torture extending over weeks. Eyes have been
burned out by focussing the sun on them with magnify-
ing-glasses, molten lead has been used as a “hair-re-
storer,” and the comparative strength of two horses has
Iven tested by attaching one to each leg of a liv-
EXPLODE.
MINER (looking for work, to manager): “Any chance of a job?”
MANAGER (haughtily): “No, I'm full.”
MINER : “ Well, put another on and bust.”
ing man. The flesh has been completely boiled
from the hand, and the breaking-strain of human
bones, including the skull, has been tested to a
nicety by experiment on live subjects. Then as re-
gards cruelty to animals, in Shanghai the recently-formed
Animals Protection Society has obtained convictions
for plunginir half-bled-to-death ducks into boiling water
to make the feathers come out easily; tarring and burn-
ing live rats ; skinning rabbits alive ; breaking bullocks’
tails to make them walk into the slaughter-house, and
killing turkeys by cutting out their tongues. In my day
it was not uncommon on the oountry roads to meet
lith thousands o"f° oThers? having' been
the table, and haying escaped from the basket
in which they were to journey to market. The
Ohow doesn’t see why he should waste time in first kill-
ing his frog when, by holding him tight by the hind legs
and snipping off his nose, he will jump out.of his own
£&
arm torn out at (the shoulder through a catch in
machinery, and who, being missed from the hospital four
days later, was found at the mill, two miles away, whither
he had walked to collect us. to him.
' * „ T , „ * * . ,
“Milky White : On the road between
Deniliquin and Hay I recently fell in with a
foreigner wheeling a barrow containing two 561 b.
and several lesser weights. First thought—Rats !
but found he was a heavy-weight artist. Reach-
ing a wayside pub. he performed, tossing the
Jcwts. about as if they were of pasteboard, and
scoring a few shillings. Presently a discussion
arose between Big Jack and the foreigner, and in
proof of his ability to beat “ ennyvon under
golony,” the latter piled all his weights in his bar-
row, topped them up with two bags of flour,
crowned the lot with Big Jack himself, then
crawled under the barrow, lifted it bodily from
the ground, and then waltzed around for the sp ice
of 30sec. There was a dray standing near. Big
Jack caught up the barrow —weights, flour and all
—and lifted them gently into the body of the dray.
Then he got a couple of old waggon-wheels and
some scrap-iron, put them in, and looked
for more. There was nothing but the water-
trough, and he was just about to lift
that when the boss suggested that if more
weight were wanted he would sit on the dray.
Jack piled him on and looked for more. The
foreigner volunteered ; another volunteered —we
all volunteered, and Jack piled us all in. “ Yes ”
he said, “I think that’ll do”—mind there were
eight of us in that dray—“but,” he added, “just
wait a minute till I git that bar-cushion. I’ve got
a sore on my shoulder and I don’t want to hurt
it.” He went into the bar for the cushion but
returned with a kilderkin of beer, which he put in
the dray also. Then he disappeared again ; and,
just as we were wondering what had become of
him, a man on horseback rounded the corner and
burst out laughing. It was big Jack! —and lie
took the road with “ You look so nice up there
b’ys, I wouldn’ like to disturb yer. Gooa
evenin’ ! ”
* • • _ *
Discovered on the wilds of the Kaituna
Estate, Little River, Canterbury (M.L.), an
ancient tombstone inscribed : •
Sacre 1 to the Memory ot
B. TOWNSEND,
Died a.d. 1774.
The stone, which was embedded more than a foot
in the ground, was of soft slate. Townsend may
have been one of Captain Cook’s crew, but Cook
visited the South Island in 1770. Anyhow, only a
white man could, in those days, have carved the
English inscription on the slab.
* • • *
Hares are so plentiful in South Canter-
bury (M.L.) that an organised raid was recently
made upon them at Burke’s Pass. Result, for two
days, 3000 hares—and the/ nig lOd. a head.
' “ Xerxes ” : Prov-
able that crows and
cockatoos can count
three, and no more, by
letting four men take
a gun and hide from
the observing birds.
One goes away, then
another, and no re-
sult ; but, when third
goes, the fourth will
soon get a shot. Have
often wondered whe-
ther the birds have
any notion of size. If
a man and three boys
t ied it, and the boys
left, would birds know
that the big fellow re-
mained ? ‘ ‘ Pelican’s ”
idea (B. 16/6/’00) does-
n’t come in, as, if more
than three guns sur-
round birds, someone
will naturally get with-
in range.
* * *
“J. G.” : A few
ye u-s ago hundreds of
ibises appeared on the
Camden (N. S. W.)
hats, and after about
a year suddenly cleared
out. I have seen birds
from the interkr in
the coast-district in
times of drought, but
there was drought in-
land before and after
the advent of the
ibises. Can anyone
account for their visit ?
* m *
H.S : He kid-eat-
ing. Young and fat
kid, roasted, or, better
still, made into a pie,
is a real delicacy. I
know many people
who, like me, much
prefer it to lamb. The
respective flavors
might be likened to
those of wild duck
and tame. The milk
of the goat is about
the most nutritious
known, so, naturally, the flesh of the young
should be very palatable,
4 f t
A dairyman recently appeared before a
certain coraic p.M. i n these parts charged with
~.£ . . * £ ° ,1
not mixing a fair proportion of milk with the
water. Ihe T.M., as an old client of the accused,
was inclined to resent the charge as a personal
affront, and in a smiling, mere-matter-of-form
tone enquired, “Howdo you plead, Air. Chalky?”
“ Waahup,” replied Chalky without
any blushful hesitation. ihe P.M. s face stif-
fened. “What!” he cried, leaning over the
bench to shake an indignant forefinger at the
culprit’s wooden features. “You have the
effrontery to stand there and tell me to my face
you've been serving me with adulterated milk
all these years ? I fine you 40s. or seven days,
and think yourself lucky to escape so easily. ’
The unabashed Chalky stroked his chin thought-
fully. Then he said, “If your Washup will pay
me that £4 odd that’s been owing so long I’ll be
able to part up the 40s. fine.” The P.M. grunted,
but he paid the fine.
WEAT IT HAS COME TO.
The Bush-Contingent influence out-back. A
sketch any Sunday at the Birra Bunga sheds.
“Narked ” : Can any of your readers tell
me of a way of inducing a dog to show his “ kill ” ?
I’ve got a kangaroo-brute that can catch ’roos as
fast as they get up, but he won’t take me to them
when killed.
* • * *
Out in the Never Never, local authorities
get hit every time that they try to regulate the
camel-man. Failing to keep him in bounds other-
wise, Wilcannia Council set aside part of the com-
mon for him; but the first prosecution for disre-
garding these bounds has failed, and the bylaw
lias been brushed aside. Even in populous Broken
Hill camel-trains wander right into the town and
camp there.
* * * *
“A.P.R.” : Queensland to-day seems to
be our pest-purveyor-in-chief. The Noogoora
burr, first introduced amongst cotton-plants, is
50 per cent, worse than its Bathurst relative, and
could have been destroyed a few yearn ago by
Q. Govt, for about £5O. And now millions would
not exterminate it.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —The incident (bucking
the saddle off) which “H.G.” mentions (8.,
14/7/’00) is not so very uncommon. “ Rolfe
Boldrewood,” in his “A Colonial Reformer,”
explains that “the horse sticks down his head
with his nose on the ground ; feet straight out
before him, so that hoofs and nose are almost
touching, legs and neck all in a line.” If the
saddle slips over his shoulder, it must go when he
withdraws his head. All the same, I called the
man who first told me about it a —well, “ roman-
cer.”— H.L.
• * •
“ Fairholm ” : Horse getting rid of sa,ddle
in manner described (“H.G.,” 8., 14/7/’00) is not
due to “animal shrinkage.” I have often seen,
‘ ‘ outlaws ” on stations get rid of saddles quite as
easily when the head was between the two fore
legs while bucking. Facility of “ going through
the girth ” depends upon the proportionate size
of a horse from wither to girth. If this is small
the saddle will be found to slip over the wither
and down the neck quite easily.
* « » *
Dear Bulletin : Be that girth slipping
business. I was riding a 13.2 pony a few weeks
since with breastplate, and she got rid of the
turn out —pack included —without a strap or
buckle parting. Apparent causes : low withers,
loose girth, and head well in between her legs
when operating.—X.
SOLILOQVIAL.
“To dismember or to be dismembered that is the
(China) question
“G.H.D. “Getting through the
girth s” is not very uncommon with colts that are
very low-withererl, Hat-sided, and a bit tuoked-up,
but with a sufficiently strong crupper the thing
could not happen.
* * * •
“ Snorter” : I have often seen rider and
saddle thrown by horse in bucking, and in few
cases have girth or girth-straps been broken or
buckles pulled out. Twice I have seen rider and
saddle thrown clean, latter with girth, surcingle,
and breastplate attached, and not a strap or
buckle broken. In one case I saw the bridle also
removed by the saddle in coming over the ho rse’s
head. By the action of bucking the saddle is
moved forward, and, once over the wither, a few
plunges clear the lot. “ H.G.” would know this
if he had ever ridden a horse that struck at the
bit while bucking.
* * * *
“ Long ’Un ” : Surveying on the Murray
once returned to main depot after fortnight’s
flying-camp ; and found in the centre of a mirror
hanging from the tent-pole,' a swallow’s liest with
two eggs in it. On the same trip, driving through
scrub one morning, caught five dingo pups about
the size of a month-old kitten. Fastened saddle
“D” straps around their necks, and securely
tethered them to a sapling. Called for the “ bag ”
in the afternoon ; saw the mother skulk away into
the malice ; and found nothing left of the litter
but two well-chewed pups, and ; : idry fragments
of the rest.
* * • *
“ S.S.” : Long ago, and more than once,
per medium of Thu Bulletin, I called upon Aus-
tralians tricky with the stockwhip to work up a
“turn’’out of familiar business, and take it to
the music-halls. Is Dan Hassett, the man lately
doing a whip turn with Rickards at Melb. Bijou,
the result of this tip ? The stockwhippist looks
like a genuine Australian touched up to suit stage
traditions, and he handles his flogger like a star,
but his tricks are not well chosen for spectacular
effect. Remember a performance given on “ The
Corner” at Ballarat that would have paralysed
the Bijou audience. The tricks were not as diffi-
cult as Hassett’s, but much more showy. Cutting
and carving is fetching business, although the
performer need not be as brilliant as the fabulous
puncher who would peel an apple with a ten-foot
lash.
* * * *
Writes a lady who has lived on settlements
where black labor was employed indoors and out :
It is hardly too much to say that no one, unless taken
absolutely by surprise, need be murdered by an Austra-
lian native. Have lived in Queensland where a family
could not exist without the use of our black brother, and
the members, children included, simply had to be taught
how to manage him. The best-treated aboriginal has the
slumbering instinct to kill : but if attached to you will
ofteu give warning when the fit is coming on. Our black
woman, Kitty, was passionately attached to little “ Miss
Maly,” but she often told her never to stand with her back
to any aboriginal ; even she herself when she siw “Miss
Maly’s ” back, always wanted to hit it vvith a nulla-nulla.
Jacky, her son, was in the family nine years, but he
always wanted the master to ride behind him, so that he
wouldn’t see his back and feel bad till he got something
into it. Always face a black, no matter how slight the
weapon may be —a stick, a rolling-pin, anything will do.
The black is half animal yet, and it is the moral effect of
resistance that intimidates. In the late affairs, the girls
who ran away were killed : the woman who stepped out
on the verandah and faced the assailants escaped.
But the black full-blood is one thing, the half-caste
quite another.
“ Pirate” : Re aboriginal fire-making (8..
7 and 14/7/’00). All the fire I’ve seen produced
by white men twirl in;/ a stick in any kind of wood
was perceptible only on the hands, or in the lan-
guage. New Ireland and Solomon Island natives
have a better trick. A groove is scored length-
wise in a piece of dry, soft wood (mangrove,
cottonwood, sycamore, &c.). This is placed be-
tween the feet, the operator being seated on the
f round, and a pointed stick of dry, hard wood,
eld in both hands, is pressed rapidly to and fro
in the groove. The dust produced by friction
accumulates at the far end, chars in a short time,
and finally ignites. Dry leaves, rubbed fine, a
little blowing, some twigs—and there’s your fire.
Time, about 3min. This method enables more
weight to be applied for friction.
* < » *
“ Uloola ” writes :
Re item (B. 7/7/’00) anent the destruction of aboriginal*
by the use of poisoned flour. My mother relates that,
when blacks were plentiful at Kurnell and what is now
the Holt-Sutherland Estate (between Port Hacking and
Botany Bay), the kindly colonist found a neat way of
eliminating his murky brother by grinding-up glas3, mix-
ing it with flour, and, out of the mixture, making
“dampers” for the aboriginal. Quite as effective as
powder and ball, and, if Providence failed to make the
black man’s digestive organs capable of negotiating
ground-glass, that wasn’t the Australian pioneer’s fault.


When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas 00. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The
“Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are produced in every elegant design of case—in
both Gold and Silver and Gun Metal. They are a
marvel of Reliability, Accuracy and Strength.'
In Gent’s Oxydised Open-face Oases .. 25/6 each.
In Lady’s „ ~ „ 40/- ~
In Gent’s Silver Open-face „ .. 42/- „
In Lady’s ~ ~ ~ 50/- „
FAIRFAX A ROBERTS,
VICE-RECAL JEWELLERS,
<S>
©
0
©
0
23 Hunter Street (Only), SYDNEY.
A Splendid Success.
If anyone had said a year ago that thousands of
copies of the expensive ninth edition of the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica ” could be sold in
Great Britain within a few months, he would
have been regarded more as a dreamer than as a
judge of the book-trade. The enterprise, busi-
ness ability and advertising skill and boldness of
the proprietors of The Times, however, has made
what seemed an impossible thing a reality, and a
great literary work that hitherto has only been
found in the homes of the wealthy, or on the
shelves of public libraries and similar institutions,
has found its way into the cottage of the artisan,
the book-case of the clerk, and the solitary apart-
ment of the bachelor student. The manner in
which this has been brought about is no less
creditable to the keen commercial instincts of the
proprietors of The, Times than to their faith in
the public, a,nd their enterprise in embarking on
an undertaking that had in it great elements of
risk and financial loss. Unlike many articles sold
on the instalment principle, The Times not only
offers the “ Encyclopaedia Brittanica ” to residents
of New South Wales at much less than the price
charged the original subscribers to the work, and
at much less than it could be bought for at any
booksellers, but they offer a reprint in every
particular as complete, and as handsome in
appearance, as when first issued by the publishers.
The scheme deserved to succeed, and it is succeed-
in this colony, as it did in London, beyond'every
anticipation.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Las;er.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade;
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
-
SAFE
w ° ol -
Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
There were heavy floods
in Grippsland (Vic.) recently,
and settlers in the vicinity of
the Tambo were washed out of
their bunks at night, and forced
to take refuge on the ridge-
poles of their huts; and the
night was wet and cold, and
the wind blew rheumatic
spasms through the perishing
wretches. The morning was
even windier and colder and
more damp than the night had
been, but the water-logged
watchers had the consolation of
knowing that boats and punts
were out on the face of the
waters collecting the castaways,
and storing them in a com-
fortable pub. One energetic
stranger excited particular ad-
miration and regard by the
enthusiasm he displayed in
yanking his old tub through
the flood, but, as he approached
and passed one washed - out
family after another, affection
changed to hatred, and great
grey curses stalked upon the
waters. The young man was
distributing handbills adver-
tising his marvellous cough-
cure, and his amazing remedy
for rheumatism and ingrowing
chilblains.
» •
A “whopper” fish—ap-
parently a variant specimen of
the Murray-cod—was recently
landed from Watson’s Creek
(N.S.W.). It was 4ft. long,
38ih. girth, and 731 b. weight.
Jerome Darnefcon Wostralian slavery, &c. :
In connection with your allegation ('often made) that
native slavery exists in Westralia, I may state that I was
talking-lately to a Sydney mining man about the flotation
of a company to work land in Northern Westralia, when
he said (presumably making the assertion serve as
argument in favor of a successful issue to the co’s
operations): “You know they have their own slaves there.”
Thus, no matter how the Legislature and the Magistracy
of Westralia disguise the matter with their precious
“apprenticeship” laws the ordinary man of the world
bluntly styles the natives Slaves, which they indubit-
ably are.
• * * •
At a native girl’s funeral, at Ruatoki
(M.L.), recently, the Maori brass band which
headed the procession played the spirited, but in-
appropriate, “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ” ; while re-
turning from the grave they struck up—perhaps
to atone for their previous inappropriateness—
“ The girl I left behind me 1”
AN INFERENCE.
“ Has Smith gone on a long holiday?"
“ Yes, he only had a week's leave, hut he took his
wife with him.”
“Burr”: “ R.H.” (8., 21/7/’00) must
have had snakejuice aboard when he saw the pie-
bald rats, or else in Bathurst rats must inhabit
empty houses, as otherwise —with the exception of
the political variety—they are unknown there.
* * • *
The country of climatic changes. But a
few months ago stock were dying in the N.E. dis-
tricts of N.S.W. from drought. Now they are
dying from too much feed—bursting with trefoil.
• • * »
“P.” : Wanted to know—Does the dingo
feign death ? Also : How can the short, fur-like
hair underlying his rough outer coat be accounted
for ? By acclimatisation ?
* • • •
“School Teacher” : Recently asked my
3rd class (Namoi school) in natural history to write
down seven native animals inhabiting Australia.
Painfully scrawled on the slate of a selector’s son
I found the following: “1 walliby, 2 roos, 3
bandycoots, an 1 bunyip.” That boy will proba-
bly one day be crossing swords with the M‘Cooey
in your “ aboriginally ” column.
IDLE CURIOSITY.
“ Are we going up-hill ?”
Dear Bulletin. —lf camels could not
carry greasy wool (as printed some time since)
there would be little far-out wool sent in this year.
Camels do carry greasy wool —thousands of bales
of it.—W.C.S.
• ♦ • •
Dear Bulletin.— Re malformation of
mammals (M’Cooey, B. 23/6/’00). I had myself
an opossum naturally minus the hind legs but in
all other respects healthy and normal and able to
get about with much celerity.— lndex.
* * * *
*‘Wat T.” : Used to like rock-wallaby
when nicely cooked; but, t’other day, a friend
pointed out that the abdominal cavity of one I had
shot was full of long, thin worms, both inside and
outside the intestines. He said it was always so
with rock-wallabies. Have been qualmish ever
since, and should like to know what the worms are.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. “ Myall’s ” account (8.,
2/6/’00) of how blacks on the Maranoa (S.W.
Queensland) make fire comes as a revelation to us,
who have lived, fsome of us, for 50 years on
said Maranoa. Also, we wonder how we
can have been so blind as never to have
noticed the blacks preparing for an
opium-smoke, or to cook a shin of
beef, as described by “Myall.”
I read the par. to “Lumpy.”
He said —“Thatpfeller plurry
fool. Baal you got ’im Brine
May (Bryant and May), ’tore-
keepit got ’im ble-e-endy Bell
an’ Black.” As a matter of fact,
the only blacks on the Maranoa
are employed on the stations,
except a few wrecks about the
river townships. Also, “Gar.”
(8., 2/6/’00) can’t have any idea
of the cost of opium when he
talks of getting it up in cases,
like jam, to pay all hands on
out-back stations. Also, blacks
are used on a station for the sake of
economy—it would be the reverse to pay
in opium.—N.d.W.
“ W. 8.” : lie opium - smoking
among the blacks in West Queensland
(“Gar.” B. 2/6/’00). I hardly think
the squatters supply them with the
drug directly, but indirectly they do.
On nearly every station there is
a|Chinaman who keeps it, and I know
one where a lot of blacks do odd jobs,
and every sixpence they get goes in
opium. The small money never goes off that
station; when the Chow has a pound or
two in silver he takes it to the book-
keeper, who gives him a cheque in ex-
change ; then the coin goes back to the black, and
so again to the Chow. The manager is a J.P.,
and, of course, knows where the money goes, yet he
does not interfere. Opium is becoming a curse in
back Queensland —used by both whites and blacks.
I know a postmaster and his wife in a little
town who both indulge in it. One Chow told me
he made £2OO a year by selling the drug.
* * * *
Northern Miner (Towers) tells this
story:
Mr. Gallagher (Cobb and Oo.) got down at the new gate
and was charged by a bullock. He ran round the coach
and threw himself down. The bullock ran past him. On
the bullock returning to charge Mr. G. again fell down,
the bullock tripping too. The animal was slow to rise,
and Mr. G., catching him by the horn with one hand,
turned his head, and caught hold of the tail with the
other. A quick movement overturned the bullock, and
his horn was embedded in the ground, and there he lay
till the coach got out of sight.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Alia : Let us start the Commonwealth with the
first day of the new century ! S.A. (Maitland): Both
old —one old English, t’other old American... .Josh : You
say you vote for the extension of the A.M.P. Society to
England because the directors and management favor it,
and you fully trust them. Well, if you fully trust them
will you vote for abolishing the auditors ? The very exis-
tence of an auditor implies distrust of the management’s
capacity, or honesty, or both H. : A big and rather
dreary slab of Chinese history. We haven’t room to pub-
lish slabs... .O.E.M. : You don’t even say who was the
man who shuddered when he heard about the finding of
the body, or why he shuddered, or what he wrestled in
his mind about Rambler : May be original, but every
one who read it would set it down as an American
steal. .Casino : The pulling of Wilson’s leg is rather dull.
Perhaps you didn’t drag hard enough.... Tat : Something
unconvincing in the idea of a man named Samuel
Pimpkins praying to a dead saint. This is a material
age, and, besides, no man could be an idealist and
be named Pimpkins Uncle Remus : Dull atrocity.
....Count B. : The “broad arrow” is not peculiar
to gaols ; it is the distinguishing mark of all Crown pro-
perty, and has been in use for over three centuries. It is
simply a conventional representation of an arrow-head...
Jaw (and sundry other correspondents): Don’t write on
what is practically blotting-paper L. 0.8. : It was at
one time surmised that Oapt. Cook planted the British
flag on these shores with a view to the advancement of
the Irish policeman, but it has since been discovered that
it was James Cassius Williamson he had in his mind’s eye.
.... Reason : But the Australian who volunteers for China
goes to help Britain alone —not to help the other Powers.
Britain has her share of the fight to do, and her dead to
avenge, and her trade to protect, and her share of the
loot to secure. And if it was Australia’s duty to help
Britain when she had the whole of a small war on hand,
it is equally Australia’s duty to help her when she has a
section of a big one. The allies (in one sense) only make
things worse. If the Chinese are utterly smashed up, and
the dividing process sets in, then the country which hasn’t
sufficient troops present to overawe its allies will get
“left.” The real fact is that the Jingo has
got tired already, and wants an excuse to
back out. How half-hearted, how obviously in-
sincere, was the debate in N.S.W. Assembly !
X.Y.Z.: Your matter still aVaits your ca 11.... Yarrum :
“Arrest” not up Willy : Nothing in it but the dialect.
Battie B. : Good items in themselves, but they don’t
hang together well enough... .J.M. : Sorry could only
use portion. ..Holdar M. : The labelled-lady is a chest-
nut Jeannie B. : “ Scale” will be used .. .Rufus : We
don’t want mere lies, as such.... Bruno : N othing in that.
.... S’mike : The Assurance Fund in question is supported
by the charge made for consolidating cumbrous and com-
plicated land-titles into a “ Torrens title.” Considering
the way in which many of the older titles were derived,
“ Torrensisation ” must sometimes involve such mistakes
as the one recently sued for, and the Fund in
question is intended to meet possible legal damages
“ Man” :No g00d... .W.J.S. (W.A.) ; Better wreck it on
the Leeuwin.... W.A. F. : May do Fancy Free : H’m ;
will think about it... .C.H.S. : Thank you ; but item too
old for comment... .R.T. :* Good rhyme ; but point not
worth space. Get a better point—-or cut it shorter. Send
address B.S. : Hopetoun story originally told of Rose-
bery.. . .Ston : Come now, didn’t you invent that bullock
—as far as the Bft.-high jump is concerned, anyway
Melb. : Who shall decide between the statements of two
boomsters —the land-agency boonister who had the big
overdraft, and the bank that granted it ? P. : Just now
we are leaving Charlotte Bronte to the calm enjoyment
of her grave. She wants a rest... .H.G. : Why don’t you
give names ? What men and which clubs are you referring
to ? Tub Bulletin has not heard of any such scandals
from other sources.... Deddick : Tale about the tea-ser-
vice rather long and obscure. Why not float it in an
amended form? L.O. : Your Antarctic poem coldly
received. But it came to a warm end —the stove....
W. J.L. : Received, with thanks... .Sinnaswamy : Hardly
good enough... .Jack Strong : Any actress worthy of the
name can give forcible suggestions of “ seemingly in-
stinctive viciousness,” and all capable actors can handle
villain parts naturally, as far as the mere glaring evidence
of moral wrongness is concerned. Camille in the
play isn’t “born a Camille.” She is the victim of
circumstances which the dramatist didn’t trouble to ex-
plain. Never had a real passion for a man until she met
Armand, and is then proved to be an unselfish, devoted
creature. To seem an “ instinctively vicious ” Camille in
the first act is to misplay the part on easy lines
E. : The young lady’s poetry isn’t brilliant, but she
seems to have plenty barrackers.... Don Carlos: It is
earnest, but you have not skill enough... .H.R.M.:
“Midsummer” poetical; insufficient individuality....
A.F. : Read your verses at funeral of office-dog
H. : Old story W.H.R. : Ludicrously simple—to
a clear head. If “ brothers I have none,” my father’s son
must be myself, and the portrait must, therefore, be that
of my. son. Sisters are only mentioned to confuse the
situation Collar : In ’Bl London had 4,700,000, inhabi-
tants, in '9l 5,500,000. This year total may be set down
as 6,200,000. Next comes New York, with Brooklyn—
about 2,900,000. Third is Paris, 2,600,000, a liberal allow-
ance. Then Canton 2,500,000. Next, Berlin, with
I, ; Chicago, 1,500,000 ; Tokio, 1,500,000 ; Vienna,
1,400,000; St. Petersburg, 1,300,000; Philadelphia,
1,200,000. Constantinople, Moscow, and Tientsin,
each a million; Calcutta and Bombay, each
900,000; Glasgow, 700,000; Buenos Ayres, 700,000
Stringy Bark : Screed too small for publication Queer
F. ; It may be all true enough, but, as you are obviously
German or Scandinavian, you opinion is naturally preju-
diced H.M.T.: Vermin-joke disrepectfully declined.
....Dago: Mean of you to try to get that “hairylegs”
chestnut off on us by inventing a place and time..... Old
Jack: Always give date of issue referred to Boja:
Leave a lot more space between your lines W.A.F. ;
A slow hunk of Good Advice to Young Men J.A.W. 1
Why write on unsized paper? J.F.C. : Thanks
Karl Kave : Lacks skill O.L. : A “steep” situation
does not necessarily down a story if clever handling
makes the matter artistically valuable: it is unskilful
work which gives point to the “unsavoury” accusation.
....S.P. : How do we know you were “made in Ger-
many?” Well, we know it from the way you write your
capital “ J’5.”.... J.F.P. : Very old, indeed N.VV.S. :
If you see that sort of thing, just write confidentially to
Capt. Eedy, of N.S.W. Marine Board, and he will fix the
gentlemen up Melborno : Can’t print it. He is a
brave man who, situated as he personally is, and is known
to be, would publicly favour such a Bill Mac. : As
already stated, we have often seen Sydney electric trams
running 12 or 14 knots an hour through the main
streets Barney Bullock: Thanks M..J. N. : You
probably invented it; but it makes a good enough item.
W.W. : Would need too much alteration... A.G.G. :
Screed too difficult H.S.D. : You have, at all events,
the merit of terseness: will consider Elma V. : Not
111-written, but the bad man who saves the little innooent
from death is a very tired bad man, indeed... iW. H.
Mao. : Good ip spots, but, upon whole, not up,,,. Louis
M. : “ Sleeping Dogs” g00d... .Tomahawk : Please write
items on separate pieces of paper ; no time for cutting
and fitting Ben Sun: “Plea” verse improved, but
case over-stated... .G.J.M. : Ideas not coherent enough,
and such matter-of-fact word as “ produced ” is destruc-
tive of all poetio effect.... Will J. :1. Don’t remember it;
2. About that length ; 3. Everything that’s'good enough
—and suitable ; 4. What was the name of it ?.... Cecil W.:
Both have merit; will consider." . .G. : Dorothy Vane and
the convent are an exhausted joke... .Orhni-i : All true
enough, but it has a twang of malice.. .Springup : Loaded
with libel M‘D. : Your long story about ofte ritualistic
parson is an unobjectionable story, but not thrilling. The
world is full of “ popular divines.” W.S.R. : Thanks.
Amateur : The sentence has no claims to elegance, but it
is perfectly clear and grammatical.... Intra 4 : Painstak-
ing, but dull O.M.A. : None quite up... Oncia :No
skill ;no interest ; nothing... .J.G.B. : All too heavy....
A.D.B. (Brisb.) ; “ Olown ” is a bit out of our line
R.W.M. : Long way after Milton—about 7000 miles
E.S.P. : The difference is accounted for by the recent
deaths of Wilsonian relatives, the Trust getting the rever-
sion of their annuities. Don’t fancy that the conditions
of the Trust permit of a great increase in the value of the
investments. Isn’t the capital put into mortgages,
Govt, stocks, &c. ? A. M‘L. (Melb.) : Your indictment
of the Harmy is not at all shocking. The “ dodges ” you
speak of are all in the way of business, and business is
Gen’ral Booth’s religion. Hallelujah !... .Punter : “ You
have lost confidence in the tote,” you say, because it only
Said you 16 to 1 about Rosebud for G.N. Steeplechase.
'on’t you think you had better lose confidence in the
honesty of the man who runs the little machine that
“had” you? And what do you mean by “official”?
There are no official totes in Melbourne.. . .Kioro : “ The
Bernhardt of America.” Tell us —What part of Yankeeland
has the lady been Bernhardting in ?... .Kidney : Diseased.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Culmus : Dull and laborious.. .H.J. : Not good enough ;
but if it’s original not half bad. Take lessons and keep
on R.P. : “ Push ” drawing lacks humor.
N.S.W.’s wool-clip for 1899 was put down
as 187,704,3011bs. —a decrease of 36,264,5321b5. on
the previous year’s total.
“ Wellington comic papers are like our
nor’-westers: they come very often, are very bad
while they last, but don’t last long.”—Judge
Maktin (M.L.).
London Sun now systematically steals
Bulletin illustrations without acknowledgment.
The Moon—which shines only by reflected light—
were a better designation for the Sun.
DR. FRANK TIBS WELL, N.S.W . Government
Bacteriologist.


At the meeting of the Jewish Literary Sdciety
last night there waa a large attendance of mem-
bers and visitors. The president, Mr. M# M;
Phillips, occupied* the cnair. The Rev. Dr;
Abrahams, M. A., delivered a very interesting au<f
entertaining address on “Gambling.” Tuo
reverend lecturer refrained from sermonising op
the subject, although ho necessarily intimated 1 ,
from time to time, that gambling in its various
forms was opposed to-morality. The totalisatov
was condemned, on the ground that it would tend
to increase the number of gamblers in the com-
munity, and the lecturer strongly objected to
legalising, instead of penalising, any forov of
gambling.
'TfciJe* of fejev- Aipkys
°f J e "'d S'fo'iLT*
%W&mA
fijJfis /"cifre fa tlXft
&00/(£ w) frpqfehy. xiujjy*
/?ey/er Yac /—7 ~
" Welt ips feorore ’
'/Itr'ycr': or d - „
Ctywzecl.
dfdf
'Tsm> *'W'p’ oes
v»*s w 5,«. o-rf*rr
H/Tf clu«r nwi
1 *? a J
.ft vf niSS e , !T* 4/
k ftV wi ?s M 7
J-t" trjCZKyS
S^X’Al^^
cV 1 . _" How JW
SVjiels n< L- So-ve fVi’V^
Voiff Te a.ftr^cooKi^?^^
( K4‘;V
Si?:—'>ll, l]> \ J<l * !lt^
toortz oMfriS
_ 1 if: "
r The Lieutenant-Governor, Sir John Mad-
1, den, who presided at the Town Hall yesterday
over the annual meeting of the Carlton Rufuge
' —an institution for the reformation of girls
who have fallen a first time—remarked that
he would not attempt to exhaust all the
causes which contributed to the evil, but as a
Judge, as a man of the world, as a man who
frequented the streets, and was often late in
the streets of an evening, he considered that
he was able to form an opinion for himself.
v/©
A 'f'W t >i ‘u r *'
„7zfu?tj& L v.
Jfc/'WgV'j °fi«7'"7-
'/gtsfvZEwse'■
7fc\* c s Zo> your rf\jesfy ;
/) Co>?S e yt ■' y
V^ /; yj'frtjyjy )•:
sjO A u Aa. it
JZrlwi/7 r?o'f~^7f°y
Zb row . “
6^ C,OU S s“** ' 7v~x/
L Ot n?y foeesZ''»J>/of'e:
ion- —id rife S^Ke
J cftfe £*>/>' ‘"c. “
“ ~iin\K jt
% o V-
V'v
„s
*£<&&s>+
>
W' 4\V
A\ x-
\%o>
■></'
MELBOURNIANA.


THE HERO OF MAFEKING.
General Baden-Powell has been loaded with presents (mostly cutlery) by the citizens of a grateful empire. He is here seen taking them home
on one of the horses presented by Australians.


Wedding- and Birthday Cklfta Direct ftom Lonaon House.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brash, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
1 Denial re” Eield and Onern. Ulass, 255, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Silver-plated, Various Styles of
Engraving, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Oase,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 301.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o'clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, In
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s, 255.
Gent's ** Companion," or Xietter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, 12s 6d,'’lss, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
.Egg Cruets, Pure Silver-plated,
20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 10s 6d ; other
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s.
A WARM FRIEND.
Silver - plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 15s, 20s, 255.
i
r
C
Vo
c^- v
V
07
V
72
iasr&L.
Child’s Sets in Silk-lined Oases, 10s, 16s, 30s,
255, 30s.
HANDSOME STRIKING CLOCK.
Marble 8-Day Striking Clock, Gilt Mounts, £2 ; without Mounts, 355.
Guaranteed 20 Years.
Useful Present.
HONDO SM O tl E*/
WW
A. SAUNDERS.
{ Roger's” Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 30s, £-2, £2 10s.
tag)
-
LARGE SIZE CAKE OR FRUIT
BASKET.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 255.
Extra Ornamented, 30s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Cruet, 6 Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside,
First-clas3 English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Style, £2, £2 15e, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Hair Brashes, Pure
Silver, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
31s. We do up equal to
new Discolored Hair
Brushes, 2s.
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £B.
i •')'. • »; I>/
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated.
Red Glass, 12s 6d pair.
Jams, Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Red Glass, as above, 15s 6d; round, 12s 6d.
BE
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s (Id, in Silk-lined Case.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21%
Similar Style, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard White
Metal, 15s 6d; large, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle, 16s 6d, 20s,
255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Neat and Useful Clock.
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass,
8s 6d ; Round, 10s.
Toast Rack, Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Call and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR SEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE^
S-A/CTUXTOIEIFIS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 CEORCE ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


ng Gray?
Gray Hair is Starved Hair
Averts Hair Vigor
Feeds the Roots of the Hair.
r 9
Old at 'Thirty-five
Nothing tells of age so
quickly as gray hair. Do you
derive genuine comfort from
looking old before your time
If not, then get rid of this
telltale sign of age. Bring back
to your hair all the richness and
color it had when you were in
your early teens. Ayer’s Hair
} Vigor will certainly do this for
you.
Thin, Short Hair
If your hair is thin, too
short, or splits at the ends,
it is being starved. Then
why not feed it? Why not
give it something from
which long, rich, thick, dark hair may
be made? Why not give it the great
hair-food, Ayer’s Hair Vigor? You
will be perfectly satisfied with it, we are sure.
Ayer’s Hair V Igor
Always Restores Color
You don’t have to wait long. In a couple of weeks the old color begins to
return, and soon you have again all the rich, dark color of early life. Look
in the mirror today and take a glance at your gray hair. Then use Ayers
Hair Vigor for a couple of weeks and look again. You will look ten years
younger. All Druggists and Perfumers.
. . THE WORD . .
F
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatings,
Sergesilveeis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pare indigo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX’S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp aie not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £O.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cleths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
o —
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
tg>
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOGDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AliD
422, George Street, Sydney.
NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
CLARKSON
CTRIC BELT
ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVKSORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys ; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Ite-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
m
i
m
Sir
O
M
m
'TsJI
ft
''NT-
o
35S
&S
C/
-v 7
TT PILLS the blood with the fire of
] youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BOPY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
he stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles £1
*» Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my
New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills,
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call if you Can. If not, let
Call or
Apply:
w VV 1 1
CUT
RATE
ZDZFtTTO- STORE,
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cut-Rate Price list Post Free on Application.


Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.*
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
geo. Roe * Co.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Oat-door work our Silk strips
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE So SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
D»MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
55*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADL6Y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydne/,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by-
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
i~W' Sales Held at the Auction Jtootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITI CAL POINTS
If filthy lucre is the cause of one great
trouble, you have only to add the emblem of
Christianity to the one, and you have the other—
so : Boer, and Bo + er.
If half the lawyers who talk of standing
for seats in the Federal Parliament succeed at the
polls, the Commonwealth will be the most lawyer-
ridden nation in the world.
The N.S.W. Socialist party proposes
putting up six candidates for seats in the Common-
wealth Senate. The Socialists will lose, but will
shake the political life out of wobbly Laborists.
The utter insincerity of it all! Ex-Premier
Reid supported the proposal to send a naval con-
tingent to China, “because Govt, having made
the offer, if the House were to refuse to sanction
it, their action would be misconstrued abroad.”
It would be cheaper to give all those
Ministers titles at once. Until they get and
become used to their “handles,” they will con-
tinue to crawl like worms. Australia will reap
naught but trouble for all the tons of gold it is
going to spend in military swagger.
The story goes that Mr. Hanbtrry-Davies,
the well-known barrister, who for some time past
has conducted the Crown cases before N.S.W.
Land Court, has got notice to quit—the idea being
to provide a place for a well-known Ministerial
henchman lately admitted to the Bar.
Writing to S.M. Herald, “Banjo”
Paterson says N.S.W. First Australian Horse in
the Transvaal is reduced to eight men and two
officers. N.S.W. Lancers are only 35 strong, the
rest of the undisabled having no horses. We sow
“Glory ” and reap tombstones and cripples.
Yremier Seddon flatly refuses, even now
when the war is practically over, to let any of the
Maoriland Contingenters have their discharge in
S’Africa. The applicants had offers of billets and
good pay in the S’African military police, and the
intimation that they can’t accept and must return
to Maoriland whether they like it or not will pro-
bably make them curse Oom Seddon considerably
and ask what Liberty is made of. Supposing they
flatly refuse to come back, will Seddon have them
compulsorily returned in chains?
A SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
PIGEON-TOED PETE : “ What's the good o’ them
’ere allies what they’re usin' to heat the
Chows? Why don’t they take road-metal to
’em? ”
So far, N.S.W. is sending but 200 or 300
troops to help England hold her end up in China.
Even a flea on an elephant doesn’t describe that
situation. Said a prominent Sydney Chinese
resident about the Chow-Jap. war of a few years
ago : “ If allee Chineemen spit two-tlee time, allee
Jap. be dlowned.”
Melbourne Age has lately been writing-
down George Turner as strongly as it formerly
wrote him up. Which is a sign that David, Syme
thinks M‘Lean has come to stay. The Age more
often jumps with the cat than it “leads” public
opinion, as some people believe it does. 9 X few
weeks since nothing M'Lean did was right for the
Age. The attack failed. Now, everything the
M'Lean Govt, does is right, and Turner is always
wrong. Another factor is that Syme is very ner-
vous about the undoubtedly great growth of the
Argus circulation in the country districts. The
political game has rarely been more interesting in
Victoria than it is just now.
Politicians in Adelaide now take it for
f ranted that ex-Premier Kingston will not only
e a candidate for the Federal Parliament, but
that he will be a member of the first Australian
Govt. It seems to be anticipated with equal
confidence that Symon, Q.C., will be one of the
Judges of the High Court. Kingston arrives in
Adelaide per Ortona this month.
Every figurehead of an Australian daily-
newspaper co. should at once be knighted in the
interest of the shareholders, and also for the pro-
tection of the public from ever-recurrent inflic-
tions of Jingo slush. For, on the average, until
he gets his gew-gaw and rests in comparative
peace, you can see the slimy tracks of his be-
baublement-scheme all over the paper he controls.
The thousandth proof that Africa is a land
of lies, as Winston Churchill says, comes in the
tidings that the British War Office, or the Generals
at the front, have been once more suppressing
disasters. Let nobody forget that all the African
news is doctored to suit Jingo ends —triumphs
magnified, reverses minimised—and that when
the facts come to light, if ever, they will be grue-
some, indeed. It is even cabled that no further
publication of official despatches will be made
until the war has been ended.
Fraser, M.H.R. for Napier (M.L.) on the
proposed admission of women to Parliament:
It is not my intention to give a silent vote upon this
most important question. lam going to raise my voice,
and give my vote in favor of this Bill passing—(a pause)—
into oblivion. This is not a place for women to be sitting,
to be pairing with the men. If this clause is passed I will
endeavor to have it amended to conform to the law of
Raratonga, which prohibits any man being seen out at
night with a woman without carrying a lighted torch in
his hand.
There is no accounting for the candour of some
men.
As a reply to the bogus wail that only rich
men can spend enough money to fight an election
in the large Federal constituencies, ex-Minister
Best comes forward with a Bill making it illegal
for a candidate to spend, directly or indirectly,
more than £lOO on any election in Victoria, and
making it also illegal for other people to spend
money on his account. Somewhat similar brutal
interference with the liberty of the rich subject
are already practised in Britain, Maoriland and
S.A., so there is solid precedent behind Mr. Best’s
idea.
When N.S.W. Leg. Council was consider-
ing the Bill to abolish the garnisheeing of wages
under £2 a week Dr. Bowker, M.L.C., lifted up
his voice to complain that the measure would
“enable people to be dishonest and ungrateful.”
The latter adjective might have been left out.
People can’t be made grateful by Act of Parlia-
ment. Writer has met various persons whose
wages had been garnisheed, and none of them
seemed in the least grateful. In fact the garnishee
system, as a means of making the garnisheed one
thankful and friendly, has always been a failure.
A nut from Premier Salisbury (in the
“ Lords ”) for the anti-alcoholic cranks. Has any
Australasian statesman equally the courage
of his opinions ?
I do not drink beer, but it I did I should
want it on Sundays as on other days. It is pre-
posterous to propose that to prevent a number
of people getting drunk, four or five times as
many are to be prevented that free indul-
gence to which they have a right.
Salisbury obviously agrees with the dis-
tinguished bishop who said—“ I would
rather see England free than England
sober! ”
Maoriland proposes to add £750
to the Premier’s salary, making it
£1750, and £450 to other Ministers’
salaries, making them £1250. The
Premier’s increase ought to be to
£5OOO and Ministers to £3OOO. A.
boss bank-manager, who doesn’t
look after one-twentieth of the mere
casli-interests that a Premier has to
carry on his shoulders, gets from
£3OOO to £5OOO. Then it is pro-
. posed to increase the allowances of
the practically ornamental Governor
by £2500, which will make his screw
£7500. A case of £1250 for the
worker who runs the country and
six times as much for the dancing
dervish in a uniform who looks on.
Carruthers’ lone-hand amend-
ment in N.S.W. Assembly against
Lyne’s motion to send troops to
China showed the re-opening of the
badly-healed rift between himself and
Premier Reid, which several times
threatened the existence of the last
Administration.
A much-experienced N.S.W. Parliamen-
tarian distinguishes between a “Green” and
“Yellow ” committee for Parliamentary elections.
“ The Green,” he says, “ means money; bedad, I
know. They’ve all mouths on them, and the
drouth begins early and lasts till next election,
bedad it does. But the Yellow boys stand to their
man. There’s Dash and Blank and Poley—they
hadn’t to put their hands in their pockets the last
time, or any time. Just if they say ‘To h—l with
the Pope,’ off and on, they’re all right.”
Federated Australia should demand that
the Hansard of its House of Representatives be
an absolutely correct and photographic report of
the debates. At present, the provincial Han-
sards are not only put into readable form by the
reporters, but are subject to almost unlimited sub-
editing by the speakers themselves. This practice
is diametrically opposed to theHANSARD principle.
All the idiotic maunderings of the member for
Smith’s Curse should be set down in pitiless detail
for his electors to ponder over, and the Hansard
reporter should be a mere stenographic machine,
instead of the flowery, poetical, descriptive writer
he so often is. Some of the existing Hansard
speeches resemble the real article just about as
much as a gaol-photo, resembles the same person
painted by a society portrait artist.
IT MIGHT BREAK UP
THE SHOW.
PARSON (to Miss A. C.
Erbity): “ May I put you
down for a subscription to our bazaar?”
Miss A. C. R.: “ Well, no. But I shall be glad
to lend my countenance to the cause."
The Australian Natives’ Association of
N.S. Wales was established in a room at Sydney
Temperance Hall, the other night, when 28
signed the register and became the original mem-
bers. Then the meeting proceeded to elect
officers. Someone proposed Mayor Harris as
president, and one-third of those present almost
fell dead with fright when it was pointed out that
Mr. Harris couldn’t be elected, as he wasn’t a
member there-and-then. Had the point failed,
someone intended to move that the newly-formed
A.N.A. be abolished forthwith as imbecile, and
consumptive, and hollow, and doomed to stay out
in the wet. It narrowly escaped Harris —and
inanity.
The new law-term started disastrously for
N.S.W. Govt, when the Full Court delivered
reserved judgments on appeals. The first and
second cases were appeals from the Railway Com-
missioners against two verdicts in which plaintiffs
had been awarded substantial damages. The
Commissioners lost both, with costs. The third
case was the long-standing Josephson v. Young,
which defines the right to compensation of a tem-
porary officer for loss of position. This verdict
will be an expensive one for Government, as
scores of cases will be governed by it. Premier
Lyne is having a return prepared as to the total
value of claims likely to be lodged under the
decision.
It is probable that Chamberlain will have
more to do with appointing the first Federal Pre-
mier than will the greatly-canvassed Hopetoun.
When N.S.W. received Responsible Govt, the
name of the first Premier was similarly a cause of
wide speculation. The Home Office wanted Deas-
Thomson to fill the Bill, and pressed Gov. Deni-
son to nominate him, but Deas-Thomson was not
sure of being able to form a Ministry, and hung
back. Finally, Donaldson, whom neither the
Home Office nor Denison cared for, was placed in
front. Chamberlain has had an opportunity of
personally meeting almost all tfie men passable for
the position, and the likelihood is that Hopetoun’s
mind is already settled on the point.
T. W. Taylor’s victory over Pumpkin
Smith in the second contest for the Canterbury
(N.S.W.) seat, by 47 votes, will add another to the
large Lyne majority. Yet the result can hardly
be termed a Govt, triumph, for the election was
decided almost wholly on personal and local issues.
The winning candidate owes his success to the
townsfolk of Liverpool itself, where he had a
majority of 220. Sydney Smith’s defeat was
rather unexpected, as it was thought the sympathy
always felt for the man who is unseated on
petition would save him. In the adjoining con-
stituency of Parramatta, Dowell O’Reilly upset
Ferris, who had a majority of five at last general
election. At the fresh election Ferris regained
his seat by over 100 majority.
Maoriland Hansar,d chief of staff. Grey,
who has got the sack because of his anti-Jingo
writings, managed to get neatly back on his perse-
cutors. Agent-General Reeves lately sent out to
Premier Seddon a long letter, in reply to the
abuse that has been heaped on him (Reeves) for
telling the truth about the war. In this letter he
proves all his assertions up to the hilt from English
official sources. Seddon laid the letter on the
table of the House without reading it. Under
ordinary circumstances it would not have appeared
in Hansard. Grey seized his chance, however,
and printed it among the debates, where it reads
like an oasis of fact and common-sense amid a
desert of Jingo drivel. When Hansard appeared
there was, of course, a howl over the “ breach of
privilege, ” but it was too late. Seddon disclaimed
all responsibility in the matter. When the affair
was referred to a committee, however, it was
shown that the proof-sheet of his speech handed
to him for revision also contained a proof of the
etter.
S.A. politicians are fearful lest by the
proposed new railway from Portland to the
vicinity of Mt. Gambier, Victoria will practically
annex the best of the S.E. district, lying between
Murray and Glenelg. The strip of country on
the S.A. side of the disputed boundary has always
been more in sympathy with Western
Victoria than with its own capital.
However, S.A. cannot grumble, as
she has appropriated Broken Hill
and is now reaching after the
Queensland border trade.
N.S.W. Attorney-General
Wise has now an opportunity
of doing a great practical
work as a law-reformer.
His grasp of principles,
as evidenced by his
speech on the Arbitra-
tion Bill, would serve
him well in dealing with
a big law-reform, such
as, for instance, the
long-delayed Judicature
Act. N.S.W., it ap-
pears, will be the last
of the self - governing
British possessions to
supersede the present-
obsolete complicated,
stupid and highly-tech-
nical system of plead-
ing and procedure. The
adoption of such an Act
would render useless half
the contents of a N.S.W.
lawyers’ library of to-day.
Obsolete editions of law-books,
useless everywhere else, are
transported to N.S.W., where
they are in full bloom. Any edition of “Bullen
and Leake’s Pleading ” later than 1868 is useless
in N.S.W., as too advanced. Wise, by a Judica-
ture Act, could substitute order and simplicity for
what is now a puzzle alike to litigants, juries,
lawyers and judges.
The Lyne Govb., which, bar that of John
Forrest, is now the oldest in Australia, will not
complete its first year until Sept. 14. None of the
other cabinets date back further than October,
that of Lewis (Tas.) coming next in seniority.
By-the-way, does ex-Premier Reid still stick to*
his opinion that the option of being first Prime
Minister of Federated Australia must be offered
to the Premier who happens to rule N.S. Wales
when the Commonwealth is formed ? It has been
generally assumed that, in that case, Lyne would
pass the office along to Barton ; but latest indica-
tions are that Lyne, if he gets the refusal of the
Federal Premiership, means to clutch it with
hands, feet and teeth. Which tends to upset the
hitherto-accepted story that Lyne and Barton had
an understanding on the matter.
A Mr. Rymill, one of the directors of the
syndicate which fooled Tasmania so long with
promises to build the Great Western Railway, and
got concessions and land-grants, and then failed to-
put up the price of even half-a-mile of line, has
been bellowing and pawing the grass in Hobart.
He told a public meeting that his awful syndicate-
“ had suffered cruel wrongs which, without some
compensation, would be a lasting disgrace to the
colony.” Healso “condemned theaction of Premier
Braddon in sending the telegram which stopped
the flotation.” The syndicate, be it remembered,
wanted over £BOO,OOO cash and shares, in return
for handing over to the buyers the bare right to-
build, at their own cost, a railway worth about
£600,000. It fooled around so long trying to per-
petrate this monstrous job that its concession ex-
pired just as the job was about to come off. And
the syndicate was going right on selling its dead
and expired concession when Braddon honestly
informed the buyers that, until the concession was-
renewed, there was nothing to sell. This is,
apparently, the “cruel wrong” referred to.
Maoriland Government, after five years of
war, arbitration, litigation and acting as bailiff in
possession, has now definitely come into owner-
ship of the unfinished Midland land-grantrailway
through failure of the much defaulted co. to build
the line. Like every other private railway co. in
Australasia, it refused to risk its own money on
its own railway, and borrowed instead at huge
interest. When a co. says in effect, “We have so*
little faith in our own spec, and our own manage-
ment and our own honesty that we won’t risk our
own coin, but we want to risk yours,” it has-
always to pay ruinous interest. The interest, the
huge expenses in London and the general mis-
management killed the Midland co. ; it went on as-
long as it could borrow, and when it had borrowed
as much as the finished line was worth and hadn’t
half built the line, and couldn’t borrow any more
at any price, it stopped. Now the people who
lent it money, and were swindled, appeal to the
M.L. Govt, to give them back their coin ; and the
London papers are reasonably unanimous that
they should have it back. If M.L. pays them,
its Midland line will cost nearly twice what it
is worth, and then it will probably be abused in
the London press for not giving the fraudulent
co. back the money it spent on chainpaene antics-
in its London office.


PALING’S * PIANOS
THINK OF THESE NAMES WHEN BUYING
STEINWAY
PIANOS
BRINSMEAD
K PIANOS
FEURICH
V
PIANOS
L
UEBEL
PIANOS
ECKE
PIANOS
VICTOR
►
PIANOS
BELLING
I
PIANOS
Arc RepOtatioQ
BOildcrs
■ ——
PALING’S
Stock as well
EVERY
KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
Such as
Violins
Cornets
Banjos
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Accordeons
&c., &o.
LOWEST PRICES.
Call or Write for
* * * * * CATALOGUES.
*
i
STEINWAY
PIANOS
BRINSMEAD
PIANOS
FEU RICH
PIANOS
UEBEL
PIANOS
ECKE
PIANOS
VICTOR
PIANOS
BELLING
| PIANOS |
HIGH GRADE GOODS AT LOW PRICES
PALIN6*C°- I™ 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYPNEY
Brisbane
Newcastle
VITADATIO
Tie Greatest Blood Purifier of the Century.
ISright’s Disease Conquered.
_ 54 Lander-st, Redfern, March 27, 1900
Mr. S. A. PALMER, 184 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Sir, —I deem it my duty to acknowledge the benefit
derived by me from your wonderful herbal remedy, Vita-
datio. , For the past four years I have been a sufferer with
Bright’s Disease, and was under two doctors for nine
months, who failed to do me any good, and until six
months ago, I was certainly useless and helpless, and
could not walk half a mile without resting, the pains in
my back being so severe. I was advised to try Vitadatio,
whl ?“ I did, and after taking five large bottles lam in
reality a new man, all pains and aches having disappeared.
I am now able to follow my usual work with pleasure, and
do indeed feel grateful to God for such a medium, and am
pleased to be able to recommend it to others.
I am, yours sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM A. FELTON.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
*rASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAYING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
, the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ’’
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These li orld-llenowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Reifection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long tvaist.
3K
m
Thom
ONS
THE MOST COM TOUT A RLE <£- DURABLE CORSET
' MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. KTOEiLESSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-, London-
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4-/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
%M 7
m
V
a JEWELLED,' FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
i
m
LOOK AHEAD
when
purchasing
Cycle
Tyres,
and you will readily understand
that it is the Tyres that last the
longest, and give the least
trouble, that are the cheapest.
In Ordering Roadster
Cyclists cannot go wrong,
they excel all others for
Speed, Comfort, and Durability.
besides carrying a
Guarantee for 12 Months.
Beware of Imitations !—Dunlops are only genuine
when the cover and tube are embossed with this
Trade Mark
%
The Dunlop pneumatic Tsre Co. of Jus. [td.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
w
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3VT.S.-W.
(Hont deplete |.Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
<74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 /L
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
3P Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 Greorge Street ( facin s rßrid & e st ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Oapb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.O.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Eeq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M ‘MillAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & Sooth Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 4, 12 Noon.
Buniriyong, Tues., Aug. 7, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Aug. 7, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyonjar, Tues., Aug. 7, 5 p.i
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 4, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., Aug. 7, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 11,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug;. 4, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 11,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, CxectitorS,
AND
AgeiKV Conjpaov Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting (Jorapg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
7DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Cap'r.al Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Kroistered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 47001 .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector ; C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager; Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.l
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
THE—s
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
T.FSTJF. J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LIN IS).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N. D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS ana NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports
Steamer.
STETTIN
Tons
2478
Commander.
From
Sydney
J. Niedermeyer Sep. 5
Destina-
tion.
Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCIIER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
United |i)S(iraiK€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Kisks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low,
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
P€RCY philupsT
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
AM USEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments). Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
716*4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping 1 at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S,S. Rockton, Friday,
August 3.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
August 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
August 10.
Heat, and Cheapest Koute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W. A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
-ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE PO PULA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNE Y and ROCK HAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passe nr/er A econmiodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, ±35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, ±'6s to ±llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to F. WHITE, Acting Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
—MiwnmMUiiHiii m i—a i■. •-.» • jnts. .z na«a jraugma
Huddart, Parker § (Jo’s [ine
TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows:
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. ITns Commander. jLeave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. '3OOO P. T. Helms . JAugust 4
GUTHRIE ... 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur ... September 1
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis ...September 22
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George ... October 18
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(D < |luiraith,|D < gacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Ratesjand Freight Quotal ions, apply
M‘ilwrauh, M'Eacharn & Co. P. cprletaiv Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALP ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely' Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE AIFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
. IMPORTANT
■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEISPS FREE BOOK,
“ ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmuSSen.
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet seht free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoicest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how capsed. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guarante d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying t ie Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6->.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and' Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO URNE ; 150 Bourlce-street (opp. Eastern MarJcets).
ADELAIDE ; 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
BERTH Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Biesse-street.
FREW AJV TLE ; Henry-st/i *eet.
So far, Adelaide has had six cases of
alleged plague in as many months, and all
have been discovered in Adelaide Hospital. It is
freely asserted that a rat which had been experi-
mented upon escaped, and as the public firmly
believe the statement, there is no excitement,
although two fresh cases came to light last week.
One was that of a patient who had been in the
hospital for three weeks with chronic rheumatism,
and the other sufferer had been in for pleurisy.
The poor woman whose husband was
crushed to death in the Enmore (Sydney) tram col-
lision recently (for which a tram-driver stands com-
mitted on a charge of manslaughter) was badgered
by the solicitor representing the tram commis-
sioners in the coroner’s court. “Was your hus-
band in employment?” “He was going to a
job.” “Now, was he not one of the unem-
ployed ? ” The meaning of this line of question-
ing was that N.S.W. courts only give damages
proportioned to the position in life of the deceased,
and the attorney wanted to show that the widow
couldn’t or shouldn’t claim much if her husband
was earning nothing.
“ Ceth ” : Be that Bulletin par. concern-
ing N.S.W. Justice Owen’s decision on ques-
tion of domicile. The facts as therein set out are
not quite correct, and the Judge’s decision was
not as stated, although his decision was, to say
the least, startling. Respondent had, prior to his
arrest on a charge of bigamy, lived at Annandale,
Sydney, during which time he was periodically
away in Queensland on his business. Re-
spondent set up and endeavoured to contend that
he never legally acquired a domicile in N.S.W.
Judge Owen held that the N.S.W. Court had no
jurisdiction, and ruled that respondent was not
domiciled in N.S.W. at present, having abandoned
his domicile there at time of his arrest ; and
further that he was not domiciled in Queensland
although he had been in that province for very
many years. The Judge also decided, that Re-
spondent’s domicile now was that of his origin—
viz., Canada ! Ye gods !
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
wita Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
s „X° ur Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
??> un< ler the skin you have poison that defies all
tne remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
erC o a V ecover .but go on suffering till death releases
Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
icerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
if ,ii Be ojsooloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
waiii OW v to continue will deprive you of the power to
aiK. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advtce, and been told your case is hopeless, or
t 0 amputation j but do not, for I CAN
-A;". I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
"St ave faded is no reason for not now being cured,
■-eiiaatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
.}° a^ em aid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
i umo , ur , s > Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
uunions, and Rihgw9rm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
AI UvSt’ I™GrS?t 1 ™ Gr S? t Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
I" 14 i’l, «rrlngdon - s t re e t, London, England.
innv n fo-t? LLl ®? 1 BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
tr .iiVi registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g-een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical,
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
("CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
MEDICATOn.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh CGre Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- especially
in Hot Climates. e
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAI) LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Medical.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
f hloropyne.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROUCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of /
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully-
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), givino-
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES”
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
1
m
Oi
w.%
/ Cures all EYE
/ Disorders. Get a genuine
/ pot from any Chemist.
./ Proprietor .—STEPHEN GREEN,
>/210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/Those suffering’ from Weals Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
’ should send to
SAYERS; ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test wheth r my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
4cc. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result. !
A Valuable and Safe Remedy. <
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. \
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdas., LONDON. '
HEALTH ANP STRENGTH
' may be secured without inconvenience by takimr
P r ' HOPE’S LIFE SYRUP. Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
m any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful
timid? and lack the power of will and action ? Are vou
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Restores the shattered constitution to vigorous
manhood.
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy ia
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for 1
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of . Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address—MALlNG REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
ey es - Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


THE SILVER RIBBON name-plate on the
EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
stands for your money’s worth in Bicycles.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
’RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
J
- //
Beauty’s
Chariot
THE LADIES’
RED BIRD
The GOOLD
Bicycle Co. Ltd.,
64 KING STREET,
BYDNEY.
Tel. 3160.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Coming elections for three vacancies on A. J.C.
committee promise something interesting. Which is a
change, for hitherto it has ever been the same old combi-
nation. Eight or nine candidates are mentioned—among
them W. P. Crick, whose self-imposed wing-clipping mis-
sion may be affected by the result, especially as erstwhile
chairman W. A. Long is among the seceders. Hon. W.
P.’s platform is said to be open-door inquiries, and legis-
lation in the direction of improving the position of country
clubs.
• * * *
List of winning owners in Australia for season
closed Tuesday is topped by the late Mr. W. R. Wilson
(£6oo7)—just over £2OO in excess of sum won per medium
of Merriwee by Mr. H. Power.
* * * *
Private letters tell that Cornstalk-leviathan
“ Oxy ”is setting 'em ago at ’Ome. He’s been scooping
big piles at punting, and gave 40 English sports a recherche
spread at the Hotel Cecil, which topped most things of
its kind seen there.
* • ■ *
Wollar Mountains, for which the Breelong
(N.S.W.) aboriginal murderers are said to have made, are
the ranges where the racehorse Cranbrook was hidden
when stolen from Havilah station. Cranbrook was taken
out of Havilah stables one night and secreted in the grim
ranges, with the object of having him do a season s stud-
dutv, and, when that purpose had been served, word was
sent to Havilah where the horse was to be found, and he
was discovered safe and sound. It must be nearly.five
years since Cranbrook did his mountain-trip, and it is
about time that some upstanding chestnuts blazed down
the nose were winning races about that region.
* m * •
When Baden-Powell learns the price paid for
his presentation hunters —£150 and £lO0 —he will not
form a very high opinion of the value, as measured by
price, of Australian studs.
Paris —winner of successive Caulfield Cups—was
seen out at Rosehill, Saturday, for first time since that
lengthy and unproductive trip ’Ome. The old ’un showed
little of his one-time dash, and 7 fur. of the big ’andicap
found him out so badly that he whipped the field in, a
100yds. or more away. He presented a jolly-and-fat ap-
pearance, but doesn’t look like a possible future winner,
considering the weights he will be asked to carry, so
writer rises to say that Mr. White should adhere to his
original determination, and allow the ancient to end his
days luxuriating in the well-grassed paddocks of Havilah.
The privilege has been well earned.
“ Lemon ” : The Jack M’Gowan-Cullen fight in Melb. last
week proved, as anticipated, a victory for the scienced
hard-hitting man over the one who wa3 a hard-hitter
alone. M’Gowan scored early with a sweeping knock-
down blow ; three rounds later he had Cullen in a corner,
fairly dazed with bod.v blows until the gong saved him ;
finally, he practically knocked him out with a clean
right drive. Cullen came up, but fell at first tap, and the
fight went to M’Gowan. Though the beaten man did
nothing sensational he fought all through with pluck and
spirit, and made M’Gowan fight all he knew. That is a
bit less than when he went away with Bland Holt. His
last fight prior to leaving was with Tot Higgins, probably
the cleverest 10-stoner in Australia, and, although
M’Gowan was giving away 2in. and 101 b., he out-pointed
Higgins from start to finish. Cullen, on the other hand,
is lighter than his visitor, and makes no pretence at
cleverness. So M’Gowan will have to pick up lost form
to have a show in his projected fight with champion
Hegarty.
• • • *
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) pug-boom is still strong,
albeit frequency of draws gives the game a bad flavor.
Nine-tenths of the matches end without a winner, but the
purse is available just the same. Latest cases were Billy
M’Kell and Wal M’Kay, and Billy Williams and Hiscutt.
Last-named is a miner, and a new hand at bruising, but
he’s a good ’un who’ll be heard from often. Cycling-
trainer Billy Williams has reduced the art of cutting-even
to a science. Wonder how Billy and “ Cocker ” Tweedie
will finish up their approaching go?
* * * *
“ Old Timer” : Nick Dooley and Bill Doherty
—present premier heavyweight pug. of the provinces—
will tussle for the title and what looks like being a big
“ gate ”on Monday night in Sydney. Writer saw Dooley
on Sunday. He never looked better or more confident.
Doherty will be as well as when he met the weak-hitting
and weaker-hearted lathy black (Felix) recently, and he
couldn’t be much better than then. Dooley should win,
ancient and all though the whilom Sydney Govt. Printing
Office comp, may be. He is cleverer, heavier and longer
in the reach than Doherty, who can hit like a mule kick-
ing, but has to get within a yard of his man to do it, and
then mostly swings. He ought not to take the champion-
ship back to Westralia; but punishing fighters of
Doherty’s pluck always have a chance with the cleverest.
Vancouver mail last week brought a huge sur-
prise in the news that the Akron giant—Gus Ruhlin—had
badly beaten Sailor Sharkey, and, on his showing, looked
a sure conqueror of world’s champion Jeffries. The fight
was of the fiercest, and Sharkey only succumbed after
sustaining a terrific, battering in 15 rounds of hurricane
battle. Up to this Ruhlin ranked among third-raters
in public estimation, but it turns out now that Pompa-
dour Jim Corbett has been coaching him quietly for a
long time. Six thousand people went to see Sharkey
make a chopping-block of Ruhlin, for he had settled him
with one punch two years before. Ruhlin shaped amaz-
ingly and showed great judgment. Straight lefts met
the ’ Sailor’s rushes and bruised his face beyond
recognition. Sharkey was blinded, and, to all in-
tents and purposes, absolutely helpless when Ruhlin
floored him first in the isth round. Five times subse-
quently the broken-up bull struggled up and charged,
only to be sent back smash. Sharkey rushed all through
the struggle and swung blows of fearful force, but none
landed fair enough to do much hurt, while the enemy’s
smashes often jarred from head to heel. Ruhlin—like the
most accomplished of the Mace school—took no chances
in mixing unless forced to, and used the sinister mauley
exclusively until he had his man where he wanted him.
Sharkey was literally whipped to ribbons from the start.
Ruhlin’s display and the outcome created a sensation and
at latest the winner was hot after Jeffries with piles of
dollars behind him. Ruhlin did to Sharkey in 15 rounds
what Jeffries failed to do in 25 when the pair had that
hair-raising, bashing battle some few months back.
* * * *
In Victoria the howl of the battered umpire is
again loud in the land. Umpires are appealing tremu-
lously to be excused from officiating at this ground or
that out of consideration for their wives and families. At
Wodonga t’other day the umpire fled for his life on a
bike, and two men were carted out of the scrum to the
nearest hospital. When the barracker rises up against
the umpire with bricks and sticks, gate-takings grow
bulky and the footballer is abundantly glorified. A con-
scientious umpire would grin and bear it for the sake of
the ganie.
* * , * *
Recent football match at Thurgoona (N.S.W.)
between Jindera and Black Range Clubs supplied heaps of
fight. Opposing players knocked lumps off each other.
Previous struggles and happenings pointed to trouble,
hence the neutral ground ; but that made no difference—
the row came just the same. Roll-call found three
“ Rangers ”in parlous plight; one filled a vacant bed at
Albury Hospital later. Umpire’s cuteness in bringing a
bike enabled him to get off whole, otherwise he might
have been gathered up in sections. Records were not in it
with his dash for life.
« * * *
So far, Sydney ’Varsity football club takes the
bun for maimed players this season. Marks (a last year’s
international) was carried off Saturday with a broken
ankle. Invalided (all badly used up) list is now Wood,
White, Marks and ’Blue, while several others are tem-
porarily incapacitated.
Hard enough is the lot of the football umpire
who fails to please both teams, but as for him who pleases
neither—words fail! At a junior match in Vic. recently
a guileless youth had volunteered to act as umpire for a
remuneration of four “ long-sleevers.” Falling foul of
both sides, the respective captains, at the end of the
game, took turn about at sitting heavily on his stomach
and smiting him on the nose with the ball, the players
meantime chanting, “ What ho, she bumps ! ” Then he
was rolled in the mud and finally escorted to the nearest
pub. and swamped with consolatory tanglefoot.
♦ * * *
The sensation of Saturday’s Sydney football was
provided at N. Sydney, where anticipations were knocked
endways by home-side romping over Western Suburbs,
totting up 44 to 3. First-grade competition hasn’t (up to
now) produced anything so convincing as this. Winning
side’s (all-round) preponderance, of points was big.
Balmain broke its egg by downing Newtown —25 to 3.
Glebe gave S. Sydney no hope from start to finish ; and
“ Unis” notched 29 to E. Suburbs’ 3.
* » * *
M. L. football-rulers, have decided not to invite
a N.S.W. team over this season owing to the insufficiency
of guarantees made by affiliated unions towards exes, the
generally expressed wish that each province should in
future finance its own inter-state tours, and the brief time
at disposal for making arrangements.
Victoria and S.A. met again at football in
Adelaide, July 21, after a big interval. Former won
easily by 9 goals to 5, but the game is booming again in
Adelaide, as shown by the gate, £270, the biggest on local
record. Visitors played splendid football.
# * * *
S.A. probably loses fast-bowler Jones, who is
negotiating for the lease of a Broken Hill hotel. Jones
has not worked on the ground staff of Adelaide Oval
since his return from England, and S.A. Cricket Associa-
tion is almost certain not to renew his retainer of £2 10s.
per week when it expires in Sept. S.A. eleven will be
very weak next season with Jones and Darling absent.
M’Kibbin will probably be available, but it is suggested
that a first-class pro. should be brought from England.
* * * *
Vic. lacrosse team —though not the best that
province could send —fairly “laid over” N.S.W. at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground, Saturday. Home men showed little
science, comparatively speaking, and lack of condition
often broke them up completely. They mulled passes
with monotonous frequency and attacked inefficiently
through want of combination. Visitors’ play proved an
eye-opener. Onlookers saw lacrosse in Sydney (as she
should be played) for first time. N.S.W. scored two
goals in initial quarter, but did nothing subsequently,
and opposing side finished 10 to the good. T’other day
S.A. badly beat ari admittedly powerful Vic. combination
—which fact sets one thinking how N.S.W. men rank as
exponents of the game, and why they want to get a team
from Canada (the home of lacrosse) over here. Hadn’t
they better learn a bit first ?
* • * •
Yankee Plugger Bilmartin, in Australia now,
will quit these parts for U.S. shortly. Someone has found
out that from ’B5 to ’99 inclusive Bill got away with 221
first, 74 second and 37 third prizes. Most fruitful year
for him was ’95, when he raced into places 118 times—B4
firsts. But for a deal of travelling in ’97 and ’9B total
might have reached far bigger figures. Australia has
treated Bill not unkindly.
* * * •
World’s-champion billiardist, Roberts, has been
engaged in an exhibition-match in Sydney with Aus-
tralian top-notcher, Weiss, afternoon and evening since
Wednesday. Saturday night saw him perform marvel-
lously, reeling off a break of 500 in 32min., during which
every conceivable stroke was shown. Weiss looked on
amazed, and when the white stopped at the jaws of the
left-hand upper pocket on the verge of tottering—thus
cutting the score at the even half-thousand—the scene
was thrilling. Latest achievement ranks amongst
Roberts’ very best. Once he compiled 597 and, twice,
over 500. Dawson’s 722 is the record, with Stevenson’s
648 next. Right up to the end of the run interest was at
high tension, as there seemed a possibility of a world’s
best being put up in Sydney.
* * • •
Australian pigeon-shot Don. Mackintosh shoots
from 33yds. at ’Ome now. June 9 saw him, at Notting
Hill, annex a big £5 sweep (cup added) from 32yds. Two
or three days later, at same place and from a yard
further off, he grassed 16 out of 18 and got away with
four pools.
# * * *
After all, N.S.W. scullers Towns and Wray
haven’t got together “down under” for the ’Ome
supremacy, and are not likely to, apparently. Last mail
told that another wrangle had occurred. Wray wanted
sterns of boats moored at starting-place ; Towns stuck out
for bows. Neither would budge. Stump outrigger and
the old style of shell are at the bottom of the difference.
Towns’condition means a level send-off. Wray couldn’t
be coaxed to Lopdon to argue the thing out. Doesn’t
look as if Wray is over-anxious for the match, nor has he
seemed so all along.
* * • •
Flapdoodle fed to his readers by the dog-reporter
of Sydney D.T. : “ Master Graham Sands, son of Mr.
Robert Sands, of Waverley (a D.T. director, by the way) is
a great lover of dogs, and has chosen Irish terriers as his
hobby. A wise decision, as the breed is very game, com-
panionable, and popular. Master Sands’ initial selection
is an exceptionally well-bred puppy, being by Gordon
Blarneystone ex Gordon Bush Girl.” Also Mr. Dinny
M’Rourke’s little boy Tim has started a kennel and has
chosen miscellaneous yellow dogs for his hobby, his
initial selection being a slut puppy ex Mrs. Hogap’s wall-
eyed bitch Bonescruncher by the dog that belongs to the
dustman in Frog Hollow, behind O’Hoolighan’s pub.
The strain is a highly fashionable one. M’Rourke will be
cordially welcomed to the fold of the Fancy.
■* ♦ * *
Dear Bulletin. —In his criticisms (8., 21/7/’00)
on our last annual sports meeting Mr. H. Stockdale was
evidently going upon hearsay. Only two events clashed,
and, to rectify matters, consolation races were run imme-
diately, thus allowing the programme to be run to time.
Mr. S. says that no events should be judged by masters.
But the judging is done by the head-masters of the Syd-
ney schools, the inspectors, and officers of the P.1.D.,
gentlemen who cannot, except in rare cases, be ac-
quainted with the contestants. There is, therefore, no
favoritism or unfairness in the matter. Mr. S. has more
justice in his remarks about the unfair walking, though
he should take into 'account the difficulty in discriminat-
ing between a fast walk apd.running, also the scarcity of
competent ■ judges of walking, and the difference of
opinion as to points'; In the quarter-mile walking event
mentioned we allow the 11-years-and-under boy 50 yards,
and it is only a printer’s error which makes it seem other-
wise. The throwing-at-wicket competitions we leave in
the hands of experts who furnish the competitors
with details before competing. We, however, thank Mr.
S. for his well-meant suggestions.— W. Gee, General Sec.
P.S.A.A.
* • • •
“Spike”: That note (8., 28/7/’00) re cornstalk
sprinter Rowley on opposite side of the sphere contains a
nasty vein of spite—in its insinuations about axes to grind,
bunglers, &c. Rowley went with the best possible en-
dorsement, viz., Australian premiership, and his particu-
lar mission was the Championship of England, wherein he
ran fourth after (a day or two before) defeating the then
holder—Wadsley—by 2yds. Writer would stake his all that
first, second and third men were Yankee 9 4-5 performers,
en route to Olympian Games. Mail will shortly bring de-
tails. Author of par referred to must have been dead
a long time, otherwise he wouldn’t question lOsec. feats
for 100yds. ; that used to be the game 10 or 15 years ago,
but doubters have been brought up with a round turn
often since. Further proof that manufacturer of par in
question has had a Rip-Van-Winkle sleep is evidenced bv
his having to go back to Botany Handicaps (Ancient his-
tory), and “ when London Referee was started.” Very
much up-to-date argument, isn’t it ?
* * * *
“Melb.”: Touching your footnote to par. of
30/6/’OO, a ref. to Argus or Age of 2nd Jan., ’69, will show
that on previous day, at V.R.O. meeting, poet Gordon’s
b. g. Viking, 6 yrs., won a race styled the “ Grand National
Steeplechase.” It was peculiar for the fact that, during
the second round, the rails generally taken down in order
to allow the horses to come into the straight were not re-
moved, and Ballarat, Babbler and Ingleside, not noticing
the mistake, went on inside, thereby allowing Denny
Callanan, on Viking, to jump into the course and steal
the race out of the fire. Viking’s rider was the father of
the present Denny Callanan, who started his career as a
jockey in the late W. R. Wilson’s colors.
Petersham (Sydney) electorate cricket club re-
cently elected its office-bearers for the next season—
patron, president, and vice-presidents. To the last
billets the mayors and aldermen of Petersham and
Marrickville (20 in all) were first appointed. Then 4 0
individuals were elected in addition ! Apparently not a
resident in the electorate who is likely to have a spare
guinea has escaped. It would be a huge joke on the
executive of the club if all of the 60 vice-presidents were
to unexpectedly turn up at a committee meeting and
assume the control of affairs.
* * * *
Joe Darling’s Tasmanian purchase is a 7000-acre
sheep-station in the north of the island, on which the
left-hander intends to combine sheep and wheat-growing.
* * * *
Dead heats in “lepping” races are rare, but
Wellington (M.L.) witnessed one t’other day, when Cheva-
lier (12st. up) and Hauriri (9st.) couldn’t be separated in
£3OO hurdles. Fourteen lined up. Chevalier started a
hot pot, but Hauriri had little support. Unplaced lot in-
cluded Plain Bill (12.4), who staggered punters next day
by easily annexing three miles steeple, and 350 sovs.
connected therewith-humping 31b. more in saddle. Ways
of nags or manipulators thereof are truly bewildering,
which is why Mo waxes fat.
At Poverty Point.
Mrs. Langtry was married to her first husband at the
age of 18, he being 35. She treated him badly and
deserted him. The famous beauty is now 43, and very
much in love with hubby No. 2 (De Bathe), who is 17
years younger. The youth is fighting in the Boer war,
and the constant fear that something serious will befall
him has injured his spouse’s health so much that her re-
cent American dramatic season was a failure. She even
broke down in reciting the “ Absent Minded Beggar.”
Nemesis !
According to London Truth, Lalla Miranda, at her
debut in London as Gilda in “ Rigoletto,” amused the
house by making the traditional blunder of the part in
leaving her lighted candle outside in the garden, and,
presumably, going to bed in the dark, while warbling
“ Caro nome.”
“ Constance Clyde ” : An interesting gloom pervaded
Sydney Criterion on Friday night, where the audience
wept softly and enjoyed itself in a scholastic way when a
certain unfortunate Israelite was exposed to scoffs and
jeers merely for offering to reduce a stout Venetian to
more reasonable proportions. That is how Dampier acts
the Jew. The pathetic side of Shylock’s character comes
more to the front with every generation of actors, and
the time will arrive when the gallery boy will cheer the
knife-whetting process, and shout “ Give the poor old
bloke his pounder flesh, can’t yer ! ” when the good Duke
tries to make plaintiff not only render up his meat, but
actually consent to lose the money as well- all this in
consideration of having been spat on by the defaulter
when the latter was prosperous and suffered from swelled
Venetian head. Under Dampier’s management there were
two gems in the performance—Shylock and the old man
who brought along the basket of provisions to give to any
nobleman who would take his son into his employ. Evi-
dently the aristocracy of these days were not- proud.
Portia did best where she looked her part least. This is
a dark saying and best not expounded. Bassanio’s
glorious, gold-sheathed limbs made the artistic mind
keenly regret the waste of statuesquely-formed men con-
demned to shapeless coats and baggy pants under our
present civilisation, where men are only permitted to be
beautiful above the collar-line. A Greek god might be
seated next us in the tram any day, and under the pre-
sent system of tubular clothing we should never know it.
After months of parley, F. H. Pollock succeeds Wybert
Reeve as lessee of Adelaide Royal. Pollock has been
mixed up with the profession for 40 years, and managed
Garner’s Rooms, Adelaide (now Rickards’) for Reeve 30
years ago. Wybert Reeve goes to London for good.
Regina Nagel it seems, was brought out by Melba
within a month of her arrival in London. She sang first
at the Duchess of Sutherland’s place. Previously Melba
had taken her to Panzani, the little Italian singing master,
who was for years with Marchesi as accompanist, and who
left the old lady to go to London on his own. Panzani
pronounced Nagel’s to be one of the finest voices possible
to have, especially in the lower register.
“ Edson ”: The talk about unusual booming of
“ Magda ” O’Neil in Melb. as a business trick is absurd, as
the O’Neil has only been advertised exactly as any other
showman or woman is advertised. The appearance of
exceptional booming is entirely due to the heated contro-
versy created by Nance’s work and her peculiar person-
ality. No actress who has struck Yarrapolis has created
so much stree.t-corner barneying and common talk as the
latest American. Nance O’Neil dodges the booming for
which visiting actresses are usually most greedy—that
which comes from social hob-nobbing. In standing aloof
very likely Nance is complying with a cute business idea
of Rankin’s. Duse did the same in London, enveloping
herself in mystery when “ off,” and it “ took ” immensely.
Says a Melbourne weekly: “ The mother of that talented
singer, Miss Amy Castles, is not too-well pleased with her
daughter’s tuition. The great Marchesi’s fees amount to
some £2O a week, and then the teacher does not always
give personal supervision.” As a matter of fact, Marchesi,
in her wealthy old age, is getting to be a very casual
instructress, but the idea of Amy’s mother, of Bendigo,
being “ not too-well pleased” with her daughter’s educa-
tion is regarded as a rather good joke by people personally
acquainted with the various characters in the Castles
Romance. By the way, little Amy has been heard of
from London, where she interviewed Melba, who told her
she had a “ perfectly beautiful voice,” and would be “ a
credit to Australia.” The last phrase sounds very
patronising. There are already a lot of exported damsels
doing credit to Australia in a lower musical world than
that of Melba, Frances Saville, and Miranda, not one of
whom had £5OOO, or even £5OO, thrown at her before she
went to Europe.
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent: “ The details of
Melba’s divorce, which arrived by this week’s mail, will
not add to the diva’s popularity. The demand for seats on
Melba nights at the Opera is (the war notwithstanding) as
great as ever. But the Princess of Wales doesn’t seem to
be occupying the Royal box quite so frequently.”
The plans of George Musgrove, who will open his show
at Melbourne Princess in October, are still shrouded in
diplomatic mystery. All the same there is a notion
abroad that Musgrove has secured Henry Irving and Co.
for an Australian tour.
Cinquevalli, in a recent letter to his compatriot Benno
Scherek, talks of returning to Australia next year, and
when he comes the miraculous Pole will probably be even
a little more popular than before. He left a name behind
him, whereas other big “ turns ” that have headed the
bill at Rickards’s were—with the exception of, perhaps,
Chirgwin—pretty well worked out in six months. The
juggler had a wider constituency than any of them, and
it was still spreading when his engagement ended. He
got to be spoken of among the outer-circle people who are
never tempted into a theatre except by a very particular
curiosity. One hears such people regretting that they
didn’t see Cinquevalli. They will make a point of seeing
him if he turns up again.
Half the fun of life
is lost by many people
through their neglect of
one of Nature’s most
rigid laws. Nature
insists on regularity.
People who allow the
continuance _of any
irregularity in their
digestive organs soon
have to pay the penalty.
Free and regular move-
ment of the bowels is
the surest sign of good
health. The first ques-
tion the doctor asks is,
“Are your bowels
regular?” If not he
givessomethingto make
them so, and quite often
that is all he needs to
do. Assist Nature oc-
casionally in removing
offending matter from
the stomach and bowels.
"What is needed is a gentle but efficient helper,
that works like Nature. That helper is Ur.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They are entirely
vegetable, being composed of pure roots and
herbs. They cleanse the stomach, make the
appetite healthy, the digestion perfect the
liver active, and the blood pure. Owing
to irregular hours of work and irregular meals, I
have suffered for the past two years froin
sluggish liver,” writes Mr. J. Kennedy, ot
Victoria Parade, East Melbourne. “On arising
in the morning I would feel more tired and
stiff than when I Went to bed at night. I was
advised to take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root I ills,
and after taking a few doses was so astonished at
the good effect produced, that I continued taking
them, and now I am pleased to say that they have
been in every way beneficial to me. lam enjoy-
ing the best of health. I shall be always glad to
recommend your valuable medicine to my friends
who may suffer from the same complaints as I did.
You may use this letter as you think fit. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills positively cure bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, dyspepsia, head-
aches, liver and kidney complaints, piles, pimples
and blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
price Is. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d.
Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Go., Ltd.
(Australian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.
The strained relations which have long
subsisted between one of the chief officers and a
subordinate in N.S.W. Registrar of titles Office
have resulted in the sacking of the latter by the
P.S.B. The decision is to be challenged m Par-
liament, and the Service awaits the result with
interest.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Commenting recently on a case of police-
hounding-down of an ex-convict who was striving
to lead an honest life, a Sydney Judge adverted
to the fact that there is not in Sydney, as in Mel-
bourne, a Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society—
whereupon the inevitable professional-philanthro-
pist. Ardill was instantly to the front with an
assertion that he runs an association of the kind.
Will Ardill kindly publish—in serial instalments,
of course—a list of all the “ philanthropic ” irons
he has in the fire.
Be the recent wreck of the schooner Em-
press of India, at Forster (N.S.W.), and the con-
sequent drowning of some persons of no importance,
the coroner’s jury returned a verdict of “acci-
dentally drowned,” and “expressed surprise at
the vessel being allowed to leave Sydney without
life-belts aboard.” It might reasonably have ex-
pressed anger, but to express surprise was foolish.
If a vessel was allowed to leave Sydney without
bottom or sides there might be room for a certain
perfunctory astonishment, but nothing less than
that is worth being surprised about.
The Absent-Minded Premier was sulking
over something the other night—possibly over
something said by the obese Oppositionist—and
although the morning paper men sent in re-
peatedly to see him and ask him “ what was on,”
or likely to be, he preserved a frigid and repellant
attitude and would not leave the House. During
the evening he (as he thought) laid on the table a
certain paper meant for Parliamentary consump-
tion, which was actually a confidential paper from
the Agent-General re an appointment. The
A.-G. barracked for this appointment, which was
not the one intended by the Absent-Minded
Premier ; his was a political appointment—the
A.-G’s was a common-sense commercial one.
When the pressmen, as usual, approached to find
out what had been laid before the House, they
came across the confidential letter, and, not un-
wondering, copied it. Some hours later—to be
precise, about 3 a.m.—the Absent-Minded Premier
found out that he had laid the wrong egg, or
something, dashed out for a belated cab, and drove
furiously round to the offices of S.M. Herald and
Telegraph to stop publication. He was received
most politely by the sympathetic night-subs.—but,
alas ! the editions had gone to press, and, indeed,
the earlier ones to the country. The agitated
politician drove back glumly.


POINTS TO REMEMBER "
for SMOKERS.
jjL^ir
.
r/
«
* ——*>
/, -X
KEEP YOUR PIPE CLEAN;
ROLL YOUR TOBACCO UP
CAREFULLY; LIGHT IT
WELL, AND SEE THAT
IT BURNS PROPERLY
FROM THE START. . ,
THEN ALWAYS GET
DERBY
Tobacco.
This is the finest, both In flavor and manufacture,
in the universe. Nothing could possibly be better.
Smoke nothing but 44 DERBY,” and you will always
get the maximum amount of pleasure out of your pipe
The modern Jjrt jewellery yo. 9
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A BOON FOR BOYS..
Our Unsurpassed Gun Metal Collegian Keyless Levers,
f-plate, Jewelled, Compensation Balance,
Lever Escapement, Adjusted Hair Spring,
Open-Faced Crystal Glass
Price 2is
Nickel Collegian Levers, Price 20s.
GUARANTEED RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.——*^
twenty-ninth report of
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND, Limited,
PRESENTE p AT THE
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS,
HEL D AT
THE BANKING- HOUSE, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE,
OKr WBDKTBSDA.Y, 25 tlx JULY, 1900.
Tbe pTOtidin| t for 0 R r - i t H he n?wf' year ’ Eeba 'f e on Bills - Merest on Deposits,
FurniturVand Fftyngs kmorted to f d valuation of Bank^
To which is to be added the amount carried forward froim last Half-year .*"
.£8,383
2,595
4 11
1 6
Giving an available balance of
Which the Directors recommend should be distributed a s’follows "
T “ Dividend dutfo e nlbo7e ear °* 2 * P6r Cent - per annum 4 >? 14 16 9
£10,978 6 6
~ Reserve Fund
~ Contingency Reserve bind .. .. "
„ Balance carried forward to next Half-year’
240 14 10
2,000 0 0
3,500 0 0
422 14 10
£10,978 6 5
By Order of the Board,
El) WU. I). BAY,
General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LTD..
JITZEsTIE 30, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
.. £385,187 0
.. 46,000 0
.. 10,978 6
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
BiUs Payable .. .. i 0,280 8
.Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in Reserve .. 38,500 0
Deposits and other Lia-
bilities .. .. 855,307 16
Outstanding Drafts on Agents and Lia-
bilities on Remittances as per contra
442,165 6 5
899,088 5 1
16,641 18 10
£1,357,895 10 4
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers £185,928 10 9
Bullion 89,417 18 11
Treasury Notes on hand. . 34,839 0 0
•Government Stock ... 46,135 9 4
356,320 19 0
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c 62,360 18 10
■Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank 922,571 13 8
Inabilities of Customers and Agents, for
Drafts and British Bills current, as
per contra.. .. 16,641 18 10
£1,357,895 10 4
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, SOth JUNE, 1900.
Cr.
To Salaries, Kent, and other
Expenses at Head Office and
15 Branches .. .. . 8 881 9
” Interest paid and accrued on
iixed Deposits, Rebate and
■Exchange Paid .. .. 9,995 6
1, Balance..
2
7
18,87(5 15 9
.. 10,978 6 5
£29,855 2 2
Bj’ Balance brought forward 2,595 1 6
„ Gross Profit for the half-year „ .. 27,260 0 8
£29,855 2 2
JtESJLItVW FUND.
To Balance
48,000 0 0
£48,000 0 0
15}' Balance invested in Government Stock 46,000 0 0
„ Proposed Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account . 2,000 0 0
£48,000 0 0
Audited and found correct,
Brisbane, 6th July, WOO.
THOS. WELSBY, F.I.A.Q. )
CHAS. A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng'.)/
Auditors.
P. h. CARDEW, Chairman.
EDVVD. 0. DAY, General Manager.
w . AUDITORS’ RE PORT.
finri fv, We have examined the foregoing- Aggregate Balance Sheet., made up to 30th June, 1900, and report that we
Ron several items therein stated to conform to the Balances, in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the
k^ ee^s urnis hed by the Branches; these latter beingtc jrtified toby the respective Managers and Accountants.
ultimo 6 cour> ted the Cash, and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the 30th
ai ? d hereby certify that we have found them correct. The Securities held at the Head Office have, at the re-
i 01 [he Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers, Jiruce & McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have seen
™«r certificate to the effect that they are in order.
hiWio 6 l lave fu [ fcher to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and ex-
ons a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown, by the Books on the 30th June, 1900.
Brisbane, 6th July, 1900.
THOS.
CHAS.
WELSBY, F.I.A.Q. \
A: OLAKKE, A.A., (Eng.)/
Auditors.
dISIOUIH fiUHIOI
100 sovs.
Distance,
130yds.
To be run on Friday Afternoon, Aug, 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st
ugust, 1900. Entry Forms and full particulars mav be
Obtained from the undersigned.
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.
ROCHESTER LOP6C
Collins Place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town llal!.
Close trains, trains and i theatres.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Proprietress.
TO COXJKTTRY LADIES
VISITING SYDNEY.
A LADY of good position desires to place her
Services and Knowledge of the City' at the
disposal of Ladies visiting the Metropolis for a
small remuneration. She will secure Apartments
and do all to make the visit a pleasurable one.
Excellent References.
Mrs. 8.,
“ Trelawny,” 205 Glenmore-road, Paddington.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
F'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace/’
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
'T'O CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
ID*- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. COOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who waa born while hia
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
Publishers’ Notices.
WAR MUSIC FREE!
Full 2s. Size Copyright Music Given Away.
The following New Popular Marches are given away Free :
Transvaal March, with Portrait of Buller.
Scarlet and Blue „ ,, „ Kitchener.
MacDonald „ „ „ MacDonald.
„ „ Colonial Heroes.
Pratt s Chart of Chords Teaches Piano or Organ
Playing in One Day. A Complete Self-Instructor, en-
abling brilliant accompaniments to be played without diffi-
culty to any song. The Simplest and most Comprehensive
Chart Published. Endorsed by teachers and musicians.
FREE.
The Price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 5s., but to
introduce it into every home we will send
Free the Giant Album of 184 Songs, words and music, con-
taining many old and new favourites, together with the Chart
for only 2s. 6d.; posted, 2s. 8d.; stamps, 2d. extra. Add two
extra stamps for extra postage and packing if you want any of
the above .Marches Free. Add exchange to postal notes.
Anglo-American Publishing Co., 468 George Street.
Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this paper when writing.
-Just out, fourth edition.
Price 5s. 6d., Posted.
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGCSON 4 CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
NO BREAKFAST TABLE
IS COMPLETE
WITHOUT A BOTTLE OF
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
‘jjl
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents— VTßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
S.M. Herald, giving a list of aboriginal
names suitable for the N.S.W. Federal consti-
tuencies, includes “Tara” among the bunch!
Alas for “ The Harp that Once ! ”
At the formal hoisting of the British flag
at Johannesburg, a tall Free State artillerist, it is
related by Bennett Burleigh, refused to remove
his hat, and a fellow-spectator tried to pull it o f.
Whereupon a British soldier standing near—tore
the man’s hat from his head and trampled it
underfoot, as one of the Australian stay-at-home
Jingoes would have done ? No—he pushed the
aggressor away, saying—“ Let the man alone !
He has fought for his flag—you don’t fight for
any ! ” Which was true chivalry.
Justice G. B. Simpson, trying the Patrick
Pratt murder-case, in Sydney Criminal Court, last
week, adjourned at the usual hour in the evening,
observing to the jury that “ it is improper in a
capital case to sit until a late hour.” It probably
did not occur to his Honor that he sat in the seat
formerly occupied by Judges who bullied juries
into verdicts in capital cases through all hours of
the night.
With the unconditional surrender of 5000
of the Boers’ slender remaining forces, the end of
the S’African War (which, it is officially an-
nounced, will by February next have cost sixty
millions sterling) can surely not be far off. The
Transvaalers announce that they intend to con-
tinue the present guerilla warfare while awaiting
the result of the U.S. presidential election, and
declare that the Democrats have promised to inter-
vene if the election is in their favor. Which
prospect of another foreign war is not likely to
help the Democrats in their electoral campaign.
The regret for the recent assassination of
the King of Italy involves, for the world in
general, something of a personal character, inas-
much as Humbert, like his father before him, was
a man of the “real human” stamp, with little
taste for statecraft, and a hearty dislike of every
kind of “flummery.” Ever since the belauded
unification of Italy, however, the burden
of trying to be a Great Power has been
breeding revolutionary mischief. The people
have found that it is possible to pay too dearly for
a sentimental satisfaction; and, though the mur-
dering anarchist is an extreme development, the
present temper of the Italian masses, especially in
the South, is hardly one to be struck with any
overpowering horror at the deed.
Joseph Abbott, the heavy-minded ex-
Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly, was hard hit last
week when Miles beat him for the Joint Stock
Bank directorship by some 400 votes. Taken with
the odium which Abbott has earned in the A.M.P.
Society as directors’ chairman and upholder of the
crooked proxy-vote, this means that Joe’s chances
for Federal election are very small. That is all
the better, for Abbott has no brains to place at
the Federal service, and stolid Respectability is
cheap. Abbott’s life has been an excellent
example of the public reverence for Outsides.
Give the public a 6ft. 2in. man, broad and weighty
in proportion, with a face modelled and shaved in
the Respectable way; and the public will push
that man far if he looks wise and says little.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co. reports a fair amount doing in wheat during the
week at late prices, local millers and Queensland shippers
being the chief operators. Home and foreign agents have
been unable to keep up to the local prices except for the
very best samples. London advises market depressed
owing to favorable harvest prospects : N.Z. f.a.q. worth
30s. for 4861b5. ; longberried, 31s. for 4961b5. ; quotations
nominal. Which means, locally, 2s. 6Ad. per bushel f.0.b.,
New Zealand. With the co., 2s. lOd. is top quotation for
prime quality, chickwheat and pinched being sold at
2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. per bushel.


20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and 1 can certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
Business Announcements.
THE
BEST FOOT
FOREMOST
Is an old saying- frequently heard at
home, but how many people have a
“best foot’' which they care to put
forward ? Character is often revealed
by the shape or condition of a shoe.
Now you can always distinguish the
“HERZ” shoe, because its wearer is-
never ashamed of it. One has a feeling
of being “well-dressed” if the “HERZ’”
shoe is part of our outfit. The reason £s
not far to seek :
PERFECT SHAPE,
which is never lost in wear,
BEST LEATHER.
The Finest Quality that can be
procured.
ABSOLUTE EASE
and comfort in all weathers,
wvvvw
Ask for and get
The “HERZ” Shoes,
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
USE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONERS
rm %•
*
ft*.
IWTEHT LEATHER BOOTS
‘GLAZED RIOS M
»•* ?]*•* »u
*•>*•'«* *■>» tvu i «***<*
r^saiiiiy
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
'old by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICAC
Take
4*
44
OfWwp
e fjks
m
\\
mm fk
r«§. OF all (JiEAUSTS
(throughout Greatßritain&theColonies
Linum Catharticum Pills purc!/%uibic
“ i£ COACUUINE •
Transparent Cement, for au Broken Articles
*'gout v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
•development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not And any Musical Publications that
compare in variety or value with the
Australian..
Music gooks
Price, 1/-
. . or . .
Posted, 1/2.
No, 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
of Moderate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE CRIEC ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a, marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will be sent
Post Free for the asking.
wr If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send direct to
Pan $ Co. proprietary [td.
Music Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins st., Melbourne
LADIES >
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Sooks. Books.
DOI'ULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for AT. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, A 7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
(.3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated. Can
only he procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this pa per.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streeo, Sjdnev.
FORBICrKT STAMPS.
POSTAC
'Catalogues of
B. DOIUNE,
f 'HEAP SETS. —24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
v - y 40 Japan, Is 6d ; XI Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Albums, Packets, etc.,gratis. CHARLES
346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Post Pree for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
BOOKLET
Of RARE
ROOKS.
LLUSTRATED
T~
■ XJST n A TED
TX/TTH numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and engrav-
ngs, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the errand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by iirnoranb
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS, 1900.
J, J, MUSK'S SPOTTING PAMPHLET
And Athletic Record.
Price Is. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
TRicoEoey
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY..
A correspondent writes:—
I have a great idea—the biggest Fat Man idea of the
age. I propose that the landlords of each large Austra-
lian city and its suburbs should form an association, and
I think it possible, by a judicious exposition of the
advantages to be gained, to get them all into it. In fact
lam sure I could get them all into it. All rents would
be raised 50 per cent. The Association’s officers would fix
a minimum rent for every house, office or warehouse, on
the basis of 50 per cent, advance on present average rates,
and the landlord would bind himself under heavy penal-
ties not to let below that rent —he could let as much
above it as he pleased.' This would be easy; landlords
don’t object to more rent. The great increase of rents
wouldn’t drive people away, for there would be no
cheaper place to go to. Of the extra rent one-fourth
would be paid to the Association ( i.e ., the landlord whose
house is now let at 20s. a week would raise the rent to
30s. and get 275. 6d. for himself, paying the Association
the other 2s. 6d). Out of the fund thus created the Asso-
ciation would pay half-rents on all empty houses
(thus the house which now brings in 20s. a week
when occupied would then fetch 13s. 9d. a week when
empty.) This would prevent landlords being driven to
leave the Association and let their houses at non-union
rates if they chanced to have much empty property on
hand. Rents on empty houses would take only a small
part of the Association’s funds ; the balance would be
spent at first in buying up vacant land in all the more
onvenient suburbs in order to prevent promiscuous
building by non-union landlords. The Landlords’ Asso-
ciation would build on the purchased land, but would do
it judiciously, so as not to create an undue supply of pro-
, Perty. The rents from" its properties would enable it to
buy more land, till it had a grip on all adjacent vacant
soil, and could prevent any non-union landlord building
within easy reach of the city. By this great accumula-
tion of property it would have a huge income apart from
the contributions of its members. It could start Pen-
sions for Aged and Decayed Landlords. It could lend
money on mortgage to its own members at 2£ per cent.,
so that the Associated Landlords would have a great pull
on non-union landlords. In the end it could cease taking
contributions from its members, and might even pay
them dividends. And every member would be getting
275. 6d. a week rent where he used to get only £l, and
13s. 9d. a week where he used to get nothing, all these
other advantages being thrown in gratis. The idea of a
Cast-Iron Association of United Landlords has great
possibilities about it.
The British Jingo papers scent danger to the
Empiah in the presence of colonial contingents in
South Africa. Extract from a Pearson publica-
tion
The Biggest Danger That Has Ever Menaced The
United Kingdom.
We are so much accustomed to having the probabilities
of a war between Great Britain and the rest of Europe
flung in our faces, that, it is to be feared a great many
people consider that the only danger to the British Em-
pire is in such a conflict.
But few people seem to take into consideration the fact
that there is a far greater menace to the British Empire,
and that is—the Empire itself.
This may seem a paradox. It is not so. Far and wide
the Anglo-Saxon has established the feet of its manhood,
until the tiny country in Europe which we call the
United Kingdom, finds itself at the head of the mightiest
Empire the world has ever seen.
Aye, and a united Empire, indeed ! The war in South
Africa has proved that. From Canada, from Australia,
from India, from New Zealand the sons of the old Empire
have rallied round the flag with unequalled loyalty.
“ Quite so,” you say contentedly. “ Then why croak
about there being any danger from"the Empire ?”
One moment! What will happen after the war? The
men of Canada, the men of New Zealand, the men of Aus-
tralia will go back to their homes glowing with patriotic
pride. That is the danger. It is then that the reaction
will come.
They will say : “ What have we done? We have proved
that we can raise soldiers, as good and brave fighters, as
skilful as any in the world.”
That will be the first grumble. Then they will say :
“ Look at America. At one time she was a colony of
England. It is true she was shamefully governed,
while we have been governed wisely and well, But still,
we are not our own masters. The Imperial Parliament at
Westminster is our master. What does the Imperial Par-
liament know of us ? ”
Then the grumble will become a roar. The young lion
cub will have suddenly awakened to the fact tM- he has
claws. The next step will be secession.
An Australian Scout-corporal, from
Boesman’s Kop, South Africa, May 30 :
Dear Bulletin.—l don’t suppose the Orange Free State
exists any longer, for we could hear the guns from Bloem-
fontein, the other day, proclaiming the territory British.
On Queen’s Birthday some 14,000 troops paraded before
Gen. Kelly-Kenny and staff, including the Duke of Nor-
folk, who, with all his “ blood ” and money, is undersized
and as black and grizzly as an old-man chimpanzee.
Kelly said the Scouts were a splendid body of men, and
he meant it, for next day 35 of us were told off to scout
for different battalions. Bloemfontein one would expect
to be extremely healthy, as it is clean enough and built
on the open veldt ; yet the average daily mortality is 15,
rising some days as high as 50! At any moment one has
only to glance towards the cemetery to see a funeral. I
was told off as corporal with four men to scout for a
division of the Imperial Yeomanry, and, so far, have found
the officers all right. In fact, they rely on me for nearly
everything. “Corporal, do you think it is worth while
, to search that farm ? ” “ Corporal, shall I give this man a
pass or not ? ” In fact, if a horse is lost, it’s—“ See the
• corporal of scouts ; he and his men will find it ” ; which is
about the simplest thing we are asked to do. Scouting,
however, isn’t all velvet. F’rinstance : From our camp
here at Boesman’s (pronounced Bushman’s) Kop, between
Bloemfontein and the Waterworks, I w'ent out yesterday
about six miles ; but, nearing a farm, I left two men out
of range, while I went up to reconnoitre. I pretended to
be passing the place, when buzz ! buzz ! came two bullets
unpleasantly close, so 1 skipped for shelter, and sent one
of the other chaps back with a note to the division, while
we other two kept watch and blazed away at their win-
dows—not without getting a few in return. However, on
the arrival of 20 of the division with a gun, the white flag
was shown, and two men made prisoners. The farms I
have visited, though, are mostly only occupied by women,
the men being either still fighting or prisoners with the
British. Some of the women talk English. Eggs they
*ell you at 2s. 6d. a dozen ; a sheep, 255. ; and dried
fruit," Is. per pound. If you ask the distance to
any place, they give it in time—counting about six miles to
the hour. One cannot help pitying these poor people.
They are hospitable to a stranger, and have been led in
their ignorance to believe that the Britisher is little short
of a fiend. Nevertheless, the majority of. Boer girls, after
they know a Britisher or Australian for a time, and find
him a decent fellow, would sooner marry him
than a Boer. The British, by the way, will, I
think, make a tremendous mistake over the native ques-
tion. The Kaffirs were not brutally treated by the
Boer, as a rule, but were respectful, and took their hats
off to a white man. Now, however, they are quite
cheeky. Is not the Britisher their brother and their
equal? As for the much-talked-of peculiarities of the
British “ toff” officer, our own colonel and captain (both
M’sP.) are thorough gentlemen, and good fighters, but
their “ swearing” simply makes an Australian shriek with j
laughter. A nigger with his mule-team ran into the guy-
ropes of their mess-tent one morning, whereupon out
rushed one and let off the following objurgation : “ Oh,
you dashed miserable niggah !—don’t you evah da-ah to
run into an officers’ tent any moah ! Oh 1 you wretched
niggah ! ” I nearly burst thinking of how an Australian
would have handled the siituation.
An Australian Johannesberger—now on a
flying visit to Melbourne—who lately did three
months fighting under Buller, and has sampled
British and Boer sentiment in the Orange State,
Natal and Cape Colony, declares that the present
dragging-on of the war is due to the feebleness of
Roberts’ early proclamations. He talked like a
diplomatic suppliant rather than an inevitable
conqueror, and the Boers took him at what they
thQught to be his own valuation.
Men just out from S’Africa state that
young Winston Churchill has made an utter ass of
himself in his straining after effect. His “views”
and allegations have disgusted the moderates (who
know the country) by being pro-Boer when they
might fairly have been pro-British, and vice-versa.
Churchill’s own story of his escape from Pretoria
is quoted as an instance of his suppressing truths
that would have told against the Boer Govt, in
order to make himself look heroic.


BOTH SIDES of the CASE.
Is it worth While to Buy the
Encyclopaedia Britannica ?
VyHEN a man asks himself whether it is worth while to buy a book, the burden
or proof rests upon the book, and not upon the purchaser.
The vis inertias , the rule that change and movement shall not occur without a
cause, is the elementary law that keeps the planets in their places, and it is as sound
a rule ot conduct as of physics. There is the money at the banker’s, capable of
transformation into any one of a thousand pleasing forms, and desirable in itself
without%ny transformation ; a power in reserve, a sword in the scabbard : and a
sword that does not rust, but grows longer and sharper day by day : doubling itself
after a few years, if one leaves it undisturbed. Yet within the last year more than
twenty-six thousand of the people of Great Britain and her colonies have exchanged
money for copies of ££ The Times” reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, be-
lieving that the books are of more use to them than the sovereigns would have been.
Why?
To begin with first principles, every man lives by the exercise of his wit, the use
of ins mind ; the capitalist and the landowner as well the merchant and the pro-
fessional man, for it needs as much intelligence nowadays to keep money when one
as it as to make money m the first place; the percentage of persons who are
unable to take care of the money they have, and to get the best value for the
money they make, being quite as large as the percentage of persons who are
unable to acquire money. The brain is the watchdog, as well as the money-getter •
the housekeeper as well as the breadwinner. Thought has taken the place of
physical force. The cave-dweller who could run fastest and strike hardest
brought home the largest store of meat and pelts, when the world was young.
-Nowadays the man who thinks quickly and accurately is the man who attains
ins object in life; whether it be power or pleasure, power for good or
tor evil, enjoyment for himself or for other people. The cave-dweller had
to eat meat and wear skins in order to gain the strength to seek for more
meat and more skins, and we have to spend money in order to train our minds.
. unn § t “ e . earlier years of life we give nearly all our time and energy to this train-
ing, but it is only the foundation that we can hope to build before the struggle beo-ins.
A man cannot cease to read and think when he has completed the process of formal
education any more than he can cease eating when he attains adult stature. His
rmnd works with or without his consent: it is a ship in deep water; it may be
guided, but there is no anchorage, it must move in one direction or another. Of all
the winds and currents which affect its course there is one influence that never ceases
to influence of the printed page. Everybody reads, everybody thinks about
Z f ie reac ‘ s - . he rea ds nothing but jests, his thoughts never rise above a titter :
i e reads nothing but the weekly police reports, his mind never escapes from the
og of crime and misery; if he reads nothing but cheap fiction, his mind never
grasps, the essential facts of life. Everyone, however, reads one thing worth reading
nowadays, tne daily newspaper. The man who has not heard of the South African
campaign, of any one of the dozen topics of the day, is unimaginable, he ceased to
exist when popular education became part of our national life. And the reading of
ie news of the day is m itself a keen stimulus to mental activity. Fiction is mixed
with the tacts ; matters not worth a thought must find their place in the newspapers
as ley co in the world s history, which it is the function of the newspaper to
chiomcle from day to day. But, on the whole, the world’s doings yield sound food
01 thought, and every man who reads his newspaper, and thinks about what he
leads m it, is using his mind to good purpose. If he does not think about it, his
time has been wasted ; he might as well have been shaping the paper into boats, like
a child, or tearing it with his teeth, like a puppy.
It is when he begins to think about his newspaper that he finds the need of
books. The newspaper may print a war-map to help him understand the move-
ments of an army, but it cannot print a treatise upon every subject which the news
of the day invites attention. Yet the treatise must be accessible if the news is to
be clearly apprehended; the reader must refresh his recollections in one case, acquire
new information in another case, in order intelligently to form his opinions. Books
aie as indispensable to the newspaper reader—and therefore to everyone—as a
chart is to a navigator. A library of some sort is a necessary of intellectual life.
_ The question, then, changes. Is it worth while to buy the Encyclopaedia
Britannica rather than some other systematised library ? A systematised library
it must be, since its function is to answer questions to meet any one of the doubts
that present themselves from day to day. Here, again, the consideration of cost,
m the other uses for money, must be faced. The Times (London) Reprint of the
.Ninth Edition of the Encyclopaedia. Britannica is a much lower-priced
book than the original impression, completed nearly ten years ago, although it is a
verbatim reprint—the same words in the same type, the same illustrations, no
abridgement or curtailment. But, notwithstanding the reduction in price, it costs,
even now, in the cloth binding, ,£l7, or, in monthly payments, 17 guineas, at the
rate of one guinea a month.
Can an equivalent library be purchased for less money ? Not in the form of a
woik of reference, that is certain, because there is in the English language no other
wot k of reference which attempts to treat in detail any such a variety of subjects as
are included in the Encyclopedia Britannica ; it is, in its own field, quite with-
out a competitor.
Cannot a man, however, purchase isolated treatises, dealing with the various
branches of knowledge, for his money ?
That is a question which everyone can answer for himself; it is a mere matter
of figures, and the calculation will, in itself, furnish agreeable and instructive food
for thought.
Of the sixteen thousand articles in the EncyclOpSSdia Britannica.,
at least fourteen thousand are brief essays. There are certainly not more than two
thousand subjects which are each important enough to justify the existence of a
separate book upon each subject. Of these, not more than five hundred are long
enough to make each a book in itself.
Upon nearly every one of these five hundred subjects separate books have been
published ; many of them written by the same men who wrote the articles for the
Encyclopaedia Britannica. Everybody knows roughly what books cost,
a good history, so much ; a good biography, so much ; a good hand-book upon any
special subject, so much.
, r^/ ie satisfactory way to answer the question at the head of this column,
taen, is to take pencil and paper and estimate the cost of five hundred good books
If the total be more than a hundred guineas, as against seventeen guineas, there
is very little room for doubt, and the order form which follows presents itself
opportunely.
SPECIAL ATTENTION
the necessary delay in receiving the
England.
is directed to the fact that a stock of the Encyclopaedia Britan*
nica is carried in Sydney for the filling of immediate orders,
thus saving the carriage cost from London, as well as avoiding
work that has heretofore prevailed when orders were sent to
f A esi( ients of Sydney and suburbs who find it more convenient may examine at the establishment
ft i ST 5- ,JL Baling & Co., Limited, 338 George Street, specimen volumes of The Times Reprint
, K Jjjllc y cio P? e( dia Bntannicain the several bindings. A sample of the Revolving Bookcase mav
i e , s ® en > and orders for the volumes and the Bookcase may be given without extra charge. Orders
i w . receive the same prompt attention as though left at the office of The Times. Readers
Mar,?™ * * m°° P ™ S ° f -^ pap , er anc * des * re to leave page uncut may, upon application to the
pritdb 1 XHE IIMES ’ eithe rby post or personally, obtain a detached order form similar to that
THE REVOLVING CASE.
...J
I
I
V
s-.u
Temporary Prices for the 25 Volumes.
Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling - of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
FULL
MOROCCO
17 Monthly Payments of One Cuinea, each
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
22 Monthly Payments of One Cuinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
29 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £6s]
£29
The first innn s £ Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
FreUr ? Subscribers m New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporarily.
ORDER FORM—CASH PAYMENT.
Subscribers whc
£ld be n H^wnr na i SaVir !? ° f ? n i Shilling in the « uinea - asshown above, and no orte'Tform*
i elect to send Cheque
order have the advan-
s required. Cheques
The Times (London),
ORDER FORM—MONTHLY PAYMENT.
(Date)
To the Manager, “The Times” (London), New South Wales Office, .»>
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of the Encyclopedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
(A) CL i«L W n Ch 1 fere®.tp make to you, or to anyone you may ap-'i
(Vi) half mnnnrrn 1 monthly payments of one guinea each.
( ) HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone vou
(C) FULL y MOROCCO^r ti T- al h I ? C>llthly f PaylnentS of one S uinea each. f
t ) rULL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone vou I
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each. J
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
shall be the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered thereturn of thi B °denoir f nforseen . circumstances, of which you
agreement. ’ return or this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel the
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired.
[Syd. Bul. FA. 121
Signed.. ~
Occupation
Address.
ddiverffs to be ShaH the " ame ° f the


LOOK UNDER YOUR NOSE. 0.i»6
A Realistic Story just published by Dr. Hodgson, of
Sydney (author of The Secret Society in Hodgson’s Tales
of Medical Students). All Bookstalls and Booksellers.
Wholesale —Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Bydney.
The Federal Spirit-
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
D.S.M A I F?
g p
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
t>EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
Jd wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
ither remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
DEAF
9EAB
Any Bushmfan Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crpbrocatioo-
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain '& blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6. ltocke,
Xompsitt & Co., Druggi-ts, ‘292
Fiinders-street W., Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
Amusements,
•HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management ol William Anderson.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 3, LAST NIGHT OF
The World Against Her.
SATURDAY,. AUGUST 4, the Latest London Success,
THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING,
The Tyranny of Tears,
by Mr. 0. Haddon Chambers.
Prices as usual,
the Grand.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
NANCE O’NEIL as FEDORA.
In Preparation, TESS OF THE D’URBERVILLES.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, August 4, at 3 O’Olock,
Scberek’S Orchestra.
(60 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR .. HERR BENNO SCHERER.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
£XHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
THE POSTER ADVERTISEMENT BALL.
THE LATEST LONDON NOVELTY.
In Aid of the Children’s Hospital.
Under the patronage of His Excellency, Sir John
Madden and Lady Madden.
The merit of the Poster Ball is that it combines un-
rivalled opportunities for charming and effective dress-
ing, with an absolutely unique means of bringing an
advertiser’s interests under the notice of the public.
Each participant in the ball is, so to speak, a living poster,
and the effectiveness of such an advertisement may be
easily imagined. Prizes are to be awarded.
Mr. Chas. M‘Mahon, the committee’s representative, is
authorised to arrange terms, <fcc., with advertisers.
JANET LADY CLARKE, President.
H. BYRON MOORE, Hon. Treas.
COLIN TEMPLETON, Hon. Sec.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manaarer, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutns.
Every Evening at 8 o'clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
2nd WEEK and CONTINUED BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of the WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
The Hose of Persia .
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
■pHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
There is NO abatement in the INTENSE INTEREST
created by BLAND HOLT'S
Wonderful Military Melodrama,
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
ALL ENTHUSIASTIC! ALL FULL OF APPROBATION.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Sivy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAY,
THE DUKE’S MOTTO,
“I AM HERE.”
SIXTH SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 3,
That Stupendous Monument of Shakespeare’s Genius,|
HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees Messrs. Wyld and Friedman.
WAR BY BIOGRAPH,
TWICE DAILY
I AFTERNOON, at 3,
\ EVENING, at 8.
IN SOUTH AFRICA WITH THE TROOPS.
Only Genuine Biograph
in Australasia, direct from falace Theatre, London, with
GENUINE WAR FILMS
taken at the front by the Biograph War Staff
Prices of Admission—3s., 25., Is. No Early Doors or
Booking Fees. Children Half-price to Matinees Only.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
J. A. MILLER, Representative.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of
T=t Illee Barlow.
Splendid Success of EMMONDS, EMMERSON and
EMMONDS, PAUL’S 1900 CENTURY ANIMATOGRAPHE,
Billy M'Clain, M. Cordelia, Alma Gray, Roy Oashin, and
all our Great Double Co. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
First Appearance of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Latest Grand Production,
A TERRIBLE NIGHT.
WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, Mr. Tod Callaway, Dr. Leigh,
Dora Taylor, Eva Lee, Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman,
Fred Duncan, Alf. Lawton.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
GENTLEMEN 1 1
Write at once for SAMPLES of the
NEW SPRING SUITINGS
and we will forward to you FREE
SOMETHING THAT WILL PLEASE YOU.
Our New Spring' Goods are Now Beady.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
ART TAILORS; and
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Excellent Cutters in Attendance.
Watch the Sydney Daily Papers for OUR
SPRING ANNOUNCEMENTS.
fringes,
tfktura! Curly, front 3/6 oaok.
PLAITS and TAILS,
}(Hn. long, fc/O. all real bal*.
CUTTINGS & OOMBINQa
i*Orited up, 3]6 per oz.
We ore the cheap eStio Aa»
trolla let at] Uair Work.
Send Color o( Bair* '
W. H: Wigz«ll;
■ no William Stbbbt,
•enter of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will atop at Door-
Seed stamps for full Price
Piagipt ettentiou'giyon to Country Old ore.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
( Registered.)
rPHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
JL out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. fid. per box. Obtainrble at Roeke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders- reet Melbourne. _____
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New # Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free._^
EUCRASY
Address or call on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Federal Spirit.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
WATCH MANUFACTURERS
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
Onr Watches Have Advertised Ps.
OUR SALES AVERAGE 1000 A YEAR.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED TO WEAR A AND KEPT IN THOROUGH REPAIR
(Breakages Excepted) FOR THREE YEARS.
THE GOLDSMITHS’ AND SILVERSMITHS ALLIANCE.
SKETCH SHOWING FINE FINISHED
WORKS.
Special Lever Watches.
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS.
SPECIALLY MADE TO STAND ROUGH
RIDING AND COUNTRY WEAR.
COMPENSATED BALANCE,
EXTRA JEWELLED AND
ADJUSTED.
GENT.’S SIZE.
Silver, Open Face. 40s
Oxidised „ ~ 25s
Nickel „ „ 25s
Silver Hunters— 45s
GENT.’S DOUBLE
CASE 14c. GOLD
FILLED CASES, |
WARRANTED TO
WEAR
20 YEARS.
A REMARKABLE
VALUE WATCH.
£4 ss.
ilsM
Ml
if W 1
l*s*ss { if*i!f»jf»'
WOM
M
WAV.V
v//.V,VAV,V.V.V
Wwm
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING
MONOGRAM.
C 1 /
i2s 6d
!2S 6d
12s 6d.
12s. 6d.
LADIES’ SIZE.
Silver, Open Face.. 40s
Oxidised „ „ 35s
Silver Hunters 50s
GUARANTEED TO WEAR FOR A LIFETIME.
&s
OASES IN TEN (10) DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
The Goldsmiths’ & Silversmiths’ Alliance
LADIES’ GOLD KEYLESS WATCHES,
RICHLY ENGRAVED CASES and
ACCURATE TIMEKEEPERS.
9c., 70s ; 14c., 90s ; IBc., 110 s.
Silver, 255, 30s, 455.
Our Famous Nickel Open-
Face Lever Watches,
Accurate Timekeepers.
Exceptional Value.
ENGLISH HALL-
MARKED ALBERTS.
9c. Gold, Single... 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. Gold, Single... 955, 110 s, 130 s.
Silver, Single 7s 6d, 10s, 13s od.
9c. Gold, Double.. 60s, 755, 90s.
15c. Gold, Double.. 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
Silver, Double.... 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Please send for our
Illustrated Slips of Latest
Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Best Quality Coglisb Silver Plate.
NCiodreds of Latest Novelties
Four-Bottle Out-Glass Lunch
CRUET, 17s 6d.
60 other Patterns, from 12/6 each.
New Shape SUGAR SCUTTLE,
richly engraved, 21s.
Other shapes, from 15s.
Out-Glass Dinner CRUET,
Four-Bottle, 30s ; Six-Bottle,4os
Others, from 20s.
**♦ LATEST DESIGNS in JAM SPOONS and BUTTER KNIVES. *** BEST QUALITY SILVER PLATE.
5s 6d each, or 12s 6d pair in a beautilul Velvet Case. 6s each, or 13s 6d pair in a beautiful Velvet Case.
Pair Richly Engraved BUTTER KNIVES
in beautiful Velvet Case, 10s.
Or 4s each out of case.
Kb patrons.
We do not Publish
a Catalogue, it
being quite im-
possible to keep
one up-to-date our
Novelties arriving
by every Mail
Steamer. We shall
be pleased to for-
ward full particu-
lars on application.
Pair of Silver-Mounted Cut-Glass KNIFE
RESTS (in lovely Case), 15s 6d.
Single Spoon, 6s each ;
or pair Jam or Fruit Spoons (new shell pattern),
in Handsome Velvet Case, 13s ®d.
0 Afternoon Tea Spoons & Tongs, in lovely Velvet Caselis


Worn out with Work.
run down in health.
DYSPEPTIC AND WEARY.
Still another Great Recovery.
The Case of
MRS. LILY DUNNICLIFF.
(A SPECIAL INQUIRY.) ' „
Most of the suburbs of Newcastle are
swamps in wet weather, dust bins in dry,
and alike destitute of gardens and greenery.
A notable exception is Waratah, as the
residents have found out ; and so thought
our reporter, as lie looked about for the
residence of Mrs. Dunnicliff, a well-known
dressmaker, on the Maitland Road, at North
YVaratah. Mrs. LKmnicliff was at home, and
expressed her entire willingness to afford
our representative every information as to
her sickness and cure. ‘‘lt has often been
in my mind, ” said that lady, “ to write my-
self and tell what wonders Clements Tonic
has worked for me ; and nob only myself,
but my husband also.”
'■ Will you kindly tell me, Mrs. Dunni-
cliff, how your sickness arose ? ”
“I was worn out with work, thoroughly
run down in health, and a sufferer from a
severe form of indigestion ; also my mind
was affected, so that I lost my memory; I
could not recall a thought the minute after
it bail occurred to me. I would go into
another room for something I wanted, and
when I got there would forget what I came
for. A'l over my body I had a weary, sink-
ing feeling, with no desire or energy to do
anything. I lost my interest in what was
going on about me, and felt drowsy and
dull. My appetite was hardly worth calling
by that name. I had no liking for my food,
and what I did eat did not seem to afford
me any nourishment, while it gave me
extreme pain and distress.”
“ What sort of pain, Mrs. Dunnicliff?”
“ After a meal a great feeling of weight,
ike a hard lump, would come in the chest,
i’hen I suffered from a wretched headache,
with pains down the neck and spine ; a pain
between the shoulders that went like a knife
right through my chest; a pain that felt,
Its nearly as I can describe it, like the agony
of toothache in a new place. My nerves
were quite upset; I started and trembled at
the least thing, my nerves being always at
a painful tension. At the slightest sound I
would jump and sometimes scream ; I could
not restrain or control myself; and my
\eart troubled me, its palpitation at times
>eing most distressing. Another complica-
ion arising from my sickness was an
bstinate constipation that would not yield
o ordinary treatment. All day long I
vould be drowsy, but at night-time I could
et no proper rest. I would turn from side
i side, trying to find an easy place ; and
vhen I dozed I was troubled by dreams—
nd always unpleasant dreams—horrible
hings that frightened me so that
-[ woke up with a start and a cry. I found
ny eyesight suffer, my eyes becoming quite
weak, so that I had to take to glasses ; but
they were affected most strongly when I
went to stoop down or bend over to lift any-
thing. Then I felt as though the top of my
head was coming off in one piece—a most
horrible sensation that convinced me that
something was radically wrong, and the
precursor of some dire calamity. And when,
after stooping, I stood up, my brain would,
be all of a whirl eyesight SO'
obscured that for a time I could not see at
all.”
“ Surely, Mrs. Dunnicliff, you did not let
yourself get so bad as this without seeking a
remedy, or obtaining medical advice ? ”
enquired the reporter.
“As for doctors,” said Mrs. Dunnicliff,
“I never went to one ; but I have a volume
by an eminent M.D. with many valuable
recipes, some of wire!) appeared to be suited
to my case. I trial one after the other,
getting them made up at the chemist’s ; but
for all the btmdit 1 derived I might as well
have taken so much water.”
“ What did you do nex 1 1 ”
“ I came across a book describing the
merits and curative effects of Clements
Tonic. There were records of a number of
cases cured, with the symptoms from which
the patients suffered. 1 started to read
carelessly, but as I proceeded I became more
and more interested, for I found there cases
just like my own. All my troubles, all my
aches and pains, were recounted with a
minuteness and fidelity, as though it was
myself who had giveu the testimony. When
I had finished perusing the boo> 1 closed it,
firmly convinced that 1 had at last found a
remedy for my troubles, and that my days
of misery were numbered. I told my luisb ud
of the opinion I had formed, and he readily
agreed. This is how I came to take Cle-
ments Tonic, and so find the medicine that
restored my long lost health ; for it was
restored, and very quickly. After I com-
menced the new treatment I was able to
throw off the languid and weary feeling that
had dragged me down. My brain was
strengthened, so that my power of memory
was restored. My digestive powers im-
proved in a won lerful way. I enjoyed my
meals as I had not done for a long time,
and my food did me good and strengthened
me; and more than that, the heavy pain in
the chest was a thing of the past. My head
got clear of the aches that used to shoot
right down my neck and spine. My spirits
brightened up, and my nerves were braced
to a normal sensitiveness, so that I became
indifferent to the sudden sounds and noises
that used to startle me. It was as though
Clements Tonic had found out every weak
spot in my constitution and re-huilt and
strengthened it, for during the daytime I
was no longer drowsy, and at night I got
perfect rest, free of dreams. Even the
nerves of my eyes were fortified, for my
sight improved. You may be sure such a
wonderful recovery greatly delighted me,
and I am never tired of recommending Cle-
ments Tonic to my friends.”
“ Will you let us publish what you say in
the public press, so that others may see it 1 ”
asked the newspaper man.
“ Willingly ; it is only right. By other
published testimony I was led to
find a priceless remedy for my sufferings ;
and I hope what I have said will have the
same result; and you can make what use
you like of what I have told you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Lily Dunni,cliff, of Maitland-road, North
Waratah, Newcastle, in the Colony of New South
Wales,do solemnly and sincerely declare that lhave
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
four folios and consecutively numbered from one to
four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish
the same in any way; and I make this solemn
declaration voluntarily, and without receiving any
payment,,_conscientiously believing the same to be
true, andbv virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her pre-
sent Majesty, intituled, “An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and nradein the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at North Waratah, this 13th day of
September, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
nine, before me, GEORGE BUTTS, J.P.
ssitoßs to the old country:
Under Kqyal Ritronage.
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSlfffiTOfL
LONDOfiSW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
One of the FINEST examples
OF MODERN OAK CARViNG EXTANT
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping: Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
CRGSOI.EKE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same t: me preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm,
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists. , ,
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
This is fche Latest Type !
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE
Price, £7.
TALKS! SINGS!
PLATS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing* to g*et out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d ; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
S3T Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldersiiaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DBIfY COMIFBTIXIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of 8
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODAlL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W. A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
MERCHANTS !
WHY push
“ other fellows’ ” Coupons
When you can PUSH YOUK OWN
by using the ....
national Cash Register Coupons
■>
In place of paying the“ other fellow ’’ Five Pounds weekly,
and advertising his business, you can issue your OWH
Ccupons at a next-to-nothing cost !
It is a well-known fact that
half the Coupons issued by
the Storekeepers are never
returned.
WHO gets the benefit of this ?
You or the “other fellow” ?
This is worth your serious
ccnsideratien, and it will
pay you to investigate the
NATIONAL ..
Cash Register
COUPON SYSTEM.
Full particulars on application to . . «
National Cash Register Co.
335 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. Ifc 18 mo f b com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is geneially sufficien ,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Coughs!
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cougti was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benelit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to'
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at. once, and
gradually improved. I am glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. I am delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to fc:Mid quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HE ARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up hero, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine;
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears' Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle oured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY OURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
' “Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
OURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Oharleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states : —“ I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic is a phorphorised iron syrur
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Ire you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MAUNC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(LIMITED), '
DAPTO (Lake Iliawarra), near SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
w" r
& ■ '
.. - -
•- —-—
■v. • *
■
■1
MAKERS 07
“S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER, LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all olasses of OOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAG'S, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
. “ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
> AND
THE AGED.


Your HEALTH
and ENERGY
c«n be RESTORED
BY
» OO
• •• •; ». . ,
‘ rjHg. -O; O’
* ■ *
o.#
•• • T
o
o
9o
»o
*cf
Yo
«C*
O o‘.‘ '
m
Cj ,
O. O
* K*
r 0
-* «
„ - J’*' o ’' 0 *
v ;* : tl*»- *
*
£1
STJ
!. F/
*. vy.
//M^
8
THE ORIGIN OF A GREAT DISCOVERY.
Amongst the citizens of Australia, and in all parts of the world, Bile Beans FOB Biliousness have earned for themselves by their un-
equalled excellence a reputation which places them to-day far in advance of any other similar preparation. This specific is not a carelessly
prepared nostrum ; on the contrary, it is the result of long and thoughtful research on the part of a medical man, who, after years of study
discovered a natural vegetable substance which, after further study, he succeeded in compounding with other ingredients so that its effect
on the digestive organism of the human system is identical with that of the natural bile created by the liver. Finding this, then to be the
most natural cathartic obtainable, the public rapidly accepted it in preference to all others, and consequently the old methods of starving
and the use of pepsin and bismuth sank into insignificance and oblivion. Acting on the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile Beans do not
weaken or in any way distress the patient. This is a point in which they differ materially from nearly all laxative remedies sold to-day as the
latter usually act in a violent manner, weakening the patient and in many cases doing more harm than good. Bile Beans have been aptly termed
“a medicine for the people at a popular price.” Many wonder how this remedy can have the great virtue that we claim for it and still be sold
at so reasonable a price; yet the solution is simple. Millions upon millions of Bile Beans are consumed annually (a fact that in itself is of
positive proof that the world’s inhabitants know how to appreciate a really genuine remedy, and that they have found that remedy in Bile
Beans for Biliousness). Owing to this immense annual sale we are enabled to purchase the very best drugs in exceedingly large quantities
and thus get them at a great deal lower price than if we bought only moderate quantities at a time. . Then again, Bile Beans are manufac-
tured in possibly the largest and best-equipped laboratories m the world. In this, establishment only the very best of latest improved
machinery is used, and this fact also greatly minimises the cost of production. Thus it will be seen that through the great consumption the
proprietors are enabled to sell this valuable remedy at a price that places it within the reach of all.
Bile Beans are sold everywhere at 13|d. per large box, or may be obtained from the Aust. Depdt, Bile Beans Manufacturing Oov
39 Pitt-street, Sydney. ' 1 8
An Old Kettle.
“Clara, my dear,” said her mother, I think
we will have a cup of tea before we go out.”
“Just the very thing, mother,” answered her
daughter, as she rang the bell for the maid.
“Makesome tea, Mary,, as mother and I have
decided to have a cup. Don’t be long, Mary, for
we have little time to spare.”
In fifteen minutes two cups of tea were brought
into the sitting-room, but neither mother nor
Q,
5:
m
J.
m
c
mw«
SO-S*
daughter
could drink
it. Mary
was sum-
moned into
the room,
and was
asked what
was the mat-
ter with the
beverage.
She acknow-
ledged that
it had a
foreign
taste, but
she could not
account for
it. The rea-
son was dis-
covered the
next day.
The kettle
was one
year old,
and certain substances in it had corroded. And
so it is with our system, but Bile Beans for
Biliousness will regulate it. We allow the system
to go too far without cleansing it, and when we
get ill we wonder what is the matter. Mrs.
Shergold, of Wilton-street, Newcastle, was in bad
health for 19 years, and when seen by a New-
castle Hekald reporter, she made the following
statement:— °
“ They would almost save you from your coffin.
I shall ever be grateful,” she added, “to the lady
who advised me to try them. I had been suffer-
ing for four or five years, more than I could de-
scribe, and these Bile Beans have cured me. X
am now able to do that which I could not think of
attempting before.”
“ w hat were your symptoms ? ” inquired the re-
porter.
X had been bad off and on for nearly five years
suffering from general weakness and a bad
stomach, and for 19 years I had suffered with my
head. A little over a year ago I consulted a doc-
tor, and he gave me a prescription for indigestion
This gave me no permanent relief. Then I tried
another doctor in Maitland, who said I had rheu-
matics in the head. He, too, failed to do me any
real good, and as month succeeded month I grew
worse, and the more I tried to rest the more
tired I became. My nights were a perfect
misery to me, for the want of sleep I
got so bad eventually that it was not only
a difficulty for me to walk, but it was painful
to even bow my head. I commenced taking the
Beans about eight months ago. I felt a relief
after the first couple of doses, and in a short time
I felt completely well; I can now eat and sleep
splendidly, and it is a pleasure for me to take a
walk out. Yes,” added Mrs. Shergold, in reply
to another question, “ you are at perfect liberty
to publish my testimony. It is the truth I have
told you, and while I tell you the troth I do not
care if it is placarded all over Mere wether.”
Rusher : Melb. Argus played most ingen-
iously into the hands of Ararat (Vic.) publicans and
Sinners With its first rabid boom reports of Mt. William
the boost successful bread-and-beer rush that has hap’
tiened along in Victoria of late. After a fortnight there
Were close upon 5000 men on the field, a field that offered
good returns for a score, and perhaps tucker for a couple
Of hundred. The rush has been ruthlessly engineered in
the interests of Bung and the Ararat tradesmen, and if a
thousand or two of the disappointed and disgusted diggers
who were inveigled in from all over the Australian shop
, Upon , Ararat - armed to the teeth with
, a !l d shovels, and smitten that town heavily, wreck-
strnitk Ilf poe A ,c jostice would have been done. I
6 early m its histor y and found it
grabbed beyond all hope, the pegs running over into
country that didn t prospect a grain to the acre. The
wages stuff is all in the creeks, and a “ claim ” is merely
the narrow scraps of shelving bank, chock-a-block with
granite boulders. With smart, business-like handling the
best holding might be run through the sluices in a week •
but the prospectors’ claim, in which the local landowners
ar . e ' n '® rest ? d . a good show, is worked fitfully, apparently
possible 6 °^ keeping things going as long as
* . . * • •
Br ° ke “Hm directors are in clover. Lead has
gone to £l9 a ton ; 12 months ago it was £l4 ss. : in ’94 it
was down to £9 10s. In the history of the B.H. Prop Co
the lowest ever averaged for the metal in a half-year was
T il that was ln the second part of ’94. The'highest
E* 0 ” th | P res e nt />se, of which £l9 forms the summit, was
*' l4 I j S j was 111 earlier half of ’BB. There is
a /ood deal of mystery about this jump, which the co.’s
advisers did not expect. That imposing
usually spoken of as the statistical position
has not been looking much better than usual ; on
the other hand, the recent news from ’Murka and
elsewhere was that there had lately been great activity
in re-opening old lead-shows, closed down during the
slump. Said slump was mainly the result of the big
Production (the two metals are most
often found together) by the U.S. silver legislation of 11
years ago. Silver, too, is selling at an advance of about
l£d. on the average quotation of six months back. Fact
appears to be that some people reckoned on India rushing
for gold coins, but the native who has been fingering
silver for innumerable generations is too tired to change
so there is a demand for the white metal for Indian
coinage, and a pretty fair assurance that that demand
wnl continue, despite much-talked-of “ Indian currency
* * * ♦
The British B.H. will be a big gainer by the
rise m lead ; its ores, like those of the South, are heavy
in this metal. The former co.’s half-year just closed, in
spite of heavy expenses for underground development
ana adjustments of plant, show as good figures as the
previous term did—and they were the best in the co.’s
history. In view of what has happened in connection
with the South, it is just as well to note that there are
contributing as well as paid shares in the British. In pro-
portion to the output the South is, however, the biggest
gainer by the rise in lead. Its ore averages just under
zu per cent, lead (in the week before writing it was 19'9
per cent.), Boz. silver, and 181 per cent. zinc. (The aver-
age for the main workings of the British is 16 per cent,
lead lloz. silver and 15£ per cent, lead.) The South’s
developments continue good. Also here, as at almost
every mine on the main lode, a great deal of machinery
construction is in progress. Since the beginning of the
year nearly 1000 men have been added to the B.H. com-
panies’ staffs.
* * • •
the fi rs t half of the year Broken Hill ex-
ported £151,305 worth of crude ore (net value at Broken
Hdl), against £128,819 in the first half of ’99; concen-
£B°9 ' 45 £. a small increase ; zincs, £18,572 ; copper,
£534° But a better idea of the rush there has been to
get out the ore, and so take advantage of the high prices
of metals, may be got from the fact that the value of im-
ports (including- 63,000 tons of coal, coke, <fec.) jumped
2 uarter of a miuion > comparing this half-year
with the first half of ’99. *
* * • *
Mr. Jaquet, N.S.W. Geological-Surveyor, haa
reported in favor of smelting-, at Lithgow, the Oarcoar
iron-deposits. He estimates that there are over 24 mil-
lion tons ore in sight, enough to keep a blast furnace,
consuming 2000 tons of ore weekly, going for 25 years on
ore containing 50 to 65 per cent, metallic iron and 6 to 7
per He estimates that pig-iron could be pro-
duced at Lithgow at £2 Bs. per ton—more than £1 less
than its value m England to-day. Mr. Jaquet is now pre-
paring a report to show how the Carcoar ore-supplies
might be supplemented by those from other districts on
the Western line. Mr. Jaquet, doubtless the ablest
mining-man in N.S.W. Govt, service, is well worth lis-
tening to.
* * • *
Mount Drysdale (N.5.W.).-It was printed last
week that 50 tons from between 242 ft. and 275 ft. levels
had been treated at Dapto for 14250 z. ; a shilling div. was
declared. After a day or two it transpired, in the usual
casual Mt. Drysdale kind of way, that the yield
wasnt 14250 z but £1425 worth. Stated (also in
the usual Mt. Drysdale way) that the ore at bottom
level is fabulously rich, one section assaying l 90oz.
gold PC* - ton, another over 400 oz. It is too much to ex-
pect that the bulk will go anything like this, but it is
reasonable to think that the co. will have a number of
very rich ore consignments. The show consists of a mas-
sive, low-grade, but payable formation, in which there
‘,L a „r nder ? llly »ch P‘P e - 11 has Paid Bs. 6d. —over
£20,000—111 divs. within six months, and the price of the
shares, 265., is sufficient proof that there are a number of
others in sight. The stigma of a patch mine will stick
to the Drysdale, because of the sudden transformation of
five years ago. But the biggest of the Kalgoorlie
mines is more or less a patch mine. They are all
made up of rich and poor ore-lenses, and it is
the number of patches established by development in the
few great mines that enable something like regular pro-
duction to be kept up. Imagine a long string of
sausages, some of them beef, some pork, and a lot of them
sawdust, and the reader will get some faint idea of what
writer means. Imagine, too, the Mt. Drvsdale mine
within, or on the fringe of, the “ Marvellous Mile ” at
Hannan s ! It has now a market value of about £60,000.
If it were over there it would be considered quite cheap at
hve times the money. There isamine,theGoldenLink(why
not the Missing Link ?), within the Mile which has more
than that value. It has never had a crushing worthy of the
name ; at any rate, it has never had a div.—it hasn’t the
hope of one ; and there are half-a-dozen mines outside the
Mile which have a higher market value than the Mt.
Drysdale to-day not one of which has found any payable
ore, while each has spent more than the value of the
Drysdale in fruitless prospecting. For monuments of
mining folly go to Hannan’s.
• • • m
Wentworth mines (N.S.W.) : The untiring
Newman, M.P., has at last got the management of the
whole group—Wentworth, D’Arcy Wentworth, Aladdin’s
Lamp, and Wentworth Extended. Writer has heard
several persons, ex-managers and others, declare what
they could do if they only had the control of the mine for
a time. Newman has been given the opportunity. He
has lived more than half his life on them, knows every
inch of the ground, and should be able, better than any
other man, to unearth some rich bonanzas if there are
many of them lying about. Of a hundred stories concern-
ing the concealment of bonanzas 99 are false. The next-
hardest thing to finding a bonanza in any mine is to leave
one behind.
* * * *
Girilambone (N.S.W.): “Shares have been in
improved demand of late.” Even that immortal tipster
“ has never lost faith in them.” Many people would have
preferred to have lost their faith if they had saved their
money ; anyhow there is a cross-cut going out which will
prove the mine at a deeper level, and it recently struck
some ore where none was expected. It was not very rich
but is “ improving every foot.” It is also making a little
water, and has other signs generally regarded as good.
North Nymagee, too, took a spurt lately. Made a little
money by sending down a parcel of ore,' and another was
expected. Last report is not encouraging. Lode in face
• about 2ft. wide, composed of quartz and gossan carrying
a “Me gray ore and native copper. For the last 10 or
12ft. the lode has been somewhat pinched owing to a
bulge m footwall." Anyhow there are four men breaking
ore in a stope, and there are buyers at 2s. 6d.
* • * *
Does Minister Fegan’s proposed amendment of
N.S.W. Mining on Private Property Act include opal?
Bulletin has heard of a recent instance where it would
have been useful to a prospector.
* * * *
“G.M.” : ‘Let ’em all come’ —prospectors,
gully.-gougers, and the rest. Wanted to know, a simple
and effective method of distinguishing (without chemical
intervention) alluvial tin from mineral and metal of
kindred color and aspect. Burning on shovel, water-dis-
coloration, tin flashes and such-like futilities, barred.
* * * *
Horn Island. — Official advices of first clean-up,
2800 tons, 2060 z. bar gold, besides 36 tons concentrates of
value unstated. There is the usual excuse : “ a consider-
able quantity put through the battery had to be removed
from the quarries to admit of operations on the payable
ore.” Well, why crush it if of no value? It is much
cheaper to remove mullock from the battery than to mill
it. Manager wired : “ I have no doubt we can improve
upon this ; results so far satisfactory.” Great Scott!
What would be considered unsatisfactory? Considerably
less than 2dwts. to the ton ! The concentrates would have
to be very rich seeing that less than one ton comes from
100. Manager estimates that “ when the mine is in full
work the cost of mining and milling will not exceed ldwt.
per ton.” Well, it costs more than that at Cobar, where
there is unlimited ore worked by open-cut, and with
bigger batteries than they have or are likely to have at
n° r O Island. It costs even more than that at the
Alaska Treadwell, where they have the biggest battery
in the world. It costs more than that all over
the world where wages are infinitely lower than they are
or are ever likely to be at Horn Island. Distance lends,
&c. A year ago Horn Island was declared to be a 15dwt.
show, and many people bought shares up to 15s. under
that impression. No explanation of this disappointment.
“ Results considered satisfactory 1"
* • * •
Mr. Fred Merton, of W.A., claims to own Aus-
tralia’s “biggest” lone-hand gold-show. He writes to
The Bulletin, from Perth :—“ Enclosed par. from Perth
Morning Herald, which I have signed as correct. It will
give you a true impression re my mine, for which, I may
tell you, I would not accept the best price ever offered for
any mine in Australia. Watch my returns, and you can
form your own ideas. Mine open for inspection by any-
one at any time. More gold showing over a larger area
than in any other mine in W.A.” Here is the Perth
Herald par. :
“ MERTON’S REWARD.—THE JUNE YIELD.
“ Mr. Fred Merton, sole proprietor of the famous Merton
Reward mine, at Mertondale, in Mt. Margaret district, has
arrived in Perth, on a fortnight’s holiday. He informs us
that during the month of June he was able to work the
battery only 12 days, owing to water running short.
During those 12 days 400 tons of ore were crushed for a
return of 1108 oz.—just over 2foz. per ton. It was in
March of last year that Mr. Merton discovered the pro-
perty, and since then he has been delayed by the usual
difficulties that dog the feet of the prospector in the back
country, and also by a lengthy legal action. These
troubles notwithstanding, he had by Sept, last got out
about 1400 oz. of gold, and erected a 20-head battery,
which has since been running as regularly as the supply
of water will admit. In all he has crushed 2450 tons ore
for 71570 z. gold. The value of the gold per ounce varies
slightly, but will average over £3 15s. So far no stoping
has been done on the mine, practically all the ore treated
having been taken from development work. No. 1 incline
shaft is down 120 ft., and there the lode is 30ft. wide, and
will yield 2ioz. gold to ton. No. 2 incline shaft has been
sunk to 195 ft., and at that depth the lode is Ift. wide, and
averages over soz. In No. 3 shaft, down to 120 ft., the
lode is 6ft. wide, and worth 2£oz. Stone a free-milling
quartz, thickly studded with fine gold. It would be safe
to say that Merton’s Reward is by far the richest singly-
owned mine in the province, and the economy which is
exercised in its development and the treatment of the ore
is as remarkable as the wonderful richness of the pro*
perty. Mr. Merton claims to pay higher wages than
anyone else on the field, but says that his milling costs
him only \4s. 2d. per ton, and mining only 12s. He
further states that in the course of two or three months,
when the provision he is now making for the securing of a
regular supply of water has been completed, and when
he starts stoping ore, he will be able to show a clear profit
on 3dwt dirt. Mr. Merton manages his mine himself, and
to that fact may be attributed much of his success. _ It is
much to be feared that in the case of a public co.
having a battery that would crush 1000 tons of ore per
month, and a mine that could keep up a yield of that
quantity of stone, giving an average return of 2Joz. per
ton, no very serious attempt would be made to keep the
total working cost down to a basis of 3dwt. ’ per ton.
Throughout the province, and particularly in the district
north of Menzies, numerous instances have been furnished
of working miners making big profits out of properties
that have been abandoned as worthless by English
co’s, and a comparison of Mr. Merton’s working costs with
the working costs of almost any mining co. in the province
should throw some light on this subject. Mr. Merton
says that he has no intention of selling his mine. He
thinks it probable that at a later date he will put up a 50-
head mill, but even under present conditions he has
enormous profits in view.
» • * *
Mt. Morgan G.M. Co.: The 15th annual re-
port, giving the transactions of the half-year and year, is
in every respect the finest that writer has seen—an object-
lesson for every G.M. co. that has a mine to work. It is
complete in every detail, and though comprehensive con-
tains no padding. 0utput—238,276 tons, an increase of
34,774 tons for the year; yield, 187,3520 z., or 22,4420 z.
more than last year, the average showing a slight falling-
off—l44grs. per ton. Nearly 60 per cent, consisted of
low-grade oxidised ore, 16 per cent, was medium-grade
oxidised ore, a little over 7 per cent, higher-grade mundio
ore, and 13J per cent, low-grade ditto. Average grade of
all ore treated during year, slightly over 15Jdwts. per ton
—about Is. 9d. less than last year’s average value. Divs.
for year, 7d. monthly, or £350,000 in all. Wages alone
absorbed £126,921 ; div. duty cost £17,500, and royalty
£8641. Directors’ fees, £l6OO, which is not excessive,
considering the magnitude of the mine, and modest
compared with the sums paid in London for infinitely
less value in services rendered. Last year the mundic ore
yielded 2oz. Bdwts. per ton ; oxidised ore, lOjdwts. per
ton, the low-grade a little under Bdwts. This year the
mundic ore averaged 2oz. 2|dwts.—a decrease of nearly
sJdwts. ; oxidised ore, a fraction under 2oz. per ton —an
increase of over'lOdwts. in favor of this year. The low-
grade ore was slightly lower this year than last. No less
than 28210 z. gold came from slag, ash, lead-scrapings,
etc., sent to Aldershot during the year. In the produc-
tion of chlorine there were used—manganese, 956 tons ;
salt, 900 tons ; sulphuric, acid, 3307 tons. It is interesting,
too, how the percentage of chloride used in treating the
mundic is coming down like that of cyanide in solutions.
This year’s consumption of chlorine is 26 per cent, less
than last, though the chlorine requirements of the high
and low-grade oxidised ores remain practically the
same. The percentage of extraction is slightly higher
on all the ores. The bulk of the manganese
comes from Gladstone district, and still maintains its
high quality. The salt supply comes from S.A., the
sulphur from Japan, and from these commodities the co.
makes its own sulphuric acid. Every g.m. manager in
Australia should try and get a copy of this report. In-
teresting as it is it seems to have escaped the attention of
all the big Australian dailies.
• * * •
Westralian gold production : —First six months
of year 698,4170 z. as compared with 647,9140 z. for corres-
ponding period of ’99 ; but latter part of last year was
notorious for a phenomenal production, which is unlikely
soon to be repeated. Lake View alone turned it out at
the rate of nearly a ton-and-a-half a month, and the Asso-
ciated averaged more than four times its present output.
The Western Argus, the champion W.A. boomster, “ has
reason to suppose that history will repeat itself, and that
the figures for the ensuing six months will show a large
increase on corresponding period.” It is indeed hard to
believe this yarn. True, there will be a few returns from
Boulder Perseverance, Lake View, and Great Boulder
sulphide plants, three or four at most, but it is
utterly unlikely that all combined will make up the
phenomenal yields of last year. No mention of the fact
that the Boulder and Perseverance returns were consider-
ably larger this time last year, or that the Ivanhoe returns
are bound to be considerably lower during the remainder
of this. New auriferous areas are being opened up at
Lawler’s, Mt. Higgins, Leonora, and other places, but
time will not permit their adding much to this year’s
gold output.


FOR PUNY,
DELICATE
CHILDREN
ANGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION combines the soothing and healing properties
of our specially-purified petroleum with the tonic and nutrient properties of the Hypo-
phosphites of Lime and Soda. Bland, soothing, creamy, the little ones like it, and take
it readily when they cannot be induced to take Cod-Liver Oil. For those who suffer
from lack of nutrition, who are pinched in appearance and puny in development, it is
just what is needed. Their food agrees with them better, and is perfectly digested. They
eat better, digest better, sleep better, and gain in weight, colour, and general health.
Give it to the children when they cough, are scrofulous, or losing flesh, when their food
does not digest, or when their bowels are out of order. The Medical Profession prescribe it
largely in such cases, and it is used in Children’s Hospitals.
AH(SIER’S
PETiOIEHH HIMII
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881
In Great Britain since 1892
In Australasia since 1898
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
A London Physician to one of
the Childr/en’s Hospitals writes :
I have carefully tried your Emulsion, and I
find it espeoial/y soothing in Bronchial affections,
soon easing t,ne cough, and the children rapidly
gain flesh. In young babies teething I find it
a most va/uable preparation, for it quickly re-
lieves the /cough which so often affects them at
that time/ Many take it easily when they will
not take oil.
Delicate Child with Cough.
71 Llewellyn-street, Pontygwaith, Glam.
Dear Sirs, —My little boy, aged 65 years, has
derived great benefit from the use of Angier’s
Petroleum Emulsion. He could neither eat nor
sleep, and used to get up in the morning more
tired than when he went to bed at night. He
used to cough nearly the whole night through, and
had been in this state for nearly twelve months.
He has taken no end of medicines, including
emulsions of cod-liver oil, but derived no benefit
from their use. After taking only one large
bottle of your Petroleum Emulsion he is now com-
pletely cured, and I shall never be without a
bottle of it in the house.
(Signed) B. RICKARD.
Delicate Baby.
41, Faith-street, South Kirby, Wakefield.
Dear Sirs, —I have a little daughter one year
and nine months old, who has been very ill for
over twelve months. Everything she had to eat
used to come back as soon as she had taken it, and
the doctors here had given her up many a time,
but before she had finished the second bottle of
Emulsion she was that fat that nobody would
know her as the same child. I shall always re-
commend it to my friends, and you can use our
name as much as you like.
(Signed) JOSEPH MILLARD.
Delicate Children.
Marston Guide Post, near Northwieh.
Dear Sir, —I thank you very much for your
sample bottle. I have been waiting to see how
much good the child received before writing. I
can now say that it is the best remedy I have
ever used. My sister and I have obtained two
bottles from Northwich, and we find it does good in
many ways, more, really, than is prescribed. It
is especially good for coughs and colds, for the
appetite, the bowels, and does good to the whole
system. The children are looking better already.
They take it splendidly,. no trouble or fuss. No
more buying cough mixtures for me. I shall
always keep a bottle of your Emulsion in the
house.
• (Signed) M. RILEY.
From the Hon. Supt. Cottage
Homes, Chingford.
Dear Sirs.—l am pleased to tell you that the
Emulsion has entirely cured the little one’s cough.
Being away from home, I could not see our doc-
tor, and became very anxious at the cough con-
tinuing so long. The sickness very soon ceased
on taking the Emulsion, and the cough as well.
The friend with whom I was staying used the
Emulsion for her little boy, who had an attack of
Bronchitis, which it soon relieved, and ultimately
cured. It also cured the cold and cough of her
little girl, and the child of a friend, suffering from
Whooping Cough.
(Signed) A. M. STEER.
A Birmingham Physician on
the Staff of a Large Hospital
for Children writes
I have given your Emulsion to hospital
patients and others, infants especially, with great
advantage. They take it well, and it does not
disagree. The children to whom it has been given
have improved wonderfully under it.
Delicate Child With Weak
Lungs.
Upton Bishop, Boss.
Dear Sirs, —I write to tell you of the good effect
of your Emulsion in my little boy’s case. He is
but two years and six months old, and has been
very delicate since birth. Last winter he had a
severe attack of whooping-cough and inflamma-
tion of the lungs, and it left him with weak lungs
and a perfect skeleton, and we could get him to
eat next to nothing. Thanks to your medicine,
all that is now changed : he is the picture of
health, quite fat, and a, perfect romp, never still a
moment. This great change is entirely due to one
large bottle, besides the sample bottle which you
so kindly sent me.
(Signed) K. TINTON.
Delicate Since Birth.
129, Beach-street, Deal.
Sir, —Some three weeks ago I had a bottle of
your Emulsion for my little boy, who has been
very delicate since birth. We have tried other
Emulsions, and have given him cod-liver oil for
five years, but nothing has done him so much good
as your Emulsion. After taking a few doses, he
had better nights, and his cough was not so
troublesome ; in fact, your Emulsion seems to do
him more good than all various medicines I have
tried. I got a bottle last week from Mr. Head,
chemist, and hope he may continue to improve.
His age is seven years next June.
(Signed) JOHN EDWARDS.
Cough and Cold on Chest.
3, Anglo-villa, Norman-road,.
Leytonstone, Essex.
Dear Sirs,—l received your bottle of Petroleum
Emulsion last week, for which I thank you. It
has quite cured my little boy’s cough and cold on
chest. I think it is splendid for children, as it is
no trouble to get them to take it.
(Signed) M. YALLENTINE.
Immediate Effect upon Delicate
Baby.
Bolam Crofts, Belsay, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Dear Sirs,—l have delayed in writing you until
I could see what effect your Emulsion would have
upon my baby, seventeen months old. From
birth she has been very puny. Last Christmas
she took bronchitis, and never really got over it
for when I sent for your Emulsion she had a very
bad cough and could eat nothing. Would you
believe it, before she had finished your small
bottle her cough had wholly disappeared. I sent
to Morpeth for another bottle, and I expect before
long to have a strong little girl.
(Signed) M. YOUNG.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage. Mention The Bulletin.
CA UTION.
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil
_ obtained from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process.
Imitations made with ordinary petroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petroleum
Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
ANGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION.
AND BE SURE THAT YOU GET IT.
Of all Chemists and Drug Stores - - 2s. 9d, and 4s. 6d.
The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Head Office: 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
A Barbarian.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See you, ye pious frauds, in me,
The Father of a Family !
Not fashion’s niggard two, not four—
A good barbarian half-a-score.
Big girls and small, fat boys and lean,
Of course a baby yet to wean.
O ye who prate philosophy,
Shame on your sleek economy !
See you, ye pious frauds, in me,
A generous and full-bearing tree !
And proud I am that part to play,
I met a chap the other day,
Bays he —“ How many be they now ? ”
Says I—l taps my ample brow—
They run close up to half-a-score.”
Says he—“ God send you many more ! ”
“ God send you many more, and luck 1 ”
His record, blow me !is a duck.
I pray that he may live to be
The Father of a Family,
Not fashion’s niggard two, not four,
A good barbarian half-a-score . . .
■Maybe he’ll wonder where he are,
And value babies under par.
I have my griefs, I have my cares,
I don’t get high up Fortune’s stairs;
'There is no joke in half-a-score
"Who clean their plates, and ask for more ;
There’s Bob—he’s great on bread and jam,
And what togs cost don’t care a damn!
He’s jam from collar down to knee—
I s’pose I’ve “ too much family.”
But just two kids—no, that ain’t right!
For some it’s one, and then “ good-night. ”
Why, bless your heart, that isn’t biz.,
That’s not the way a nation’s riz.!
Two don’t add one, as you will see,
Therefore, it is no family . . .
Say, missus ! stop that blooming row,
And let me finish—here and now.
You smoke cigars and drink champagne—
Those luxuries I must disdain ;
Perhaps you neither sow nor spin,
I lick the kid who wastes a pin ;
While you are free at large to roam,
I am a slave tied down to home ;
You coddle self ; they coddle me,
The missus and the family.
And this, ye pious frauds, I know :
The years may come, the years may go,
And age may chill me to the bone,
I never shall be left alone
To fret life’s lees out by myself,
Unloved, forgotten, on the shelf.
He lacks not love who boasts, like me,
A good barbarian family.
y.
ANDREW SARD.
Lonesomehurst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the crest of that long, low hill, that bites a big,
dark mouthful out of the straight Southern sky-
line, is Lonesomehurst. Most of these imposing
houses are tenantless. The larrikin-winds play
devastatingly in their empty rooms, the pale grass
grows in the eraberless fireplaces and struggles to
kiss the anaemic light-rays that wander in at the
ever-widening wall crannies. Outside, frogs croak
unceasingly in the unused cisterns, and the
weather-beaten, ant-tunnelled fences stoop with
the langour of swift-coming collapse.
I’ve gone to live at Lonesomehurst. No more
city, awhile, for me. The plague-germ is a social
little beggar and likes crowds. He will probably
avoid Lonesomehurst.
Tell you about Lonesomehurst! Its Genesis or
its Exodus? It has had both, you know. Well,
12 or 14 years ago some portly city men, with the
hodden-grey intelligences that develop through
much concentration of thought on hides and
talldw and jute-goods and fencing-wire, suddenly
and unexpectedly disclosed the possession of the
imaginative faculty. Spurred by a desire to find
a quicker avenue to wealth than is afforded by the
drab, well-trodden paths of commerce, they suc-
ceeded in convincing themselves and others that an
organisedinflationofland-values was the true Phil-
osopher’s Stone. All that was wanted was plenty of
wind, and as the fat men were in purple earnest they
soon produced an iridescent bubble of a land-boom;
but, alas ! as unsubstantial as the dome of a palace
seen in dreams. How it shone and glittered and
glinted in the meretricious sunlight of a delusive
prosperity ; and what faery fortunes were minted
daily, hourly, midst its prismatic lights!
Presently, north, south, east and west spread the
flying buttresses of this dream-palace. Far out
beyond city and nearer suburb arched these
shimmering promises of wealth —mere illusive
rainbows —but one of them seemed to rest for a
moment on a green southern hill. Everybody
knows there’s a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow
—and so Lonesomehurst was conjured out of
bricks and mortar in a month.
*,* * *
“How on earth did you come to put your
money into such a rotten spec. ? ” I asked the
question with ready, if shallow interest, to a dis-
gruntled pioneer of Lonesomehurst who spends his
days and his nigh*- groaning over his vanished
“Vez o'rter seen the plan !” he replied, with the
ardor of self-justification. “Twuz the foinest
plan ye ever see ! Twuz mounted on rollers no
lis§ !- —an’ the ’lotmmts wuz all a beautiful skoy-
biae, an’ the name .of th’ blashted place was
printed in goold, sir—goold ! ”
And the look he gave me was an appeal tor
sympathy for a man who had been lured into th©..
purchase of sky-blue allotments in a place with a
gold name, at some £8 a foot!
* « * *
The boomsters of Lonesomehurst must have been
men with big ideas; nothing so common as mere
streets for them. To this day each grass-grown,
vaguely-indicated thoroughfare is an esplanade,
or a “parade,” or a “boulevard ” 1
The dejected pioneer’s temper rises when the
word “ boulevard ” is used in his hearing.
I had asked him if he had seen my children
gathering mushrooms down the Boulevard.
“Drat thim furrin names ! ” he exclaimed with
some heat. “If we hadn’t been all clane crazy
the very sound uv thim shud have frightened us
out uv it. An’ we shud a taken warnin’
from the very threes they planted in their
boolevard. Nort’ uv Oireland pines —no
liss —and cupressy macrocarpy, an’ outlandish
threes loike that! An’ look at thim now ! Did
as hirrins, bad cess to thim, and the little spal-
panes uv gum saplins shows their contimpt by
goin’ a-boolevard-in’ all over the place on their
own, as the savin’ is ! ”
True, the laying out of Lonesomehurst is a
monument to the vanity of human prescience.
The track of the primal bullock-dray—temporarily
obstructed in the boom-time hey-day—has pre-
vailed over the pretentious “esplanades” with
their straight lines and severe right-angles, and
follows its old-time line of least resistance with an
exaggerated meandering, as if it gloried with
muddy truculence over the reversion to primitive-
ness. That bullock-track always suggests to me a
Goth trampling on the cherished ideals of a
decadent and unworthy civilisation.
• • * <
It appears that when the bubble-dome of the
boom-palace collapsed, and the tentacular rain-
bows had shrunk back to their initial nothingness,
Lonesomehurst, with its 15 or 20 houses, under-
went the vicissitude called “ falling back into the
hands of the Building Society.” This euphemism
is loose in its descriptive quality. Property may
“ fall back ” with the pleasant appetising flop of
an egg into a frying-pan, or it may “ fall back ”
with the destructive velocity of a ballista-thrown
boulder. In Lonesomehurst’s case it was such a
“ hot delivery ” that the Building Society tottered
and fell, and the weight of the whole concern
eventually settled down on the overburdened
shoulders of a weary Titan of a bank.
And so a reconstructed bank, with all sorts of
rum-looking lines in its balance-sheets about de-
ferred deposits and preference debentures, and
whose shareholders were for the most part wan
men with sponged belltoppers and Point de Galle
on their shirt-cuffs, became the unwilling and un-
appreciative landlord of Lonesomehurst ; and
’twas its agent who sent me there house-hunting.
“ Only four or five lef, and 15 at least to choose
from,” he said, with the airy indifference of the
janitor of a morgue—the tragedies of land-owning
were as nothing to him.
Lonesomehurst at first sight seemed to be
covered with “to-let” notices, and it was out of
sheer inconsequent affability that I asked the first
resident I came across if he knew of any vacant
houses in the vicinity ?
But this question, obviously so easy of answer,
apparently caused the man extreme mental travail.
Having made a pantomimic display of all-absorb-
ing thought, he said slowly, “Lemmesee!” (Long
pause.) “I—rather—think—not.” (Pause and
lengthy scrutiny of his questioner.) “ But I’ll ask
Julier if y’like. Ju— li—err!”
A sad-eyed woman came to the door with sus-
picious alacrity. She had, no doubt, heard it all.
“Naw! I don’t know of no houses to let,” she
said** sullenly, and then proceeded to nervously
chew the comer of her ragged apron.
Clearly, there was nothing more to be said.
Two hoydenish girls hung over a broken fence a
few doors down, and I besought them to advise me
as to the most desirable of the empty houses.
They gave a soprano giggle in perfect unison,
stepped back from the fence with a one, two,
three, and struck a stagey pose of astonishment
that would have passed muster as the prelude to a
pas de deux at the Tivoli.
“Law! but a toff like you would’nt come to
live here ! ’ ’ exclaimed one of them—the last word
in most depreciatory diminuendo.
“Why not?” I enquired stoutly. “Only a
couple of miles from the station, healthy ; not too
far from town.”
The girls wriggled their shoulders and giggled
harmoniously.
I was getting annoyed. I was annoyed, and
didn’t conceal it. “ Why not ? ” I again queried
sharply.
“Bees!” said the girl who had previously
spoken.
“Bees!” I echoed in mystification, and said
that a casual apiary I did not regard as a disad-
vantage.
“No, not them sort of bees” —came cheekily
from the spokeswoman. “B-flats! Noffok
’Owids ! Bergs, bergs, ” and the pair rushed off,
laughing shrilly, as though at an indecency,
after the manner of rudimentary womankind.
* * * *
Eventually I took the villa, and found that it
was free from vermin, and, with a little fixing up,
quite a comfortable domicile. Why, then, had
the residents made these barefaced attempts to
choke me off from a tenancy ?
I gleaned this knowledge by degrees. The ob-
jection to me was not in any sense a personal one ;
it was instigated solely by the primary law of
self-preservation. The citizens of Lonesome-
hurst, it seemed, regarded the payment of rent—
that is, the regular payment—as an economic error
of the worst kind. The unnecessary .abjectness
and effusive thanks of the collector when I paid
him one whole fortnight’s rent at once was the
first intelligible indication of this local idiosyn-
crasy. I subsequently found that he had trum-
peted my praises throughout the entire neighbor-
hood, and the resident to whom I had first applied
for information came to me in a monitory mood.
“Look ’ere, Mister,” he said ; “ p’raps yous has
got into the ’abit of payin’ rent reg ler, an’ it
comes natural. But we ’uns up ’ere aint paid rent
reg’ler for years, an’ the Weedin’ ole bank, afore
yous kem, were darn glad to hev us live on its
rotten ole proputty, to keep it from bein’ carried
away. Now you come with your ‘ fortnight’s rent
in advance,’ an’ nark us all,” and the gentleman
spat vigorously and departed.
And then the mother of the girls with the song-
and-dance manners further enlightened me. “This
is the long an’ the short of it, sir,” she said, after
she had amicably borrowed a cupful of sugar and
a candle ; “you aint popular here. You’re a nice,
kind gentleman, an’ so is the good lady, but sence
yous kem that there bank is startin’ to put on airs.
Why, the collector act’ly talked ‘bailiff’ to me
this morn in’ ! An’ him as has alius been so meek
an’ mild, an’ glad to get a bob or two now an’
then. Why, that’s been a-goin’ on ever
sence Harabeller there was a kiddy. I’m
afraid yous ’as done us old ’ands ’ere
a lot o’ ’arm—tho’ quite unbeknownt, a-course—
quite unbeknownst ! ” Then she continued, in-
sinuatingly : “Now, as things is gittin’ ’ealthy
ag’in in the city, p’raps yous ’ull be for goin’
back ! ”
And a sudden thought seemed to strike her.
“ Harabeller ! ” she called. “ Harabeller !—no
—Yera, you’ll do ! Gut down to Mr. Murphy’s
as ’ard as ye like, an’ borrer this mornin’s pyper
ag’in. Tell ’im, pertic’lar, that I want to show
the gentleman ’ere where it says that there aint
bin no plygue in the city for two ’ole days ! ”
J AMES A.PHILP.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Read how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
MB
Y.
r?
y/n
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So. Wales, sends
ns the above photograph of her daughter, together with the following testi-
monial : 49
t dau S' hter was suffering terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Remembering I had received great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter,
boon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old complaint
She is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier,’ ‘
Such cures always follow the use of
“The World’s Greatest Family MJedicme.”
You cannot feel well unless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too Dr
Ayer s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated ? Are your bowels constipated ? AYER’S PILLS.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
%
has been curing l
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASIC EOE
jQmglMc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
GOrTBIOHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.**
Tj'Oß Bi]ious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
. Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos-iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
kurbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sttfferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ W ORTH A
GCIIHiiA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, .Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls and 2s 9d each.
J
PLAIN HOM€ TALK-
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. i 8 gd po st
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. Thu
Art ok Wrestling, post, is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love,Dress, eto. IsCdpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s fid.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 Ulus. Is6d posted.
Lovf.r’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kkllt and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over.3oo latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to M !•> 'lURtsB, Is 6d posted.
Every Man :lis Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NQi. 33. SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOGRS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Sen-Sen (ft
[ FARRINGDON AVENUE\
LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
ik
ire
vet
ni>
IRISH MOSS
IGCORQE r *B‘ONNiNG7ON
ffffffffffffffffff
J
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
_J WHILE
EEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...F08...
Cycle Tyres
£ s. d.
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube 1 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber, 15s. and 0 18
Outer Rubber Covers 0 8
Inner Tube, complete, with Valve ... 0 7
Inner Tubg, not joined, without Valve... 0 5
Re-rubbering Old, Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached.
Wearing Strips, Regular, Ljin. wide
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached
Dunlop Valve
Victor Rims
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application.
We do llepairs.
PERDRIAU&CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Between Hunter and
Bond Streets.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
. ... IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK,
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
34 Clarence
N.S.W.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ 17HE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STIUiIUT, S Y I>NIS Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the- colonies promptly
attended to.
eorg
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
G O GO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
S>*gi
vm
'
SKI
PASTEURISED
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are ffettinff ] ess daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinal make isonMd per lb It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
demised buttered if he will not, send yOUT Orders to US and; we win deliver it at your door,
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or °i ordinaly use
at any pric©« The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ININC MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOHERS,
sr>T,E LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE
j3k.3sri>
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Boasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL.
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds, WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
ill
mm
"DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN <? SONS L™™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PDI7C
r KiZ. t
POWDER.
PICKLES.
83T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address ia not 68$ Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
(SECOND-HAND
® AND
IVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
Jbl Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspeot.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
(3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
