

McBWAN’S ALB
GAELIC WHISKY.
The Bulletin.fd
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest, Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
• . —FOB—
.tVt ming and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAtEM’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
L ■
O
U
idge” Standard
(flood Split pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS :
I. 6UTNRIP6C Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-m
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent,, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° w Htt street , SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for J. & H. McLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Btock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBEHT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery. .
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.—
THORNFS
*•" A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA:
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
mm
1
lu
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Rote!.
PENFOLDS
I WINES
Adelaides Purest
Penfold s Wines are
THE SAFEST STIMULANT
D* Andrew, Wilson.
F.R.S.E&c LONDON.
fg
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTR A SPRAT AT. STTPRETVTP.
SAN DEM AN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
- ■ 241 STREET. SYDWEY,
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
> 10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
PIONEER
d
| LEATHER
teELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRIDES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2* 3 3* 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 ' 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., iLofbus Street, Sydney. •
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
MOST CEUTBALLY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
ONE COMMONWEALTH ONE STIMULANT-
BOOMERANG BRANDY
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10U3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
. selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
rivate Bal
on Most
Reasonable
Banquets and
Dinner
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ir. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.
KAY EYE AR EYE EN
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—No. 1137. j
[Saturday, November 30, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


• The woman who is christened Mary Ann, and calls her-
self Marian, is a woman with possibilities.— The New
Balzac.
t “For to admire and for to see,
For to be’ofd the world so wide ;
It never done no good to me,
Yet I can’t stop it if I tried.”
tlt is ignored if the hypothesis be male or female. By
the way, a scandalous London person is advertised as
inventor of a common-gender pronoun, combined ivonflie
and ishe. A base Phaethonian-thief, of course ; and by
justice he falls from the chariot, broken-winged and
squattering. “Hizzer”! “Hammer"!
* The local compositor's idea—too good to alter.
\
Heady Ist December, 1901.
PRICE, FIVE SHILLINQS.
Tbe BOlletii) Reciter.
%* The best book of verse-recitations
ever published in Australia.
Will H. Ogilvie
Ethel Mills
Jack Mathieu
Dora Wilcox
- J. Crawford
■ -• “McG."
- R, Stewart
Partial List of Contents:
The Billiard-Marker’s Yarn - Edmund Fisher
Off the Grass
The Brumby’s Death
That Day at Boiling Downs
After the Flood -
A Stranger at the TT
The Man with Rubber Pedals -
In the Dead-Letter Offioe-
How M’Dougal Topped the Score
Thos. E. Spencer
The Woman of the Future - * “P- Luftig ”
Stokin’ - - r. * “QuilpN.”
Bucked Off Its Brand *■ - R. A. F.
The Ballad of Stuttering Jim
Samuel Cliall White
The How-We-Beat-the-Favourite Affliction
N. M. O'Downed
Gig Fours -
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
The Jester of the Damned -
Skeeta - - -
Che Currency Lass -
Che Sick Cab-Rider
Gather Riley’s Horse
J’Toole and M’Sitarry
?ACES IN THE STREET -
Che Bush Missionary
V Scotch Night
- - - “ McG.”
“ John Carew ”
- G. H. Gibson
- J. H. Greene
x Bancroft Boake
Roderic Quinn
- Edmund Fisher
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry La wson
- W. T. Goodge
Will H. Ogilvie
And Sixty Others.
A Handsome Volume Bound in Fawn Cloth,
with Red Edges.
Illustrations by “Hop,” A. J, Fischer, Fred
Leist, D. H. Souter, Hugh McCrae, and
Norman Lindsay.
Order at once by sending Five Shillings in
Postal Note or Stamps (of any Australasian
State or Province) to the Publishers —
Cbe Bulletin newspaper Company, £ti,
214 George Street, Bydney, Australia.
4
Also Ready on Ist December,
Cbe Bulletin Story Book.
Price, 4s. 6d. post=free from the Publishers.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular.
«
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents
Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Lid.
Queensland Edwabds, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
South Australia .. .. E. S. Wiea & Son.
Westralia E. S. Wiaa & Son.
Auckland and district .. Wildman, Lybll, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
f
A. The Larynx, or organ of
B.
C.
D.
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
■ for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain A r O cocaine or other poisonous drug
omn nv aii thfMISTS in Tins. 1s 6d: from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—port
80L ?r a ! on recent of stlmps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
The Return to the Native.
KIPLING’S Kim, as a book, is better than
the maga.-fragments promised : possibly
it is Kipling’s best book : certainly it is
the best finished, completest. For sug-
gesting otherwise, pardon ! “ Children should
not see a carpet on the loom till the pattern is
made plain ” says Kim’s friend Mahbub Ali, the
horse-coper. Nor (though the precaution with
which the local painter turns his pot-boiler be
singularly superfluous) critics. “George Eliot”
knew that; steadfastly (in her latter days) refusing
serial profits for the sake of Art and the
Work and the impression totus, teres . . But
Kipling is not Mary Ann Evans.* Com-
mercially and literarily, she had the virtue of
subordinating the Parts to the Whole. Literarily
and commercially, he has the vice adverse.
Yet Kim does open tamely. Later you are
charmed and absorbed. And the book closes with
the old effect of brilliancy, dexterity, et prceterea
not very much. Why cannot Kipling master the
architectonics of the novel ? Why are his short-
stories so much more satisfactory, in the way of
Art ? Because (for a working hypothesis) he was,
is, and will be a precocious Indian child, whose
art stopped short in the Gazette office at Lahore,
and who cannot add a man’s stature to his boyish
cubit. He can see; but he cannot combine things
seen, cannot induce and deduce. (Dorrington is
his local analogue). His clear vision—it is the
child’s; his bright, clean touch—it is the clever
school-boy’s; his fresh, unjaded wonder, his per-
petual interest in the spectacle of life f —these are
the prerogative of the narrow, undeveloped brain,
with energy massed in a torrent, not spreading
in a pool. For the hypothesis’ t buttresses, con-
sider the child and the.savage, (that Other.child)
seen throughput Kipling’s work. Captains
Courageous—a boys’ story-book simply. The
Jungle Books— children’s familiar stories of
animals that talk. Wee Willie Winkie—
stories of children so well remembered, there-
fore so well told. Stalky and Co. —another boys’
story-book. In the short-stories note the domin-
ance of the ghost and the soldier- —superstition and
war —the things that terrify and enchant the child
and the savage. Love enters rarely, and then less
as a thing felt than as a tiling seen. The Light
that Failed missed its mark because Kipling
lacks synthetic power; lie could, see the great
motive, but not in its proportions and relations.
All Kipling’s prose has that panoramic effect—the
effect of a succession of isolated impressions,
detached objects ; and it is so that a child-savage
sees life : he cannot fuse and deduce. And
in Kipling’s verse and other prose; the fond-
ness for machinery—what is it but Budge’s
yearning “to see the wheels go wound”? The
disproportionate stress on the Flag of England,
the contempt for other flags : these are the tribal
traditions of the savage. So on. Survey Kipling’s
work with this idea in mind, and you find con-
firmation everywhere.
Now comes Kim —a story for boys, a panorama
of India. We can like it because *we are all
children of a larger growth, as Kipling is a child
of arrested growth. The boy-“hero,” Kim, is a
bey all through : there are no Passions in the
book; and motley India passes before us in a
succession of pictures, just as Kim passes before
us in a succession of episodes. There is in the
book no inevitable continuity, no vital rotundity :
any chapter could be lopped off and replaced by a
few tag-words without bringing sense of loss.
That is the way in which the child-Kipling sees
Life—as a series of disconnected impressions. And
the essence of Art is to unite impressions in the
Whole of Life—to say why, to show whither.
(Finishes the explication of Kipling with con-
gratulations on having done without -bj-ct-v- and
s-bj-ct-v-: continues the exposition of Earn.)
Have you read On Our Selection ? Well,
Kim is an Indian On Our Selection —with the
difference that India is not Australia, that India
is a larger selection, and that Kipling writes
better than Arthur Davis writes, —so that his
work seems good outside its own country.
Kim is the most difficult thing Kipling has
attempted; and his success is an intellec-
tual feat. Of course, India is beyond any
canvas ; but to put even a glimpse of a little bit of
India on canvas—merely to suggest that mar-
vellous world’s-midden of races and religions—is
one of the most arduous tasks to which a writer
can address himself. And Kipling has compassed
the task. Possibly no man knows India all, the
races and the tongues and the subtleties of minds
inheriting the lore of a thousand generations ; and
only an Indian can judge the measure of
Kipling’s success. At this distance it seems won-
derfully great. My ! how the man has ransacked
his memories ! how he has manipulated his know-
ledge ! how he has sweated for his local colour !
Looking closely, you see Kipling is a locomotive’s
headlight, flashing brilliantly over a small area
as it speeds, and making more intense the gloom
beyond ;—but what is a man to do ? A book is
only a book ; and India is—lndia. Within its
area, nothing too small for the light to illuminate.
Hindu proverbs ; cant phrases polished almost to
epigrams (did S. M. Herald print Mahbub Ali’s
boast: “When I was fifteen, I had shot my
man and begot my man!”); scraps of scenery;
variants of caste and of character;—every-
thing Kipling knows is kneaded in. Even far
-Australia pays him tribute. Surely the Wes-
tralian willy-willy suggested “the wandering
wulhe-wa got up to dance.” (335). ’Tis Cup-
favourite Revenue’s odds that Hurree Chunder’s
“ adventitious aids ” (232) was prigged from P. J.
• Holdsworth’s Bulletin story of Parkes and
Curnow’s oysters. (,“ Hi don’t need those had-
ventitious haids, Mister Cumow !”) And when
Kim commenced in S. M. Herald somebody
having authority commented on this page regard-
ing the, misunderstood Dogra “of lower caste than
a Sikh.” Kipling bows to authority ; and we read
no'v that “a Dogra is of other caste than a Sikh.”
(41).
lor the rest: Kipling’s notion of thq Indian
Secret Service is attractively displayed (he has a
child’s love of the cabalistic Secret). The Secret
Service brings dramatic interest; there is splen-
dent character-interest throughout—men and
women. The Baboo is a marvel, though his con-
trasts are forced ; he wants side-tones and sub-
aspects, but Kipling does not deal in these; a
child does not see them.
At end : after all: a passenger on the road of
Literature, say the pundits; not a landmark.
You remember as you remember scenes passed
in a railway carriage—trees, houses, people
seen for a moment. But Destiny does not
travel by express, and nothing great in
Literature was ever accomplished without re-
*®r®nce tbe Great Motive of Destiny.
Children know nothing of Destiny, and Kipling
never gets out of the railway-carriage. He began
by being clever—inordinately clever, and interest-
ing—exceptionally interesting. He will end by
being interesting—inordinately interesting, and
clever exceptionally clever. Here’s a place for
gratitude, and Kipling in his place.
The Fatal Opulence of Bishops is the title of a
book by a London vicar, just into a second
edition.
“‘The Hunting of the’ Boer” appears in
Lond. Onlooker. Some verses—
They mobilised columns the foe to disband ;
They pursued him with haste and with kits ;
They threatened his life with a Bord semi-grand,
And crushed him with musical “ hits.”
They sought him with Tommies, they sought him with
chefs.
They pursued him with shells and entries ;
They menaced his freedom with musical clefs,
And marvelled at British delays.
They sought him with comforts, they sought him with
crates,
A wild and pursuing C.P. ;
Yet the foe still evades the most tardy of fates,
For a Boer has no luggage, you see !
Some of H. B. Marriott Watson’s newly-re-
printed sketches, The Skirts of Happy Chance,
were pleasant when read singly ; but the‘collection
tastes thin and monotonous.
Pinero’s new play, Iris, at Bond. Garrick
Theatre, is described as his “longest and most
ambitious.” It is -a study of a woman—weak,
romantic, sensual—to the tune of Villon’s refrain,
Always the man with money scores.
The psychology seems, at this distance, too good
to have been palatable to critics with the Chrisfc-
mas-picture mind ; and the triumph of the Spanish
Jew does n’t suit British prejudices on the stage,
though accepted in fact. The Jew is a full-
blooded, scornful person in whose mouth these
words are put—
After all, England is a paradise only for the puritan and
the hypocrite. ( His spirits visin']. ) Ha, ha ! Farewell,
England! Land of lean women and smug men, of the
drooping eyelid and the sanctimonious drawl ! Land of
money-worship, of cant and Pharisaism, of false senti-
ment and namby-pamby ideals—in every department of
life, the suburb of the universe ! Ha, ha, ha ! England,
farewell!
This is not essentially novel or notable—Cunujng-
ham Graham and many others have expressed the
sentiment; George Moore’s “Brixton Empire”
suggested the phrase. But launched on the
English stage, and by Pinero, it is almost
momentous.
Puck: Has it been printed that the favourite
push has Shakespearian authority in Macbeth, v, 3 ?
This push
Will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
The “push” here are the English invaders in
Birnam wood. In Julius Ccesar, i, 2, you find the
similar use of press.
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
The following “dictation paper ” was set at last
exam, of candidate-cadets for Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board. And nobody passed !
The academician versed in chronological data and geolo-
gical antiquities, expert in synthesis and the construction
of exegesis, to whom the differential calculus was arithmeti-
cal simplicity personified, who could startle philosophy with
subtle theses on occult and,abstruse sciences or involve a
tortured labyrinth in philological polemics illustrated by
simile and metaphor and phrased with vocabulistic plenti-
tude and grandiloquent exuberance ; in short,, a veritable
peripatetic lexicon, one whose mathematical disquisitions
on hydrostatic forces and the laws of pneumatics were
quoted throughout Christendom as irrefragable and inde-
feasible. Such a man, I say, with this stupendous learning
may be unable to earn his living in the industrial centres
like Sydney, where common senseis the main factor guid-
ing the hazardous ventures of commercial pursuits and
manufactures to efficient financial issues.
“To whom the differential calculus was (!) arith-
metical simplicity personified (\) ” “Stupendous
learning” and “earn his living” (!)—“common
sense ” (!) and unconscious humour! Who needs to
be able to spell such words as “vocabulistic”
without a dictionary ? Who needs to spell them
at all, when the use of them, unless with a specific
aim, is a proof of incapacity to write good English ?
The height of the W. and S. Board’s satire on its
own ignorance is reached when you remember that
A-less Jacob Garrard is the Board’s chairman !
A. G. Alanson, a sometime Bulletin contribu-
tor, writes the chief serial story in the new
Chatterbox— “ The Diggers of Black Rock Hill.”
It is well written ; but the English illustrator
should be given to soldier-ants.
In The Wouldbegoods (T. Fisher Unwin,
London) Edith Nesbit imitates The Golden Age
and omits Graham’s humour. Some of the illus-
trations by Arthur Buckland are charming.
“Michael O’Brien and his wife Bridget were
old and infirm,” says the first sentence of Virtue and,
Repentance, by the Rev. W. Hampson, a 94 pp. booklet
published by Will. B. Tyndale, Southern Cross, W.A.
The last sentence is : “But Pat O’Brien, before his un-
timely death, had always journeyed in the right direction
to the gaol,* swerving neither to the right nor left, and
heeding not the attractions that sought to divert him
from it.” The rest is between the Rev. W. Hampson and
his Conscience.
Swain and Co., booksellers and Stationers, of
Moore-street, Sydney,. issue a Souvenir of New South
Wales (50 photographic views), which is an excellent speci-
men of the class. But the class grows wearisome. Instead
of reproducing Post Office and Markets ad nauseam, why
not reproduce pictures of bush life and scenery—typical
Australian pictures made by brush, pen, or camera—and
try the public with Art and Nature instead of stucco ?
Boko: In that creditable magazine, The Common-
wealth, N. Lindsay illustrates Ogilvie’s verses, “ Bells
along Macquarie,” and in the small sketch at bottom of
page depicts two men sitting smoking by their camp-fire
with the belled horses. Near them lies a saddle, flaps
down—as no bushman would think of placing it; it
should be placed on end, knee-pads down ; even if it were
to be used as a pillow it would be laid on its back, flaps
in the air. The belled horses standing at the rear are
what heralds term “regardant,” instead of eating as
hungry horses should ; but this position is plainly neces-
sary on account of the kind of bells they wear. These are
fastened by a long strap over the withers, and lie on the
chest, so that if the horse bent his head to feed, the
strap would fall over his head—or, supposing it would
stay firm, the bell would not ring. Horse-bells are
always buckled by a broad strap round the throat. Is n’t
it time we had a few artists with “ bush experience ’’ ?
“ The old feud about mixed classes before nude
models still rages in Paris art-schools ; but the disputants
have new names—the Fig-leaf party and the Don’t-care-a-
flg-leaf party.
“ Also works by Goya, Gericault, Delacroix
Ingres, Daumier, Millet, Puvis de Ohavannes, Rodin,
Alfred Stevens, Legros, Strang, Conder, Rothenstein, and
others."—An advfc. by Garfax and Go., print-sellers,
London. An Australian in good company.
Casual correspondents—
P.H.S. : How does Boake compare with Lawson ? Just
this way : In the domain of Australian verse, Boake-and-
Lawson are fever-and-ague J.W. ; Can recommend
Meiklejohn’s “ Art of Writing English,” 2s. lOd. post-free.
... .G.H. : “ What I like most about ‘P. Luftig’s ’ verse is
the signature : read backwards it says Git Ful!—glorious
advice.” Mathematicus; Touched. 'Tis only the
present mode of calculating leap-year that we owe to the
Gregorian Calendar ; Leap-year is owed to the Julian.
But you yourself have mixed Julian and post-Julian
methods. Evidently the Encye. Brit, article is slow of
digestion.
Copyright.
SENATOR KEATING proposes to intro-
duce a Commonwealth Bill to consolidate
and improve the State laws of copyright.
We need it.
With the exception of Westralia, whose more
recent constitution has permitted advantage to be
taken of more modern ideas, the Australian
States are governed by copyright legislation Which
is antiquated and inefficient. In the case of
Westralia the legislation is somewhat less anti-
quated, somewhat less inefficient. Conies and
authors are feeble folk, and State politicians are
usually too busy in self-aggrandisement to consider
legislation not influentially demanded. It is a
chief blessing of national union that we may hope
to see national questions better handled by more
competent legislators, paying less regard to per-
sonal profit.
Copyright is a national question. Literature,
painting, sculpture, music, the drama, and other
arts which help to make, preserve, and civilise a
nation have the very greatest value to us. We
wish to encourage these all. We wish to protect
these all. One way of encouragement and protec-
tion is to give the artist legal property in the
result of his labours. A man who writes a book
has as much right to the profit of the work of his
brain as a man who builds a house has to the
profit of the work of his hands. Property in a
work of art should Sndure as long as property in
a work of handicraft. That is, copyright should
be perpetual.
Australian copyright legislation should put Aus-
tralia first. International copyright is practically
of no value to us. We gain nothing by it, except
the right to lie in a backwash of the artistic
■ stream. What we want is the American system,
by which any foreigner who claims copyright in
books, for example, has to bring the book to
America first, and print' it there with local
labour, from local materials—at least as soon as it
is printed elsewhere. America thus gains in two
main ways. First, she protects her industries.
The foreigner finds himself compelled to pay
American type-founders, paper-makers, oloth-
makers, type-setters, machinists, and other allied
artisans. Then America comes first, not last, in
the matter of literature. Many of the' best
English books, for example, are published and
read in America before they are read in England.
Many English publishers have an American office.
And if an author does not choose to do thus,
America can reprint him.
This works both ways, of course; and that will
be perfectly satisfactory to us in Australia. If
we have a good book, we are quite content to take
it to England and America and print it there.
Remember that the Naissance of Australian
literature is taking place. But how heavily are
authors and publishers handicapped ! It costs
usually 40 per cent, more to print and bind an
•edition of a book in Australia than it costs in
England. Why ? Because we have to pay more
for labour, and we have to import our material and
pay duty. Let the Commonwealth protect the
author as well as the artisans who live by him.
Let the Commonwealth protect the artisans who
live by him in protecting the author. Save us
from cheap-labour prints and reprints, and give
us a chance to employ well-paid labour here. We
can found our own type, make our own paper.
Give us a chance to compete with the foreigner
on equal terms.
The same with the drama. If a foreigner wants
stage rights, let him bring his drama here and
stage it here at least as soon as elsewhere. Why
should we be compelled to live by cast-offs of the
European stage ? Australia first, —now and
always first—as far as laws can compass it. For
the rest: trust the people.


M‘DOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP
THt ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring* Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3W.Z. L. &. 3\A. A.. Co., Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge \
for Selling Wool /
21
Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
gdf
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2£ in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, N .s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
( )
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
e>°
5800
6807
CBB
sa<oa
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipe* Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1«. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Broken who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “Steele Rudd.”
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The Health of women is of supreme im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
SAFE CURE —a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation—
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“ Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was in a very critical
state. The doctor attending me told me that if I
lived I should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless in giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearingof Warner’s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles, and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured. The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure
the whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
ing as I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
My mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint.
(Mrs ) ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Vio.,
March 12, 1901,
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
prised to see me up and about again. I have
heard of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen, —
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results I obtained.
(Mbs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
[December 8, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived from the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mrs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tam worth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn my living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully,
(Mrs.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vic.,
March 11, 1901.
For years I was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints I gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely cured. About
twelve years ago my husband used Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength.
Yours truly, JANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, I, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obediently,
(Mrs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, Yic.
April 30, 1901.
Dear Sira, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to do
my household _ work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“Camrock,” Elwood Street,
North Brighton, Yic.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering trom that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties,
or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S. A.,
October 2, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
Several years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was hardly ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reading of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefit from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
quite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become perfectly healthy.
When these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed
naturally, and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache,
Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


TATTERSALLS.
.A-ddress s
Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Newcastle Tattersall’s 0. December 14.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL,
above.
Please allot me
shares in the
Name _
Address
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
£
Address
t
CARRINGTON S.
December 28.
Please allot \me shares in aboye.
t
$
f Name
BRIGHTON P. January 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allots me shares
in the above.
Name .
Address
For full particulars read lour Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersa.ll,” care yCteo. Adams, Hobart.


SSj
ft*
y
N.
//
\\
How tired you look. How you long
for a good rest. It’s work through the
day and worry through the night.
Already you have nervous dyspepsia,
nervous sick headache, and neuralgia.
Your food distresses you. You are
“all tired out,” and you suffer from
terrible depression.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is what you need. It keeps you up
when especially pressed with work. It
cures dyspepsia, and it builds up ex-
hausted nerve tissue.
Pure, rich blood, a strong digestion,
a clear skin, steady and vigorous
nerves; these may all be yours if you
only use this great blood-purifying and
blood-forming medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
in^coe
I
.JteWAßt!!'- f
I/AIIXvTIONS
g
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable: Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Hal/-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Is SONS, Brisbane Q’land
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among: the participating: Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £537,89b.
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit'of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hwvuefv,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOs-
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
jJST Send for a
Catalogue.
fdg
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEU, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Eight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
vwSffi
- I
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia—
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurcb.
EDWARDS’ I
' ' a$»r"
FOR
THE
w U U VYMP
HARLENE
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dressing, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
fdg
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN! OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace , Athens, Greece.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The DUKE OF SPARTA
“ Harlene ’’ for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, A tkens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
Esterhazy Uteza,3o, Buda-Pest.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHSNLOHE writes: Please send me three bottles
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Canea, Crete.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE {High Commissioner of Crete)
writes : Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
3 lf, 9 g/e, and (3 times 2/6 size), 48 pet- Bottle, everywhere,
uiiiiiiiiifiniuiuiniiniiwinjiiniiiiniiiiwtll
The “||olcanic” /[rating
MACHINE.
A GREAT SAVING TO
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors,
&0.
ASrated Waters of the highest quality produced with
the utmost rapidity without skilled labor. Abso-
lutely the best and simplest Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/ Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ DepOt: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
tt
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd-
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulk3', £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
df
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
A Brisbane Appetite.
Nobody can tell the following story better than
the writer tells it himself.
“In 1891,” he says, “I first experienced the
miseries of acute indigestion. I was obliged to
knock off work, and suffered agonies for two
months. Then I felt slightly better, and went
back to my post at the North British Fire Brigade
Station, and stayed there until the great flood in
1893.
“ Then I had a terribly severe relapse which
laid me down for two months, seven weeks of it
being spent in the hospital.
“ Several doctors attended me, but they failed
to effect a cure.
“ Yet at the end of ten months I felt somewhat
better, and being of an energetic disposition I
started in to work again.
“I managed to keep at it for six months and
then collapsed completely, and resigned my posi-
tion in the Brigade.
“On returning home several of my friends
urged me to put my faith in Seigel’s Syrup, and
in that only, saying they had known it to cure
cases as bad as mine. ‘ Don’t be down-hearted,’
they said.
“On this I began using Seigel’s Syrup (and
Seigel’s Pills occasionally) and gradually got
better. When I had taken about twelve bottles
in all. I was so much better, I accepted a position
as mate in a ship going to trade in the Islands—
taking a supply of the Syrup with me.
“ I must mention that I kept on using Seigel’s
Syrup until we got to Sydney, and then I was
quite restored to health, and have been perfectly
well ever since.
“My health is now splendid ; my appetite is
excellent, and all the bad symptoms I once had
are gone like an ugly dream after morning breaks.
“ My wife uses the medicine for a milder form
of indigestion than mine was, and is as firm a
believer in it as I am. ,
“ I will name a few of the peculiarities of the
aggravating and dangerous disease as it affected
me. There was always a bad taste in my mouth,
my breath vvas bad, and I used to retch frequently
after eating ; I belched continually, lost flesh, and
had thin, lantern jaws.
“ Scores of friends and acquaintances can tes-
tify to the truth of what I have said. It i 3 certain
that Mother Seigel’s Syrup cured me when all
other medicines and forms of treatment proved to
be no good, and I have to thank the Syrup only
for the fact that I am now a strong, healthy man.
I have now been nearly three years in the em-
ployment of the Queensport Meat Company, but
m/home is at the address given below.” A. C.
B.ickmann, Myrtle Villa, George-street, Kan-
garoo Point, Brisbane, Q. Sept, 6th, 1900.
Various Verses.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballad of Penitence.
We’ve had our fling, and the dance is done,
And the gold of our pleasures fades fast to grey;
We’ve scoffed at Prudence and lived for Fun,
And now there’s the devil an’ all to pay !
We’ve footed a measure right blithe and gay,
And laughed at Care with a rollicking crew . . .
The crew’s a bit shaky and sick to-day;
But we still may laugh for a year or two 1
We’ve spoiled the Egyptian and drenched his dun;
We’ve slept with the swine in the good old way;
We’ve played high stakes—and we have not won,
And now there’s the devil an’ all to pay !
We’re reaping the whirlwind, the good folks say
(The thing sounds big, but it’s mostly true):
It’s a dullish game, and we’ve come to stay ;
But we still may laugh for a year or two !
Our friends drop away from us, one by one :
Our loves have been legion ; but where are
they ?
Those vows?—you might measure them by the
tun . . .
And now there’s the devil an’ all to pay !
Poor asses; we dreamt ’twould be always May,
With scent of blossom and skies of blue :
As it is . . . we must shortly lie low and pray;
But—we still may laugh for a year or two !
Lad 1 Hope has crumbled in slow decay,
And now there's the devil an’ all to pay!
Bid there's warm blood yet in me and you,
And we still may laugh for a year or two !
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.
Out of Season.
A serenade ! Nay, Sweetheart, that’s not
possible ;
It’s out of season, like an old-time bonnet ;
And out of season, too, the mode to tell
Your charm, my rapture, in a Petrarch sonnet.
It might be, ere my song was midway done, and I
Stood trembling with the love-thrill of my num-
bers,
Your next-door neighbors would awake and cry
A malison on him who broke their slumbers.
Nay, love was meant for two—’tis yours and mine
alone;
A third might laugh at it, might mar its glory :
Those Veronese had whispered had they known
A poet listened to their witching story.
The old, old way to tell the old, old story still
Is surely best ; and love that looks for aiding—
E’en though for music’s aid—is love that will
Die all too soon in spite of serenading.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Red West Road.
Off-shore I hear the great propellers thunder,
And throb and thrash so steadily and slow;
Their booming cadence tells of seas that plunder—
Of Love’s moon-seas and- brave hearts thrown
asunder.
Of hot, red lips and battles, blow for blow ;
And as they sing my heart is filled with wonder,
Though why—l scarcely know.'
Perhaps it is because they tell a story,
And lift a deep storm-measure as they come—
A song of old-time love and battles gory,
When men dared Hell and sailed through sunset’s
glory
With pealing trumpet tuned to rolling drum,
To hunt and loot and sink the jewelled quarry
In seas too deep to plumb.
I only know I watch the steamers going
Along the Red West Road, with heavy heart,
And when the night comes, look for head-lights
showing,
And mark their speed—the ebb tide or the
flowing,
For loth am I to see them slew and start
Adown that path ; and every deep call blowing
Cuts keen and leaves a smart.
The blazing West to me is always calling,
For in the West there burns my brightest star ..
Oh, God ! to hear the anchor-winches hauling,
And feel her speeding, soaring high and falling
With steady swing across the brawling bar —
To hear the stem-struck rollers tumble sprawling,
And watch the lights afar !
To South and East and North the screws are
singing,
So steadily and tunefully and slow,
But on the Western Track they thunder, flinging
Their wake a-foam, and by their roar and ringing—
By laughter sweet, deep in my heart, I know,
That down that Red West Road with big blades
swinging
Some day I’ll go.
M. L.
QUILP N.
An old man over 90 years of age, and over
60 in Australia, cannot get an old-age pension for
his few remaining years because he has not lived
continuously for 25 years in N.S.W. Residing
near the Queensland border, he has spent some of
his time on one side of the imaginary line
separating the two States, and some on the other.
Wanted badly—the Australian Old Age Pension
law.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
13 REALLY
• THE CHEAPEST
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are swm reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing alkali in a -free state*
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much,
'longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
gdf
PRESENTS
. . FOR ..
GENTLEMEN
.. AT ..
FREETRADE
PRICES.
Shaving Brushes,
Filled with Best
Camel Hair.
Best Silver Plated—
6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6.
Solid Silver —
16/- to 35/-
ALL GOODS POST
FREE.
Telephone 3642.
SOLID SILVER TOBACCO
BOXES, 35/-, 45/-. 50/-.
ART
Jewellers
&c . A
gd
90 Kikc ST
Sydney.
Shaving
Mugs
in ENDLESS
VARIETY.
Best Silver-Plated —
10/6, 12/6, 15/-,
27/6, 35/-.
BRUSHES—6/6 and
10/- extra.
Silver-Mounted Cole-
port China MUG and
BRUSH—I6/6.
Silver-Mounted Cole-
port China SHAVING
SOAP and BRUSH
STAND,
as per sketch —
25/- each.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6dL.; Posted, Bd.
JjJ OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
DO YOU WISH to LEARN a Profitable
Trade in a day, and add to your income,
or start in a fascinating business requiring very
little capital ? If so, send three stamps for my
pamphlet entitled, “AN EASY INDUSTRY.”
Gives particulars. SUITABLE FOR EITHER
SEX. Box 131 G.P.0., Wanganui, New
Zealand.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A World-Wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND
fg
df
" Not Better than the Best,
But Better than the Rest.”
“When the Pan American Exposition opened, P & B Ruberoid Roofing was on eleven
buildings, including the United States Government Building, on which upwards of 20,000
square yards were used. They are constantly having trouble with the cheaper roofings.
These are being torn off in many instances and Ruberoid substituted.”
New York, July 19th, 1901. STEPHEN W. TRENCH.
BY CABLE
“ New York, October 12th, 1901.
“ Ruberoid received Gold Medal over all competitors at the Pan American Exposition, Buffalo, N.Y.”
ROOFING
Is unquestionably superior in every respect to all portable roofings.
AGENTS- E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. [22.—No. 1137.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1901.
Price 6d.
*THE AUSTRALIAN
DOG “BUSHIE.”
Mr. F. M. Rothery, secre-
tary to the Animals’ Protec-
tion Society, has received t
the following letter from
Lord Roberts : “ War Office,
October 17, 1901.—Dear
Sir,—ln reply to your letter
of September 10, inquiring
as to what became of the
Australian dog Bushie, it is
with much pleasure I have
to inform you that Bushie
was duly handed over to
one of her late Majesty the
Queen’s household at Os-
borne on ray arrival here
from South Africa on Janu-
ary 2.— Roberts, F-M."’
gf
Ox v. x. -"x OOONxxXS
”The much self-advertised Melba is
about to make a sentimental journey to
the land of her birth, and will sing a few
songs to the cherished friends of her
childhood at'what are believed to be very
advantageous terms indeed. i
, So poor “Busbie” is now probably
kicking about under foot at Osborne „
House feeling very much in the way, j
add,' like many.of his former comrades- j
in-arms, curses the day he ever left
Australia, 1’ I I n , | r 1 1 ‘
\\ l n
j/uty [a
> Martian Astronomer: “Hello! what's
been and happened to the earth ? That
bigheaded object that I haven’t been
able to keep my eyes off is moving
eouth’ard, and the earth seems to be tip-
ping over that way ! ”
or y>\
frsY* 1
11 V s l S dljat pronjijt.) ti b&iutjt, affanjtliur
SHU m tywrcii- Street' Soot] . Ijjm ij a din] fradikoq
'that 1(}Mo h)us oytf a Mice far w w N-5-K)•
A GENTLE REMINDED.
Aveeage Citizen : “ Bv--
tlie-bye, what about that bridge you promised ? ” J
O’Suwjvan Bridge ! What bridge? I’ve promised .so many i cau t
be expected'- to, remember all the bridges I’ve promised ”
✓ / ✓
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by Wit.ltam Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Tjtd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ••• 2 ° r
Half-yearly ••• n B B
Quarterly ... ... ••• u
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maor liana.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can he sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owtnq to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum , payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage-nd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight-now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added, where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aiis-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
ir, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
wifi be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand _ that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event ,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i.e any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <Sc Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1901.
New Guinea—and After?
Last week the Commonwealth Parliament
affirmed its readiness to join in measures
for acceptance of British New Guinea as a
territory of the Commonwealth, and its
readiness to vote £20,000 a year for five
years towards expenses of government.
Considering the importance of this step, the
matter received from Parliament very little
consideration. The question involved is by
far the most difficult which the Common-
wealth has yet discussed. In regard to
Alien Exclusion and the Tariff the principle
of action was clear. It was clear that, if
Australia is to he preserved for a white race,
the Colored Alien must go. It was clear
that revenue duties should embody as
far as possible the idea of Protec-
tion for Home Industry. These ques-
tions were keenly debated. But the
question which national alternative to
choose—to devote Australian energy wholly
to the development of Australia, or to com-
mit the Commonwealth to a policy of exter-
nal expansion, the end of which none can
foresee—obtained hardly more consideration
than if t'he choice had been a mere matter
of form. Fortunately, the discussion and
the settlement are not final ; and, when
the Enabling Bill is framed, it may be
hoped that Parliament will recognise its
grave responsibility.
* * * *
Superficially considered, the idea of
“annexing New Guinea” is attractive.
There is an Australian sentiment which
chimes with the Monroe doctrine of America,
and wishes to place our outlying islands
beyond the reach of foreign aggression. But
it is open to doubt—many Americans doubt
it_whether the acquisition of Cuba
has profited the United States. It
is almost certain that the U.S. acquisi-
tion of the Philippines has been, and will
continue to be, unprofitable. And the U.S. A.
have 80 millions of population ; we have
four millions. The U.S.A. have spread
settlement over nearly the whole of their
continental territory ; we have settled only
the fringe of ours. If it be admitted that
the U.S. A. are only now ripe to pursue an
annexation policy, then we will not be ripe
for a hundred years at least. Why should
Australia be earth-hungry, when the earth
we have is so little developed ? Instead of
sp-'nding Australian taxes to govern and
develop tropical New Guinea, is it not
better to spend them in developing tropical
Australia ? Why fritter energy, when our
energy is so scant and our territory already
so vast 1
9 9 • •
“Annexing New Guinea.” But it is not
annexing New Guinea ; it is only annexing
the S.E. division. The Dutch own the
eastern half; the Germans the N.E. divi-
sion. These possible enemies are now dis-
tant ; it is proposed that we should go and
settle right alongside them. Upon those
who advocate annexation the onus lies to
show how it is going to pay Australia to
transform the S.E. division from a British
dependency into an Australian dependency.
There is one way in which it might pay us,
if other things were equal, and that is by
allowing Australian advocates of colored
labor to go to New Guinea and use their
colored labor on the spot. Instead of bring-
ing colored labor to the sugar industry,
we could send the sugar industry to
colored labor—or such part of the industry
as wished to go. Considered as a refuge for
the Philps and Cowleys, the Sargoops and
McEacharns, and all that ilk, New Guinea
looks indeed a rosy appendage to Australian
policy. But the rose-glow fades at sound of
the one word Tariff. If colored-labor in-
dustries are established in New Guinea, it
will be difficult for tbem to prosper unless
they can find a market in Australia. But if
the product of New Guinea colored labor is
admitted duty-free, to compete on equal
terms with the product of white labor, then
we might almost as well bring back colored
labor to the Commonwealth. And you can’t
fly in the face of facts, and say that New
Guinea, with its vast colored population, is
to become a white-labor province. So if
the Commonwealth annexes British New
Guinea, the tariff wall must shut the colored-
labor product out; that is certain.
* • * *
The whole argument that Australia must
annex outlying islands for reasons of defence
seems very weak when it is critically con-
sidered. How can occupation of New
Guinea protect Australia 1 The Germans are
already established round the corner ; the
Dutch are on the other side ; the French
are on the East. A few. ocean-miles more or
less make no difference nowadays : what is
essential is the base, the coaling-station ; and
these the foreigners already have, and amply.
The real truth is that, instead of New Guinea
being a source of strength in war, it will be
a source of weakness. It is a detached out-
post; and we shall be called upon to defend
the outpost as well as the fort. Besides, if an
enemy really wishes to attack from the North,
he can land on the Australian mainland
anywhere—if that were worth while. Of
course, it is not worth while, unless he comes
to stay and settle ; for all the vital purposes
of war, for the purposes of doing harm and
getting profit, an enemy must strike at the
rich South, and gain the railways. He would
simply pass by New Guinea ; what does New
Guinea matter 1 But if Australia annexes
British New Guinea, she undertakes the
obligation of defending it—and in the event
of any serious attack during the next 100
years we will be hard put to it to defend
Australia.
* * * •
These considerations may not be conclu-
sive ; but they are to the point. Upon those
who would alter the existing state of things
is thrown the duty of showing that the
alteration will pay. Now, how will it pay
Australia to annex the British fragment of
New Guinea ?
Life Assurance Set to Music.
One of this country’s most recent visitors has been
a certain Okonhyatekha, who came all the way
from Canada to lecture and otherwise demonstrate
on behalf of that blatant and brassy life assurance
institution, the Independent Order of Foresters.
Okonhyatekha was heralded by long newspaper
puffs telling how, in addition to being head and
chief boss, and principal responsible party of the
institution above mentioned, he was a chief of the
Iroquois Indians, one of the most slippery and
unreliable races, by the way, ever forcibly disguised
by any white-man Government with a thin varnish
of civilisation. It is a curious circumstance and
illustrative of the strange ways of human nature
that the management should deliberately set
forth this matter as an advertisement cal-
culated to help the 1.0. F. along and
yet it probably does help it along. The
distant native looks green as well as the distant
hill, and while it would only cover a local life
assurance office with ridicule if it advertised that
it was managed by a local aboriginal chief belong-
ing to a tribe of the' very worst antecedents, the
same announcement, coming from the other side
of the world, tends rather to arouse a feeling of
friendly interest. Okonhyatekha, like his asso-
ciates, lectured and otherwise held forth about the
glories of his office as a place where a man could
insure his life with advantage. He expounded in
a hall—the hire of which, presumably, has to come
out of the funds. Music and songs were
supplied by a number of artists, for the 1.0. F.
is a brass band variety of life assurance office,
and it would be interesting to know out of
what funds these artists were paid. Certain
well-known local gentlemen were present to
set forth, either verbally, or by the silent assent
conveyed by their presence, that they were so
deeply affected at the beauty, solvency, and un-
rivalled advantages of the 1.0. F., and its
brotherliness, and its Christian principle, and its
Oronhyatekha, that they were absolutely com-
pelled to come and supply their disinterested
testimony, sse they would have burst. But
the public possibly grows a trifle weary of seeing
the same gang turn up in disinterested enthusiasm
every time, and might be pleased if the 1.0. F.
would get a fresh lot.
* * * *
The 1.0. F. is the only assurance institution
within this writer’s knowledge which has
at its disposal funds with which it can hire
singers and lecturers and brass bands and
the other appurtenances of the cheap-
jack variety of life assurance. The A.M.P. or
National Mutual or Equitable, or any other office,
charges a premium only, and accounts for all
premiums received in its balance-sheet. There-
fore, as it can hardly put down music and song
and refreshments anjtong its expenses, it doesn’t
have these things. The 7/6 per quarter which the
A.M.P. charges to a man of 20 for £lOO of
insurance all goes to pay for insurance, barring
the fraction reserved for necessary expenses, and
the nature of these expenses is fully explained.
But the 1.0. F. charges the same citizen 8/lid. for
the same policy, in addition to other charges
arising out of his membership of the blessed Order
—but it only accounts in the published balance-
sheet of its life assurance department for about
ss. of this. And, presumably, the hall-hire, the
musicians, the song-and-dance aspect of things, and
all the other ridiculous ham frill, come out of the
other 3s. l?,d. or more. The members of the insti-
tution pay all expenses, anyhow—there is no one
else who can pay them unless the Indian chief
at the head of the concern is philanthropic enough
to provide the coin out of the revenue of his
domains.
» » * *
The case against the 1.0. F., and its circus or
patent-medicine method of doing business, and its
many tomfooleries is just this: To the small
insurer it charges more for a £lOO policy than a
good Australian office does—though it professes to
charge less, because it calls only part of the charge
“premium,” and the rest “ court dues.” It gives
vastly worse security than any large Australian
office, because, though the person aged 20 pays
the 1.0. F. Bs. per quarter for his £lOO policy,
only ss. of this (less necessary expenses) is set
aside to meet the policy at maturity, while the
7s. 6d. he would pay to the A.M.P. is all set aside
(less necessary expenses) to meet the policy at
maturity. In addition to charging the small
insurer more, and giving him incomparably worse
security, it gives no surrender values, and it
reserves the right to increase the premium. When
it issues a policy for so much, with a £2
premium payable thereon, it doesn’t thereby
pledge itself to pay the policy when it falls
due provided the £2 premium has been
met regularly. It only pledges itself to
pay the policy provided the £2 premium is met
regularly, as well as any further premium which
may be demanded, however large that further
demand may be. And if, when the policy-holder
is growing old and has paid his premiums regu-
larly for many years, he is unable to pay any fur-
ther sum which may be demanded, he simply loses
his policy, the provision he thought he had made
for his wife and family, the premiums he has paid
—everything. In Canada, where the 1.0. F. has
its head-quarters, it is not allowed to pose as an
ordinary life office. There, where it is better
known than it is in Australia, it has to print a
clear intimation on its documents that it is an
“assessment ” office—one of those which reserves
the right to increase premiums and to throw out,
without a penny of compensation, the member
who can’t pay the increase. In Australia this
ghastly fact is kept very much in the background.
• * * *
The 1.0. F. started in 1874. By 1881 it is
frankly admitted that it was in a perishing condi-
tion. Then it looked up a little, and now the
people who lecture about it, with music and
orchestral selections in between, allege that,
having lasted 20 years since its re-organisation, its
stability must be beyond all question. This is the
silly kind of argument which appeals to the
ignorant —the class that the 1.0. F. and its satel-
lites apparently eater for. The most hopelessly
insolvent life assurance office in England is 35
years old. The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land was
68 years old when it pegged out, and Australia is
full of similar records. Neither the age'of a life
assurance office nor the amount of its funds is the
least guarantee of solvency ; if its funds are large
and its liabilities under its policies are larger, then
it is insolvent despite its apparent wealth. And,
as for its age, the most insolvent, equally with
the most solvent, institution, can keep going
as long as plenty of premiums come in, and the
getting of them depends mostly on the vigor and
the brazen assurance of its conductors. But the
1.0.F.’s solvency or otherwise is not the only
feature in the case. Even if it is solvent it
offers to the small policy-holder (who is
also the most numerous policy - holder) a
policy that is ridiculously expensive com-
pared to what he can get from strong
Australian institutions. Its alleged cheapness,
when the charges that areadded on to its premiums
are considered, is one of the silliest lies ever
passed on to an ignorant community. Its
“surplus,” so-called, is only a surplus if the
whole of its liabilities under its policies are
ignored; on the same basis the A. M.P. has
a “surplus” of over £17,000,000. Also, its pre-
tensions to some special charm, or security, or
sanctity by reason of its “brotherhood ” are merely
the patter of the racecourse mountebank. Every
mutual life assurance institution is a brotherhood,
even if the manager is not described as Brother
Teece or Brother Remington. Indeed, the latter
and their kind in Australia are much better
brethren than the huge Red Indian gentleman
from Canada. If a member fails, after 10 or 20
years of regular payment, to meet his premium
when it falls due, the Australian manager, who
doesn’t call himself a brother, keeps his £lOO
policy in force for two or three or more years out
of the surrender-value; while Brother Oronhya-
tekha, of the fraternal 1.0. F., who has taken
more money from him in Lis better days, just
throws him out right there and forfeits his policy,
there being no surrender value. The brother who
throws one out so promptly at the first sign of
poverty isn’t this paper’s idea of brotherhood,
anyhow.
m • *' *
The 1.0. F., with its silly literature and its
ridiculous calculations and its wildly-original
“surplus,” is a splendid example of the policy of
bounce. As a casual specimen of its general atti-
tude, one of its regular followers broke forth thus
at the Oronhyatekha conversazione
The doctor (Oronhyatekha) came in contact with the
Order 20 years ago. He recognised in it the germ of a
great idea, the idea of giving people the means of pro-
viding for the women and children when the breadwinner
was gone.
That be it observed, was about the year 1880. At
that date, when the A.M.P. Society was already
31 years old, and eleven other Australian life
offices were in full working order, and when life
assurance had been going strong for a century or so,
Okonhyatekha recognised, in the 1.U.i,, tne
germ of the great idea of insuring peop e s
lives! This painful concern actually pipses as if
it had invented life assurance. All allusion to its
high charges, its dubious security, its misleading
calculations and the like, is loftily set aside as the
result of envy and grudging unchan tableness.
And, after all, it is only a blatant offshoot or varia-
tion of the very old, discredited, cheap and uast\
assessment system, whose wrecks have filled
America for vears past. It isn t anything
new, and it hasn’t discovered anything new.
It appears to be largely the work of men whose
knowledge of life assurance is very small, aided by
men whose personal assurance is amazingly large
It is vaguely suggestive of the circus, and the pill
which will cure everything, and the cheap-sale
draper. And when the Federal Parliament starts
to supply Australia with a decent life assurance
law it is to be hoped that its first act will be to
give the 1.0. F. and its Oronhyatkkha per-
emptory notice to quit, and that it will send some
responsible, able-bodied person to see them off
and make dead sure that they are gone.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bitter Brown Baron.
The troubles of the Federal Parliament on the
subject of Alien Immigration are not diminishing.
The latest news is that Baron Something or-
Other, Jap. ambassador in London, objects, not
only to direct exclusion as an insult to his inflated
brown nation, but also to any educational test,
unless it is so devised that it will let the Jap. in
freely. He explains, in fact, that the Jap.
Government “ cannot acquiesce” in any exclusion
policy unless it puts the Jap. on the same level as
the European. It is a cold day for the British
empire when any small brown nation stands on
twopence to reach up to its knocker, and bangs at
the portal insisting on admittance with veiled
threats of what may happen if it is refused ; but
strange things happen nowadays. Still it seems
unlikely that anything bad will result this time
unless the Federal Ministry takes the advice of
certain badly-disguised enemies and makes a
hideous mistake. Under the circumstances its
course is obviously to go right on with its Educa-
tional Test for the Jap’s exclusion, and knock at
Bull’s door even more loudly demanding assent.
Under the Salisbury regime he who bangs most
vociferously has the best chance to get in. I lie
Sydney Telegraph— always ready, and more than
ready, to sacrifice the interests of Australia to
anything that offers a prospect of getting rid of
the Barton Ministry and replacing it with a
Calico Jimmy Government of foreign importers—
makes out of the Baron’s upheaval an opportunity
to demand that the Educational Test shall be
abandoned and direct exclusion substituted.
That would discredit the Barton Government
in the first place, for it would be a definite backing
down before its opponents. Then when the direct
exclusion Bill was vetoed by the British Govern-
ment (as it certainly would be, seeing that not
only is Japan hostile to it, but the British
Ministry has declared itself hostile also), that
would discredit the Barton Ministry a second
time. The British Government has declared its
willingness to accept the Educational Test for the
exclusion of aliens, and it can’t reject it without
doing a servile and conspicuous crawl-down at the
orders of Japan. It now reiterates its willingness
to accept the Educational Test, which is a good
sign. Therefore, it is a matter of choosing
between a measure which can be made effective,
and which —barring some more convincing protest
from the infuriated Baron—is sure of acceptance,
and one which, we have already been informed,
is practically certain to be rejected. The
Telegraph virtually proposes that the Barton
Ministry should abandon its Bill because the
brown ambassador at the other end of the world
objects to it. If Australia is ever going to be a
solid and durable white nation, it will have to
tread on the feelings of a good many brown
ambassadors in the process, and the present one
seems brown enough to start with.
The Fading' Peacock.
Victoria’s sorrowful Peacock Government is in a
tight place over its proposed popularly-elected
Convention for the drafting of a new State Con-
stitution. It was returned to power at last election
on its promise that it would nail its half-mast flag
on the outer battlements, and stand by this issue
to the last. Many of its supporters were luke-
warm in the matter, but the country was solid
enough, and even the gentlemen who feared lest
they might lose their seats when Parliament was
reduced and reconstructed had to affect enthu-
siasm. Peacock himself had to affect enthusiasm,
whether he had it or not. He and his party had
the country behind them when they probably
didn’t want it, and the country being behind them
they had to make a pretence of being in front of
the country. The Bill passed its second reading by
a small majority, which would probably have been a
much larger majority if Peacock had put his
sloping shoulder to the wheel in anything like real
earnest. Then the matter was dropped. Peacock
says he dropped it because he saw it was useless
to push the matter further ; therefore he is in the
extraordinary position of dropping the scheme
which is backed (unwillingly) by a small majority
in the Assembly and (willingly) by a large majority
in the country, to take up something else which is
backed, apparently, by a minority in the Assembly
and about which the country hasn’t been con-
sulted at all. There never was a better chance for
a strong man, with real fighting capacity, to dis-
tinguish himself. If Peacock had declared that
he and the Ministry and the Convention Bill
would all perish together if need be, and that if
it was lost he would go to the country again
on the matter, and raise Cain and other
vegetables, he could have carried the measure
to a certainty. Then he could have fought the
Upper House on it if there was any fight in him,
and could have fallen like a man if it was neces-
sary to fall. Peacock’s political fate is obviously
to fade away rather than fall. He is departing by
ineffective instalments, like the color out of an
old grey coat that has been too long in the sun.
A weak tendency to hang up things that are diffi-
cult, to drop things that are large and potter with
things that are small, to try to please everybody,
to apologise to everybody, to promise anything,
and to hope that something will turn up, is what
seems to be the matter with Peacock.
♦
Some Old Age Pensioners.
“Nina Jeane” to The Bulletin on the blessings
of the old age pension :
I found the old age pensioner in a Woolloomooloo slum.
She said she was 68, and she looked it. Her face was a
dark unpolished cedar-color. Her hair was iron-grey,
and the face, seared and furrowed by the corrosive years,
was covered with dark patches that in her youth had
been freckles and beauty-spots. To see what she was like
in her youth ’twas only necessary to glance at the face of
her grand-daughter, a bright little child of nine, very


plainly and insufficiently' clad in a coarse white frock that
had once been pink flannellette. As for her home, it was
destitute of everything that we consider absolutely
necessary for our own grandmothers. She bustled round
making up my washing, and apologising that she had no
brown paper to wrap it in, and assuring me that
Molly would run round with it. As she bustled
I noticed her wrists. They were quite brown,
and gnarled and twisted like the roots of the tree
that grew awry. “ You suffer from rheumatism,” I
said. “ Yes, Miss, very bad in the arms and wrists.
The washing do make them very bad, too ; but there’s
rent to pay and food to buy, and clothes for Molly. She
must have boots or they won’t let her go to school, and
she’s gettin’ on very well with her lamin’ now. The
teacher’s quite proud of her. Oh, yes ! I get the pen-
sion. We’re quite well off now, since we got that.
I ask the Blessed Virgin to bless the gentleman who
brought that in every night. It pay’s the rent, and what
I make at the tub keeps us in food and something to
cover our nakedness. Afore the pension it was awful.
We never had enough to eat. It took all I could
earn to pay- the landlord, and we was always flirtin’
in debt, so that I’m afeared to go down the street for
that I might meet some of the landlords we’d slipped away
from. I’d like to pay ’em, but there’s no chance of ever
bein’ able to. Now, with the pension we just live —just
pay our way'. Without we starve, and rob the landlord,
too.” In the same slum I found another. He was a white-
haired old cripple, and he sat on the narrow pavement
just outside the door. My washerwoman introduced me.
He looked up, and I noticed that he had a pair of braces
jn his hand. Yes, he had the pension. It was a great
idea. He was comfortable now. With the pension he
could pay his rent, get three meals a day, and have a
little bit of tobacco on Saturday nights. He lived with
strangers, and made a few extra shillings per week by
working this “embroidery” on to braces. If he had a
wheel chair he’d go to the Domain and sit under the
trees and do the work there. He was slow at it, his
fingers were all thumbs, and he was frightened that the
paralysis which made his lower limbs useless to him
might eventually extend to his arms. That, he said,
would reduce him to the same abject misery in which he
existed and cursed his Maker before the O.A. Pension Act
passed. No, he’d never go to the Liverpool Home, he’d
known blokes that went there, and from what they told
him, he had made up his mind he’d commit suicide before
he would consent to be placed there.”
♦
Black Labor in the Pacific.
Recent developments in Fiji throw some in-
teresting light on the colored-labor problems
which now agitate Australia. . In Fiji, until very
recently, the Colonial Sugar Co. employed cheap
Hindoo coolies as field laborers, but mechanics’
work—that of engineers, carpenters, blacksmiths,
&c. —was kept in the hands of whites. In July
last, however, the Co. imported a cargo of cheap
Parsee mechanics, and set them to work alongside
the whites at wages averaging ss. 3d. per day.
(The whites’ wages averaged 13s. per day.) The
whites threatened to resign in a body, and as the
co. found that the dusky mechanics were incompe-
tent, it informed the Europeans that they
were only imported as superior helps—this, appar-
ently, by way of letting the Asiatics have
time to learn their business. But as the old
bob-a-day coolie-helps were giving satisfaction, the
extravagant kindness of the Co. was suspicious.
Five white mechanics eventually resigned, and
the remainder are expecting the sack next season,
if the Parsees are a success. But, whether they
are or not, the fact remains that the monopolistic
Sugar Co. has flattened-out the argument about
the inability of the whites to work in hot climates,
and has shown nakedly that black labor is desired
only for its cheapness. The effect of coolie labor
on the moral condition of Fiji is also worth
noting. The coolie has an utter disregard for
human life—his own included. He will
calmly carve his woman’s head off, and
go to the gallows like a wooden man.
Local statistics show that the coolie-popu-
lation commits, in proportion, by far the
largest number of crimes—all the most glaring
offences, such as murders and rapes, having to be
laid to their account. The coolie’s evil influence
on the moral condition of the Fijian was observed
as early as ’97 by the Wesleyan Western Mission
authorities, and, as the coolie’s elevation was con-
sidered impossible, he and his vice were confined
to the plantations. But, as soon as the indentured
coolie gets his liberty, he goes through the land,
carrying with him all the concentrated vice,
obscenity, and disease of the plantation-camps.
If it be true, as asserted, that the natives of the
South Sea Islands are gradually dying out, then
the Australian Commonwealth is subjected to a
deadly peril by the British Government’s policy of
allowing all islands where cheap labor is scarce to
be supplied with our “fellow-subjects” from
India. Thus, Northern Australia, from Mary-
borough right round to Westralia, will, in the
future, be surrounded by a belt of low-living
Asiatics, &c., and the inhabitants of North-Coast
Queensland will have their evening sea-breezes
strongly impregnated with the taint of the East.
No exclusion laws can be made too rigorous in
view of the imminence and seriousness of the
peril.
Another Voice from Groper Land.
As a matter of fairness, The Bulletin publishes
this from “R.G.G.” :
Re “Carisbrook” on Westralian slavery (B. 3/8/’01).
Should not we receive with much caution the statements
of a man who, by his own confession, calmly stood by
while two young gins were cruelly' horsewhipped for a
trivial offence committed in ignorance, and who, on
another occasion, allowed a bullock-driver to bind a black-
boy hand and foot and flog him till the blood flowed
freely? Also, is it credible that a teamster should
have confessed to such a man or to anyone—
that he had flogged his black-boy to death and
buried him 50 miles from civilisation ? It is
also grossly improbable that a hand on the station
indicated should have confessed that, after wounding
a native with a rifle-bullet in the thigh, he had finished
him with a revolver shot. “ Oarisbrook’s ” excuse for
non-interference —“ the native sympathisers are few, and
it is a case of those few keeping their mouths closed if
they wish to live in that part of the State ” —is pure rot,
as is the statement: “ The tyranny exercised by squatters
(who are generally J’s.P.) over native sympathisers makes
life not worth living in that part.” My own experience,
based upon four years’ residence in, and travel through-
out, the N.W., is that the squatters are considered very
small potatoes by the community at large. The bulk
of the population are miners and men dependent
upon the mining industry, and the average miner is
hardly the man to care a straw about the lessee
of a few hundred square miles of spinifex-country.
Also, in cases that come before the courts the juries are
composed, not of station-hands, but of miners or trades-
people in the towns. The police don’t send out to a
station for a juryman when they can get him at the
nearest pub. Can “Carisbrook” prove any definite
case of running natives in from the desert and flogging
them into submission, which has occurred during the
past four years ? Will he name any station where white
men are kept for the purpose of flogging lazy' niggers ?
That the indenture-system has been abused is undeniable,
and some gross cases of cruelty have occurred within the
past few years, but these have been limited to one or two
stations and are not likely to be repeated. The natives
know perfectly' well that the Resident Magistrate, who is
not “ one of the good old Groper sort,” will strictly in-
vestigate any cases of alleged cruelty, and are not (slow
to tell their employers that they do know it. Did
“ Carisbrook ” ever contemplate the alternative
to the indenture-system ? The natives, many of
whom have been bred upon the stations, have
practically lost the art of hunting, and would much
prefer to loaf upon the white man for tucker.
Fancy' some thousands of them, with their gins, let loose
upon the mining settlements of the Nor’-West! The re-
port of the Chi A Inspector of Prisons contains the alarm-
ing .statement that over 9) per cent of the prisoners sent
to Fremantle from the Nor’-West suffer from diseases
contracted from the contaminated native women who in-
fest the camps. What then would happen should the
station-hands be turned adrift? As things are, the
natives are mostly well treated. I have known a squatter
near here pay £3 3s. per week for maintenance and medi-
cal attendance in Marble Bar Hospital for one of his black
boys; and the priest in charge of the district has stated
publicly that, “ next to the New Norcia and Beagle Bay
missions, the best Samaritans going the road were the
proprietors of such stations as Mundabullangana and
Croydon.” The natives won’t kill themselves with hard
work, and white men are not employed to flog them when
they are lazy (as they usually are). Neither has the
mining community any desire to relieve the squatters of
the cost of their keep and add to its own reputation for
immorality.
—4
A Kynoch Cabinet.
Lord Rosebery, who lias a genius for babbling
pretentious inanities, lately called for a Cabinet
of “business-men” to run the sorely-perplexed
British Empire into a haven of peace. He forgets
that it is the business-man influence in the British
Cabinet which has worked the present war-havoc.
Joseph, the screw-maker, and Joseph’s brethren,
the sellers of ammunition; Cecil Rhodes, the
scheming millionaire; Beit and Co., the Ger-
man financiers —are these not all business-men of
the shrewdest business character ? And have they
not ridden rough-shod over the very “ unbusi-
nesslike ” members of the Cabinet; over the
sleepy pessimist, Salisbury, and the prinking
philosopher, Balfour ? The history of the Boer
war in brief is a history of business enterprise.
Rhodes, Barnato, Beit and others found the
thorough exploitation of the Rand difficult
under existing conditions. They approached
Kruger to assist them, and were pre-
pared (as Rhodes’ speeches most clearly
show) to go straight against the British
Empire, and for an Afrikander South Africa.
Kruger could not be induced to trust the gang,
nor, seemingly, could they make him “listen to
reason.” So they turned, on strict business prin-
ciples, from the Boer power (o the British power
in South Africa to help them, and the British
Cabinet was more foolish than the rude, unlettered,
pastoral President. A Cabinet of business-men !
It is the business-men, the mongrels of all races
and nations, who, flocking to London and domin-
ating England, are ruining her in body and soul,
corrupting her councils and her society, dispos-
sessing her peasants and squires of their heritage,
making Britain, not a nation, but a gambling
stock-exchange, with pleasure-gardens and deer-
parks attached. What England needs is power
to shake off these business-men, the Beits,
Rhodeses, Chamberlains, Astors, Morgans,
Carnegies, Hooleys— and with them, too, the
dangerous prattlers of the Rosebery type.
For the Encouragement of Intending
Cohentingenters.
Junes (N.S.W.) Southern Cross publishes this
letter received from three brothers who volun-
teered from that locality for service in S’ Africa :
Dear Sir, —According to promise, I am sending you a
few lines to let you know how we who volunteered, of
our free will, to fight and risk our lives for old England’s
sake, are treated by those who are over us. In the first
place, on the open veldt (where we have been constantly
since we landed, for we are with Remington’s Flying
Column) one never sees a single tree, although we have
travelled thousands of miles, unless it may be at a Boer
farm, where there have been a few willow or fruit trees
planted ; so that you can imagine the scarcity of fire-
wood. The only way that we can possibly get enough
wood to boil our quart pots to make tea is by breaking up
the deserted houses of the Boers and carrying away such
pieces of doors, flooring, or furniture as we can get in the
general scramble, for there will always be a rush for scraps
of fuel made by perhaps two or three hundred at a time ;
it is a case of everyone for himself and the Lord help the
hindmost. It is quite a common occurrence to see men
boiling their pots on a fire made from pianos, organs, &c.,
but of late an order has been issued that we, the Aus-
tralians, must carry no wood on our horses. That is a
hard knock to us, seeing that the Hussars and Innis-
killing Dragoons—part of our column —were not for-
bidden to carry wood on the front of their saddles. In
those regiments each squadron has cooks told off to cook
for the men, whereas the Australians have to draw their
rations, and every man be his own cook. Therefore, not
being allowed to carry firewood on approaching a camp
is rather hard. Now, the officers who are responsible for
issuing such an order have an orderly, or, in other words,
a man-servant, and a Gape cart loaded with firewood
for their comfort. There is another matter worth
mentioning, and one which almost caused a
mutiny. We had been allowed three blankets per man,
having no tents, and, sleeping on the veldt, where it was
constantly blowing cold, three were not a bit too much ;
but the other day an order came out that every man was
to hand in one blanket each. This would leave him but
one for under and one over him. A great many of the
men flatly refused to obey the order for a long time, until
it was explained that now they were soldiers they must
obey, even if they were ordered to give up every blanket
they possessed ; if they'refused, they could be tried by
court-martial for mutiny and get five years’ penal servi-
tude. The reason given for taking our blankets was that
they wanted to lighten the loads on the waggon, so that
we might be able to do forced marches. But while they
take away one blanket out of three from the men, the
officers have waggon-loads of comforts and all sorts of
rubbish as curios that they have collected. No wonder
the officers don’t wish the war to finish, for they are
getting big pay', and are having a regular picnic, while
the troopers are getting all the hard knocks and the
roughest usage. The scale of rations per day per man
is five small hard biscuits, or, in lieu of that, two panni-
kins of flour, two spoonfuls of sugar, one ounce of
tea, one pound of meat (which each one may cook the
best he may). General Remington does little else but
night marching, and on the day following a whole night
march, when one would reasonably suppose that we
could sleep, we have to feed horses in the morning, and,
after breakfast, take horses out to graze till dinner time,
then feed once more, and, after dinner, graze again, and
so on. To tell the truth, Ido not think he would halt at
all for the men’s sake, but simply to save the horses. The
Kaffir drivers and the Boer refugees are all treated better
than we are, and I can safely say that, out of a thousand
men from New South Wales with this column, if they
could leave their job as they can in Australia when it
does not suit him, there would not be a man left in the
morning. They would all sling it. It is a regular thing
to hear men say, any minute of the day, that they would
never volunteer again, even if England was in real danger.
All their loyalty has left them, from the treatment they
receive.
The Evangel of Eight.
Grattan Guinness, “medical evangelist,” de-
livered an address to men only at Melbourne Town
Hall, the other night, and, as a matter of course,
the subject of the Guinness shriek was “ Vice ”
—the Vice which needs both sexes to make it, and
is largely dependent on Mrs. Grundy for its
mischievousness. Guinness, seemingly, has
walked around Melbourne at night, looking for
shocks. He found them. “He shudders when
he thinks of the banks of the Yarra, of the Fitzroy
Gardens, and all other Gardens,” as they appear
after dark to the citizen who wants material for
addresses on Vice. He reckons that darkness and
public reserves are the parents of Vice; therefore
he would turn a strong electric-light upon all the
gardens and close them at night, “as is done in
London,” —which, considering that Guinness
instances London as the wickedest of all cities
since Time was, doesn’t sound like a very logical
suggestion for a remedy. Guinness, being a
fervent evangelist, must talk nonsense. The dim
endearments of those couples (to whom every-
thing in the Gardens is lovely) have got
to happen somewhere, and the fact that
they happen where they do is accounted for
by Guinnessism of all descriptions. The
environments of “Vice” are just what Purity
Leaguers, etc., choose to make them. Those
? saintly souls are shocked at the thought of human
animal nature having rational allowances made
for it; consequently every city that regulates
public morality by the pecksniffian British code
compels a state of things which seems ridiculous
to heathen Japanese. The Law’s humbug is
responsible for the presence of the actual prowling
prostitute within public gardens at night. The
Law says that Traviata has no Vice Quarter of
the city where she can always be found, so she
haunts the gardens in order to get accidentally
discovered by chance customers. Surely Guinness
doesn’t expect to electric-light the woman off the
face of a social-evilled earth ! As for the other
couples whose sweethearting, of a sentimental but
ardent character, leads to matrimony much more
often than it leads to “unmarried ruin,” they have
just as much right to be in the public gardens at 10
p.m. as any couple at a vice-regal ball have to the
privacy of His Excellency’s reserve at 2 a.m.
What the raging Guinness practically pleads for
is an abolition of all shady places where a man and
a girl can be together unobserved. He would
turn a limelight upon every paddock, and put a
10ft. fence around the Australian bush. And all
because there are certain dangers to public health
against which the Government d-eclines to take
proper precautions, the backwardness of the
Government being due to the snufffasome scruples
of the Evangelicalism that keeps Guiness going.
The defeat of the Leake Government, in W.A.
after five months of suspense, came as a relief to
all parties in that State. From the moment the
Ministry assumed office it was evident that its
party was in a minority, and business was blocked
by the Opposition every time. The old Forrest
party, at the general elections, was in such bad
odor that some Forrestites ran as independent
candidates, and repeatedly avowed their intention
of giving the Leake Government a fair chance.
This accounts for the five months’ delay in the
tabling of the no-confidence motion ; it was a con-
cession by Piesse to save the faces of the so-called
Independents. Truth to tell, the Leake Govern-
ment was somewhat disappointing, but it must be
recollected that it had the arrears of ten years of
Forrestism to clear up, and that it was
consistently -blocked by the Opposition majority.
There has been a tremendous stirring up
of the dry bones, and many shady transactions
have been laid bare to the public gaze. The air
has now been cleared, and the prospects for the
future are decidedly brighter, for it is realised by
all that the autocratic methods of Forrest are
things of the past, and that constitutional govern-
ment is now to take its proper place. The
Democrats have been taught a severe lesson, and
are likely to profit by it. Steps are now being
taken to secure an alliance of the two wings of
the party to avoid splitting votes in the future.
The Liberals have an enormous majority in the
country, and it seems likely that a dissolution
cannot be long delayed. At the polls they should
triumph easily.
4
G. H. Reid’s wild yell of “ How are we to
manufacture cheaply and compete with the cheap
labor of other countries —how are we going to
% compete with these underpaid, sweated coun-
tries ? ” was about the biggest indictment of Free-
trade that ever burst from that cavern of winds.
There is only one way in which it can be done—
by erecting an iron-clad tariff wall right round
the continent, and strict Government control of
the remuneration for and the conditions of labor.
The Dry Dog Man seems to think that we can pro-
duce raw material better and more cheaply than any
other country in the world —produce it under such
favorable circumstances as to be able to pay good
wages. And it is all rats ! The most wretchedly-
paid toiler on this continent is the producer of
raw material. The man on the land makes mighty
little, but the unfortunate wretch who works for
the man on the land is beyond hope. In a few
years more Morocco, South Africa, Uganda, the
valley of the Nile with improved irrigation, and
the Argentine will become still keener rivals in
the production of raw material, and the “natural
industries ” will pay worse wages than ever
4
“ J.D.” writes :
Current comment labels the acumen of the Manly ferry-
boat employees in the recent dispute as “ remarkable.”
Under cover of a left-handed compliment it merely echoes
what the average ill-informed daily newspaper is always
saying in regard to the proceedings of labor-unions in
general, i.e., that they' are incompetently managed.
It considers not the arduous climbing of organised
labor from the small, irregular and inarticulate
protests of a dozen years ago up to? the possession
of a Labor Party strong enough to compel Arbi-
tration and Navigation Acts at the hands of Parliament.
During the past decade there have been numerous
instances of successful generalship on the part of Union
leaders, beside which the little ferry-boat success is a
mere circumstance hardly worth considering. The old-
time gibe at the toilers for having corns on their brains
as well as on their hands is not too fair in the circum-
stances. If the material they had to work with in their
poverty, the opposition to be overcome, the bribes to be
refused, were all known and considered fairly, the won-
der would be that anything whatever had been accom-
plished by the Union organisers.
4,
One of Lord Ketchener’s latest general orders
(No. 380) to the Army in S’Africa :
The Commander-in-Chief in South Africa desires to im-
press on officers in command of mobile columns that the
object of such columns is mobility ; that he has learned
that such forces carried about with them furniture,
kitchen-ranges, pianos, and harmoniums, which nullify
that object; that these articles must be handed over to
the nearest stores, &c.
What humorists ! After two years of war this
kind of discovery is only just being made, and we
can now guess what must have been the state of
things in 1899, when the British dandies
thought the campaign would be a beautiful
picnic. A mobile column carrying furniture,
kitchen-ranges, and even harmoniums, for the
officahs, whilst the common soldiers at the front
were half-starved on a biscuit a day ! The world
wondered at De Wet’s escapes, but it couldn’t
have been very hard to circumvent the “ flying ”
column commanded by Majah Reginald Perot
Cholmondeley with 500 men and a cargo of
pianos, harmoniums, and cooking-ranges.
♦
The Englishman (Calcutta) puts in a plea for the
free admission of Hindoos to Australia:
It is surely right that loyal subjects of the Crown should
receive more consideration at the hands of the Colonial
authorities than foreigners, however friendly.
Not much ! The most hostile Frenchman, German
or Russian on earth may come here and spend his
spare time cursing the British Crown with all the
language he knows ; but his son will wander after
the local girl as all sons do ; and his grandson will
probably be undistinguishable from any other
Australian. And the most loyal Hindoo that ever
grovelled to the Crown may come here, and if his
son marries the local girl (Heaven help her !) his
grandson will simply be a mongrel named Ram
something or other. The German, Dane and
Swede are our brothers, come of the same stock,
and even if they burned London to the ground
they would be material out of which good
Australians can be made all the same. And even if
the Hindoo saved the Empire from destruction he
wouldn't. The Lord so fixed things that the
Anglo-German cross is a good white citizen and
the Anglo-Hindoo isn’t, and the Loud knows a
great deal more than the British Crown. Though
in this matter the British Crown also has some
sense. When England’s royal family leaves off
intermarrying with the hostile Germans and
Russians, and takes to finding its husbands and
wives from among the loyal Hindoos, then Aus-
tralia will re-consider its race prejudice!
. 4 -
The See Ministry assumed office in N.S.W. as a
“ Country ” Ministry, and it took to its bosom
“ the man on the land,” and promised to kill for
him many fatted beeves. It hasn’t. It promised
a Rabbit Bill with cheap wire-netting, an amended
Land Bill to redress some of the glaring anomalies
of present Acts, a consolidation of the 17 Land Acts
now in existence, a Closer Settlement Bill, a Local
Government Bill, and hard roads to every cockey’s
gate. It sent the O’Sullivan to promise railway
lines to everybody and in every direction.
Within a few months the See Ministry has even
forgotten its adopted name, and hasn’t made a
serious pretence of redeeming one bucolic pro-
mise. The bush Israelites have many Moseses,
but never a Joshua.
4
The annual report of New South Wales State
Children Relief Board shows that, since the
inauguration of the boarding-out system in 1891,
17,380 children have passed through the Board’s
hands. Of that number, 6975 are still under con-
trol, 10,405 have been either reclaimed by their
relatives, adopted by their foster-parents, or gone
out into the world to earn their own living. Only
a small percentage have died, while a few have
been transferred to other public institutions. For
the past year but £306 2s. lOd. has been paid for
medicines and doctors, and the death-rate among
the children absolutely separated from their
parents was only 4 per 1000. Compare this with
the frightful mortality among the illegitimates !
The sooner that beneficent Board gets more
power and a bigger staff the better for the
murdered illegitimates of N.S.W.
4
The Federal Government should at the earliest
opportunity give some consideration to the ques-
tion of encouraging—by Protective duties on
canned fish, and, perhaps, by bonuses —a fishing
industry in Australia. At present, there is prac-
tically no effort made to gather in the harvests of
the sea. An odd harbor or lake is scraped
by a few fisherfolk, whose gleanings give a
scanty and dear supply of fresh fish, but
a greater part of the fish eaten in Aus-
tralia is imported in cans from England and
America. No reason exists why we should not
supply our own demands and build up an export
trade. The fish are here and await catching and
canning. In Great Britain the fishing industry
finds employment for many thousands, and cheap,
wholesome food for millions. But the canning
and curing is carried on under frightful sweating
conditions. Fish-curing factories are exempted
from the English Factories Act, and at Yarmouth
women and children work from daybreak until
midnight at gutting, salting, and packing
herrings. The work is done in the open
air, or in miserable sheds which give no pro-
tection against wind or rain, and girls aged
from 11 to 15 years have to labor under these con-
ditions 16 hours a day. The thought of this does
not make the English herring very appetising,
and affords another reason why Australia should
make haste to establish a fish-curing industry of
its own under fair labor conditions.
4 ■
“Kiwi” sends this bitter curse from the other
side of the water :
Why “crack up” the Maoriland land policy, or, more
correctly, landless policy'? The graduated land-tax was
designed by the Ballance Govt, £6 compel the “cutting
up of large estates,” and great was the howl among the
rich fraternity in consequence. Before the tax got a
chance to do its much-needed work, however, along came
the M‘Kenzie-cmjr-Seddon system of land-purchase, with
the result that every territorial grabber is now hanging
on, quite content to pay the land-tax in the hope of
Government buying him out. In plain English, we are
borrowing money to buy land for settlement, which has
been made worth buying chiefly on account of the spend-
ing of other borrowed m \ey on public works ; and now
the two systems of borrowing and spending are proceed-
ing merrily side by sid •. The State, insteail of getting
by taxation the enhanced value due to the spending of
money on public works, is allowing the landowner
to pocket the lot, and then the landowner is in
turn being bought out with other borrowed money !
Needless to say, the system suits ihe squatter
crowd admirably—they naturally prefer being bought out
to being taxed out. This is the reason the late John
McKenzie died such a popular man. The great unin-
formed crowd has a hazy notion that the policy means
putting a few score small monopolists in the place of one
large- one, and they conclude that all is well. The
selectors who want land like the system because they get
land, and they don’t trouble to look deeper than the
surface of things ; the organised workers are of opinion
that the question doesn’t directly concern them, and
they are satisfied with eight-hours legislation and
kindred measures. Last of all, the squatter likes the
system for the reasons above stated. Small wonder
that Seddon now gets support from both the fat and
the lean man 1 But there is worse to follow : The pur-
chased land, instead of being leased with periodical re-
valuations, is given away in 200 and 300-acre lots on pay-
ment of 5 per cent annual rent for 999 .years without re-
valuation. The rent goes to pay interest on the purchase-
money plus roading, surveying, etc.,‘ and the land, being
technically Crown land, pays no land-tax. Therefore the
State gets no direct r-evenue from the land, and, as there
is no provision for a sinking-fund, the principal bids fair
to become a debt in perpetuity. Small wonder, there-
fore, that leases-in-perpetuity are now being gambled in
as freeholds were a few years ago. Then, again, we have
not abolished the curse of the freehold. Our Crown land
is rapidly becoming alienated under this criminal system.
True, very little of the land is disposed of as freehold in
the first instance, but it is settled on perpetual lease
(which must not be confounded with lease in perpetuity)
and deferred payments, under both of which there is pro-
vision for ultimate purchase. Now we have in vogue a
system of State money-lending, and the largest advances
are, of course, made on freehold. Result : everybody
who can is converting his lease into freehold to take
advantage of the -new borrowing facilities. The real
remedy for the land evil is direct taxation of the unearned
increment.
4
Melbourne Customs authorities have again made
a stir by confiscating a consignment of Zola’s
works. Zola certainly wrote some horrible stuff
(his “La Terre” drew forth a formal protest from
the leading French writers of the realistic school),
but in the average English translations his boobs
are not such as to deserve to be damned by a
tide-waiter custodian of public morals. Some
definite policy on this matter of forbidden literary
fruit should be promptly decided on. As to
books which are flagrantly filthy, and nothing
but filthy, there need be no question. But
the books which may harm an innocent mind, the
works of Shakespeare, Spenser, Chaucer, Swift,
Dryden, Fielding, Smollett, Meredith, prac-
tically all the Greek and Latin classics, nine-
tenths of continental literature, the Bible, and
other more or less notable works—what about
them ? If all that can rub the bloom off
the peach of maiden innocence is excluded,
we must live in a literary wilderness. And to
exclude, on a silly system inspired by British
prejudice, or by sheer ignorance, some books.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to .
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G. G. McGOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
O. CARLIBLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
Melb. Age advt. :
—BACHELOR, R.C., elderly, educated, M.L.A.,
adjacent State, property valued several thousand
pounds, wishes introduction educated lady, £5OO
yearly, view matrimony. Holt’s.
dg
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, dec.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Suns Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only address in N.S. H 7.,
299 Gecrge-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Sci)d 6s yo6r
■^-PHOTOfiRAPH.
■ F you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
■ Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcrtpapcpt Cplargcipcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for 10s. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON,
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, Ceorgre Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Grown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
whilst admitting more objectionable ones, is a plan
which, besides its injustice, has the danger that it
might lead in time to a Customs censorship of
books which would prove a deadly weapon of
tyranny against the freedom of the press. The
sensible system is to leave to the individual citizen
the protection of his particular innocents from
contamination. The parent or teacher may, in
cases, fail, and a child get from the Bible, or from
Shakespeare, or from Zola, some moral harm.
But that risk must be suffered when the only
alternative is prohibition of all the world’s best
literature.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Honor Thy Father."
Her Majesty’s “The Silver King.”
Royal “ Florodora.”
Criterion “Dorcas."
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR .COMING WEEK.
Princess's “Mrs. Dane’s Defence.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Olympia (Prince’s
Bridge)..... Fitzgerald Bros. Circus.
“The Sign of the Cross” has prospered
exceedingly during the week at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney (in spite of the severe competition of
the Simultaneous Mission). Besides convey-
ing to many thousands a vivid impression
of the traditional idea of the wrongs of
the Catacomb Christian, the play has brought
some few to a full sympathy with the feelings of
that little girl who, shown a picture of wild
animals devouring martyrs in the Roman amphi-
theatre, burst into tears, at the thought that one
noble and sorrowful-looking lion bad no Early
Christian. If this play correctly delineates the
heterodox people of Nero’s day—well, there’s a
good deal to be said for Nero. On Saturday (Nov.
30) “Silver King,” the finest melodrama ever
written, will be staged, with Mr. Barrett and
Miss M'Carthy in the chief parts.
** * *
At Sydney Royal the last nights of Lady
Isabel are announced. This version of the drama,
as before mentioned, is rather an improvement on
some others ; nevertheless there is badly wanted
an up-to-date rendering of “East Lynne” in
which that impulsive lady shall come to a less
melancholy end. It is noticeable that the dressing
for this mid-century tale is invariably up-to-date,
save that Cornelia Carlyle occasionally goes right
back to the fashions of old times. Nobody goes
back, save Cornelia. Her skirts are scanty and
her curls corkscrewed, but Lady Isabel, who lived
in the same ungraceful and poke-bonnetted period,
is a dream in modern clothes and modern grace.
It is like Saul in ancient Hebrew robes conferring
with Jonathan in evening dress and a gleaming
shirt-front on Mount Gilboa, or the spectacle of
eleven apostles in ancient Syrian garb watching
the twelfth as he ran after his blown-off top-hat in
Galilee.
** * *
That somewhat tired Siamese-American
monarch, “Wang,” left Sydney Criterion stage
last Friday, and “Fra Diavolo” Vas staged on
Saturday. In this piece, as before remarked, the
Josephine Stanton company shows itself at its
best. A particularly good orchestra does full
justice to the music, and if there is no very great
strength of solo singers, the general brightness of
the chorus and smartness of the acting all round
atone for that defect. A new tenor, Mr. J.
Clarence Harvey, has strengthened the co. since
last production of “Diavolo.” The opera was
warmly received on Saturday, and its production
will be continued until Nov. 30, when “Dorcas”
is to be staged, assuming that lady has got her
clothes ready and is otherwise fit.
** * *
“ The Ladder of Life ” is drawing to a
close at Sydney Lyceum, and that interesting
military drama, in which the Highlanders win all
England’s glory for her, will shortly give way to
something that sounds instructive and elevating—
“Honour Thy Father.” After the smoke and
powder of Dargai Heights, and the frequent rush-
ing of excited Highlanders across the stage, the
new play will probably prove restful, even if the
father in question is killed off in the first act, and
after that the play is the usual melodrama.
* *
“ Jack ” Crain, whose connection with the
Australasian stage dates back to ’79, will shortly
be the recipient of a benefit, prior to his depar-
ture from Sydney. This is his first appeal to the
public, although his services have always been
freely at the disposal of others. A big bill is in
preparation.
*# * *
The Bernard Espinasse matinee last week,
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, showed the desire of
the public and of the dramatic profession to give
the young dramatist a good send-off. The pro-
gramme was full of attractions, and the audience
large and enthusiastic.
** * *
The variety form of entertainment, which
had been a rather neglected quantity in Mel-
bourne for a good many weeks, regained its popu-
larity with a rush last Saturday night. At the
Opera House, where the new patent punkah
arrangements came as a breezy blessing in sur-
prise, every seat was filled or booked long before
the curtain went up, and for half-an-hour there-
after the firm but polite refusal of hard
cash proceeded steadily until the world in
general knew that Rickards was himself
again. The time had arrived for Rickards
to buck up, so he bucked. Saturday’s pro-
gramme at the Opera House consisted of
a first part that didn’t drag, and a second part in
which one good turn deserved another, and almost
invariably got it. Those admirable song-and-
dancers, the Allisons, scored a roar of applause
early in the evening. A gaudy ballet, with Dora
Taylor as the heroine of a pantomime story, was
only a little too long. Charles Pastor, a new
arrival, produced an infectious laugh to justify his-
importation; and Peggy Pryde seemed to be
accepted as the only woman they had ever
loved. Peggy, this time, looks about 22 in
the limelight, and fully equal to another
success. Melbourne is going to let Peggy
rattle along as before with the tongue that works
on a swivel, and if she occasionally lapses into a
sentimental ballad concerning the honeysuckle and
the bee, her staunch admirers will overlook the
indiscretion. All the same, they don’t ask for any
honeysuckle sentiment from their humorous little
friend. She has brought some up-to-date patter,
and as often as she cares to mention the
lodger’s loin-chops that used to hum in his
bedroom cupboard, Peggy will hum like-
wise. After the festive little comedian came
the Craggs, who are seemingly some of
the same people whom George Musgrove brought
to Australia ten years ago, though two of them,
anyway, must have been horn in the meantime.
The Craggs are considerably more than clever
acrobats in the style which was first identified
with their “Family ” name. They are wonderful.
Other troupes are said to have surpassed the swift
and graceful Craggs’ performance, but Australia,
not knowing those other people, remains sceptical
on the point.
** « *
At the Bijou the “ World’s Entertainers ”
began their season of “Polite Vaudeville” on
Saturday, and a crowded house found it not too
polite to be pleasant. Lee and Riall’s vaudeville
differs from Pickards’ variety show at the outset
in not having a first-part scene, but otherwise there
is a cousinly resemblance between the two, each of
them concluding with a biograph under a different
name. Fifteen Entertainers in all supply 11 turns.
The principal feature of the bill appears to be
Henry Lee, who impersonates six great men, in
addition to himself, and has somewhat improved
upon his “turn” of years agone by changing his
make-up in view of the audience, instead of
sandwiching his impersonations between dull
slabs of darkness. Henry Lee of yore sent
no _ thrills of admiration through the present
scribe. His performance didn’t look quite worth
the introductory remarks and the time spent in
dressing his parts behind the curtain. Now that
Lee reveals the mysteries of his toilette, the turn
has lost its early heaviness, without gaining a
particle of humor. Charles Sweet, as the Musical
Burglar, is quite as bright as the departed Musical
Tramp, or even brighter. Also Arthur Nelstone
has a droll pair of legs and an air of freshness,
and the dancing generally is quaint and slick.
The entertainers are disposed to be mild and soft
in two or three instances, especially the instance
of the handsome lady who sings long narrative
songs to a photographic accompaniment, but
every turn has some sort of smartness to re-
commend it, and the stage-management is netice-
ably keen throughout. American showmen have
discovered, the importance of a strict attention to
small details in stage business.
** * *
Six nights of “ The Magistrate ” are hap-
pening at Melb. Princess’s. One must admit that
the bulk of Pinero’s light-hearted comedy was
more effectively played once, or twice, or thrice
upon a time than it appears this week. But, seeing
that Brough is a Mr. Posket of 16 yvars’ experi-
ence, and the comedy depends solely on his co.
for whatever production it can get, and Australia
wouldn’t be happy if it never got it, the compara-
tive shortcomings of this performance will be
generally received with thanks. In fact, they are
not worth mentioning, except for the sake of
argument. Moreover, the difference between
Titheradge and Cecil Ward as the gallant Colonel
who gets forcibly washed, is of less consequence
than an alteration in Kingston’s tariff. And
people will go to “The Magistrate” to get tariff
out of their ears and minds. The above remarks
are intended to lead up to an announcement that
Brough’s season at the Princess’s will inaugurate
its farewell fortnight on Saturday with the pro-
duction of “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence.”
#* * *
This is the fifth week of “Hearts are
Trumps ” at the Royal, and the health of Bland
Holt’s mighty spectacle remains robust.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus, likewise, is going
strong and amassing riches for the brethren, who
erected a temple of iron on a stretch of wilderness
and defied the hailstones from on high. Said
hailstorm, by the way, reduced the Fitz.’s best
menagerie-tent to fragments, after which a plain,
ordinary tempest came and shattered their second-
best tent; but little troubles of that sort
seem to be the salt of circus-life. The Diving
Horses have now mastered their feelings, and they
drop down to their task eight times a week with
more alacrity than they showed on the first night.
The white horse is particularly loyal to the
management. On arriving at the point where it
is required to get into the tank somehow, the
animal looks around with a what-price-me ? ex-
pression on its honest, matronly face, and dives
with its forelegs outstretched in an attitude of
prayer.
** * *
“ A Chinese Honeymoon” is the name of
a successful farcical comedy lately staged at
London Strand. Presumably it is not quite
so realistic as the Honeymoon play produced
by the Chinese co. in Melbourne during its
winter season of 100 nights, or so. The Chow
comedy showed how a one-time married pair got
separated, and, supposing one another to be dead,
came together again in second marriage. The
custom of the country keeps the lady’s face veiled
from her lord until the bridal, so the discovery of
the startling truth in this case was reserved
for the last act. A big four-poster bed,
THE LATE HON. GEORGE THORNTON , M.L.C.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
with curtains all round it, was the sole
“ set ” for this final act. The bride came
forward, sang her little song of love and happiness,
and disappeared behind the drapings of the four-
poster. _ Then the bridegroom came and expressed
his sentiments, and sought the nuptial coucn, after
which the orchestra played honeymoon music of
an amusing character. Then the climax. Bride-
groom sprang into publicity from between the
curtains and told of his surprise, not unmingled
with satisfaction, on discovering that the Old
Wife and the New were one and the same girl.
After which the audience dispersed, smiling
celestially.
** * *
Polite Vaudeville did not do too well at
Adelaide Royal. Rickards has accustomed Ade-
laide people to 3-2-1 prices, and they did not fancy
going back to the 5-3-1 scale. Thus (except for
Saturdays and a holiday) only the cheaper
parts filled up well. Also the Dartos were simul-
taneously showing at the Tivoli. At one particu-
larly disastrous matinee, Sweet, the Musical
Burglar, asked the house not to trouble to
applaud. “ There are not enough of you to
make a noise, anyway 1 ”
** * *
“ Otello ” is a blaze and a crash of color,
light, noise, and fury, horrifying rather than
touching, more passionate than pathetic. Its
music excites the listener at the moment of hear-
ing and masters his imagination, but the opera
seeme short of little themes, which, heard on
Saturday night, haunt a hearer’s ear and memory,
keeping him awake in church next morning. A
catchy exception is Besdemona’s swan-song,
which, beginning with a quaint, churchy recitatif,
merges into the plaintive “ Ave Maria” sung by
the “fev” mourner while she listens to “Death’s
cold, sullen stream ” lapping at her feet. Another
popular bit is a stirring thing, drummed out by
Othello —“Farewell to Glorious War,” the writer
fancies.
* » * *
The Moor, as interpreted by composer
Verdi, librettist Boito and singer Larizza, is
Shakespeare’s hero seen with one eye. He’s the
defrauded husband yelling “Blood, lago, blood !”
rather than the heart-wrung lover, lamenting “0
lago, the pity of it, lago ! ” Shakespeare, by the
way, built his revised and improved “Othello” on
an Italian story of a jealous Moor, who looked on
while his wife was beaten to death by a minion
with a stocking filled with sand, and then
pulled down the house to hide her corpse.
Larizza, discarding character complexities and
contradictions, takes us back to this original
corner-stone and shows us a straight-goer, who,
when once he’s angered, hates like a lunatic, digs
Desdemona brutally with his elbows, and batters
her whenever he gets the chance. Musical
authorities testify that it would baffie even a
Wagner to translate an all-round Shakespearean
“ Othello ” into opera, so, failing the whole hog,
Verdi’s “Otello” certainly chooses the strongest
part in presenting the Moor’s robust, revengeful
side, rather than his sentimental streak. A plain-
tive, puling Othello would be an absurdity.
• • • •
An enormous first - night audience ap-
plauded “ Otello ” wildly, though a cynical few
sniggered when the hero dug his poor wife
savagely in the ribs, and again when he burst into
her beautiful old-Venetian chamber, with his
melodramatic eyeballs, black face, and swaying
blunderbuss. The operatic Desdemona is a tame,
ill-used warbler, though, as hubby testifies,
“qualified to sing the savageness out of a bear.”
Marchi, as Emilia, suggested a stately Italian pic-
ture come to life. Bozzoli, slim and dandified
of appearance as lago, was artistio as usual, and
added to his popularity with local women, which
has been growing ever since the fact of there
being a Mrs. Dani made itself felt.
* * * *
As a spectacle, “ Otello ” is gorgeous and
convincing. As an object lesson of the desira-
bility of a White Australia, it is invaluable.
Sydney Associated Laundries’ advance of
25 per cent, in prices is a most impudent “try-
on.” Original excuse for the rise was the tariff;
argued out of their corner, the owners took refuge
behind the preposterous allegation that the
laundry employees would shortly demand in-
creased wages, therefore, &c., &c. As a method
of compelling the public to contribute to a bosses’
strike-fund, which may be used to successfully
reduce the wages of the laundry workers, this
takes the starch right out of the stiffest trick ever
previously heard of in these parts. Writer is
flad to hear of one laundry boss who admits that
e has already lost 40 out of 200 customers, so the
pubbc is evidently kicking.
Australian dailies last Tuesday published
two S’African cablegrams side by side. One
alluded to the Boers who are still, against
stupendous odds, holding up the last rag of the
banner of independence, as “rebels”; the other
described that handful of despicable traitors who
have offered to fight along with the British
against their own countrymen and their own
country’s independence as the “loyal Boers.”
And so they are loyal—in the same sense as
Benedict Arnold, and Judas Iscariot, and the
Irish informer in the melodrama, and all other
snch characters. The question for every Aus-
tralian : Had you been born a Boer which would
you rather be —the man who fought to the last for
his country or the thing that took pav from its
foes?
It took 20 days to get through the big Tas.
case wherein the awful V.D.L. Co. unsuccessfully
sued the Govt, for trespass. Senator Symon,
addressing the jury, stressed the point that a
verdict for the co. would be a disaster to Tas-
mania ; but as the grab-all Co. has been raising a
V.D.L. of an unpleasant smell in the island for
the last half-century or more, the K.C.’s appeal
to the jury’s parochialism was quite unnecessary.
As the V.D.L. is disgustingly wealthy, it may
change the venue to the Privy Council, or Federal
High Court, for no less than 150 miles of foreshore
are involved.
The tailoresses’ strike in Sydney continues
though most of the employers have come to
terms with the Union. Hordern’s girls are still
out. Mr. Sam Hordern’s declaration that he
would prefer to close his factory rather than allow
a widow employee who wouldn’t join the union
to resign, is, so far, the best joke of the
dispute. The idea of the astute Mr. Hordern
voluntarily surrendering very big profits weekly
when for forty shillings a week he could
pension this particular employee is rather too
absurd for credence. Public sympathy is still
with the tailoresses. Last Saturday’s collections
m the street, and contributions from other unions,
are said to have made the week’s strike-pay about
17s. 6d. per head—which is more than the normal
wages of the girls.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Bank of New South Wales—about the
most consistently prosperous institution this side of the
line—shows another improvement :
Profits. Dividends. Total Re-
5ept.,1897 ..
March, 1898.. £88,128 9 p.c. =£87,750 1,216 943
Sept., 1898 .. 88,042 9„ = 87,750 1,217,235
March, 1899 .. 88,738 9 „ = 87,750 1 218 223
Sept. 1899 .. 89,544 9 „ = 87,750 1,220,017
March, 1900 .. 99,SOS'!
New share r 9 „ = 90,000 1,276,280
premiums .. 46,405 )
Sept 1900 .. 100,463 10 „ = 100,000 1,276,743
March, 1901.. 100,153 10 „ =lOO,OOO 1,276,896
Sept., 1901 . 104,647 10 „ =lOO,OOO 1,281,5 3
The earnings are equivalent to £6 7s. 9d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
™®n" of the half-year, a material improvement on the
£6 2s. 3d. per cent, earned for the six months to 31st
March, 1901. At the same time, a visible shrinkage in-
the dimensions of the business (except in the matter of
arl ? es )* s characteristic of the present dubious state
of affairs in Australia. Some comparative figures are as
follows
Sept. March, Sept., Decrease
1900. 1901. 1901. “ P ast
Circulation £890,837 £982,856 £894,699 £88,157
Deposits .. 20,987,103 21,590,076 20,506,019 1,084,057
Other lia-
bilities.. 2,857,549 2,853,496 2,709,959 143,537
Cash .. 5,720,350 5,891,673 4,979,752 911,921
All liquid
assets .. 7,942,942 8,081,992 7,047,060 1,034,932
Advances.. 15,528,146 15,570,963 16,163,816
The Bank of N.S.W. is about as good a barometer of the
country’s (and especially of N.S.W.’s) financial state as
could be found. It shows that interest rates are higher,
the demand for money greater, and the money available
rather less. The decline in deposits and note circulation
are probably the least promising features in the situation.
* • * *
Maori land is borrowing £1,500,000 at 3 per
cent, in London, at a fixed price of £94. From this there
must be deducted £1 per cent, for underwriting, also
expenses and accrued interest, so the net price is likely to
be about £92. At this rate Maoriland will incur
£1,500,000 of debt, and receive only £1,380,000. The other
£120,000 is interest paid out of ioans—in other words
Maoriland’s credit is good enough to borrow at between
and 3£ per cent, and it borrows at 3 per cent., the
difference being added to the principal of the debt. It is


stocks Kept
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And At 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALGOORLIE.
fdg
TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
!)«“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. "Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * » •
N. Guthridge, Ltd., of 71 Clarence-st., Sydney
(also Melbourne ; Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; Welling-
ton, N.Z.), have added to their list of agencies those of
the New Explosives Co., Ltd., London, and the Pulso-
meter 00., Ltd., Reading. . . . This company is now in a
position to supply all special mining requisites, principal
among them being “ Wilfley ” concentrators, “ Little
Giant’’and “Slugger” drills, “Rand” air compressors,
Gelignite, “ Rackarock,” “ Rendrock,” “Sun” brand
fuse, electric and other detonators, “ Ivanhoe ” mining
steel, “Globe” lubricating oils, special marlined steam
hose, steam pumps. Large stocks of all the above-men-
tioned specialities are carried.*
» * • *
Stock Exchange, London, 17th July, 1901 :
“ Notwithstanding its comparative youth, the Colonial
Mutual has achieved, in the short time of its existence, a
status and reputation that places it amongst the leading
life offices of.the world.”*
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* * * •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* • m *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electric
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8£ inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
» * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospeoting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George*
street, Sydney, are, large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vannera
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemistsi
• * * «
Talisman Consolidated, M.L. : Curie, the well-
known'(EcoNOMiST) critic, said of this show last year that
it was the second in M.L., admitting that the Waihi was
far first. Ourle made some big mining mistakes in other
countries, and his opinion about this mine appears to
have been quite erroneous. Adjoining blocks were ac-
quired in the good old Bewick-Moreing way, by the issue
of shares. The old plant—apparently quite big enough
for the mine—was discarded, and a new 50-head mill with
cyanide erected. Crushing started over three months ago,
and the clean-up was postponed for all sorts of alleged
reasons. It took place the other day, and it leaked out
that the value of the ore is only 265. per ton, and the
tonnage much less than might reasonably be expected
from so large a battery running for so long a time. It is
also the result of picked ore, a number of hands having
been employed in sorting, so as to bring the
crushing up to expectations. Nathless it is a
bad disappointment. Shares went to 355. weeks ago
when the plates were “ looking well,” and fell to 21s. 6d.
as soon as the result of crushing went up. Average value
of ore as mined certainly not £1 a ton ; it could not pos-
sibly pay at that. Ore-reserves small, reefs of no size, and
not opened up to any extent, and the co., like many
another placed on the English market in boom-time, pro-
mises to fade away.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
' Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blastings Charges.
Hy. f^arkv/ald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 6S Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Ka de-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
a foolish, disreputable swindle, but these States are doing
the same foolish, disreputable swindle all the time, and
they are so used to it that if anyone proposed to make
good the £120,000 loss out of revenue he would probably
be regarded as a person who was needlessly particular
and altogether too conscientious for this world.
If Ist July be taken as the beginning of the
financial year (which it is in five of the seven States) then
five months of the new year have elapsed, and in that
brief period the seven States of Australasia have borrowed
in London no less than £9,324,213, in addition to large
amounts raised locally. And being driven by their wild
boom policy to go on raising money, despite the utter
badness of the market, they have lost something not far
short of £1,000,000 on the transaction. Maoriland, selling
its loan at 93 for every £lOO, with flotation expenses to
come out of that, which will probably reduce it below £92,
makes the best bargain of the lot, bad as that bargain
is. N. S. Wales got a little less, and Westralia and
Queensland were glad to get about £BB. Earlier in the
year Victoria had to renew a £3,000,000 loan, and got
about £9O. It is a very costly 'loan boom that these
States are inaugurating, and a very big one. And it differs
from the boom of the late ’Bo’s in this, that there are just
now very few really promising railways to construct, and
the money is being buried in non-productive works at a
rate never before heard of in Australia. Wherefore the
interest must needs be paid out of taxation, and more
revenue must shortly be found, unless some new swindle
can be devised to postpone the evil day.
* * • ♦
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) is memorable as one of the Australian
companies which spread its business recklessly to foreign
parts (the reason always assigned against State fire
insurance is that it would be purely local and couldn’t
have the blessed advantage of spreading to foreign parts),
went practically broke there as per usual, and yet had
the grit and ability to fully retrieve its position. This is
the record of its smash and its recovery :
Written
Loss. Dividends. Invest- Deficit-
ments.
1891.. £25,647 £2722 £19,911
Profit.
1892.. 4,683 673 15,801
1893.. 7,139 8,662
1894.. 8,192 470
Reserves.
1895.. 8,584 2000 6,114
1896.. 8,790 5 per cent. =£1,876 13,029
1897.. 8,848 6 = 2,260 1000 18,627
Loss.
1898.. 3,986 14,641
Profit.
1899.. 18,922 8 per cent. = 3,000 2000 28,563
1900.. 16,184 8 = 3,000 2000 39,747
1901.. 27,789 {Add. to capiunS} 61 ’ 036
The addition of £12,500 of the profits to capital makes
the latter £50,000 paid-up, so the total shareholders’
funds are now £101,036. As the shareholders
actually paid up only £37,500 their nominal 8 per
cent, dividend really represents £lO 13s. 4d. per
cent., which is a highly respectable rate. The
business shows remarkable expansion. For the
year ended September, 1898, the gross premium income
was £89,845, while for the year to September, 1901, it
reached £135,504. During the last eleven years the
Colonial Mutual Fire 00. has provided for £10,295 lost
through depreciation of securities, and has added
£83,447 out of profits to its shareholders’ funds. Its
investments (almost wholly State and municipal securities
and bank deposits) look very sound, and last year yielded
£2Blo—sufficient in itself to pay 7£ per cent, dividend on
the original capital. The Colonial Mutual hasn’t far to
go now till it becomes the leading Victorian fire company
—in fact, it may have attained that position already if it
was possible to make an accurate comparison; and
another ten years like the last might make it the leading
fire co. of Australia.
* * * *
The Sydney wool and produce firm of Harrison,
Jones and Devlin, Limited, completed a rather bad year
on 30th September, 1901. Some recent results :
• Deficit
(Goodwill
not
Written reckoned
Profits. Dividend. off. an Asset.)
1891 £11,266 6 per cent. = £6,000 £21,390
1892 13,129 6 „ „ 6,000 14,261
1893 14,236 6 m „ 6,000 6,026
Reserves
(Goodwill
not
reckoned
an Asset.)
1894 18,969 6 „ „ 0,000 6,943
1895 22,957 7 „ „ 7,000 £9,513 13,387
1896 13,629 8 „ „ 8,000 5,000 14,016
1897 18,176 8 „ „ 8,000 5,000 19,192
1898 13,120 8 „ „ 8,000 2,500 21,812
1899 14,424 8 „ „ 8,000 4,000 24,236
1900 12,741 8 „ „ 8,000 2,000 26,977
1901 6,120 7 „ „ 7,000 10,000 16,097
Harrison, Jones and Devlin reckons its reserves at
£66,097 (reserve fund, £52,500, and undivided profit,
£3597), but as £40,000 of this is represented only by the
paper asset of “goodwill” (an asset which should most
certainly be written off), the real reserves may more
fairly be set down at the £16,097 shown above.
The £lO,OOO written off this year is mainly to
cover losses arising through advances made on wool at
the inflated values of 1899. The other £28,013, written off
since 1895, is in diminution of the paper-value of the co.’s
freehold property, which has been reduced from £179,513
to £151,500. Whether there is any further depreciation
to be provided for under this heading it is impossible,
in the absence of any evidence, to say. But, considering
the uncertain position of things this year, it is a pity that
the dividend was noe cut down to 6 per cent., so as to
keep it within the earnings. The present isn’t a good
time to pay dividends that are not fully earned. The
co. staggers under a pretty heavy mortgage on its free-
hold, and though this liability has been reduced from
£97,000 in 1895 to £76,000 in 1901, it is still a consider-
able drain on the profits.
• * • •
W.J.O. : The Mutual Life Association is far the
better office. It may not have so great a capacity for
promising as the other institution, but it is much better
in the matter of performance.
* * * *
The North Queensland Insurance Co. com-
pleted, on 30th Sept, 1901, its most successful year up to
date. Its record is as follows :
Profits. Dividends. JStSm.
1892 .. £3,920 6 per cent. = £2,672 £7,111
1893 „ 4,668 6 „ „ 2,672 9,107
1894 .. 8,400 i „ „ 2,072 9,835
1895 .. 3,113 6 „ „ 2,672 1M76
Loss.
1800 .. 776 Nil 9,500
Profits.
1897 .. 10,688 0 per cent. = 8,206 10,982
1898 .. 1,089 4 „ „ 2,138 15,933
1899 .. 4,174 5 „ „ 2,672 17,435
1900 .. 14,064 8 „ „ 4,275 27,224
1901 .. 16,291 8 „ „ 4,285 38,230
The North Queensland Insurance Co. has grown very
rapidly of late years. In 1896 its gross premium income was
£B2-252, which was a very large amount for an Australian
office, this being a land where fire insurance are
mostly small and humble. But since then things have
expanded after this fashion :
Gross Premiums.
1896 .. £82,252 1899 .. £116,227
1897 .. 102,014 1900 .. 151,567
1898 .. 107,712 1901 .. 160,770
One notable reason of the progress made by the North
Queensland Insurance Co. is its cheap management—less
than 15 per cent, of the gross income goes in expenses,
and it is almost the most cheaply-managed fire office m
Australasia. Moderate dividends, a resolution to build
up solid reserves, and careful investment of the funds in
State securities and good bank deposits have done the
rest.
* * * *
The National Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
(Maoriland):
Written
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves.
1893 £111,566
1894 £19,395 15 per cent. =£14,706 £5,400 110,855
1895 16,981 15 „ „ 14,706 2,123 111,007
1896 16,740 15 „ „ 14,706 2,248 110,793
1897 16,216 15 „ „ 14,706 986 111,317
1898 8,846 124- „ „ 12,255 107,908
1899 20,028 124 „ „ 12,255 115,681
1900 25,388 124 „ „ 12,255 128,814
1901 24,600 12| .» ». 12,255 141,159
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £90,000 ; re-insur-
ance fund, £36,000 ; ,and undivided profit, £15,159. The
National’s business is growing steadily as well as its pro-
fits, the net premium income having risen from £91,998 in
1898 to £108,120 in 1901. The interest earnings are £9,862
(sufficient in itself to pay a 10 per cent, dividend), repre-
senting £4 Bs. sd. per cent, per annum on the total
investments as at the end of the year, which is good
enough to suggest that the money is carefully and safely
laid out. The National is only the third largest of
Maoriland’s fire and marine insurance institutions, yet
its solidity and progress are a remarkable contrast to
the majority of similar institutions this side of the water.
In Maoriland the people stand by their local offices
as a matter of preference ; in Australia, apparently,
they prefer to do business with any rather than with a
local office. As a result, Maoriland, with its less than
800,000 of population, has the three most solid fire insur-
ance companies in Australasia, while Victoria ancLN.S.W.
take a secondary place, with Tasmania third ; and
Queensland, South Australia and Westralia, with over
1,000,000 inhabitants, don’t possess a single fire office
among them.
* * * •
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Associa-
tion of Australia (Melbourne) completed a reasonably
good year on 30th September. This institution is fast
recovering from the severe shock which struck it some
years ago, when it was held to have wrongfully put a
client’s money on deposit in certain banks which came to
grief, and was ordered to take over the deposits and stand
the loss. The decision was always a doubtful one, con-
sidering the terms of the will under which the unlucky
investment was made. Recent doings of the Association
have been as follows :
Losses
Written Total
Profit. Dividends. off. Reserves.
1891 £4,452 10 per cent. =£3,000 £18,254
1892 3,191 10 „ „ 3,000 18,445
1893 1,423 8 „ „ 2,400 17,468
Loss.
1894 204 4 „ „ 1,200 16,064
1895 197 £5,900 9,967
Profit.
1896 85 3,777 6,275
1897 653 263 6,665
1898 374 228 6,811
1899 1,283 1J per cent. =■ £375 943 6,776
1900 1,801 24 „ „ 750 7,827
1901 1,887 24 „ „ 750 8,964
The reserves consist of contingency account, £7710, and
undivided profit, £1254, and if the former proves to be all
required to provide for losses, then the real reserves are
only £1254. Considering that the co.’s total assets are
only £42,217, and that £ll,lll has been already written off,
£7710 seems a very large provision for contingencies, and
the process of writing off ought to be at least nearing an
end. The earnings are now about equal to 6 per cent, on
capital, but even if things improve it is to be hoped that
the Perpetual Executors and Trustees’ Association won’t
be beguiled beyond 5 per cent dividends until it has
built up a really strong reserve—not less than £lOO,OOO
should be aimed at. Also, it is to be hoped that the new
reserve will be invested in State securities —notin inflated
mortgages and boom banks. Large dividends, small
reserves and undue trustfulness in the investments made
the last trouble, and, though it has been surmounted, the
process was a painful one.
» * * *
The Swan Brewery Co., of Perth, Westralia: —
Dividends Written Total
Profits. per annum. off. Reserves.
Sept., 1897 £47,387
March, 1898.. £24,048 177 p.c. =£39,312 32,123
Sept., 1898.. 13,171 Nil £3297 41,997
March, 1899.. 17,709 12 p.c. = 4,565 8984 46,157
Sept., 1899 .. 9,762 16 „ = 6,087 4717 45,115
March, 1900.. 15,971 16 „= 6,087 3517 51,482
Sept., 1900 .. 16,861 20 „ = 7,609 2679 58,155
March, 1901.. 17,031 20 „ = 7,609 1547 66,030
Sept., 1901 .. 15,092 24 „ = 9,131 1345 70,646
The Swan Brewery Co. is having a good time while Wes-
tralia’s gold boom and borrowing boom lasts. At the
same time, good as things are, it would be well advised
to reduce its 24 per cent, dividend somewhat and keep
an eye on the future. When the borrowing boom gives
oat, the probable slump in W.A. properties—hotel pro-
perties among the rest —is something too great for con-
templation or calculation. The Swan Co., with £76,087
of paid-up capital and £70,646 of reserves, is in a very
solid position, but the Westralian borrowing drunkenness
is, in proportion to population, leagues ahead of anything
Australia has previously witnessed, and when the bottom
falls out of it there is room for a slump compared with
which that of the eastern States in ’93 will be only a
speck on the horizon.
» * * •
Melbourne Mont de Piite Co. reckons that it
has lost £16,522 by the frauds of its recent employees,
part of the amount, at least, being blamed on the Man
That’s Dead. The Mont was only a small affair at best
with some £24,000 of shareholders’ funds, so the blow is a
heavy one. The fact that two-thirds of the ooncern were
made away with before the loss was detected suggests a
whole lot of things.
• « • •
The City of Brisbane Building Society, almost
the youngest institution of its kind on this continent,
closed its third year on 30th September, 1901:
Profits. Deficit.
Preliminary exs... .. £42
September, 1809.. £6O .. 6 percent. = £36 .. 18
„ 1900.. 123 .. i „ „ 108.. 3
' Reserves.
„ 1901.. 188 .. 6 „ „ 167 .. 18
The little Institution is making a certain amount of pro-
gress, and has already £1276 of deposits and £3845 paid-
up capital. Probably it will get along faster now that
the preliminary debit is cleared off, but, all the same, the
payment of a 6 per cent, dividend in the very first year of
the institution’s existence looks a risky policy.
Out of the first Federal loan a goodly proportion
is for repairs and patches and other unproductive works,
or works that should assuredly be charged to revenue.
For replacing worn-out telegraph-poles (bought with loan
money and not paid for) £14,000 is allotted ; fortifications,
£9525; new switch-board in Melbourne post-office to
replace the old one that has become obsolete, £30,000;
machinery for Government Printing Office, £12,500 ; and
so on. One more loan swindle, added to the six State
loan swindles we had already.
* • • •
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of South
Australia (Adelaide), paid-up capital now £13,350, makes
a little progress.
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Sept., 1897 .. £7Ol
„ 1898.. £1,310 6 per cent. =£536 1,476
„ 1899 .. 1,394 5 „ „ 590 2,279
„ 1900 .. 1,122 6 „ „ 745 2,656
„ 1901 .. 1,102 5 „ „ 767 2,991
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of S.A. has a
curious habit of not charging the directors’ and auditors’
fees to the year to which they belong, but to the year
after; the shareholders vote £475, or some such amount,
at the annual meeting, instead of making the itemafixed
charge. If this matter was done in the usual way the
total reserves would appear, in each case, as somewhat
less than the amount shown above. A certain amount of
progress is being made, but it can’t be described as any-
thing very extensive up to now. Still, as the co. has
been 22 years in existence, it has apparently. done much
better in the last four years than in the previous 18.
» * *
W. Breen: Not worth while noticing returns
of possibly picked ore. Picked ore returns only deceive
the public.
* * * *
British B.H. ought to advertise for its Western
lode-body. 4000 ft. of diamond-drilling at the 500 and
600 ft. failed to discover it; yet no mining man dares
deny that it is cruising about somewhere not far down
from where the drill pierced. The development at
Howell’s 500 ft. is a valuable one, but the mine wants
something more. One ore-body, unfortunately, doesn’t
make a mine, even if it is 65ft. wide.
* * * *
Cobar Chesney, N.S.W. : At a shareholders’
meeting held in Melbourne last week re the buying
option over which £5OOO deposit has been paid, the
chairman said the optioner was treating large quantities
of ore at a loss, but the cost of smelting was £2 per ton
at Lithgow and 50s. at Cobar. In reply to dissatisfied
shareholders director Malcolm M’Eacharn said the
optioner had a perfect right to test the mine as he
thought fit, that he was not looking for profits in these
tests, but to satisfy people in England that the mine was
worth the money--£lOO,OOO. No director was associated
with Mr. O’Gorman in the opposition although
it had been so rumored, and it was not likely
the mine would be depreciated in value because of the
large quantities of ore shipped a,way. This business is a
bit of a puzzle. In giving the right to take ore for treat-
ment during the option the Board surely could never
have contemplated that thousands of tons would be so
taken. Remarkable, too, that all the ore should have
gone to smelters owned by the Cobar Co.—to Lithgow,
where it would be of value in working-up iron slags be-
cause of its silicious character, and to the Cobar
furnaces where they also have to contend with an
excess of iron. Also, somewhat remarkable that some of
the other smelters did not get a chance to treat this ore ;
and, more remarkable still, that the optioner should send
away thousands of tons and put up with an
average loss of over £1 per ton, The optioner—
Mr. O’Gorman, recollect--is still sending away many
hundreds of tons of 4 per cent, ore, and complacently
putting up with a loss of over £1 a ton—to satisfy his
English people. The situation looks ridiculous.
* * * •
Sydney Harbor Collieries : After four years
weary sinking at enormous cost of one of the finest coal-
shafts in the world—lBft. in diameter, bricked all the way
—Sydney awoke one morning last week to find that coal
had been struck. The D.T. was a day late, the Herald
having got in first, but, as usual, it tried to make up for
its neglect by going much better than any other paper
next day. The thickness of the seam, it was explained,
could not be ascertained for some time, as if a bore
could not have been put through in a few hours, even if
the seam was 20ft. thick. Two days later the woeful
news gently leaked out that this particular seam was
only 2ft. 6in. thick, and it is admitted that “ everything
now depends on striking the main seam.” There is one
unanswered question : Was this small seam discovered in
the Cremorne bore ? If not, the outlook is not too cheerful.
However, the enterprise is a noble one and deserves infi-
nite reward. Should a bigger and better seam be struck
at a not much lower depth, the enterprise and Prof.
David, who has so strongly advocated it, will get full
credit, but if there is no seam there, or if the coal is
wholly or partially burnt, there will be trouble, and cal-
culations will be made as to how much money would have
been saved had these facts been, as they could have been,
established by drill-holes instead of by shaft-sinking. It
is also well to remember that before any extensive mining
for coal can take place another shaft must go down.
« » • •
Grassy Gully (N.S.W.): lOOoz. from 62 tons,
with 15 tons of old slimes worth lOdwt. per ton and 30
tons of tailings yet to be cyanided. After so much talk,
so little gold!
* * * *
Overflow Mine (N.S.W.): “The furnace has
been successfully blown-in again. It is expected that
smelting will now be carried on continuously.” So mote
it be —but this seems to be the first intimation that the
furnace was ever blown-out, and it is quite the usual
practice to expect smelting to go on continuously.
* • * •
Lake View Consols: Everything done in this
mine is boomed by newspaper wire infinitely beyond its
merits. The latest —that the main shaft is down over
1000 ft. ; that the north drive at that level is being pushed
ahead with great vigor ; that diamond drills are now in
active service at the lower levels at the mine, and bores
are to be put out in all directions ; that another shaft is
to be sunk, with the object of more effectually working
the northern end of the ore bodies ; that the development
work throughout the mine totals over 1000 ft. per month,
and the show is generally opening up splendidly.
Nothing is ever wrong with L.V.C. ; also the plant is
always in a satisfactory condition; the last 10 heads
“are running capitally, and the remaining 25
should be dropping early in the New Year.” The
fact of the shares falling £3 in a few weeks—a deprecia-
tion of £750,000 —is a mere detail not worth mentioning.
Perhaps if the shares had gone up £3 it would have been
a horse of another color. The consulting engineer has
told the board that the present output of 14,0000 z.
monthly could not be maintained for any length of time,
and that the preparation going forward to increase
the plant to bring it up to a gold production of
18,000 oz. per month was unwarranted either by ore
reserves or the development work going on in the mine.
The mining manager said just the opposite, and asked
the directors to have the mine reported on to see
who was right. Meanwhile the shares have fallen
from £9 to £6, so it is quite easy to see whom
the public believe. A little while ago it was announced
that chairman C. D. Rose and Kaufman were coming to
the mine to set things square ; since then the former has
resigned, and of the new chairman’s proposed visit, it is
said “ if he does come, it is doubtful if he will have the
benefit of any advice from Mr. Hamilton or Mr. Hewitson.”
The inference is either that these men have not been
called upon to make a report, or that they have declined
—the former is the more likely. The market tells the
tale. All the writer desires the public to remember is—
that Lake Views were carried to £2B and back to £ll in
a remarkably short time. Then to £l5 and back to £7
in a few days. A big mine controlled by men who saw
big money in working the public and acted accordingly.
• * • V
Northern Associated : The mine is treating
oxidised ore at the Boulder No. 1 battery, and another
1000 tons of high-grade sulphide ore will soon be sent to
the Fremantle smelter. “It is estimated that the
tonnage of smelting-grade ore in sight in this mine is
equivalent to three years’ supply. This estimate does not
include the immense quantity of 25dwt. to 30dwt. stone
blocked out in the workings or stacked at surface. From
4870 tons of ore already smelted, the co. has made a net
profit of £146,000. The whole of the ore smelted has
been produced solely from development work, not a stope
having as yet been opened in the mine.” Without expla-
nation, this reads remarkably well. Undoubtedly this
is a good mine, but not half so good as the
description implies. The mine has been sending high-
grade ore to Fremantle for the last 14 months, and
has only paid one ss. div. irv that time ; taking these
figures as correct, three years’ supply would only mean
15s. a share, or say £l, if ample allowance were made for
the oxidised ore. The yarn about not a stope having as
yet been opened in the mine we get with sickening
monotony. As a rule, the ore got from development
work in a mine does not represent a tenth of that ob-
tained from stoping, so why is it that this mine has only
three years’ supply ? The strike of the rich run of gold in
the Northern Associated is such that more ore is got by
this so-called development work than will be obtained in
stoping. Newspapermen are not allowed down the mine ;
if they were they would see that in some places the
development work, of which so much is said, consists of
drives 18ft. high, by which method of working most of
the ore is taken bodily away, and they would be im-
pressed with the idea that when all development work is
finished the mine will also be finished. Within the last
two months these shares have fallen from 80s. to 545.,
despite a div. of ss.—a depreciation of upwards of half-a-
million, which fact is, of course, not interesting enough
to be worth mentioning. Some day in the dim future
the S.M. Herald, Melbourne Argus, Sydney D.T., and
other Australian newspapers will, perhaps, realise the
extent to which they have been played with over the
Northern Associated.


Dump Jobes s Compiinß
“Orient To tyeaSlirc”
CLOTHIN<S._
SAC SUITS r> O
PATTERNS AND SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS
FREE ON REQUEST.
George & Barrack Sts.
SYDNEY.
3 s.
dg
THE :
RULE
IS
— VISIT
HARRINGTON’S
■ PHOTOGRAPHIC SHOWROOM
_ If you want a Good Reliable "
: CAMERA ~
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
66 King Street, Sydney,
93 Queen St., Brisbane; 179 Collins St., Melbourne;
504 Hay St., Perth, &c., &c.
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Kodak Cameras
FROM ss. TO £5O. ■©&
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette, r
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Lip-loyalty, the infectious disease that
gave rise to the Diamond Jubilee Infectious
Diseases Hospital at Melbourne, is quite cured for
the present. The hospital, the one sane item
remaining after the hollow frenzy of the
Queen Victoria Jubilee, is represented
by a great, empty, desolate, unfinished
shell of a building at Yarra Bend. Funds are
exhausted, and the Town Hall committee, which
is running the thing much as a snail might run the
Great Pyramid, in waiting for something to turn
up. Nothing turns up but infectious diseases,
however. Ditto the Queen’s National Statue
Fund—£sooo in hand, £lO,OOO wanted—and
nobody oares 2d., bar David Syme, who, having
thought he could whip up the money from the
public, occasionally gnashes his teeth in agony.
There is a sensible road out of the difficulty, and
that is to lump the moneys collected and use them
to complete the Infectious Diseases Hospital.
* * * *
Acting Supreme Court Judge Pring
(N.S.W.) established a record (for an acting
Judge) last week, when on one day he sentenced
two men to death—Kuhnell, the Redfern alleged
poisoner; and Joseph Campbell, the horrible
Queanbeyan sex lunatic. Possibly neither will
hang. There is room for a suspicion of doubt in
Kuhnell’s case, and his supposed victim did not
die. Campbell is palpably a maniac, and should
have been shut up irrevocably for life after his
first offence.
TEA AND COFFEE.
TEACHER OF INFANTS' CLASS: “What letter is this?”
ATENTIVE LITTLES BOY: “ T, Mise! ”
TEACHER : "Right! Now next, what’s this?”
INATTENTIVE BUT SHAKE LITTLE BOY: “ Coffee, Miss!”
Carl Kuhnell, found guilty at Central
Criminal Court, Sydney, of attempted poisoning and
sentenced to death, looked at his trial like a con-
fident plaintiff in a Court of Petty Sessions. His
interest in the proceedings never monopolised His
mind, for at times he appeared quite preoccupied.
He never once nervously twitched his moustache,
betrayed anxiety, showed restlessness,
or exhibited impatience. He wasn’t stolid or
stupid, but alternately alert and languid. In
build, a light-weight athlete ; in feature, regular
and unremarkable, eyes steady, bright, and
confident. Voice hard and clear, without a
tremor. Crown Prosecutor Wade cross-examined
Kuhnell sharply after an ugly bit of testimony,
and the impression that Kuhnell had more than
average intelligence melted away. He revealed
himself shallow and conceited. His answers were
absurdities, and he left the box with the
light step of one who felt and relished a victory.
When the acting-judge passed the death-sentence
Kuhnell went down to the dungeon with a light
laugh. He seemed like one who philosophically
loses a petty-sessions claim. It is unlikely that
theN.S.W. Executive will let him hang ; there
is some room for slight doubt as to his guilt, and
he did not kill anyone.
* * * *
Joseph Campbell, charged with an un-
speakable outrage at Queanbeyan, and the suspect
in the Ramsay’s Bush horror, was present when
Kuhnell was sentenced to death. The culprits
were in strong contrast. Kuhnell confident and
scarcely concerned, smart and well-dressed;
Campbell nervous, unkempt, scared, hopeless, as
pitiful a specimen of mean, miserable animalism as
was ever seen in a dock. His handkerchief was
frequently to his eyes and forehead, and he
couldn’t fix his legs comfortably.
Campbell will possibly be hanged (maniac
though he palpably is) by the Law as a rough-and-
ready way out of the difficulty, which its own
carelessness had caused. A previous conviction
proved him to be a sex maniac, yet, after a term
of imprisonment, he was let loose again, and in
his subsequent crimes the Law was guilty of con-
tributory negligence. People of this sort should
be shut up for ever, not let loose until they so out-
rage public sentiment as to palliate the act of kill-
ing a mentally-irresponsible creature, whose crimes
are the result of maniacal impulse.
• * * *
Acting-Justice Pring, in sentencing Joseph
Campbell to death for that brutal crime, the
Queanbeyan outrage, went out of his way to ap-
prove of capital punishment for such crimes “ina
young country.” The age of the country does not
come into the question. Such crimes are as pre-
valent in London or Berlin as in Queanbeyan or
Ramsay’s Bush. The Bulletin, in fact, much
doubts whether offences of violence against women
and children are proportionately as prevalent in
Australia as in England.
♦ * * *
Sydney Salvation Army’s “ People’s
Palace” has single rooms rented up to 15s. per
week. There is only one inflexible rule : if you
are a penny short in any part of the premises you
are kicked out. And for this Parliament votes
£5OO per annum as a “ charity ” I
Writes “ Bsmi ” :
On a Sydney wharf, t’other day, I was watching a steve-
dore selecting men out of a gang of 50 wharf-laborers.
Ten negroes, who were in the gang, were all taken on to
the exclusion of as many capable-looking whites, one of
whom told me that niggers are favored by most steve-
dores. Surely, in all this legislation to ensure a White
Australia, there should be some provision to enforce the
preference of white over black labor-other things being
equal.
* • * ♦
Pathetic advt. from Sydney D.T. “ agony
column''’ :
■WANTED, Address of Herr Percival, a Herbalist,
said to have Cured Cancer. U.V., Daily Tele-
graph.
“ Said to have cured cancer.” Poor wretch !
Dowie, the
Chicago Elijah
who used to hold
forth years ago, in
Fitzroy (Melb.)
Town Hall, ere lie
built a bjg “taber-
nacle ” in .Johnston -
street gives his
followers some
blushful reading in
his official organ,
Leaves of Heal-
ing, and his ex-
posures of rival
Faith - healers and
Sects make it evi-
dent that theU. S. A.
have become a Paradise
for sensual and sancti-
monious hypocrites.
Dowie and his band were
the forerunners of the
Salvarmv in Mel-
bourne, and some
of ’em did gaol
for parading
the streets.
Later on the
tabernacle-
builders were
clamorous for
their coin, and Dowie
surprised his adheients o e morning, after
the portmanteaux were packed, by bestowing
the kiss of peace on his best-looking lambs, and
bidding the rest adieu in the Lord. -JVfany young
men mourned Dowie’s departure, for the Taber-
nacle choir boasted <,ll the best-looking saintesses
m the Exhibition suburb.
* * * *
A lucrative study in Australia just now is
the Art of How to Escape Stieking-up. Hardly
a day passes without a case of robbery with vio-
lence being reported from somewhere (generally
m a populous suburb), and, rightly or wrongly,
people begin to propose importing a'few Boers for
instructive purposes. A spiked belt round the
back, just where the garrotter plants his knee, is a
useful thing, and a bull-pup for a walking com-
panion is also conducive to safety. When stroll-
ing out to see the silvery moon, one has to avoid
the man that comes swinging up from behind,
and when two or three are gathered together it is
high time to get the sand-bag cleared for action.
I he recent sticking-up case at Melbourne’s
most fashionable suburb, Toorak, inspired a Vic.
law-maker to tell of an experience of his own, to
the truth of which he swears. The legislator was
going home late one night, carrying the usual
tempting black bag, when lie was waylaid in a
quiet place by a man who wanted his money or
his life. “I had a passion for both,” said the
legislator, “and instead of parting I dashed
my bag in his face, and we closed. I know
something of wrestling as it was practised at
Newcastle in my early days, and I gave my man
a fall that shook all the villainy out of him. While
I sat astride his binge.y he pleaded with me
piteously, said he was weeks behind with his rent,
and was only trying to get the money together to
save his wife being turned into the street.” “And
you let him go?” said a newspaper man, in amaze-
ment. “ Well, yes,” said the M.P. j “you see, I
was his landlord ! ”
* * * ♦
An item which S.M. Herald did not re-
port in the debate on the disfigurement of the
harbor frontages. E. M. Clark, speaking on the
matter, said
Go to Milson’s Point, .and you will see a splendid wall
there, three storeys high, painted blue, and on that blue
ground you will discern Che words “ Read the Sydney
Morning Herald, one penny.” That is overlooking the
harbor. Who is the owner of that wall ? It is the
Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W. Yet no one says to that
distinguished personage, “ You must not let that wall
for advertising purposes.”
* * * *
Many Vic. churches were grievously
damaged by the hailstone cyclone that struck that
State the other week, but only one pub. sustained
any serious injury. The Devil’s activity in look-
ing after his own is a good example too much neg-
lected by the higher powers. A R.O. preacher
invites attention to the fact that all the churches
overthrown by the gale were Prodistan. The
stability of the average R.C. church building is
certainly a monumental proof of the R.C. opinion
that Omnipotence is liable to be rather careless in
its handling of the weather.
* * * *
Another stone-throwing mystery tried to
materialise in a N.S.W. country town last week,
but ere “the police-have-a-clue” stage was
reached someone remembered that two children
from the State Children’s Relief Department were
handy. They were watched, and soon detected
It is generally a State Relief Dept. kid. Is mys-
terious stone-throwing part of the curriculum in
State institutions for children ?
• * * *
Abdul Wade, of Bourke Carrying Co.
notoriety, is, The Bulletin notices, again using
Australian law to enforce indenture-contracts
against his unhappy Afghans. At Garnet (Q.)
two of his employees have been sentenced to gaol
because they went on strike, their alleged reason
for so doing being that they didn’t get enough to
eat.
NIL DESPERANDUM.
HER: “No, never, never!
HE: “ Ah, don't say that —suppose I come back
in about fifteen years, and you are still un-
married, wouldn't you think about it then? ”
At Hughenden (Q.), recently, an unfor-
tunate two-year-old child was savagely worried by
a butcher’s dog, whereupon the father, a kangaroo-
shooter, shot not only the offending animal, but a
score more curs about the township. A few
people of his sort are badly needed about Sydney
suburbs.
* * • »
Another big-dog horror. Last week a
child, 13 months old, was worried to death by a
mastiff at Paddington, Sydney.
* * * m
There were six, not five, supers in the
Melb. “ Theatre Royal Syndicate ” which bought
one ss. ticket in a Tatt.’s Melb. Cup sweep
—and drew Revenue. Each man’s share was Is.,
including the cost of stamps and registration.
And, of course, there was the usual tragedy of ill-
luck connected with that ticket. One of the
original six supers who plotted the joint invest-
ment happened to be in an unfinancial state
when the day came for parting up his “bob.”
Not having the shilling in Fiis pocket, he turned to
a companion and suggested that he should take
the sixth chance. So the other took the twelve
pen’orth of speculation and won £llOO.
• « * *
An Adelaide alderman, discussing Mayor
Kissy Ware, C.M.G., and his alleged disinclina-
tion to “shout ” up to the proper limit:
Though he was not born to be a chairman, thev could
overlook his failings in that respect, but they were
entitled to protest against the miserable and niggardly
way in which he had filled his position.
In a word, Incompetence in a Mayor doesn’t
matter; but, from the aldermanic standpoint,
any reluctance to fill ’em up again freely and
frequently is a capital crime.
» * * *
Australia has seen much of the man
tramping around the world “ for a wager; ” now
it has got the wager-man who tramps per ocean.
The voyagers (now at Sydney) per the boat
Tilikum, who are “striving to beat Capt.
Slocum’s record,” are. not likely to arouse
any wild enthusiasm. Slocum’s ' craft Spray
was a 13-tonner, the Tilikum has a tonnage
of only 4; but what chiefly made Slocum’s
voyage wonderful was that he took his trip alone,
whilst the Tilikum has a crew of two.
* • * „
S.M. Herald stood amazed at the wicked
ness of the Manly ferry-hands in pushing their
hard-fisted employers for higher wages on a
holiday-eve. With shaking forefinger, the old
lady pointed out that, by their action, the ferrv-
hands were likely to force the travelling public to
take sides with the bosses. The t. p. ’s troubles about
either side ! Of course, the dear old Herald is
never at a loss for a stick to beat the working dog
with, but what seemed to rile her worse than all was
the fact that the unionists had rendered it
impossible for her to use the ancient gag that
“ the time is inopportune for a strike.”
* * * *
Sydney daily papers seem to have been
told that the tailoresses’ strike has gone on quite
long enough, and must end, for their reports are
now strongly tinged with comment favoring the
generous employer and adverse to the “defiant”
needlewomen. It wasn’t to be expected that big
advertisers would allow the daily press to give
much latitude to the strikers, or to arouse much
public sympathy on their behalf.
* * » *
A Seymour (Vic.) clergyman complains
bitterly of the luxury in which old-age pensioners
are permitted to wallow by a State which allows
them 7s. or 10s. a week. In connection with a
benevolent society run by the rev. gentleman


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 - 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S sulphur liver PILLS-1/-
Oures the Backache in 10 Hours.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Promptly cures Malarial and Rheumatic Conditions.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Is attracting attention for Internal Tumors.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Gives a Freshness and Freedom from Eruptions.
A TONIC LAXATIVE.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, MELBOURNE.
fdg
Before booting j'our Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
TAR STARCH.
LVER
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
0 0
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
ft A
9 i
9
and others, “several persons had managed (with
the occasional help of a load of wood) to live fairly
well on 4s. a week.” Anything over that, the
shepherd considers, is liable to be spent in riotous
dissipation, and is, therefore, a State subsidy to
vice ! The Bulletin doesn’t personally know
that clergyman, and hopes that it may continue
that way. The fact that we never met some
people, the fact that some people weren’t born,
and the fact that some people are dead, are three
facts for which we are seldom as grateful as we
should be.
* * * •
It does not often happen, as in a N.S.W.
divorce case, last week, that a mother forgets the
number of her “interesting events.” “How
many children have you had ? ” asked the Judge
of petitioner. Witness replied that there were so
many she could not tell the number. “Do you
mean to say you do not know?” “There were
several premature—” said witness. “ Never mind
them.” “Well, about 19,” stammered witness,
after consideration.
* • * •
Yet another sight for the gods : Several
returned N.S.W. cohentingenters dining at the
Sydney “Soup Kitchen.”
* • m *
At the Melbourne Catholic Young Men’s
Society’s recent demonstration, the toast of “The
Archbishop and the clergy ” was proposed by Mr.
Sinn.
* * • *
The same old N. S. W. judicial game. From
Wingham Chronicle :
As usual, the District Court sitting was conducted long
past the midnight hour on Monday. In the concluding
case, a female witness, who had been in close attendance
at the court from the opening hour, was called upon to
give evidence at 3 a.m. on Tuesday morning.
* • » *
“N.E.C.” : On that liquor argument
Editor Bulletin. — l don’t think “E.F.,” who writes
from Melbourne, Percy Malby, and Robt. H. Lemon, sec.
Vic. L.V.A., have quite finished their law-and-liquor edu-
cation. I know a young woman behind a Sydney bar
who, though she doesn’t profess to have passed all her
exams., can settle the spurious-spirit argument without
the aid of f of a Bulletin column. She recently served
three young men for three hours with alleged whisky,
and when the time came for the publican to balance up,
he worked it out' that the damsel had made 18s. profit on
the bottle. She told me this herself, and on several occa-
sions I have known her to speak the truth. Didn’t ask
her how she performed this wonderful commercial feat,
but I heard one of the young men remark next morning
that “ the three of us drank about seven bottles of
whisky last night, and it must have been good stuff,
because none of us were drunk ! ”
* • * #
In a Sydney smoke-nuisance prosecution,
the other day, a photo, of the factory-stack sending
forth black smoke was accepted as evidence for
the prosecution. Apart from the fact that no
photographer would dream of accepting such
evidence as conclusive of the blackness of the
smoke, it is by no means clear that smoke that is
not black is not a nuisance. A Sydney tobacco-
factory’s municipally impeccable smoke-stack, for
instance, fills the air with strong tobacco reek
over half-a-mile radius. This may be a good
disinfectant, but folks with heart-trouble, com-
pelled to dwell in the vicinity, are urged to
commit suicide.
AN EYE FOR FORM.
HE: “Say, Oran’, I reckon the middle un’s a
real pearler fer shape. What d’ye think? ”
Age advt. (Oct. 10th, 1901) :
ttOTEL, in country, post-office, sale-yards, and large
-LL church attendance.
* * * »
From a recent Salvarmy whoop re the
opening of a new “citadel ” in Adelaide :
A great Family-Tea will be provided—s.3o to 7.30 —with
plenty of Ham, Jam, and Glory! . . . . Blood-and-
Fire Procession at 7.15 ! Beautiful music ! Blazing
Torches ! Waving Colors ! Pubs. Deserted ! Streets
Cleared ! Natives Startled ! Devils Amazed ! ! !
Cake-walking to the Great White Throne.
* * * »
More of those mysterious Sydney D.T.
advts. :
Q SAYS to J.B. and T.D. : “ I’ll come to the ss. law
shop, same time as usual.”
Q SAYS : “ I really couldn’t ; as Sydney girls have
one foot in the grave, and are so ugly.”
A REAL WOMAN.
TRAM-CONDUOTOR : “ Where to, Miss?” MISS: “ Eh!”
CONDUCTOR: “ Where to?” MISS: “Oh!—to my sister’s to lunch.”
The late watchman at a big city lodging-
for males only tells a woeful story of mis-
placed confidence. Shortly aftermidnight, recently,
he was interviewed by an agitated young thing,
carrying two parcels, and having the ingenuous
air of the daughter of a clergyman who
has mislaid her address. She had also a
sympathetic mouth and a kindly eye. This
interesting little lady had missed her last
train, and wanted a bed for the night; but, as a
malignant fate would have it, she had spent her
last sixpence, and didn’t know whatever would
become of her. The watchman was touched, but
explained that she could not possibly be accom-
modated there, as the establishment was for men
only, and was conducted on strictly Presbyterian
cash principles. At this the lone, lorn
damsel gave way to floods of tears, and moaned
about pa and ma and Aunt Jane, and
made distracting references to the bed of the
Yarra. Her sufferings so worked upon the sus-
ceptible guardian that, in a fit of emotion, he
offered the poor creature the use of his own room,
which he would not need till 6 o’clock in the
morning, stipulating only that the unhappy young
lady should up and off, bright and early, before
the Scotchbyterian authorities were afoot'. So it
was arranged, and the lady fled shortly after
dawn. The watchman began to miss his portable
valuables later. His pockets had been cleaned
out, and his chest-of-drawers completely gutted,
and he regarded himself as cut off from the con-
solations of complaint by his invidious position,
until sternly called upon by a censorious board of
Scotch extraction and Calvinistic morals to ex-
plain the presence of a “young person” in his
room at 5 o’clock “ i’ th’ morn.” Presumably the
board had been at the keyhole. The ex-watchman
is now looking out for a new boss—a Pagan.
* * * *
“ Lex ” to The Bulletin :—
Melbourne University graduates teaching in Victorian
secondary schools are wishing that these institutions
could be brought under the Factories Act. Writer was
recently offered a senior non-resident mastership in a
much-advertised school at a salary of £100 per annum,
and when, in a flourishing country grammar school con-
ducted by joint principals—one of whom is a parson- a
temporary vacancy occurred through the illness of one of
the principals, this position, with three nights per w 7 eek
duty added, was offered at a salary of £2 per week ! Also,
the way of the private teacher is made hard by the
connivance of the Education Dept, at the violation of the
Public Service Act’s provision that State-paid employees
shall not take outside work. State school teachers are
permitted to undertake private tuition, and, though the
Education Minister has explained that this permission is
conditional on the tuition being confined to pupil teachers
preparing for departmental examinations, the condition
is consistently ignored. In an} 7 case, it is hard to see why
the dispensation should be granted, seeing that the duty
of preparing pupil-teachers for exams, is imposed by law
on the head-teacher of the school in which the p.t. is
employed. Not long ago a post-office employee w 7 as told
that he would be “ sacked ” if his wife continued to hold
an hotel license. But then “ Bung” is a political force,
and the poor skull-filler doesn’t count 1
The Bulletin is sure that Colonial Secre-
tary See has only to learn that rubber-tyres are
sadly needed on the Little Bay Hospital ambu-
lances to have them ordered at once. It is a long
journey from Sydney to Little Bay, and the
people who have to face it in an ambulance are
dften in dreadful pain all the way.
* » * *
Several prisoners in Geelong gaol have
lately tried to commit suicide. But that no doubt
wasn’t merely because they were in gaol—it was
because they were in Geelong.
Grafton (N.S.W.) is arrogantly proud. It
has had two cases of triplets within three months.
Where now should the Federal capital be ?
A letter from Private (name given),
calmly published by a Maitland (N.S.W.) paper:
At Belmont the Boers buried their dead by throwing a
few stones on their bodies, leaving legs and arms exposed.
Some of our chaps put bits of biscuit in their mouths,
pinned the British colors on them, cut their fingers off if
they had a ring worth while ; and one chap having a bad
pair of boots came across a dead Boer with a good pair,
and quietly exchanged.
And Bennett Burleigh (cable, Nov. 17) talks about
“ the callous robbery of British dead by Boers ” !
* * * •
Ed. Bulletin. —l should like to see you
use your influence to kill the racial racket in Aus-
tralia. Eschew the words English, Scotch, Irish,
etc., etc., in describing people and state that they
are either Australian or Foreign. So long as the
distinctions mentioned are made we can only ex-
pect racial strife to continue. —-X.O.
“Kobbi,” re Queensland Jlarly Closing
Act: —
Though shopkeepers are kept well up to the mark,
there is no restriction upon the Assyrian hawker, or if
there is, he ignores it, and sells when he pleases, Sundays
included. These fellows prosper exceedingly—thanks to
the big grab-all shopkeepers, who would rather see these
dusky devils get the cash (to send out of the country)
than the widow-shopkeeper who depends for her living
on what business she can do after the big shops are
closed. One Assyrian in C.Q. before the Bill was passed
was a common hawker—with a pack. Afterwards, he
bought a horse, followed this up with a horse and sulky,
and now he drives four good horses. And most of his
cash came from goods sold on Saturday afternoons —when
the farmers, &c., cannot buy from anyone hut the foreign
hawker.
[This doesn’t mean that the E.C. Act should be
abolished pit only shows the necessity for Barton’s
Alien Exclusion Bill and the suppression of the
alien hawker.—Ed. B.]
•*f * *
Editor Bulletin. —It isn’t absurd (“An-
swers to Correspondents,” 23/11/’01) to fight the
forewoman question out with Sam. Hordern.
Every other forewoman is in the union. Let
Jlordern win on his case, and the thin end of the
f wedge goes into the union. Other forewomen will
rat, and hands will follow them, and the girls in
the union who understand this know they are
fighting for the life of their union; not merely
against Hordern.—X.O.
[The question hinges on the definition of “ forewoman.”
If the “forewoman” is a sort of deputy boss, a sub-
manager over a factory, it seems to The Bulletin she has
the right to stay outside the Union because her position
implies thaSt she is to look after her employer’s interests
primarily in keeping employees up to the mark, and
so on. To the forewoman, who is just an employee of a
slightly higher grade, the argument does not apply, and
there should not be allowed more than one non-Union
forewoman to each factory or large division of a factory.
Ed. B.J
A DRY SUBJECT.—(90 deg. in the shade).
X 191 (who has brought back his charge to the
scene of the offence and found that the evi-
dence has vanished): “Well, I could have
swore that you ‘ sput’ just here!
CONFESSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hush ! I’m writing my soul to you !
Turn the page, and my heart beats through
Publish abroad in black and white
I love, love, love my love, to-night!
P’r’aps you’ll read in a Sydney street,
’Mid the bustle of noisy feet,
Where the trams with clang and light
Leap to the swallowing gulf of night.
Or you’re back in the old Domain
Under shade of the figs again ;
Every time that a ’Bay fig drops
’Member we kissed ? —“ to mark the stops.”
Or you watch where the harbor dreams :
“ How that ferryboat twinks and gleams ! ”
“ Grand old ships . . . Hear the sailor’s call 1 ”
“ Last boat’s gone—Good-night! ” —that’s all.
Hush l I’m writing my soul to you !
Turn the page and my heart beats through :
Publish abroad in black and white
1 love l love l love my love, to-night.
v.
THE YOUNG 'UN.
THE WEARINESS OF NATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How very tired the Sun must be of shining !
The earth of turning must be very weary;
The wind sometimes must find itself inclining
To cease from blowing, feeling none too cheery.
The tide must tire of daily ebb and flowing ;
’Tis lassitude, I fear we must consent,
That makes a tree sometimes to leave off growing,
That makes a star drop from the firmament.
O priest! you understand not your own preaching ,
Heaven is in truth'nought but eternal peace ;
Your dreaded hell is but a vain beseeching
That work shall at some far last moment cease.
I cannot think suns shine, earths keep revolving,
Winds ever blowing, with eternal zest;
I do not want to see all things dissolving,
But they would profit by a little rest.
THE BILLY.
I WISH...
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wish I had died
That day when we rode with our bridles free,
And never a shadow ’twixt you and me ;
When the earth was so glad and the sky so blue,
And you kissed me hotly and I kissed you,
I wish I had died.
To-day I can see
The great brown plain advancing to meet the sky,
And the plovers flit past with a whirring cry,—
The tank and the crows with their croaking loud,
The sheep that moved like an earth-born cloud,
The birrah and box and the brigalow trees,
The coliarene scenting the summer breeze, —
The earth was so bright and the sky so blue
And the world held only us two—us two .. .
I wish I had died.
. N.S.W.
NELLIE M. FIELD.


If yoG woGld
“STAMP ON VELVET
BCiy YoGr
BOOTS
IQark
Fog’s.
pi**
WA
rntmmm
.
AMERIOAN BOOT. G. E. Keith. Black Oalf Balmoral, made in 3 shapes—
Pointed, Medium, and Square Toes ; welted. Prioe, 16 6.
Printed by a London paper that the King’s
economy has caused great discontent among the
servants at the Royal palaces, both men and
women servants complaining of low wages, ex-
cessive hours, and “ nearness ” re food.
Thus one Ponder, an Adelaide city coun-
cillor : —
Two of the greatest factors in advertising Australia
been the part she had played in the S’African war
the interchange of visits between cricketing teams
England and Australia.
It is certainly a gruesome method of advertising—
the sending of men to S’Africa to be slain. Mr.
Ponder is himself an advertising-agent.
There seems to be a growing demand in
Europe for gentlemen’s corsets. No doubt the al-
luring P.D. figures of the women in the circles of
the ‘ naicest ” have stung the men into a spirit of
emulation ! Foolish men ! The proper way to
possess a P.D. figure is to wed one. No married
man would think of putting a corset round his
own waist; he is quite satisfied when his spouse
dons her P.D. and perfects her own shapeliness
and her admiring hubby’s joy.*
An up-to-date luxury. One of the latest
novelties which Mr. Guest, chemist, Bourke-st
Melbourne, has introduced to the public is violet
bath salt. This is the most exquisite toilet luxury
imaginable, being, as its name implies, daintily
perfumed with Parma violets. One packet is
sufficient for a large bath. It softens the water,
and imparts a most pleasing and delicious odor
In boxes of 12 packets, 2s.; post, 2s. 6d. : sample
packets, 3d. each.*
GOnZfICEZ BSJISS^Co’s
. . . FAMOUS ...
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Arini,- 8^67 ’ Novemb er2B,1901-
I Ss ,, ss b fe~“ sp rs to
Clous affair shook up Sydney last wte “
those burning afternoons a gilded piumn and
Sidfindm^illthl 6 wandered .into ’the Gardens,
the occupied, settled down at
tne toot of the embankment under the shade of a
pepperwood tree The slumberous afternoon wore
, andas the lady nodded, her expensive cape of
ba C nk an at'' e ! t aI,p K pe< ? trom her shoulders on to th e f
bank at her back. Above, two rather well-
-2331 gl rl. looke<i do "’ n »” d .
sidermg. I hen one cast a string, drew it ud
the C n ly ’ Ca rj- lfc again ; and that time I noticed
the cape gliding up the embankment. The old
notL and H Uted &nd to ’ but she took no
notice, and the cape reached the top of the em-
bankment. As the marauders fled, and disap-
upTothe Gdv 1 1 rl® a , y ° Ung man rusb ed
sho.it,hi f n< ? a p ked h er hadn’t she heard the
s outing. She looked up at him with an air of mild
astonishment. Certainly I did, but surelv von
But 1 *, exp ? cfc to take an y notice of shouting?”
But she shouted pretty loud herself when she
found her beautiful cape had gone.
The way of the successful man of war on fur-
fn??h/° r h rOSt t 0 A usfcrali . a is just a little less rest-
ful than his way in war-time. Sydney left Hector
Macdonald no whole day to himself, and not one
Darievf’ Jtr n °r the day ° f his de P a rture the
Harleys gave a dinner-party in his honor Cat
which the guest of honor was not present as he
had started for Melbourne). At the Hig-hland
Sr the Macdonald wro'te his name inTassS
RnSf y n bo ° k f opposite quotes from Bobbie
Burns. One of the verses corresponding to the
H-tonan natal day read, “ Wee modest crimson
q lppit / 1 ? : wer - , . So suitable ! ” murmured the
i t he P ¥ I rn hl . s lnonniker - At that tattoo
- a T / OJan w °re a beautiful overcoat
—just the kind of overcoat that you-would like
for ufr” W6 ? r ' ¥ was in ffreat spirits, too,
& r 2t had r me fr ° m th - e Australian Club dinner.
Members browsing paid three guineas, and a
dinner costing that ought to put a man in a good
temper for the evening.
TTvn f ‘ Anderson Stuart, as president of the
Hi S ° Cl | y ’ guarded the guest, and didn’t
let more than five persons at a time make dashes
ff- 1 M" ha ß d: Mrs - I Stuart, with her sister, tall
Miss . fro ™ Queensland, was on the
ally s flank with Miss Harley.
What a difference between the glorious freck-
Th% er v, W { llGh En S lish cricketers are having
m n h d tbat wb J_ ch npw eclipses their own capital
They color, these Englishmen, under our sun) like
meerschaum pipes ; but more readily. At Satur-
? p f, n ) ng ™ atcb theb o«t- d re«sed woman was
Miss Lillah M Carthy in a white chiffon gown
trimmed with black lace ostrich-plumes—a won-
£r^ mntat r Ill , fil V? y black lace of the real
feathers, quills and all. One was sewn round
either elbow of the blouse sleeves. They were
made m Pans to the order of the “Sign of the
Cross maiden, who contrives to have her clothes
Mo;ScJ ery dlBtl nctive. At the Espinasse
Matinee she was m the manager’s box with Mrs.
i ; ,V I - A ,_, lh l a,nson > wearing a big black hat, that
shadowed her early-Chmtian-martyr’s face and
a hairy gre y tweed, the skirt of which fastened
haTf’f w°r n n, h ? of the front > instead of
halt a foot to the left like everyone else’s. One of
her ha.s is an Australian thought made a fact in
IWrs. Willowy EdJat, calls it her gum-bough
hat. It is of gold tissue, loaded with sprays of
honey-gum flowers and foliage, and carrying a
huge satin bo.w of pale heliotrope at the back.
At the second day’s play the size of the crowd
made one wonder if any but children and great-
grandfathers were left to inhabit the city and
suburbs. The grandstand was very reminiscent
o the poppy-shows we made when we were five
with flower-petals sandwiched between pieces of
g ass. Ihousands of pink-trimmed, blue-trimmed
~ a y c °i°red--plateau hats on the same level had
that crushed ‘ poppy - show ” effect. Over
against the grandstands were massed the
pepper-and-salt-looking shilling crowds. Around
the great green circle of the cricket-ground
there was, I think, but one small corner of
seating space the western corner of the Ladies’
Reserve The sun smote it fiercely, and
i' e Artillery Band smote their instruments
close there the other side of the iron-
wn-ed fence. As I had my breakfast at home in-
stead of carrying it to the Cricket Ground, I had
to put up with that hot, crash-bang corner. Now
I know that a bass viol makes a noise like unto
that ot a cow with bronchitis.
Little chance to see the gown 3, for no woman
would leave her seat, knowing that scores of other
women standing in new tight shoes were waiting
for relief. Some of Wilson Barrett’s pagans and
Christian martyrs had lawn seats. Miss Latimer,
m black, with green chiffon vest, looked pretty
despite her attempt to out-pouch a kangaroo with
the exaggerated slack of her blouse “Lady
Dacia, the able-bodied young person who drops
and breaks things in the S. of the C. was there
smding her vast smile, looking off (as on) the
stage the embodiment of radiant paganism and
love ot life, and wearing a white frock with a
narrow light blue sash that swept the lawn.
Saturday was quite an off-day at Randwick, the
A.d.C. -Nov. meeting playing a pronounced second
instrument to the international cricket-bat. Never
before have I seen such a collection of hard-faced
unlovely women, who made their own whgers with
tne bookies women who had reverted to the crude
and ancient custom of carrying their wealth in their
Stockings and who gathered up their draperies
publicly to stow it away. Frocking was in sym-
pathy with the faces. Pointed overskirts were
plentiful also some of those dresses with hundreds
1 il- tuC K 3 ’ make your head ache
calculating how long the modiste took over
the contract. All were bell-shaped, many with
flounces, and were of muslin, delaines, and lustres.
Several Italian cloths gave themselves the airs of
silks, but about the only genuine silk was a frosted
salmon pink worn with the plainest of faces and
bats Another pretty dress was ruined by a
painful exhibition of soiled and ragged underskirt,
and large, flat feet. The prettiest girl on the
ground wore black silk, made plain, caught round
the waist with a gilded serpent, and set off with a
roses C ° lOred faCe Under a toqUe ° f pink and cream
Another singer has farewelled us. Miss Nellie
Ooolc s complimentary concert came off on Satur-
day to a good house, and the pretty dark-eyed
soprano got unlimited applause and a lorry load
ot flowers. She was aided by Miss Mvlott (in a
sumptuous, too-matronly gown of black jewelled
ned; over a shade of bluish green that brought her
intor harmony with the palm foliage around her),
flautist Temmone, Laurence Phillip, Rivers All-
press, Mrs. Irusoott, the Feld wick quartette, and
Messrs. Truman, Mote, Robyns, and Bates
Mdlle. Dolores, in black, with a great choux of
scarlet over her left ear and little diamond stars
was . in the audience, and ap-
plauded the local song-birds most warmly.
w A j Herr Kretschmanu’s pupils’ recital, on
Wednesday, tlicr® was a display of atrociously
bad taste on the part of a section of the audience
lhis section wanted to recall young Rich, the
pianist wonder He was worth it—so were all
the other performers, for that matter-but,
although no encores ” had been announced, the
applause was kept going for many minutes after
the next performer, Miss Mylott, was on the plat-
form. home persons’ musical enthusiasm de-
generates into insolence.
i® enno Spherek, with his young face and
old hair, is on the stage of Her Majesty’s these
afternoons trying the fitness of young Australia’s
voice for the Alice in Wonderland ” pantomime.
Boys and girls from six to 12 years swarm
? ve .F F l 6 sta ff e m hundreds, but not one
in 2° is accepted. Most bring a song, and so
ottenis it the same song, “One Summer Day,”
that Herr Benno says that must be Australia’s
National Anthem. A few bars are sufficient.
Proprietor Williamson stands near, and his and
the accompanist’s “That’s enough !” are simul-
Sometimes there’s a doubt, and J.O W
says ‘ Take the name and address—he might do
for a lobster or an oyster. ” “Are there no more
choir-boys? asks the musician plaintively, and a
long-legged colt shambles up and sings soprano
beautifully Then come the tiny song-and-dance
artiste trials. Their mothers are with them, they
are prettily dressed, and some are like perfeot
little professionals. The light of the Carrie Moore
star has guided others to the entrance of the path
that may lead to heights like San Toy or Alice.
How contralto Ada Cro3sley and her following
must chortle at the rise of the new soprano,
Castles ! Melba has had Ada’s (possible) rival,
Regina Nagel, in her house, and given her lessons.
Wow Ada can cherish the new soprano until such
time as the Castles star is in its zenith, when she
herself will then bask in its beams. By-the-way
a at, was .Marchesi’s little game in trying to train
H .voice as a mezzo-soprano? No one here
called it that, and London critics agree as to its
being a soprano of “splendid power and great
sweetness.” Mar Casey (that’s how the majority
of people call her) may want an ear-trumpet.
From the first note Amy Castles appears to
have been most cleverly engineered. “ The Kino-
wrote to the Vic. Agent - General expressing
his interest m her debut.” Now, the King didn’t
do that spontaneous-like. The Agent-General
"V ote first, of course, but what good business !
When the R.C.’s take on a spec., whether it
be hoisting a singer, raising a collection (Dr.
”™ n s fund, it is said, amounts to almost
tUOOO), or running a bazaar, they do it dynami-
cally, and are cuter than anything* in or out of
Judee. But Amy is making an early start—per-
chance her funds demand it. Few doubted
her Voice, but temperament is the iron string
upon which the notes are strung, and we now'
learn that she has that
Criterion Hieatre (Sydney) has been orow'ded
this week by persons who just love the music- of
Aubers romantic opera, “Fra Diavolo ” and by
people who think Mr. Henry Hallam a perfect
angel of a devil, and both sections watch. with
breathless interest Miss Stanton’s manner of un-
dressing and getting into bed. Such layers and
sheaths of lawn and lace underskirts and tunics
and yet enough remain to keep her properly
clothed for the remainder of the act. She doesn’t
crawl into bed on her hands and knees, feminine-
fashion, but swings herself in quite daintily and
goes to sleep under strong lime-light, and sings in
her sleep like a drowsy bird.
There was a picturesque moonlight fete at New-
ington College (Sydney) last week. After the
last notes of the concert had melted into the mani-
fold sounds of the night, the sham-fight com-
menced It was a glorious night. Against the
starred dome, the distant hill about to be assaulted
silhouetted blackly. Around, in the shadows
below, there were tiny camp-fires. A bugle
wailed. A searchlight darted round. A sudden
burst of rifle shots. Then crashing volleys.
Tongues of waving fire ran up and dowm parallel
lines in the darkness. More lights flashed round.
A tremendous roar from the hill—torrents of
sparks, wild cheering, and the ambulance corps
went flitting about, and there was a spirit of
desperate effort abroad till the bugles wailed some
more, and the rifle rattle died away and was lost
in the strains of Gorsave.
Society of Artists’ Show is drawing good
crowds by the At Home process. Mrs. .Roberts,
of Greenoaks, had a reception last week, at which
Miss Ethel Corbett, a promising young singer,
lifted up her voice in song publicly for the first
time. On Monday last Mrs. Curnow and Mrs.
Rabett received, and Mrs. Van der Veer Green sang
to Mr. S. Hoben’s accompaniment. Miss Esther
Kahn played some of h>r own compositions. The
function was very Somebodyish, and Miss Lillah
M Carthy, all in white chiffon, with a big white
hat and such plumes as the helmet of Navarre
carried, was a vision making all glad that the
lions in the Barrett tragedy don’t make a nightly
meal of her. IS ext Tuesday will be a big day at
the society’s rooms—Mrs. J. C. Williamson will
be At Home, and the stars of the “ Florodora ”
and Barrett co. will shine and sing.
The image of Buddha, part of the loot “ ac-
quired by purchase and otherwise,” by Mr.
v\ ynne, and lent to the Society of Artists’
show, shouldn’t be passed by as a mere Joss.
A silver robe half-clothes the golden body; the
hands are clasped, with index fingers slightly
raised. It sits “as holy statues sit” in “The
Bight of Asia ” cross-legged, soles of feet up-
turned. The face is of strange charm. It has
an expression calm, benignant, passionless, with
a trace of a mysterious smile. The god whom
that image represents ought to be a very decent
reflow. 1 can imagine that the smile came after
he had been “acquired ” by Mr. Wynne.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The deep thinkers of Sassiety and the in-
fluential congregated at ‘Cliveden’ on Thursday
to discuss the necessity of being in the Conti-
nental swing with a branch of the ‘lnternational
Council of Women. Lady Braddon and Mrs.
t-Ai SO t —heads of the Association in the
J-ignt Little Island—were billed to propound the
7i! e 'u S of and to let Melb. aspirants reap
tfle benefit of their experience and superior know-
ledge. A very rustling, fussy gathering circled
about a business-like table in the drawing-room,
and collected the pearls of light and learning
dropped by the two Tasrnaniennes. Lady Brad-
don, nervously, and in very shaky tones, set forth
j * 16 Council after the gorgeously-
attired Dowager had run up the curtain and de-
livered the prelude. The speaker’s cheeks grew
pink as the roses in her bonnet as she read her care-
fully-compiled notes to the assemblage. A muffled
clapping of gloved hands followed her full stop.
Ihen Mrs. Dobson, the Senator’s wife, s':ood up,
and calmly, stolidly, elucidated the workings and
operations of the Council. Practice at taking the
floor has made Mrs. Dobson a delightfully lucid
orator, bhe enunciates clearly, dramatises her
sentiment without any theatrical effect, and takes
honest delight in steering cleverly and adroitly
through the shoals of speech. Not many Senators
or public spouters could orate with the lucidity
and precision of this lady. There are no
fascinating ripples in her stream of talk, no play
of sunny wit, but cold, clear wisdom shines on
the surface of her utterance. She convinced
nearly all present of the desirability of joining the
The alleged business of the Association seems
to be promoting the happiness and general good
of human kind in a literary and controversial way
—a way eminently conducive to both egotism and
altruism. You discuss, debate, and write up in
pungent style, the troublesome grievances of your
human kith and kin. The papers are read at the
International Congress to the World of Thought
and much personal glory is attained thereby.
1 here is good in it of a certainty, and a beneficial
employment for those women of leisure who are
given to occasional ideas or charitable impulses.
Among the mildly excited and generally interested
assemblage Mrs. Claude Macdonald (at present
domiciled at “ Cliveden ”) was the most fluffy and
dressed personage. She wore a cream voile with
a satin-jacket scrolled in Honiton braid and black
chenille, and the skirt ornamented with musical
staves. An immense ruff and a sparkling jet
toque helped the effect.
“ ‘ Otello’s ’ first appearance attracted a squad
of doctors and their wives ; also, Israel and its
be-diamonded daughters. These smooth-skinned,
plump Jewesses call up thoughts of Esther, as she
must have looked when they’d been feeding her up
;l ' u ,,P re P ; . l l' ni h r ber to please the matrimonial eye
of King Ahasuerus. Then there was that unfail-
lng first-nighter a fat sea-gull perched on her
golden Parisienne coiffure, Grecian draperies of
white satin, a lorgnette, as many rings as her
fingers would hold, and high color in her cheeks.
Dowager Clarke and young Fitzgerald headed a
party including the widow’s youngest child in a
simple muslin frock and pink shoes and hose.
Conductor Slap, of the Musgrove Co., ap-
plauded coti/tcvc Hazon liGartily, but unsroilinsdy.
Madame Slap, in white, pearl embroideries, and
gold ear-hoops, kept her countenance grimly
guiltless of expression. Olive Kingston was to
the fore; also pa Zelman, joking with the
orchestra; Travaglini,.smooth and red of cheek
escorting a lady ; Dani, in the stalls, gazed upon
by adoring damsels.
“ Gov. Madden brought his daughters to that
invitation concert in aid of the consumptive sana-
torium. Mrs. Yallange’s gown showed touches of
green ribbon, and her white cape had a scarf of
black chiffon round the shoulders. Sister Ruby’s
pale-blue satin cover-all was flung open to show
cool, white muslin. Dowager Clarke’s coiffure
glinted with diamonds, while daughter Vera, in
all-white, had a small wreath of pink and white
button roses. The performers had the air of vying
with one another as to whose hair looked the
blackest. Olive Kingston, Elva Rogers, Millie
Tree Chapman, Ethel Mercer, Horace Stevens
and Harry Ingham, all unconsciously up-
held the theory that the Race is growing
darker. A pleasant programme on the whole !
Olive Kingston was the success of the
evening. Walter Kirby’s song refrain was pecu-
liarly true and appropriate to his habitual plat-
form attitude. ‘My knees are bowed,’ he reiterated.
Kitty Grindlay, one of the few non-brunette
vocalists, is the lady who had her wedding with-
out the bridegroom when that seafarer’s ship
failed to make port in time.
“ The certainty with which fish swarm into
Hobson s Bay whenever a meat-famine descends
upon Melbourne is enough to convert the most
ardent church-goer into a belief in Divine Provi-
dence. For weeks the bay has simply been thick
with barracouta, flathead, and pilchards, so thick
that Melbourne can be recognised miles off by its
fishy smell, wind and weather permitting, and
two-thirds of the inhabitants of its suburbs spend
their leisure plucking ’couta out of the waters,
and towing long, clammy masses of that vicious
fish home for breakfast.
“Even our sex here has taken giddily to fishing,
and in the ‘ swaggah ’ seaside suburbs, Middle
Park and St. Kilda, ‘sassiety’ fishing parties
have been quite the thing for a fortnight past.
Dudes, dudelets, and dudines, appropriately
garbed, have gathered and giggled on the piers,
whilst hooking fish and covering themselves with
scales, ooze, and piscatory odors. The ’couta have
been so thick that they could be dipped up in
buckets, and they are so voracious that they worry
the fair hand that succors them from the cruel
hook.
“ A recent bazaar, that scooped in some thou-
sands, was rather rich in its supply of quarrels
among the stall-holders. The bickerings in several
cases reached an alarming stage, and hard words
were used. Some were charged with pricing an
article at an exorbitant sum, and, when no buyer
was found, knocking it down at a trifle to them-
selves. One lady, accused of this offence, was
also charged with sending in an excessive account
for her expenses.
“A sporting dandy respectfully solicits all and
sundry to withdraw, cancel, or contradict the
report of his engagement to the handsome and
dressy daughter of a Melb. printer. The report
had got into many society papers.
“Toorak is talking of the Forbes affair, and the
news of the lady’s millinery venture in the Big
Smoke. Captain Forbes was an amiable member
of the former Hopetoun suite, and married pretty
Miss Maude Cockburn, daughter of Mrs. Young-
husband, of Oakleigh Hall, out Windsor way.
Miss Cockburn was a petted but very sweet
specimen of Victorian beauty in the Lady Teazle
style. The wedding was a colossal affair—an un-
usually smart one—and the collection of presents
quite eclipsed any Collins-st. jewellery show. So
Captain Forbes and his pretty bride went off on
their trip to Europe under brilliant auspices.
Since then there have been reverses and untoward
happenings, and now the lady is in the hat busi-
ness in London under the title of ‘Madame
Kinska.’ Good luck to her —and to every other
plucky woman !
“This week (Wednesday), the chubby little
daughter of Colonel Tom Price is to be married
to Mr. Ainslie Mills —a long, lean, bronze chappie
from your side. Next month (17th), the swagger
daughter of Mr. J. Pratt will be hitched up to a
returned warrior, Mr. Lindsay Inglis. This is to
be a slap-up smart knot-tying, although the domes-
tic hearth is to be the locale of the ceremony.
“In Essingdon they do things seldom, but they
do these few well. An ‘ old maids’ ’ dance was
the last freak. The self-styled back-numbers put
out their invitations in the form of an entreaty
somewhat in this fashion : ‘ We’re going to have
a dance. Will you come ? Ah, do ! ’ The majority
of males did come, and had a good time of
it. Many novelties were sprung upon them. One
was styled the ‘Noah’s Ark Dance.’ For this, all
the men were packed out of the room, and the
girls went out for them, one after another, and
marched in like the animals of the old rhyme,
two-by-two. Another novelty was a card dance.
For this, the cards (two packs) were shuffled, and
the men dealt out one lot and the ‘ old maids ’ the
other. Then the couples whose cards corresponded
danced together. And the spinsters rejoiced
exceedingly.
“ At a recent gathering a smart dame wore an
extra large medallion from her chain, and this
enclosed two chubby children’s heads. Bairnless
mithers find themselves nowadays out in the cold.
To be in the fashion, they have to borrow
portraits of farmed-out babies and sport them as
a god-child, or a God-send, or a protege.
“Recent events recall a story. Something had
hopelessly smashed in the engine-room, and the
ship was straying helplessly on the face of the
yeasty sea. The passengers were all in a pale blue
funk, everyone expecting each moment to be his
last, but- nearly all made a sickly show of bearing
up brightly, and the men wore a dejected bilious
grin to reassure the ladies. The most abject
collapse took the female half of a picturesque
partnership in the early proceedings. The little
lady gave way to an agony of terror, and
spent two days in a condition that made her an
object of pity to all beholders. Then a party of
matrons took it upon themselves to try and talk
the sufferer into a more rational and courageous
frame of mind. ‘Why give way?’ said the
spokeswoman. ‘ Nothing really serious may
happen, after all. Look at us—we do not despair.’
‘No,’ gurgled the stricken one, ‘ but—but it’s
quite different. It isn’t your fault. You aren’t
running away with somebody else’s husband !
Boo —hoo—hoo ! ’ Then, as luck would have it, a
rescue was effected within the hour.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


fd
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application you
mav rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
to COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and List our marvelloSsly-accurate and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to — \
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
Aud at. 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
FACILE PRIIMCEPS-
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
ijnwr'
‘Lightest Wines in Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Charlie” Yarley, an Adelaide lawyer,
who was “ admitted ” to the N.S.W. Bar the other
day, is a double of B. R. Wise—in personal
appearance.
Seddon, an inveterate smoker for years,
has discontinued the habit. There are other indi-
cations that the M.L. Premier is losing his old
nerve. He now weighs 20st.
Premier John See declares he can go
through all his business throughout the year
without swearing at an employee. John uses
worse arguments than swear-words.
Premier Jenkins is already declaring that
if he goes to the King’s coronation next year he
will not accept a knighthood. He was born a
U.S. citizen, and, though naturalised as a Briton,
retains his republican instincts.
John Forrest is still actual Premier of
Westralia. He did not work harder in the
formation of any of his Governments than he did
by letter-writing and wiring in the crisis which
has led up to the Morgans Ministry.
H. C. Dangar, M.L.C., recalling the fact
that payment of Assembly members passed
N.S.W. Leg. Council by one vote only—that of
John Davies —avows now that but for an accident
he would have attended and blocked the measure.
The desire of little S.A. Chief Justice
Way to be top-sawyer in everything has induced
him to accept the post of circuit steward in a
Methodist church. He has more offices of varied
kinds than any other person in the Commoft-
wealth.
The death of Mr. Charles Potter leaves
one N.S.W. ex-Government printer still living,
Mr. William Hanson, who held the office away in
the fifties, and who is now nearing his 90th year.
He was once partner in The Empire with the late
Samuel Bennett.
Touching Australian artists abroad. A.
H. Fullwood writes from London, where he seems
to have got a foothold : ‘ ‘ Saw Minns a few
days ago, and was rejoiced to find him looking
ever so much better and stronger. He was going
to winter in Brittany.”
B. R. Wise has, it is said, just completed
sufficient sales of his “Industrial Freedom” to
cover expenses of production. It has taken 10
years to achieve this, but economic works travel
up-hill to the British brain. The sale of the work
in Australia was almost nil.
George Thornton, who died last week at
82 years, prided himself on having held lighted
candles to the printer who worked-off the first
number of what is now the S. M. Herald. The
old Herald office was in Lower George-street,
very close to the present Bulletin office.
J. C. Davison, proprietor of Carcoar
(N.S.W.) Chronicle, is dead. He was for years
in the service of printer John Sands, of Sydney.
His uncle was the Simpson Davison who flourished
in the early gold-days, and wrote the one time
popular work “Gold Discoveries in Australia.”
Of the beginnings of Deakin. In 1878, a
deputation of West Bourke (Vic.) electors waited
upon David Syme, to ask him to contest that Con-
servative stronghold. The Dictator declined, but
“he had a young man in his office who would
make a suitable candidate.” He then introduced
Alfred to the deputation ; he stood, and was de-
feated by only 18 votes.
AT THE N.S.W. ARTISTS' EXHIBITION.—
EXPLANATORY.
MR. CAMELHAIR (the artist): “Rather a good
subject. When the show’s over, and I have
it in the studio again, Til paint it up and
finish it. Ought to make a neat thing.”
King Seddon is rapidly losing the gift
of keeping his temper. In replying to an
M.P. lately he sneered at him as a Sunday-school
teacher. Another M.P., an ex-parson, he referred
to as a “ Bible-thumper. ” Both turned the other
cheek by reminding Seddon that he was an ex-
publican.
If N.S.W. loses Railway-Commissioner
Kirkcaldie to Victoria, as seems probable, she
will lose the most practical of her triumvirate of
railway-bosses. In fact, Mr. Kirkcaldie is the
only trained railway-man of the three. It is now
just about Secretary M‘Laohlan’s turn for a Com-
missionership.
South Australia pays its Chief Justice as
much as the Chief Justice of the U.S. and £4OO a
year more than the Chief Justice of Canada.
There is an agitation to reduce the number of
Supreme Court Judges in S.A. from three to two,
and future occupants of the position will probably
receive less pay.
In reply to Major Rupert Carrington’s
wail from S’Africa for 150 more men for “my
regiment,” Mr. J. S. Horsfall, of Widgiewa
station, has offered £lOOO towards expenses. The
Bulletin does not blame Mr. Horsfall. The
thing is a family matter : The Majah is Mr. Hors-
fall’s son-in-law.
“ Banjo ” Paterson writes to S.M.
Herald from Chefoo, China, that he was not
allowed to travel on the Siberian railway. Route
was blocked, and miles and miles of the road had
given way, the Russian Consul explained. Yet
the Czar has just been boasting of the line as a
completed work.
William M'Millan, fiery, Radical William,
as acting-leader of the Opposition, promised to
the Barton Government last week that he would
give no quarter, would fight them step by step,
and force them to the country. Since John Norton
vacated his throne, curious what a number of
people aspire to fill it !
George Reid has been trotting round
Groom, the Vic. M.H.R., and exhibiting him at
meetings as his proselyte. George is naturally
very proud of his only convert, and, after boasting
of him, says: “Step forward, Mr. Groom, and
show yourself,” and Mr. Groom steps forward like
the Wild Man from Borneo.
Despite all the assurances about the excel-
lent state of the King’s health, it costs £lO 10s.
per cent, to insure his life for one year now. A
large number of policies have been taken out by
people who will lose heavily if the coronation
doesn’t happen, and the rate shows that London
doesn’t regard H. M. as a very good risk.
The advent of Governor Clarke will pro-
bably avert an open rupture between Waxellency
Madden and the Peacock. Madden is much cut
up over recent events, particularly his failure to
get the permanent vice-regal billet. One mark of
the trouble is that Peacock has of late left Execu-
tive meetings entirely to Sam Gillott and the
beautifully-tailored Gurr.
Hector Macdonald need not be more of a
snob than most human beings are to resent the
wearisome reiteration of the fact that he rose
from being a “common soldier.” Granted that
he has reason to be proud of the fact, there is no
reason why it should be “chucked” at him 100
times a day by pompous politicians, and cordial
mayors, and patronising newspapers.
Melbourne pressmen, accustomed to ap-
proach with freedom State politicians, growl
fiercely at having to dance attendance on Federal
top-notchers. As a rule it is impossible to get
hold of Premier Barton and certain other Ministers
until past midnight, and frequently the reporters
have to cool their heels on the doormat for hours
while the eminent ones are genially supping.
Chief-Justice Darley referred to ex-solici-
tor Rofe in court, the other day, always as a
“gentleman.” When he became a solicitor, Mr.
Rofe was a gentleman by Act of Parliament.
When convicted of conspiracy, he ceased to be a
solicitor, but evidently remained in the judicial
eye a gentleman. Perhaps what an Act of Parlia-
ment has done, only an Act of Parliament can
undo. .
Gov. Ranfurly tells St. James’ Gazette
that the royal visit to Australia has been of
inestimable value. It has, indeed. It has de-
monstrated to Australians how un-royal and
commonplace a thing Royalty is. Once upon a
time, the title “Prince of Wales’’might have
been conjured with here. What does the average
Australian who has seen the Duke of York think
of it now ?
How many mournful wrecks does one meet
in Sydney —artistic, poetic, jour-
nalistic wrecks, who hold as a
dear possession a tattered pass-
port to fame endorsed “ \.\ B.
Dailey ! ” Almost anybody who
wrote verses or daubed in
colors, and sent a sample of his
wares to Dailey, got a letter in
reply enrolling him among the
famous and inviting him to a
little fish dinner. This beauti-
ful and well-meant blarney was
the cause of spoiling many a
good navvy or stonemason by
sending him straying among the
bogs that encircle Parnassus.
A man can be careless, if he has
a good right arm, as to whom
he abuses. He should be deadly
particular as to whom he
praises. One really good-
natured, over-appreciative soul
like Dailey can do more harm
in the world than a dozen
assassins.
Prime Minister Barton :
The Commonwealth has the absolute right to enforce
the deportation clauses of the Kanaka Bill, and 1 await
with confidence the decision of the High Court, when
constituted, on the subject.
If Mr. Barton were going shortly to take the
Chief-Justiceship, would he make announcements
of that sort ?
The Australian betting-ring is losing sub-
stance every year. The death of fat Alf. Joseph
took £30,000 out of the peezness, and now Jack
Cohen has withdrawn his “ nice dry bit.” The
sad-eyed man, who used to yell the odds with one
hand placed against his ear, as though he were
trying to catch the echo, has gone to settle down
in England, whence he came. Are the punters
listening with their hands against their ears? The
tote wouldn’t take any money out of the country,
anyhow.
Several most respectable Australian papers
are quoting The Graphic to the effect that His
Majesty the King, the Duke of York, the Duke
of Saxe Coburg and Gotha, and other royalties
are fond of wearing bangles and bracelets. This
love of bracelets, bangles, and even ankle rings, is
becoming quite common amongst men in high
life, it seems, but the jewellery is usually hidden
under the clothes. This weakness in men is ac-
counted by psychologists one of the strongest evi-
dences of degeneracy.
——————————————
CUSTOMS
MINISTER
KINGSTON—
IN A CUS-
TOMARY
ATTITUDE.
When Dr.
Grattan Guin-
ness was here
before—he’s her
again —he had a
brush with Jos. ,
Symes. Jos. rasped at him, whereupon Guinness’s
friends retorted in a religious paper : “Mark the
contrast between Mr. Symes and Dr. Guinness.
Mr. Symes always has a gloomy look, but Dr.
Guinness is ever bright and happy” To this Symes
rejoined, in his Liberator : “ Yes, . . .1 am
a Man of Sorrows, and acquainted with grief. It
is reported that Dr. Guinness is about to marry a
young lady with £29,000. With such luck as that,
I would be as bright and happy as he is.”
Recorded that certain Chicago anarchists,
annoyed by Australia’s dear old friend and spiritual
adviser, Elijah 11. Dowie, have threatened,
before one year expires, to shoot him in the
stomach “as nearly as possible in the same spot
as Mr. M‘Kin ley was wounded,” and then care-
fully watch to see if Mr. Dowie will recover (as
per the tenets of his faith) without medical assist-
ance. Fiat experimentum !
Interesting, apropos of the present obtru-
sive “loyalty” of the multitudinous Macdonald
clan, to remember that the most distinguished
militarist of that family did all his fighting against
Britain and her allies. General (afterwards
Marshal) Macdonald was one of the great cap-
tains of France. Like Massena, he made his
reputation in independent republican commands
before becoming a Marshal of the Empire.
Credited to King O’Malley, in the House
of Reps.
There exists, Mr. Speaker, a wavy line of thought in
the atmosphere, and the Freetraders mount it, Mr.
Speaker, as a hobby-horse ; but it is one-legged and
cannot budge an inch, Mr. Speaker, and it becomes a
science which needs no verification, and they waltz round
it, Mr. Speaker, and sing hymns of satisfaction, but its
pulse is feeble, Mr. Speaker," and we are going to blow it
out to-night.
Sydney D.T. devoted a first leader last
week to calling on G. H. Reid to arise and save the
Freetrade cause at peril of his living. If G.H.R.
is-wise, instead of being sooled on to monetary
perdition, he will hold tight to his briefs, and
give only his spare time to politics. It seems that
the Freetrade cause depends on the comic states-
man for its very existence. Let it pay for its prop,
as it can well afford to, and make at least one
exception to its common rule of sweating.
Judging by the following speech, delivered
in Maoriland, Hector Macdonald seems to have
been considerably impressed by what he saw in
S’Africa: —
May the dav never come when this beautiful country is
overrun by a "foe, your homes in flames, your women and
children, with anguish in their hearts and despair in
their souls, fleeing to the mountains, homeless wan-
derers, weary and hungry and hopeless, while their pet
possessions, ‘and treasures of childhood and youth, are
trod under foot by ruthless invaders—
In a word, by Australians who boil their billies
with your piano.
The brains of the new W A. Ministry mostly
centre in Attorney-General Moorhead and Lands-
Minister Nanson (assistant-editor of tire Wes-
TRALI.an). Morgans, the Premier, is member for
Coolgardie, and Lord High Keeper of the Eng-
lish mines and “cats” of the Northern fields.
When he visits that dreadful city of the dead wild-
cat—Coolgardie—he is always followed by a pro-
cession of dead-beat cadgers, principally of the
English Johnny sort. Morgans always parts, for,
like his “specs,” his heart is golden. A shrewd
business man of the London city type, Morgans is
no politician ; but in the mixed state of affairs
now existing, may retain office for some time.
“Ah, weel ” —imagine a figure about four
feet high strutting about with his thumbs in his
waistcoat arm-holes —“Ah, weel, it’s varra, varra
deelikit—varra deelikit —varra pure an’ varra
brode—indeed peignting cuid do no more. He’s
lowering his palette varra much noo, and doing
some varra ixcelant warlc—um, um. He and I
have been varra much tigether lately. You see,
naiture, Miss , isn’t pairfect, and needs just
such peignters as me—as me and Whustler —to
deescreemenate and make her airtistic. That’s
jeest what’s the matter with yon life-class —too
much naiture—too much naiture ; they need to
idealise—idealise. ” — Chunk from the preesident of
the Kamtschatkan Art Society.
Mr. Coleman Phillips, of note in Maori-
land as a rabbit-destroyer, recently laid before
N.S.W. Govt, a scheme for the repression of
bunny. Details are a secret, but the method is
described as a “natural system of suppression,”
and is to be supplemented by the fostering of
diseases native to the rabbit—such as liver-rot,
bladder-worm, etc. Local rabbit-“ experts,” how-
ever, are pointing out that in the dry N.S.W.
climate these diseases are practically non-existent.
Maoriland has made the pleasing discovery
that, following the policy of expansion, she has
become the possessor of a leper-station —the small
island of Penrhyn. A naval medical officer, who
lately inspected the lepers there, declared the
place to be in a most discreditable state. One
leper boy was being attended by his mother,
herself not then a leper. Govt, proposes to send
down a medical officer every three months.
Argus quotes with great satisfaction from
a London Times item re the war :
We carry on a war and treat our enemies as though we
were at peace with them. We take care of their families,
so that they can fight us without any anxiety as to their
wives and children.
Considering several things, particularly the death-
rate amongst those “wives and children,” the
bland stupidity of that quote is monumental.
The vulgar Boer can fight in peace,
To wife and babes he gives no heed :
Quite well he knows that Bull agrees
To give them all the graves they need.
“Veteran” to The Bulletin
That military “potentate” in Sydney (B. 16/11/’01), who
made the astounding discovery from the “ Army List ’’
that “this man Macdonald” has “ only the regimental
standing of a colonel,” is a truly laughable “soldier.”
No British commander, whatever his other rank, can
possibly have a higher regimental standing than colonel,
and a good many of them are onty lieutenant-colonels.
There have been generals who were, regimentally, only
captains. Further, it is open to question whether any
officer of the British army, outside artillery and engineers,
can have even the “ regimental standing of a colonel.”
If the “ Potentate ” would study his “ Army List ” a little
more he would probably find that all the regimental
colonels are old generals, and that where lieu t.-cols, are
styled “ colonels,” it is only “ army ” rank, and has no re-
lation to “ regimental standing.” Indeed, this question
Of “ regimental ” and “ army ” rank is full of traps for the
unwary student of the “ Army-List ” who has never done
duty in a big garrison, where he would occasionally run
up against a touchy senior, and be hauled-up for failing
in some small observance due to said senior.
NOT THE ONLY ONE.
“ Caulfield Congregational, Sunday. —‘ Medita-
tions on the Melbourne Cup,’ by Rev. A. W.
Pearce.”— RECENT MELB. ADVT.
“ The Bulletin Story Book,” a solid, well-
printed cloth-bound volume of over 300 pages;
containing many of the best stories and literary
sketches which have appeared in The Bulletin
during 20 years, will be ready on Ist. December.
Price 4s. 6d. ; post-free from Bulletin office.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


MAGONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^=^—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.———>
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Latest Designs and colorings.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on vietr at the firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST*, SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever Bhown in Australia. InUtsA
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on agpUmtims.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “ The Australia ” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
fcVWftmMlMllk
& URE SMITH (Late of Menses’), Manage*.
Qasdecsagh gt., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The latest confidence-trick exposed at
Sydney Sessions would make a cat laugh. An
elderly farmer who had come to Sydney on holiday
made the chance acquaintance of the usual young
man, and, of course, it was not long ere they met
friends, who were casually introduced. Perhaps
Wayback’s funds were not sufficient to make him
a beneficiary of the “ rich Fiji uncle ” —or possibly
he knew that trick—but oneof the friends casually
remarked to the farmer’s young friend, “ What
are you going to do with that?” The friend
replied that if he could not sell it he would pro-
bably make “it” a present to the Art Gallery. The
farmer next day was informed that “it” was a
sun-dial which his friend had been exhibiting in
the Botanical Gardens. It was on exhibit by
agreement for a period of which there was still
a week to run, and at the end of that time,
failing a purchaser, he, as owner, would present it
to the Art Gallery. But he casually suggested
that it would be a very handy thing for the
farmer to possess. A visit was paid to the sun-
dial in the Botanical Gardens, and the farmer was
so satisfied with the article that he agreed to give
for it £3 —£2 down, and the balance in a week,
when he was to take delivery. A week later,
the employees of the Gardens were surprised by
the appearance of an elderly man, with a dray,
who started to remove the sun-dial. The police
were called, and the farmer given in charge. He
gave the police full particulars, including a
description of the young man from the country,
and was then released. The police managed to
secure the “farmer’s friend,” who was rewarded
with “two years’ hard.” Is there any limit to
human gullibility when the hook is baited with a
bargain ?
CANDID AND CON-
FIDENTIAL.
KIND LADY (to traveller): “I
have no bread to spare, but I can give you a
little flour.”
TRAVELLER : “ Mum, I’ll not deprive you of it.
The damper lays so ’eavy on me stummick it
does me more ’arm than good.”
“ Wyom ” : A few weeks ago an adven-
turous couple (presumably man and wife) sailed,
outward-bound for Walgett, from Narrabri West,
via Namoi River, in two canoe-like affairs, made
of blackbutt bark, and fixed up at the ends with
strips of kerosene-tin caulked with chaff-bags and
tarred over. Steering-gear, a piece of candle-box
nailed to a sapling. Locomotive-power, the cur-
rent. In one canoe were the man and the swags
and camping equipage, and behind came the
other, with the “ Old Dutch ” and dogs, lashed to
the preceding argosy with a piece of fencing-
wire. So far the intrepid voyagers have not been
“ spoken ” by any riverside town, nor has “Port”
Walgett reported their arrival.
* * * *
On Western Queensland roads may be
seen a go-cart drawn by an old man, while his
elderly wife vigorously pushes in the rear. They
reckon to manage about seven miles a day in this
fashion. The old couple confess that they found
themselves rather short of cash, and instead of
waiting for an old age pension they loaded up
their cart with coal-tar soap for sale, and went on
the wallaby. Make a decent thing, too.
“ Jack-a’-Clubs H : In answer to “ H.P.”
(B. 9/11/’01). Trees will carry weights, lifting
them up “on their own,” too. At Mt. Chalmers
(Q.) a growing tree forked under the fork of a
ring-barked tree and rooted it up to the height of
about a foot. Waverley’s “ Natural History
Essays ” (p. 464) has the following :
In the course of the following summer a nut, having
escaped the teeth of the destroyer, sent up its verdant
shoot in the centre of a procumbent millstone. One day
I pointed out this rising tree to a gentleman who was
standing by, and I said, “ If this young plant escape des-
truction, some time or other it will support the millstone
and raise it from the ground." He seemed to doubt this.
In order that the plant might have a fair chance
of success, I directed that it should be defended
from accident and harm by means of a wooden
paling. Year after year it increased in size and beauty,
and when its expansion had entirely filled the hole in the
centre of the millstone, it gradually began to raise up the
millstone itself from the seat of its long repose. This
huge mass is now Bin. above the ground, and is entirely
supported by the stem of the nut-tree, which has risen
to the height of 25ft., and bears excellent fruit.
Also, “ H.P.” is wrong about fences never being
drawn up by trees. I know of a tree that drew
up three posts (wire fence) through the wires
running in the tree when the fence was put up.
On Ganby road, a rail has been raised 7in. by a
tree; and at Yeppoon, about seven years ago, a
Kanaka hammered a nail into a tree as high as he
could reach, and now it is beyond his reach.
“ C.H.R.” : Re “ A.P.R.’s ” remarks
(11/5/’Ol) about ants erecting their business ends.
Have never seen them do this unless they are
disturbed, scent danger, or mean battle. This
more especially applies to the evil-smelling little
black ants which in large armies invade eucalypti
in search of provender. One touch with a stink
on their trail will cause an elevation of tails at
that spot, and in a few moments the movement
will be communicated far up the tree to the top-
most regiments. The most cautious approach to
the trail will often start them (as “ A.P.R,.” calls
it) “saying their prayers,”—but which appears
uncommonly like “ cussing.”
* • • *
Dear Bulletin, — Re W. Malcolmson’s
article, “ A Black Blot on White Aus-
tralia ” (Bulletin, 22/6/’01). I was
arrested in Cue some years ago, and
while on remand, in the look-up, two
niggers were brought in. Neither could
speak or understand a word of English.
I was in the court while their cases
were being heard. One of them was
charged with the larceny of a silver chain
from somebody’s camp. There was no
interpreter in court. The Warden, after
hearing the evidence of prosecutor, who
lost the chain, and the evidence of the
constable who arrested accused and found
the chain in his possession, sentenced
the prisoner to receive a flogging of 15
lashes ! Nigger No. 2, who was next on
the list, was charged with “deserting
his legal employer/* From the evidence
of a police-constable, it appeared that
some nigger was “ assigned ” to some sta-
tion-owner for seven years, but had
“run away” after serving only 18
months of that period. Information had
been given to the police, with the result
that accused was arrested. No evidence
was given in court by anyone connected
with the station on which accused was
supposed to have been employed, and
consequently there was not a shred of
testimony as to accused’s identity with
the absconder. Yet the warden sen-
tenced this poor wretch to receive a
flogging of 25 lashes and also to be
imprisoned for 14 days! I also saw
these men flogged. After vainly trying
to induce any of the white prisoners to officiate
as flagellator, a policeman, “took the job on”
himself; and after it was all over he seemed
quite indignant because the two nigs, took their
gruel without a murmur, although, you may
depend, it was not his fault.— E. J. Sutcliffe.
Cue (W.A.).
“Sackbat”: “H.P. ” (8., 9/11/’01) is
wrong about trees not lifting weights. One of
several instances I’ve known : In the cemetery,
Agra, India, is a tree which carried up a heavy
tombstone with the walls of the grave, and
it is believed there that the remains of the corpse
and coffin are similarly exalted. It is nearly 10
years since I saw it, but as far as I remember, the
tombstone was sticking out of the tree about 14ft.
from the ground.
• * * •
“Vulcan”: Something, after all, in
“going on the land.” An orchardist in Yass
(N.S.W.) district, from an area of but 25 acres, ob-
tained a net return of £1227 for the season just
past. Of course, “luck” had a deal to do with
it; but—given equal chances —the difference
between this “lucky” man, and the average
unlucky man is mostly a matter of brains.
• * * *
“ Boko ” : In par re Clarence River
brumbies (B. 16/11/’01) your informant displays as
much ignorance as he attributes to Sleath, M.L.A.
I doubt if you could now find a brumby on either
the Clarence or Richmond. Wire fences and
selectors have put an end to them. A few wild
cattle still exist in isolated spots, notably
Chandler’s Creek, Bonaldo, and other parts of the
Richmond Range, but the rifle has of late years
nearly wiped them out also.
♦ « « *
“ Since the beginning of the present month
I have killed 107, and 13 were killed and one
wounded in a single night.” This reads like the
record of a gory cohentingenter, but it’s only the
officer in charge of Mount Kosciusko observatory,
reporting to meteorologist Wragge upon the
remarkable plague of rats which has suddenly
appeared on this loftiest point of Australia.
Dear Bulletin.— Re “ A Bushman’s
Notion ” (B. 13/7/’01). In the par. about Lam-
bert’s “Wool Team,” the word “cogles” should
be “keys.” The latter are thin, flat pieces of
iron, with an eye in the big end, through which
they are secured to the bow with strands of green-
hide. Cogles are merely washers, placed between
the key and the yoke to draw up a slack bow.
My mistake.— E. S. Sorenson.
“Trotter”: Visited Normanton (N.Q.)
recently. Norman ton is on the
Norman River, and sometimes
under it. Nothing will grow
there. Right to the horizon
extends a barren plain with
nothing to break the mono-
tony, and an average 100-
m-the-shade keeps the
inhabitants permanent-
ly tired. There are
eight pubs., but
they don’t flourish
and one large
store has the
monopoly of
the district.
Buy there, or
go without 1
The inhabitants
go to roost early
to dodge the ele-
phantine mos-
quito, and the
streets after
dark are de-
serted. The
nigger here
takes the
place of the
goat, and the
bac k-pre-
mises swarm
with half-
naked lubras
and picka-
ninnies. The
white children have
a peculiar lowering of
the eyebrows (caused
by the eternal glare
from the corrugated
iron), which gives
them a cunning
and old-fashion-
ed appearance.
Also, they de-
velop too early ;
a girl of 13 looks
20, and at 20
looks at least 30.
The eyes are weak
and the lids granu-
lated from the dust and flies. Once
every three weeks the town wakes from
its lethargy. The steamer is coming from
the south, and the whole population seeks the
wharf. For three days the town is in a state of
excitement and whisky—then falls wearily asleep
again till the next steamer. Truly a delightful
spot 1
• • • •
A couple of swaggies recently struck a
back-blocks pub., and having nothing marketable,
evolved a choice idea. They commandeered a
piece of rope, and, just after dark, one of them
sauntered into the bar, holding one end of the
rope and calling “Whoa, there!” to the
imaginary horse. Then he asked, confidently, for
whisky, but as soon as he got hold of the bottle
his mate, who was at the other end of the rope,
dragged him violently outside the door, and Dy
the time the startled landlady had got round the
counter tl.ore was no man—no horse—no whisky 1
FRIENDLY-LIKEt
B RADY: “ Gud day, Mrs. Clancy, how's yure
ould mahn? Not that Oi give a damn how
he is, but just ter sthart the conversayshun.”
“ Trotter ” : Recently struck Alpha
(should be Omega), on the C.Q. railway, 270 miles
from Rockhampton. Two pubs., 2 white store-
keepers, 2 Syrians, and 5 Chows. Population
comprises every variety and color of humanity.
Wood-carting, water-carting, carriage of goods
and luggage from the railway, grooming, laundry-
work, etc., is all done by aborigines, who swarm
about the hotels and stores picking up a stray six-
pence, which immediately goes to the Chow for
opium. But the Chow is the boss of the place,
and acts it.
“ Vril”: Be shoeing a bullock (B. 22/6/ 01).
This used to be quite a common practice in W ide
Bay district (Q.), especially about Gym pie, where
cedar had to be
ceun t r y. The
hoof, to allow for
were light and A
hauled over rough, rooky
shoes (two to each
expansion of cleft)
easily put on.
TEE COLONIAL AT TEE FRONT.
DANDIFIED IMPERIAL LIEUTENANT (to the Vic.
Bushman picket who has just presented
arms): “Look here, my man, don't present
to anyone below the rank of a Major — I’m
only a Lieutenant .”
THE PICKET (cheerfully): “ That's all right,
sonny; any blanky thing is good enough for
a fellow to practise on.”
“ Corrybar ” on an aspect of the rabbit-
question in Victoria:—
In some “ rabbit cases,” at a country court recently, I
heard several of the defendants pleading
their inability to keep their land clear of
the pest, while Crown lands and reserves
in the vicinity provide harbors for them to
breed undisturbed. It seems that the
Vermin Inspector, being a Govt, servant,
cannot take action against his employer ;
result of which state of things is that, for
all the notice the inspector will take of
them, the rabbits may breed on Crown
lands till they simply swarm-out the
struggling selector adjoining, who will
thereupon be haled before the Crown for
“ not taking reasonable and proper pre-
cautions to rid his land of rabbits.” The
magistrate pointed out that any individual
could prosecute the Board of Land and
Works, and make it take up its responsi-
bilities, but the landholder knows better.
It is more profitable for him to “ poison ”
the reserves himself. The Crown carts a
Melbourne solicitor around the country (at
£3 3s. a day) to conduct its prosecutions,
In case some “bush-lawyer” should find a
hole in the Act; and the private prosecutor
would have to take similar precautions, or run
the risk of “ falling in ” for heavy costs.
t? This year’s S.A. census makes the tally
of the State’s full blacks (aborigines) 1745
males and 1640 females; in the Northern
Territory, 12,331 males and 10,717 females.
The census shows only 349 half-caste males and
341 females. Of the adult males 11,168, and of
the ditto females 9551, are returned as healthy
—how ascertained isn’t stated.


CLEARS
the BLOOl)
through the
KIDNEYS
WOLFES
"SCMAPPS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Pronrletor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agm/s:-HARRISOi & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“ Jaok-a’-O. : John Perron, at
Yeppoon, (Q.), in front of a looalpub.,
put an 18-gal. (full) barrel into a dray
by strategy with a rope, doing the
“ Yankee twitoh.” He boasts that he
could shift Sydney to the new capital
with a rope, six horses and a dray in
a year. He is an Austrian, with a
hand minus two fingers.
• • •
The M’s.P. who recently visited
the Murray Flats (S.A.) bring back
dismal stories of the condition of
some of the German farmers there.
In one locality where there has been
no harvest for several years the frugal
Teutons live on rabbit. When they
catch the bunnies, which are fairly
plentiful in the scrub, they carefully
skin them and sell the pelts. They
eat the flesh, feed their fowls bn the
entrails, and even keep the bones for
manure.
• * ♦
“Riverina”: “ Kap ” (B.
l/6/’Ol) is right. Horses can swim in
hobbles. I have an old horse that
(hobbled) got into a billabong by-
wash. The current, carrying logs and
snags, was very strong, and the banks,
for 3ft. or 4ft., almost perpendicular.
Nevertheless, the moke swam over,
clambered up the opposite bank, and
was thence tracked over two gates,
and found five miles from the by-
wash with hobbles unbroken. The
enterprising animal was about 20
years old.
* • *
“ Nalla ” : Looks as if that re-
cent Deniliquin decision places the
N.S.W. squatter “ between the Devil
and the deep sea.” If he doesn’t lay
rabbit-poison on stock-routes passing
through his run—prosecution under
the Rabbit Act! If he does lay the
stuff—possible thumping damages
against him for poisoned travelling-
stock.
A Mud gee (N.S.W.) draper advertises
boldly in tne local paper goods for “the demi-
monde of fashion.” One would have thought (and
hoped) that that class was not big enough for a
special advt. in Mudgee (pop. 2600).
Jacob, the ourang-outang (just deceased)
was not altogether prepossessing in appear-
ance, but was a genial fellow-creature in
a somewhat imperfect state of development.
Many visitors to Sydney Zoo reckoned
him a valuable acquaintance, if not an
actual friend. Jacob would take those whom he
favored out for a stroll round the grounds, walk-
ing sociably with them, hand-in-hand, and, if you
sat on the grass with him, Jacob would go through
your pockets, in a friendly kind of way, for loot.
If Jacob was in his cage and a stranger outside
the bars appeared to have nothing eatable which
he was inclined to give to Jacob, the latter was
prepared to trade, and would pull from some
sacking kept in his cell a string or two and offer
them as an inducement. Jacob’s life was sadly
wasted. Had lie been caught young, and brought
up to business, he might have descended to be
N.S.W. Colonial Treasurer, and built gaols out of
the State’s loan-funds.
The late S. H. Hyam, M.L.C., of Sydney,
held much the same position on Australian waters
as that held by the late Hon. James White on the
turf. Mr. Hyam at one time had in commission
the open boats—Lottie (24ft.), Florrie (22ft.),
Ettie (22ft.), Florrie (19ft.), Ettie (19ft.). All the
boats were manned by professional crews, who
took all prize-moneys, and the hobby must have
cost as much to run as a racing-stable. If writer
recollects aright, Mr. H.’s first racing venture
was the Rica, built by Reynolds, the crack builder
of 30 years ago. Joe Donnelly then came on the
scene with entirely new ideas as to sailing-models,
and to prove which style was the better Mr.
Hyam gave Reynolds and Donnelly an order each
to build a 19ft. and 22ft. skiff. Reynolds’ boats
were the old-fashioned, narrow-tucked craft, and
Donnelly’s the broad-tucked, which from that
day came to stay. The boats were sailed by
the best professionals in the harbour—Mont-
gomery, Ellis, Colebrook, and Fletcher—and no
expense was spared in fitting out. Strange to say,
the 19-footers were very equal in pace, but
Donnelly’s 22-footer proved a veritable sailing-
machine, running rings round everything opposed
to her. Mr. Hyam afterwards raced tne 24-
footers, Lottie and Carlotta, winning races out
of number regattas, until lie pretty well scared
off all opposition, which was, perhaps, the reason
of his going out of the sport. After giving up the
boats, he kept, as a hobby, a very select little
herd of Jersey cattle, running in a paddock near
his residence at Balmain. This hobby came to a
very sudden end. He used to supply a large
number of poor people with milk, which bit of
philanthropy evidently didn’t suit certain people
in the milk-trade, as one morning Mr. Hyam arose
to find his pets all dead. A bale of poisoned
lucerne had been thrown into the paddock during
the night.
IN MEMRIAN.-"JACOB," THE SYDNEY ZOO
OURANG-OUTANG.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
E. J.: The picked negro, of whom you can see
many examples in Sydney, is a better laborer than the
average white. And he is not economically dangerous—
he sticks to the labor-union and demands full wages all
the time. Of course (apart from the race-mixture aspect
of the question) the black man who is a good trades-
unionist is less objectionable to his fellows than the mean
white who blacklegs on his own order. The white non-
trades-unionist is no good, anyhow ; the cream of the
country’s manhood and industrial skill is unionist to the
core... .E.P.A. : To find the reason why the people
of Queensland, almost unanimous in their opposition
to the Kanaka slave-trade, are not able to have their
views reflected in the local Parliament, it is necessary to
study closely the electoral system of the State, perhaps
the most infamously “faked” in the world. At the
Federal elections, when the people had a chance to speak
at the ballot-box, the verdict against colored labor was
practically unanimous... .Moxy : Can’t say till we’ve seen
it... Arthur F. : Small, prim, neat, utterly barren verse...
R.P. : No. 1 is emphatically not “ worth finishing,” and
No. 2 was hardly worth beginning.... Jack-a-O. : Your
usual combination of original flavor with lamentable lack
of-'skill... .H.J.M. : Do give us the facts without the
ferocity. You only put us to the trouble of cutting out
jour frenzied snortings at the contributors you seek to
correct ... . E.L.A. : What is known to more than owe
person is no longer a secret....Oishorne : The situation
at your Mechanics Institute Club was quite an ordinary
state of affairs. The saints tried to prevent the admis-
sion of any more sinners, whereat the sinners retaliated
on the saints, and then came an armistice. Peace and
goodwill are the last resource of the godly... .Goth : No
use at all in starting a Gothenburg or a prohibitive sys-
tem on a little patch like the Rocks, for reasons ex-
plained recently in The B. What chance would the
State public-house with the civil-servant pushing out
“sealed packets of drink” have against the bright,
racketty, private-enterprise shop across the way with a
jolly Bung and the gold of Tottie’s hair reflected in the
nectar dispensed ? To give the State system a show
it must have a whole State to work in.. .C.L.L. :
Under martial law there is an end to a free press
and a free post in Cape Colony. The newspapers are
published and despatched “by Govt, permission and
all the news is falsified to suit the censors. Probably the
only correspondence that gets through unexpurgated is
Sydney D.T.’s bigoted monthly letter... .Moro :No one
doubts that cane-cutting is not a pleasant job ; but much
more unpleasant jobs are daily tackled —for money....
F.S.S. : “ There is no State Parliament, anyhow, which
displays in its debates a tithe of the all-round keenness
of intellect characteristic of the Calvinistic, clerical pow-
wow. Present scribe has reported in several Pres.
Assemblies and in many Australian Parliaments, and
knows.. .. Dido: Metrical version of the Fall of Adam re-
gretfully declined Jim : “Memories” is of the faded
order of poetry suitable to be put in chests of lavender,
but not in The B Z.T. : Tripe—and uncleaned tripe at
that. You might at least have scrubbed it before sending.
Northern F. : Glad to get expert opinion that Bar-
ton’s sugar-duty policy will probably lead to the settle-
ment of a large number of small white growers in Q
lI.P. : Why ask anyone to believe that any human being
could carry “ two 4-ewt. bales of woolpaclts, one under
each arm ? ” Rats !.... Quilpen : Here printed long years
ago" Eller : Let the wool-classers speak for themselves.
—lconoclast: All true, but too laboriously expressed.
As to the Kanaka sugar-slave’s “morality," it’s
very rarely indeed that one or two of him isn’t
awaiting execution for murder—and how many murders
has he done in the North without detection ?
Yeria : Question of deportation of all negroes from U.S.A.
has been often discussed : the transit difficulty could be
easily surmounted with Uncle Sam’s great wealth, but
more serious problems are the economic unsettlement
which would be caused by the removal of such a big pro-
portion of the population and the difficulty of finding an
area in the world where they could be settled with any
chance of success. There seems to be only one efficacious
white man’s method of settling a colored problem, and
that is wholesale murder. The B. doesn’t want to have
Australia discussing that method in the future, and so
wishes to see colored immigration stopped now. ..
Carriechoille : Right, but then we have already said same
thing. B. never prints assurances that it is “on the
right track.”.... H. M. : The man who (like you?) can
drink a bottle of whisky at a draught (and sleep for two
days afterwards) ; drink 320grs. chloral-hydrate, and wake
up fresh in the morning; swallow four bottles of pain-
killer and “ only feel sick next day;” drink two bottles
chlorodyne and get a refreshing sleep ; crack-up hydro-
chlorate of morphia, mixed, as the pleasantest of sleeping-
draughts, and applaud ether as the best thing in the
world to spree on—well, you simply can’t tell the truth.
No drug-fiend has the slightest idea of what truth
is. Come to Sydney and we’ll show you to
some doctors—to two doctors for a start
Newcastle : Facts re J. W. Bailey’s dismissal certainly
seem to call for an independent inquiry, but we can’t
undertake to try the case... .Croyez : Daily papers don’t
get any cash subsidies from London to keep their loyalty
warm ; you needn’t hold that idea for a minute. Of
course, a K.0.M.G., or the hope of a K.0.M.G., may
have as good an effect as mere brutal- money, and it is
a form of bribe which “a gentleman may accept.”....
Mango : No, thanks ; it is always dangerous, and very
often unjust, to anticipate the process of law in criminal
cases O’B. : Chief Justice Darley gives the ex-solicitor
more sympathetic treatment than most Judges would. If
that battalion went up before, say, Owen, J., or Stephen,
J., they would be flattened out without a tear : now their
bruises get just a little sympathetic liniment O.A. Jil:
There is another side to the “ over-representation of
Ireland ” controversy besides the one-vote-one-value view.
In the Australian Parliament Tasmania gets slightly more
than her proportional representation in the House of
Reps., and much more in the Senate, as a recognition of
her State rights. Has Ireland no State rights to plead as
a reason why she should not be even more hopelessly out-
numbered than at present in the British legislature?
D. : Good ; not the best J. S. : “ Wales ” too weak....
Gadfly : Not force enough Lynton : Feeble Olive:
You’re not big enough to hop alone yet Letter at this
office for Mr. Jones, shorthand-teacher G.A.P. :
Right.... Dean Hoe : Not funny A.J.M. : Considering.
... Sydney P. : Has an ingenious turn in it, but is other-
wise below mark L.A. : “Nothing Unusual” is
nothing unusual. Lacks force and finish.... Maggie S. :
Prettily written, but hardly enough in it Sandy F. :
Yes, but you beg the question. Your argument assumes
the decision in one direction of the very point at issue....
Aidyl: Some pathos, but isn’t well enough done Yiv.:
Cooking not good enough to make that chestnut pala-
table... .H.M.R.: Good idea, but verse too ricketty
Pandia Ralli: A fairly bright picture of Filipino life ; but
Asia is not in Bulletin territory,.. .L.R.B. : Poor, and
amusingly-pretentious... .Boulder: “ Micham ” yarn pro-
bably all bosh... .Santry : Your “ original” verse is just
2200 years old—so far as our reading goes—perhaps older.
Originally the work of a Greek decadent, it has been re-
hashed countless times in all the lingoes Caro : Neat;
wants novelty... .Nym. : Lose your conceit of yourself.
M.B. : No name or address on copy Eden : Glad
we’re banished... .Galahad: Verse uninteresting St. J.:
Not up.... Phil W. :It rhymes occasionally, anyway....
Axe : We accept from anybody anything that is suitable
and good enough. Items sent were not Boonal: Some
flavor of humor bu* general execution indifferent
THE LATES. H. HYAM, M.L.C (N.S.W.).
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
D.H.R. : Pars, good enough ; yarn very flat Teki
Tuan : Don’t remember seeing it before, and it is now
belated. Very fair verse-swing in it Green Grass :
Sorry still unsuitable. The final situation is good, but
the lead-up is too long and 1005 e... .Ben Sun : None of
them up to mark Thurla : Spoilt in the telling
Djali : Hardly class enough. “ Michaeljohn ” best
G.M. : No capacity.. Point Blank: Considering
J. O’C. : Can’t put everything in this time ; will consider
you next D.F.H. : Won’t do Yar. : The longest-
lived fish, as far as known, is the common pike, which
has a record of over 200 years G.A. : With difficulty
deciphered some of it, and found it wasn’t worth the
trouble... .X.X.X.G. : Tamely t01d.... Fern : There is
no practical remedy : a suit in Equity might give
relief, but that would prove too expensive.... Ferry
Hie: But you surely don’t expect us to print that!
A.E. :Too stiff, and not really interesting. .F.M. Hans ”
returned Fitful: Not interest enough Toromeo :
“Arise” falls headlong Glenara : Life-like; may use.
Riverina : Pretty good in places, but horse-verse
needs to be very good, and you come down at too many
metrical fences. Suggestions possibly usable. .. J.C.G. :
Power in it, but the central incident makes it unprint-
able Lazarus: Found your Abraham in the basket.
Nymsie: Bulletin “Reciter” will be substantially
bound; no space in Xmas number.... P. 8. L.: Don’t re-
member it... .Arthur Madden :We have your letter, but
no matter accompanies it W. Bren : Ruined H. will
do now....Scutum : Small beer....G.B. : British inten-
tions may be, as you say, strictly pacific and disinterested.
But England has a big appetite for African meat: she
quietly, and without fuss, annexed Ashanti last month....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
L.A.O. : Sorry unavailable ; returned A.C. (Melb.) :
Drawing of excellent promise ; would be used but for
the staleness of the motive. Fasten on an obviously Aus-
tralian topical or other subject, and try again—or fit an-
other legend to present picture Nemo : Legend far too
thin E.A.W. : Water-" colors " useless to Bulletin;
black-and-white only wanted W.T.C. : Unusable
O.Z. B. : One may possibly serve ; memo, posted .... 11. H.:
Yes, too suggestive Seeko : Didn’t use it because we
doubted its originality. We are looking sideways at
every legend and drawing which could possibly have been
stolen from the Bits papers. Unavailable: A.E.A.,
G.G., R.G., Robert T. H.
Mounted Postman Disabled.
The Government mounted mailman who carries
the Golspie and Taralga (N.S.W.) mails—Mr.
Jeremiah G. Webster—has, upon request, given
some of his experiences for publication.
“Few mailmen,” said he, “have undergone
such hardships as I have. 1 have ridden
thousands of miles, night and day, wet and dry,
exposed to all weathers, in a climate which for
severty is, in my opinion, second to none. In ’B2
I first ‘ went under ’ owing to a severe attack of
paralysis, which completely disabled me. Creep-
ing pains came in my limbs, I grew thin and weak,
and for three months was unable to walk. In ’92
my arm became paralysed and useless, and five
years later the rest of my limbs grew paralysed,
and my constitution seemed breaking up. I lost
all strength, my body was swollen, and anything
touching it pained me. My food brought on
fearful attacks of biliousness, and I suffered the
greatest internal agony.”
“ So you were quite helpless ? ”
“Yes,”said Mr. Webster, “I could not even
turn in bed. I was unable to work, and my
misery of mind and body was so great that I
knew not what to do, for all treatments had proved
powerless. Friends then recommended me to try
Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people. So some
were procured from a Taralga chemist, and I
began _ taking them. Soon afterwards I felt a
slight improvement. Then, as I continued taking
this medicine, I could feel the in
my paralysed limbs. My appetite returned, the
biliousness left me, and gradually my strength
came back, so that I was able to leave my bed and
walk about. I used Dr. Williams’ pink pills until
I was once more strong and robust, and I am
stronger to-day and more fit to perform my duties
than I have been since 1882. I worked through-
out last winter with all my old activity, and my
health actually improved under these adverse
weather conditions.”
Many others like Mr. Webster who were once
apparently helpless paralytics, have been cured
by Dr. Williams’ pink pills, which make new
rich blood with every dose, aud stimulate the
circulation. They also tone up the nerves and
strengthen the spine. By their action on the
blood and nerves they cure anaemia, debility,
nervous exhaustion, hysteria, neuralgia, rheu-
matism, consumption of the bowels and lungs,
dysentery, liver and kidney troubles, indiges-
fcn, effects of pneumonia, influenza, fevers, etc.
Bold by chemists and storekeepers and the Dr.
Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
and nine per box, post free; six boxes
nfteen and three. Send in full description of
your case and you will be told honestly and free
of charge whether these pills have cured a case
like yours or not. If they are not suitable to you,
you will be so informed.
“ How McDougal Topped the Score”—
“My Mate Bill”—“The Billiard Marker’s
Yam” —these and many other famous recitation-
pieces will be found in “The Bulletin Reciter.”
Cloth-bound and illustrated, price ss. post-free
from Bulletin office.
Two important additions to Australian
literature have just been made in “The Poetical
Works,” of Brunton Stephens, and “Joe Wilson
and His Mates,” by Henry Lawson. The first-
mentioned volume contains many new pieces, in-
cluding “Fulfilment,” which appeared in The
Times and several Australian newspapers on Com-
monwealth Day, and which was dedicated by
permission to the late Queen. The volume is
uniform with “The Man from Snowy River.”
Mr. Lawson’s new book is issued by arrangement
with the English publishers, and is obtainable in
cheaper form than the English edition. The
result of Mr. Lawson’s literary work in England
appears for the first time in book-form in this
volume.*
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can relj 7 on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr, J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*


Mfc <3urr, the Minister for Education, Malmod..
the privilege of " looking thoroughly into the'
question of religious instruction in State
luring the recess.” He declared'that he was
! just as muoh in earnest in regard to the subject
: of *' training up children in the way they should
' jo.'* The Cabinet, however, had decided that it
I would be unwise to introduce the religious ques-
j tion into this amending Bill. “ I have spent tho
Sest part of my life,” said the Minister, in
ay-school work, and 1 do not hesitate to say
that it has fitted me for my present position.”
y:et/e -}^ e
,^ ce ,ss
gfd
EA ri ?eif Jur k ; |U
'E(oW wy &r W
m s bts a<a >7*A 1
i»7 Tlje belly of The'
? -
opst fiipil : Forty, Sir.
E.C| ‘ — ~]\jzr'e. 170 w •
1
&!*J 170 T
■fiited "to be
°f"
' 1
A series of remarkable statements concerning
rice in Melbourne were made by Dr. Grattan
Guinness, London medical evangelist, who is i
conducting a mission in this city. He shuddored
when ho thought of the banks of the Yarra, of
the Fitzroy Gardens, of the Exhibition Gardens.
They were a scandal to the Legislature of Vic-
toria. Two things could be done. First, electric-
lights could be put in these places. (Cheers.)
Second, there should be no public gardens open at
night. They were doeed in London, why not
here ? Within the municipal croas of Melbourne
there ought to be left no dark areas and no
v. gardens unclosed at night.
<S * -cP sJS Jy o'
J>' oi° S* o V V° <©• cS>
c VJ> s?*
*S »>>V>
'<?>% -J>° / J?
® S® 5> ■ V <1
v/V/'
V//
V
* (f X
OUL don K Mo a
io l^e
gfd
g
i >ff U |-1
i I won 1 & > r *£{Jj*/ >a (£]
’ ou C
X] f* d ! JO /‘ (
/4/ ?|f !V T •ST & C!V‘i
h 'S»UFFI.£. ('
jj CHAR»>y i)Ol.£
mmm so\y i
X.
a Te 3 ,7* ** a P**k
0 some.
] The unfortunately postponed declaration from |
/i the Rev. Mr. Wilcox is put a 3 follows “Several
[J persons whom the members would recollect
l/l managed to live fairly well when they were re-
Ji ceiving the society’s bounty of 4s. a week, with an
S/J occasional load of wood found, but now they were
/ receiving from the Government Bs. to 10s. they
were living in comparative luxury. If they could
manage so well on 4s. a week, it seemed to him
wasteful expenditure on the part of the Govern-
ment to give them the larger sum."
/V^>
n%*s\.
vg.
■foiv
Imryit7£
'en7
tfye y^
■. sfSot.iT «,. ,iif
%> Mick, to TO -fyif ire «s$ jipe !
ItaWe'j
L. 4 our .— SWI 1 l^t - \T?
Mr. Strong, o£ the Melbourne City Council, ha 9
drawnattention to the unauthorised encroachments
upon public reserves now going on in Macpberson-
street, owing to the crowded state of the Mel-
bourne Cemetery. The trustees appear to be so
i hard put to it for space that, in defiance of con-
sequences, they have pushed into the 60 feet orna-
mental reserve along the street named. The City
i Council intends to take action in the matter in
U^j | p^gisalffiji 1 j n Macphetson-at.
MELBOURNIANA.


FIVE HUNDRED FATHOMS DEEP!
L.B.M. (to King Coal): "FANCY MEETING YOU HERE! WELL, THIS IS THE KIND OF ‘BLACK AUSTRALIA’ WE LIKE TO SEE[?]


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, & SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. FREETRADE PRICES
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 85s i
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles 21s <>&■*
80s, £2. £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT. '
Ilflllilllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllilll
lIONDON A<,;3YCN£.V
A. SAUNDERS.
_ NO ADVANCE IN PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 60 PER CENT
CARVERS, Knife, Fork, and Steel, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case
every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
Guaranteed satisfactory.
Will give
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in
Silk-lined Case. Very best Pure Silver-plated, 85s. Similar,
80s, £2, £2 10s. Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cake Knives or Porks, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Latest London
Rage. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cup
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
0116. —JAM DISH, Fancy Gold
Ornamented Glass with Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Base, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, £l, £1 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Motto CRUET,
Diana Forget. Pure Silver-plated
on white Metal, 21s.
Similar Design, 17s 6d.
•Al. SAUNDERS
8124.—0 AK BISCUIT, Silver-plated, Moun-
ted, 15s 6d ; Shield only, 12s 6d; Fluted Rims,
20s; Floral China Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d ; larger size, £l.
Other Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles, Silver-
plated, 15s 61. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper Styles, 20s, 255, 80s.
%
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure Silver
Plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
maim!!!
■;;y =
111
HH
/|
. SAUNDERS.
•• • Hu
NO ADVANCE WHATSOEVER.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Tea and Coffee Set SrJPsf r on^ L Me H extra and Finished, £3 is.
Other £2Z all purchaser 25 per cent, to $£
Other Designs and £4 Ws~£67i7,
4®=* Special Prices for Sport and Presentation Committees. ILLUSTRATIONS POST FREE.
per cent.
A. SAUNDERS
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased,
£2 10s. Similar Designs, £2, £B, £Blos.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIEE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case,
the Very Best Silver-plate, Nicely Chased.
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
9
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Square,
Pure Silver-electroplated on
White Metal, Beautifully Hand-
chased, 21s. VeryUsefulPresent.
A. SAUNDERB.
QS.—CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Designs, 12s 6d, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S SPOON, Silver-plated on White
Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 12s 6d, 15s, £l.
22.
- cr-
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White GW
Pure Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Round, 10s fld.
A. SAUNDERS.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS, Pure Sdrer-
electroplated on Nickel Silver, in Silk-lined Case,
Nicely Chased, and Ornamented, 17s 6d.
Similar case, 235.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, with Spoons, 10s 6d.
NO ADVANCE. A. SAUNDERS. . FREETRADE PRICES.
Cutlery and Plate Canteen, *
SPOONS and FORKS of the Very Best Quality on Hard Ttfo+nl
Containing- Every Article used on the Table (22 pieces), £810s:
other qualities, £l2los, £l5, £2O, £25. SEND FOR ILLUSTRATIONS.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Silver Electro-
plated, Handsomely Chased, 20s;
extra quality, 255, 85s.
, A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Silver-plated
Nicely Chased, 3s 6d each. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCH or DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, 21s;
extra quality, 255, 80s, 85s.
Save 25 to 50 Peb Cent. A. SAUNDERS. Pbktram Pbiom.
b ELT and BUCKLE, Pure Solid Silver, Nicely Chased, £2, £2 Ba, and £2\<)a
Silver-plated, similar patterns, »6<£ 5s 6d, feed/Ts 6d, 10s Gel. 13s 6d
MOST PAJHIONABLE.
SAVE 25 to 60 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
. . . TJ . --••- -- — z: -• ~ Bko.ui'iJL/jcui.o. EREETRADE PRICES,
hoiiattfir R Kmfp ® x^ira Strong, the Very Rest Silver Steel Bladea, 5s 6dj similar styles, 2s 6d, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
x OUI D -LVUilt/i Larsre Combination Miner’s Knife. 7s fid. 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
Lenses, Good Effect, 20s, 28s, 80s, £
First-class
2, £2los, £3
A SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER and SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS AT FREETRADE PRICES.
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ& C°
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agrents for Australasia i
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
m
mm
Em
UCHT
Wiak Irn Dimneo r»«
•lICCOHCE ST
Ban. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOB . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
"""‘t from any cause whatever
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, Ae.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading- Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australis.
Solh Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing EQI
Chemist, ww I
George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. 833" Beware of Imitations.
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
fdg
Don,t Take
it for
Granted
ORDER IT
SAUCE.
Because
it is the
Best
: Price 68.
Po«t Preob.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“ Steele Rudd.”
NOW l
THIS ns THE TIME TO SEND ORDERS FOR YOUR
SUITS FOR CHRIST MAS.
C. G. HATTE
lumi enlarged the TAILORING DEPARTMENT and inoreased the staff to oope with the
trade for the Season.
Qenta’e Tweed Suits —to measure—fit guaranteed, the best value procurable—4l/ -
Gent»’s West of England Serge Suits, fast colors, perfect fitting— 63/-
(ALSO IN FANCY WORSETS, SCOTCH TWEED or VAOUNA.)
Fancy Btripo Trousers —hundreds of patterns to select from —fashionable designs, only 12/6
Also th Latest and Best ih Shirts, Hats and Boots.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Free. Having purchased before the Federal Tariff
was announced, all our Goods are DUTY FREE.
O. G. HATTE, Newtown
St High-Class Smoking Mixture
VfyJfc 1 «» it*
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
MZIDZUM.
Ik fc*. ob iut AIR-TIGHT TINS.
FULL.
DR. J. A. AUSTIN write*: “ After a long aad fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous ' ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury. w
If unobtainable at local Tobacconists, write to
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBAOOO OA, 44 Worship Stmt, London.
[4—lo]
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation lor Arresting tbs Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. II your Hair is tailing off, TRY IT. II it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price— Bs, 4s, 6s Postage, dd. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and lor MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 6s. ; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tZT For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, 6s 6d. ; postage, 9oL extra.
w
A
§
WjLSBiNaroK H. Soul & Co.,
Pttt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DIBEABEB OF THE HAIR.
Sold by *ll Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS,
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY," August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort-
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention."*
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
7
Ha!© & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
i 2r r P,a,n Bolt » ° ur Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
wid our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Ct Duf PP ' * nCCB n 6 - produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be!
S,nsulta r tion Fre r e! Ur ° ’ entltlled ’ “ MocU » r « Treatment of Disease by Electricity,”
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St, London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
nvpnousn
Bender, "why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat*
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambition*, and produce
amusement by the hour. It cost* yon
nothing to find out all about It. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESBON Of Key tO
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
fdg
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is ac' ance of,
a life-time. Address—
&
, Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
!Sllenburgs* Foods.
A PROQRESSIVB DIETARY, unique la providing nourishment suited to tho growing digestive powers of YOUNQ INFANTS fi
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
Allenburys” Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the Sat that* Me&t i£
AHenburys ” Milk Food No. a
Satilarly adapted to the eeeoad than asACk a Ob
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
seeding the addition of
hot water only.
The Malted Food No. 3
For Intents over six months ft tgf.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and .11 requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— ‘‘No Better Food Exists."
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
Alien & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
fd
GrO TO TTTiT.T-
-* IGOLAN3) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lis gratis.
HATS
HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 G:'tt3 Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
“ White Australia,” educationally. From
a Northern paper :
Miss Wing Wah, teacher of pianoforte.
How easy to prevent these eruptions of
wild abusiveness which occasionally break out in
the Federal and other Parliaments of the Com-
monwealth. If honorable members would but
partake moderately and consistently of D.C.L.
Whisky, and not mix ’em, they would always be
too healthfully happy to be otherwise than
courteous. The glow of absolute serenity com-
bined with the power of achievement produced by
the aforesaid brand has endeared it to the hearts
and stomachs of millions of thinking men. Thus
it is known as “the Whisky of the Wise.”*
It seems to be generally conceded that
when the North Pole is at last discovered a
Scotchman will be found in possession ; but what
he will be doing is a moot point. Will he want
to do a wee bittie in real estate with the new-
comers, or will he have a telescope in position to-
view the Aurora and the Northern stars at sax-
pence a look, or will he be retailing “cool summer
drinks ” and ice-cream ? There wouldn’t be much
of a trade in these, but just think: the drinks,
could be kept quite cool without going to the
expense of an ice-chest, and no freezer would be
needed for the ice-cream. Doing without the
freezer would save him from 13s. Cd. to 305., that
being the price of 2qt. to Bqt. Ice-cream Freezers,
at M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne.* .-
For the Hair
MUMP
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain*
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures,
baldness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies’ and Childrens’ Hair,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands,67, Hatton Garden,London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Factory and Showroom: 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Only,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The pro-Kanakas of Queensland intend to
crawl at the feet of- Joseph Chamberlain to save
their beloved black : that’s safer than a revolu-
tion.
The Bulletin has a vague idea that it
once heard something about a North Sydney
bridge. Has anybody seen a bridge lying about
recently ?
A year ago the war was over. Roberts knew
it was over; the British Ministry knew it was
over ; the Pro-Gore part}' knew it was over. But,
unluckily, the Boers didn’t know it was over, and
they don’t know it yet. The Boers are an ignorant
lot.
Melbourne Argus has now settled down
to a policy of direct antagonism to the Barton
Govt. In State politics it has been in Opposition
since the days of J. B. Patterson, and Argus
antagonism to an Administration is generally
looked upon as a good sign of its stability..
British Unionist press is fast going into
hysterios. One paper describes the troops in
Africa as “stale,” another says the generals are
no good, a third demands the recall of Ketchener.
In this crisis the only sensible thing Lord
Salisbury ca» do is to send for Major J. Randal
Carey.
The Bulletin is glad to see the Federal
Parliament gradually drifting away from old-
fashioned ideas about “responsible Govt.,” and
dispensing as far as possible with such flummery
as messages from the Crown. The less the
Australian legislature leans on anything but its
own Constitution the less painful will be the
wrench when it comes—for come it must.
Stated that S.A. Council will accept the
deadlock clauses of the Constitution Bill—which
are framed on those in the Commonwealth Act—
rather than risk losing the measure, which the
Tories believe will so reduce city representation
as to make the Labor party a negligeable quan-
tity. Just now both Ministers and Opposition
are anxious to get rid of the Labor members.
“The real cause of the anti-British
agitation in Germany ” (re the S’Africau war)
says the cable, “is attributed to the fact that
many newspapers gladly accept pecuniary
assistance.” The root cause is that the Germans
don’t like the English. Germany is England’s
keen rival and deadly foe —despite the race-link.
“ A man’s enemies shall be of his own household.”
WHEN PEACOCK’S POLITICALLY DEAD.—THE CHIEF MOURNER.
FAT MAN (aa “Joe”): “He was werry good to me, he was.”
The worthlessness of Yic. Opposition was
plainly shown when Premier Peacock announced
that he had dropped the Convention Bill. An
immediate censure motion would have captured at
least a dozen malcontents from the Ministerial
side, but Irvine and the rest hadn’t stamina or
sense enough to seize the opportunity, and
Peacock was given a week to straighten up his
reluctant following. Irvine now submits a hostile
motion, but its chance is not too good.
The Age overreached itself badly just
before telling the Peacock Govt, that it ought to
be ashamed of itself, by ordering its reporters,
who had worked in harmony with the Argus men
on many jobs for years previously, to start a news-
gathering feud. When the Age criticisms became
particularly savage, vengeful Ministers privily
gave away to the hated Argus the secret of their
Convention climb-down, and the Age clean
missed the item.
Should the Council pass the Parliamentary
Economies Bill agreed to by the Assembly, S.A.
Ministry will be reduced from six members to
-*-* 1 18 generally supposed that Education
Minister Brooker and Lands Minister O’Loughlin
will be the lambs led to slaughter, though R.C.
influence may save the latter, in which case
Woiks Minister Foster or Treasurer Butler would
have to go.
No cloud without a silver lining. While
Britain is losing men and money galore, Kynochs,
Ltd. (the ammunition firm in which the Chamber-
lam family is interested), recently doubled its
dividend ; and the Birmingham Small Arms Co.
(Herbert Chamberlain, chairman, brother of
Joseph) reports the largest profit in its history for
the last year with a2O p.c. div. and a 50s. bonus
per share.
Since last N.S.W. election the battle of
Orange and Green has raged fiercely at Wyalong,
m and out of the local papers. One mine-owner—
a Protestant dismissed his R.C. employees,
and a leading R.C. owner reciprocated this kindly
action by turning off the “ Prodistans.” So far
as the employees were concerned it only meant a
change of bosses. Wyalong is a good place to
live out of just now.
That poisonous gang, the Australian mili-
tary caste, now emphasises its existence and
aspirations by loud beat of drum. The Prime
Minister voiced real Australian public opinion
last week by saying that the Commonwealth did
not intend sending any more troops to S’Africa.
But State commandants resent this, and yell
for the despatch of “3000 to 5000” more men.
Who will prevail—the Government or the Caste?
The Lyne-See Government quietly added
19 new deadheads to the list of those en-
joying life-passes over the N.S.W. railways.
Premier See’s defence seems to be that in 1900 the
Assembly rejected a bill to abolish deadheads on
railways. But on that occasion the House was
numerically thin and otherwise unrepresentative ;
15 voted for the Bill and 31 against—altogether 46
out of 125 took part in the discussion. It was
known at the time that in anything like a full
House the Bill would have been carried.
More wonderful Foreign-trade logic :
Mr. Oook (N.S.W.) could not see what reason the Min-
ister had for increasing the protection given to local
manufacturers. The increase must only deplete the
revenue, and he wanted to know why 3d. per lb. duty
should be presented to the manufacturers who had been
doing very well up to the present. ... If the whole of
the tobacco consumed paid the full duty, the difference
to the revenue in Victoria would be £93,572 per annum.
Now the total wages paid was £37,000. For every pound
paid in wages the country paid £2 4s. Bd. In New South
Wales the anomaly was even greater. There the loss to
the revenue was £131,000. For every £1 paid in wages
the State paid £4 14s. 6d. To put it in another way, it
would pay these States to give every man employed
£3 10s. per week in Victoria and £7 per week in N.S W.
to do nothing. This was a system of pensions with a
vengeance.
In other words, if the tobacco industry was
destroyed in Victoria the people would cease to
receive £37,000 a year in wages, and the country
would pay £93,572 more in duties, and Joe Cook
calls that a saving. This way of adding together
the money the country receives, and the money it
doesn’t pay, and calling the result the total loss, is
characteristic of the Shoddy party.
What the
Argus calls a
“ telling in-
s t a n c e,”
brou g h t
forward by
Laborite
Thomas, who
has appar-
ently become
the spokes-
man, not of
the wage-
earners, but
of the Broken
Hill co’s. :
The Broken
Hill 00. im-
ported a ma-
chine last year
which cost
£lO,OOO. It was
patented in
Germany, and
could not be
made here. If
that machine
had to be im-
ported now its
cost would be
£12,500, by rea-
son of the cus-
toms duty of
25 per cent.
Horrible !
But another
version of
the matter is
that that particular machine was for use at Pt.
Pirie (S.A.), where most of the Broken Hill
machinery is ; and the S.A. duty on machinery
last year was 20 per cent. ! Also, it may be added,
that under that tariff two engineering works
have been established which have supplied prac-
tically the whole of the machinery required at
Broken Hill, in Freetrade N.S.W.
Senator Walker, who topped N.S.W.
Senate poll, has declared for a piebald Australia.
His point is that the magnificent support given
by N. Queensland to the Federal movement
deserves recognition. Yet he must know that
N.Q. saw in Federation its one chance of salvation
from Tommy Tanna, and that it was the persistent
pressure of the N.Q. representatives which
stiffened Barton’s hostility to the Kanaka.
Walker is the sort of man who rewards a valuable
service with a kick in the eye.
THE ANEMIG EMU.
MOTHER EMU : “ What, not well? Ah, you must
take iron, my dear.”
The Peacock idea of allowing Ministers of
one House to appear on the floor of the other in
support of bills of their initiation is the Natal
law. But an inconvenience of the measure was
practically illustrated in N.S.W. Leg. Council
over the Shearers’ Accommodation Bill. Attorney-
General Wise ran down to the Assembly to help
Crick on the Arbitration Bill, and while he was
away the Council divided on the Shearers’ Bill
and cast it out by one vote. Wise would have
neutralised that vote, and the casting-vote would
have sent the Bill into Committee.
Premier Peacock’s proposal to reduce the
Vic. old age pension maximum from 10s. to Bs.
per week has got him the worst possible advertise-
ment, while the amount saved is not worth it. A
loss of two shillings out of a weekly income of ten
will be a terrible blow to the poor pensioner,
while the State will only benefit to the extent of
£465 per week on paper. Considering that the
old age pensioner spends all his money in the
country, and doesn’t go globe-trotting like some
of the gilded Civil Service pensioners, there will
be no real saving worth mentioning.
State Parliaments in Australia must do
one thing or another about clergymen as members.
Why should South Australia discriminate between
an “ordained” clergyman and the common or
garden description of pulpiteer? Every State
Parliament has a bunch of these latter, some of
them being Ministers of the Crown, and while
this is so there is little sense in keeping out “ the
regularly ordained.” Besides, any prohibition of
the sort is undemocratic. The electors should
have full choice, and if they care to return a
Parliament of parsons, it is their business. They
wouldn’t do it twice.
No sooner had Yes-No Reid got away to
Sydney, leaving his lieutenants—M’Millan,
Conroy, and Holy Joe Cook—to do the menial work
of stonewalling the Tariff, than the first-named
blurted out the real sentiments of the Foreign-
trade party. To his piteous pleading that, in
cases where the duty had been lowered or taken
off, the poor importer should be refunded the
difference, Kingston turned a deaf ear. Then
Watson interjected, “ Would you give the refunds
back to the consumer ?” “I don’t care twopence
about the consumer or anybody else.” That’s the
importer’s case exactly ! But catch the tricky
George saying anything so foolish !
S.M. Herald, in an optimistic article on
English Freetrade :
Within the last quarter-century, the wheat-area has
decreased by one-half. . . . What, we are asked, will
the position of England be if, becoming more and more
dependent on foreign supplies for food, she should become
involved in European complications and her fleet should
not prove equal to the defence of her maritime commerce ?
. . . Areas which a few years ago yielded only a small re-
turn of wheat have been used for fruit-growing, the pro-
ducts being converted into jams and jellies. The flower
industry has enormously increased. So that while there
has been a decline in one direction there has been a
marked growth in others.
What would she do ? Why, feed on flowers and
jam !
“ Kiwi,” from Maoriland :
The demand for grants to religious schools has been
killed here, for the present at all events, by the mixed
political position. The great majority of the local R.O.’s
are of the masses, and have long since realised that when
it is a question of getting a rise in wages the average
employer is just about the same, irrespective of his creed ;
so, naturally enough, the heavy-handed son of Mother
Church, so far as politics are concerned, makes up his
mind to follow the labor ticket rather than a church
ticket. Among the wealthier class of R.C.’s Bung is
well represented, and the cold-water people have
threatened Bung so badly that his ranks are solid now,
and proof even against religious squabbles. He is too
earnestly engaged in the protection of the beer-interest
to worry about educational matters. On the denomina-
tional education question the R.O.’s are the only ones
with any sincerity, and their camp being divided, other
religious bodies show no inclination to take up the
campaign.
“The Old Cove” writes on the Curse oF
Cheapness:
Ed. Bulletin. —Cannot go all the way with the Labor
party in their endeavor to put cotton fabrics on the
free list. Sheetings, calicos and prints might pass,
but, if there is a natural industry that might claim
consideration under the Federal tariff, it is the
workinar-up of our staple product, wool, for local
consumption. The free admission of flannelettes,
moleskins, dungarees, &c., is a menace to that
• l . . . . , d rtf TTTArtI
industry, which, with our coarser grades of wool
(so cheap that they might largely supplant these
cotton goods to the advantage both of the 'o-
dustry and the consumer), should not be
tolerated. Peculiar thing that the bush-
worker, living -through wool, uses perhaps
less of that article than any civilised
worker. Week-days—cotton shirt, dungaree
or moleskin pants, and (if any) cotton socks.
For occasions, a triennial 30s. outfit of unquali-
fied shoddy ; whilst the wife and family sel-
dom go beyond prints and flannelettes —
the curse of “ cheapness.”
William Forster’s rejected
scheme of N.S.W. Leg. Council
reform of 40 years ago was a
Council of 30 to be elected for six
years by the whole State voting
as one electorate. The franchise-
was to be the same for both
Houses, but no man under 30
years old was to be eligible for
the Council.
The most wretchedly-paid
N.S.W. Govt, servants are country
post-officers, where the P.O. is run
with a farm or school. They have-
much of the responsibility and worry
of larger offices, have to sell stamps,,
deliver and receive mails, issue postal-
notes, register letters, furnish periodical re-
turns, and be in constant attendance on callers;
the only holidays are Good Friday and Christmas ;
and the salary £lO a-year ! —less than 4s. a-week.
Color-antipathy has been of gradual growth
in Australia. Even such a tribune as John Dun-
more Lang fought to establish a colony of Chinese
on the Northern rivers of N.S.W. Tea-growing
was to be their speciality, and the Doctor was
enthusiastic over the virtues of his proteges.
He oreferential tariffs. W. R. Brock in
the Canadian Commons, on March 21st:
I know of cases where hundreds of pieces of goods nave'
been brought into Yorkshire from Germany partly
manufactured. They were then run through a machine,
weighted up a few ounces to the yard, finished, and sent
out to this county, and 75 per cent, of the preference
went to Germany. In many cases German manufacturers,
at present are sending fancy goods _to London,
Eng., with a small machine to do a little finishing, after
which they are sent out to Canada as British manufac-
tures. It is impossible to get at all the details of the
ways in which this thing is being done, but the door is
wide open for that sort of practice. I know of one case
where a large quantity of granite, supposed to have come
from Aberdeen, really came from Norway, and was then
sent to Aberdeen, where a little work was done on it,
after which it was exported to this country, to the
detriment of the granite industry of New Brunswick and
the eastern townships of the province of Quebec.
“ Malle ” to The Bulletin :
Oondoboliu (N.S.W.) election, upset by Elections and
Qualifications Committee, has been again won by Labor
member Clara by seven votes. His last majority was 14..
Thirteen Labor members stumped the constituency om
Clara’s behalf. This election is a fine example of the
spread of Tammanyism in Australian politics. The Labor
crowd told the electors that any person who voted'
against their nominee was a traitor to his country, his.
home and his children, or the other fellow’s children ;;
but their clincher was this : “ If you vote for Stuart you
have no hope of getting the Bogan Gate railway ; he is
only one man, and the Government is unfavorable-
towards it; and you cannot expect us to vote for it if you
go against our party. If you put our man in we will
support this line. There are 23 of us, and we hold the
balance of power, and we can compel the Govt, to go on
with it.”
Which goes to show, if authentic, that the Labor
crowd is very unscrupulous —just as unscrupulous,
in fact, as the other political crowds.


HEALTH
And How to Obtain It,
HEAD WHAT VITADATIO IS DOINQ.
Another Case of TUMOR.
Doctors advised Instant Operation.
VITADATIO
HAS REMOVED IT.
READ WHAT MR. ARSOOTT WRITES.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—l think Vitadatio worthy of great praise as a
genuine remedy. It has saved me a few pounds of
expenses in doctors and medicine. My wife had a tumor
on her neck, causing her much pain and alarm. The
doctors, when consulted, advised instant operation—there
being danger in delay—but my wife shrinking from this,
we consulted an herbalist, who wanted six guineas per
quarter for an indefinite period to remove the disease.
Vitadatio was then brought under our notice, and we
resolved to try it. By the time the fourth large bottle
was used the tumor had come right away, leaving only a
mark on the neck where it had been. There has been no
return of the trouble, and my wife has enjoyed good
health since. You are welcome to use this as you please,
I am so satisfied with what Vitadatio has done for my
wife.
Park St., Hackney, S.A.,
Feb. 2,1901. '
W. 0. ARSOOTT.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
MINERS--—_
We buy Opal and all other Slones.
We give Best Prices for Cold and
furnish immediate returns.
LLCWCLLIN ai)d COY.,
Gem Merchants, Lapidaries,
and Jewellers
177 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
BEContractors to the Government.
"fTfiSfr —V
SPOONER’S
Tl •Tiu
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
Kor Cleaning- and Polishing
Hoots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 0d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you ivant.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG- & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney. j
I’ll Try It/
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover\
111' 1 to any part ot Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
gfd
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
. exhibit 1902 Model Cycles
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 5s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
Write at once for our bargain
list and Special Offer using
stamp or id postcard.
ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A ,
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Dead or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
For Sale— The Largest Shook of STAMPS, ALBUMS, eto.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
SftIYTN & NICOUE, 11 Sy4a«,
The struggle for a crust. The Q. State
teacher in the main gets starvation wages and the
toughest treatment, yet there are 1432 candidates
down for next month’s examinations.
The law says that a woman need not give
evidence against her husband, nor a man against
himself, yet* in d N.S.W. court, the other day, a
man was committed, for seven days because of
reluotanoe to give evidence likely to incriminate
his son.
One Vic. mother now argues that Church
bazaar raffles are at least as pernioious as totes or
sweeps. Her own small boy and another, at a
recent bazaar, took tickets in a penny raffle and
won a trophy each—one a bottle of wine, the
other a bottle of pickles. Failing to sell them, or
raffle them again, the boys decided on a picnic
and wolfed their prizes. Found in a state of col-
lapse, they were taken off in the ambulance to the
Children’s Hospital.
gfd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
gfd
AGGREGATE - -
BALANCE SHEET Of
TO BOOK OF llElil SOUTH lIIHtOS.
Sept 30
1901.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation .. £894,699 0 0
Deposits and accrued In-
terest .. ..20,506,018 10 3
21,400,717 10 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident Fund) 2,709,958 16 7
Paid-up Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 140,028 0 2
3,390,028 0 2
£27,500,704 7 0
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits and endorsements,
as per Contra .. 1,038,469 16 6
£28,539,174 3 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
balances.. .. ..£4,979,752 8 0
Money at short call in
London 250,000 0 0
British and Colonial
Government Securities 1,420,920 2 9
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 92,780 1 3
Queensland Government
Notes 153,471 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 12,657 0 0
Due by other Banks .. 137,479 12 1
7,047,060 4 1
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit .. .. .. 3,639,827 17 6
Loans and Advances to Customers ..16,163,816 5 6
Bank Premises 650,000 0 0
£27,500,704 7 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra .. .. 1,038,469 16 6
£28,539,174 3 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, SEPTEMBER 30, 1901.
Cr.
£ s. d.
1901.
Sep. 30. To Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
9 _ this date 8,484 13 6
~ Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum .. .. 100,000 o 0
„ Augmentation of the Reserve
Fund 20,000 0 0
„ Balance carried to “Profit and
Loss,” New Account .. 11,543 6 8
£140,028 0 2
£ s. <L
26,896 10 0
[ 1901.
Mar. 31. By Amount from last account ..
1901.
Sep. 30. „ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing
the Valuation of Bank Pre-
mises, and including re-
coveries from Debts pre-
viously written o£E as Bad.. 113,13110 2
£140,028 0 2
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, SEPTEMBER 30, 1901.
Cr.
~i9oi: I iTS7
Sep. 30. To Balance 1,270,000 0 0
(of which £600,000 isinvestedin
British Government Securities
and the balance is employed
in the business of the Bank)
£1,270,000 0 0
1901 - £ s. d.
Mar. 31. By Balance 1,250,000 0 0
Sep. 30. „ Amount from Profit and Loss 20,000 0 0
£1,270,000 0 0
1901.
Sep. 30. By Balance,.,
..£1,270,000 0 0
J. BUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
It KS T TH IS HURD RN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
Ilk Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. )V., Aus.
gf
jjjorltTs Record jjrderj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Aosteo-Hungablan Goyebn-
MENT for
500 New Centurys
The Hew Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.O.M.G.
V.SEND FOR CATALOGUE^
Hutted Supplies ge.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE‘FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
7
L
Has the following: advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If j t ou have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CUPHAM
St MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
TUB 3XTBW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
t
The Bijou Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 108.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
208. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
BEEVES & CO., ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
A Silver Watch for Nothing.
"WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE of OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s and Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle:
T*M* H**LS *V*RYTH*NG.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY. Simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope (2d.), so that we
may inform you if you have won the Watch. There is no
need to cut out this advertisement.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods. Testimonials
supplied. Address- The Man a ffe r,
English Watch & Jewellery Co., Pitt Street, Sydney
try orders.
Tails. Fla.it!
FRINGES, Best Natural Guriy Hair, 3/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAlLS’and PLAITS,
20in. lone, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Out-
tinge and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don't be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address":— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILL I AM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams vrill stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigß made on shortest notice.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - -5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.
dg
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
HARDY BROTHERS.
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; and
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. . . .
NEW SCEHI CHASM
NEW GOLD SCENT BALLS,
17/- to 30/-
i’JNL '>I,D PEARL SET
SAPETST PIN, 15/-
HANDSOME SILVER CHERUB-PATTERN BELT,
Large Shipments of NEW GOODS
New Illustrated Booklet of CHRISTMAS
_ on application.
now being opened.
NOVELTIES Post Free
STERLING SILVER ROSE
BOWL, 50/-
■
M
FINE GOLD PEARL AND
TURQUOISE BROOCH, 40/-
Jewellers, Goldsmiths and Silversmiths.


fdg
S.D. & Co.’s Lady’s 10-ct. Gold Keyless
WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, with best-
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled,
strong Solid Gold Engraved Hunting:
Cases, perfect Keyless Action, sunk
seconds, and enamelled dial, £6 10s. In
14-ct. cases, with movements as above,
£9 10s. In 18-ct. cases, with finest
quality movement made, £l4 10s. In
Silver Hunting Cases, £3 ss. Open Face,
£3. All above have specially-made heavy
cases.
Bg
mSE,
m
I
S.D. & Co.’s “ EXCELSIOR ” KEYLESS ENGLISH
LEVER is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient, and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best §-plate movement, fully jewelled in rubies ; real
Chronometer balance, heavy, Hall-marked Silver
Cases, each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s ; in heavy
18-ct. Gold Cases, £22 ; Open Face, £lB 10s ; also
made Keywind Hunting, in Massive Silver Cases, at
£5. Strongly recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting
Rotherham ‘English Levers, £6 10s. Keywind
Hunting Rotherham English Levers, best quality,
£4 10s.
GOOD WATCHES.
Every one of us is a slave to the Watch. That being so, why should we be ruled by an incompetent
master? If you want a good Watch at a Reasonable price, we can recommend all those we
here. You will find that our prices have not been advanced on account of the larin, a 8
ninety-nine shopkeepers in a hundred are charging higher prices now. Come m and see our ttinoi
Stock of Watches, all of which you can have at the old Prices.
I
#
V
N
&
S.D. & Co.’s “ECLIPSE” WATCHES have finest
quality J-plate, full-capped dust-proof movements,
jewelled in 8 holes. Extra heavy Sterling Silver
Cases, and are perfect timeke 'pers. The best watches
at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crys-
tal Front, £1 10s. Ladies’ sizes, with Elegantly
Engraved Cases, Open Face', £llos ; Hunting, £.2.
fdg
S.D. & Co.’s Lady’s Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “ NONPAREIL ” WATCHES are truly
a speciality among specialities, much recom-
mended to ladies who desire a unique, compact,
and elegant, inexpensive Gold Watch. The
entire watch is most exquisitely finished, fine
full-jewelled movement, 18-ct. Gold, Strong
Cases, Perfect Keyless Action, convenient and
reliable. Hunting Cases, £,7 10s. Open Face,
£6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
%
m
/ll
This shows our Gentleman’s size Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Case WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, J-plate, 11
jewel movement, Brequet sprung:, compensation
balance, £3 10s. ; in 10-ct. Gold Hunting Cases,
£9 10s. ; in 14-ct Gold, £l2 10s.
EACH WATCH CARRIES OUR GUARANTEE.
o
This is a Lady’s 14-ct. Gold Filled WAL-
THAM LEVER WATCH, made for us by the
Waltham Coy. The movement is a Jewelled
f-plate one, and the Hunting Case is guaran-
teed to wear for 25 years, surely a reason-
able time for such a low price— viz., £4.
Gentleman’s size, £5 108.
fd
4/2 GEORGE ST sVn„.v'
gfd
S.D. & Co.’s 18-ct. GOLD KEYLESS
“PRINCESS” WATCH has finely-fin-
ished Jewelled movement, strong solid
18-ct. gold Engraved Cases, Perfect Key-
less Action, £5 10s. Half-Hunting, £6.
Open Face, £4 10s. Also in Silver Half-
Hunting or Full-Hunting Cases. £2 10s.
Open Face, £2. Warranted for 2 years.
ART
m
S.D. & Oo.’s English Hunting Lever Watches con-
tain special patented improvements ensuring dura-
bility, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in
wear. The movements are full-capped, dust-proof,
jewelled in rubies, and the cases are strong sterling
Silver, hall-marked, £3 tOs. , warranted for 3 years.
Special quality, with chronometer expansion balance,
and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4- 10s.
All Watches sent Free and Safe
by Registered Post on receipt of
Remittance,
A GRAND REMEDY for
R, FREE
LV
CANDID QUESTIONS.
Is it your wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Would you like all the unsightly pimples and skin
blotches removed ?
Is it your wish to have a good digestion ?
Would you like to be free of Sick-headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion ?
Would you like to feel that the food is properly
digested, the body properly nourished, and new
strength, vigour, and health infused into the
system ?
Would you like the liver stimulated, the kidneys
freed of deposits, the bowels properly cleansed,
and the blood purified ?
We suppose you would !
Well, that’s easy. To accomplish the' object, you
are asked, as a preliminary, to accept a plain,
sensible proposition.
Make a trial of the merits of Kutnow’s Carlsbad
Powder by investing in one bottle, give it a
fair trial, it will quickly demonstrate that at
last you have secured a genuine safeguard to
Health.
Dr. Andrew Wilson (Editor of Health, London) in his
medical reports writes:
“KUTNOW’S POWDER is a very safe, efficient, and
excellent family medicine. The use in Gouty and Rheu-
matic condition, and in Liver and Kidney troubles is
especially beneficial.”
Dr. M. Putnam Jacobi, the eminent physician of
New York, says :
“ KUTNOW’S POWDER is a medicine that promotes
alvine discharges and thus cleanses the stomach and
bowels. I have prescribed it with permanent success.”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
HAS ACCOMPANIED THE
GENEVA CROSS
THROUGHOUT THE
War in South Africa.
Earned by sheer sterling merit the
Highest Commendation from the Presi-
dent of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Sir
Andrew Clark, M.D., Sir Morell Mac-
kenzie, M.D., and Professor Lawson Tait,
M.H., and prescribed to members of the
British Royal Family.
All the Leading Hospitals in Great Britain use it,
also the Field, Base and Ship Hospitals in South
Africa, especially as a guard against Enteric Fever,
Dysentry, Typhoid and Malaria.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirchensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label or carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are worthless, and often injurious.
LIVER LOGIC
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifier.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous
tendency.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about two or three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body.
If the Liver is sluggish it cannot exnel its refuse,
and as it must go somewhere it is absorbed back into
the blood, causing biliousness and often jaundice.
The Liver also makes from the blood a kind of
sugar, which, if healthy, is used up as nourishment.
If the sugar is excessive or inferior it cannot be so
used, it then escapes into the urine, causing diabetes.
A Torpid Liver develops gout and rheumatism in
predisposed subjects.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all this,
and the one which never fails is Nature’s Great
Restorative, Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder.
This Powder is made by an ingenious expedient
from the health-giving medicinal springs of the
Continental Spas.
It is improved by removing all drastic or lowering
properties.
It is gentle and pleasant, but the greatest of all
Stimulators of the Liver.
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“Belfield, Lawrie Park Road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Efferves-
cent Carlsbad Powder, which l requested you to send me
a short time ago for the use of my wife, who has been in
the habit of taking all sorts of so-called ‘ fruit salts,’ but
which she has now discarded in favour of your Powder, as
she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the same time,
producing the excoriating effects which she used to experi-
ence from them. I may add that her medical attendant,
a man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly
approves of her use of your Powder.
“ J. DENNEY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW and GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.G. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.


“ Via " : Mention of the moneyed Towers
men (B. 9/11/’01) is surely incomplete without the
name of Harry Paradise. His father, with
Pfeiffer and two others, owned the original Day
Dawn and other good things.
A fruitgrower at Tangmangaroo, near Yass
(N.S.W.), made upon his apple-crop, last year,
£l2OO clear. He has 27 acres of trees, and, but
that tons of fruit were lost through the impossi-
bility of getting it to market quickly enough, the
returns would have been nearly £2OOO. An equally
heavy crop is expected this season.
“ R.A.K.” on an educational matter :
Dotted over Melbourne suburbs are scores of petty
schools, masquerading under hifahiting names, and
occupying mostly little chapels and churches where there
are not the necessary appliances and accommodation.
The teachers are spinsters of uncertain ages and qualifi-
cations, and the main things learnt are worsted work and
snobbery. About June, when practice for Xmas concerts
starts, all else in the way of learning goes by the board,
and parents are pestered for fancy-costumes to be worn
at the “ breaking-up”—a teacher-glorification, or mutual
admiration reunion. You can’t blame the poor teachers j
for trying to keep up such a sickly show of education. |
They have to earn a living somehow, and they think it’s i
a more respectable way than domestic service. The fault '
is with the parents, who are mortally afraid that their !
Cecils and Horaces will become rough and boisterous, and
send them accordingly to these little “ dame-schools,” ,
which turn them ont conceited, namby-pamby, spunk- j
less little prigs, hopelessly out of place amongst healthy- j
spirited youngsters, and liable, consequently, to many a
licking when they drift eventually into the State school.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ?-If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
GUKK YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
ai’-oemom?’ rea * Britain, l/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
AIBEKI, 73, Farringdon-street, London, Ei gland.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
ValaV
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c-» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
g
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts vvill cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
iri all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing 1 , -we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIAI/TIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
, vswvmirmme*
PLAIN HOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COIMEIVEOXV SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK’
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easv ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post. !
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate I
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter 1
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posfed. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. !
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete) Is 6d
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d. ’
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkaon’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 ysears’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Orsrans is trnlv wnnrW*„i
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £1
OWL r c a “ t e dkttg store
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. *
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 6dL Posted Bd.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frt m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
»?Krs
Hf»unc4
HHlSllifflg
ALFALINE
8 HERBAL
'< REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALIHE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIHE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Waiting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/«
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
- J
HERUIAIFMJUPUK HEM RASSWIiii
KEHRAHMMSiN
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hit
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE —150 Bourke-st.
BRISBANE —309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE —15 Pulteney-st.
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


Drink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER . . .
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
On Her Feet
All day long, and racking with pain from her
head to her heels. That is what many a self-
supporting girl must ex-
perience, otherwise she
would go to bed, but she
must be at the desk or
counter, and struggle
through the day as best
she can, backache, head-
ache, in fact, aching all
over. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills cure the cause
of these aches, they make
weak women strong, and
sick women well ; they
stand alone as a woman’s
best friend. Mrs. Thomas
Ryan, Murrumburrah,
N.S. W., writes: “It gives
me great pleasure to say
that I have used Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
for general debility and
indigestion ; in fact, I was
so bad that for days I
could scarcely move. I
tried several remedies, but
received no permanent
benefit till I used your
pills. After using one
bottle I felt as well as
ever, I kept on until I
had almost finished the
fdg
second bottle, and though I am now 56 years of
age, I feel as well as I did 20 years ago.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood puri-
fier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is l£d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstook
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-3treet,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon. *
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin,
s. bottles. Made in London.*
The leading private inquiry agent in
Australia is undoubtedly J. W. Holdsworth, of
101 Swanston-street, Melbourne. He is at the
head of his profession, and his success in investi-
gating private matters, tracing lost persons, etc.,
is little short of marvellous. *
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE'TO STAY At
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Posß
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
BILL MA3EITI3Xr
tlxe Famous
Note our
Easy Terms.
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Rider, is favorite for the great Austral Wheel Race, to be run next Saturday. The quality of Bill’s mount is
known to the veteran punters. Just have a look at one of our Model 59 Racers or Roadsters.
Branches in every State. GOOLP BICYCLE CO., 64. KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney :
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Big cricket-match, N.S.W. v. Maclaren’s team,
opened disappointingly Friday. On a tip-top wicket, with
weather conditions and light excellent, home side batting
broke down completely, notching 288, where double that
number wouldn t have been extra good. But for the stiff
stand made by the tail end (Kelly, Clarke, and Howell)
the total would barely have topped 200. Cornstalks’
thus failed lamentably where they were expected to shine.
Weak batting more than strong bowling was responsible
Braund wrought the trouble with deliveries that curled
and twisted snake-lilte about batsmen’s legs, and beat
them badly often ; besides, fielding was perfection a
prominent feature being the frequency and precision with
which wickets were thrown down, particularly by Jessop
whose work was startling. Howell was last man in and
his wicket put on 61 in 35min.—34 of which he hit up
himself. Kelly carried his bat for 33. Vic Trumper
secured top figures—67. The whole innings occupied
4hr. 10mm.
• * * *
Bilowell’s great stand for tenth wicket in
N.S.W. first innings recalls that the last time he shaped
for the Cornstalk State against a ’Ome team he accumu-
lated 95 in 63mins.
* » \ * *
The English bowlers may not be tip-toppers ;
they may have not a real first-ranker amongst them ; but
they possess a great advantage—variety. The fastish
Barnes, the tear-away Jessop, the tricky Braund and the
queer, hopp.v Gunn make a confusing quartette. On Friday
Maclaren did not have to draw on his change bowlers,
Jones, Hayward and Blythe. The Englishmen are not
deplorably weak, as the tests will show.
» * * *
First innings of the Englishmen (Saturday) left
neither side with a pull. Visitors were batting prac-
tically the whole of the afternoon and compiled 332,
which gave a lead of 44; of these, 145 went down
to Maclaren. N.S.W. bowling was much better than
anticipated, Clarke particularly shaping excellently
with his leg-break work. Sending down the second
over Noble strained a thigh sinew, and had to be kept
off for the rest of the day, which meant a deal to
N.S.W., for, on the season’s form, he stands out from all
others. In one half-hour during the early part of
Maclaren’s innings only 12 runs were added. Jessop’s ad-
vent met with a great roar. In smin. he got 15 runs (2, 5,
4,4) off 8 balls, but a vigorous dash at one from Clark
made a yorker of it :he was clean bowled. Maclaren
batted 4J hours before O. Gregory caught him on the
edge of the cycling-track, and never till then gave a sem-
blance of a chance; 88 of his total was made up of fours.
Maclaren’s innings (a great one) was completed under the
stiff handicap of his not having quite recovered from that
attack of rheumatism which shut him out of the Vic-
torian match and the fact that only scant support came
from his fellow-batsmen. This month, four years ago,
Maclaren, on the same ground and playing with Stod-
dart’s team, made 142 and 100.
» * » *
Jessop’s early dismissal was a disappointment
to the 30,000 watching Saturday’s play. The taste he
fave of his style showed that the certainty of an hour’s
atting from him would always draw the crowd. He hit
one fiver —an extraordinary stroke. Seeming to chop
down on the ball, he drove it over the fence with appar-
ently no effort at all. A wild, ill-judged swipe at a
breaking ball was fatal to him.
• * * *
Saturday’s play attracted (official figures)
30,000, which looked quite 5000 more, and gate yielded
£I3OO atop of coin from non-members among Friday’s
15,000. Biggest authoritative statement was made four
years ago when Stoddart’s team played their first match.
Turnstiles showed 33,000, with takings exceeding £I4OO.
• * * •
For the most part Monday’s play of N.S.W.
v. England was flat, stale, and crushing. The sprinkling
of cranks among the 12,000 looking on couldn’t squeeze
the faintest approach to a cheer for hours. N.S.W.
second innings was a procession put and back, controlled
principally by Braund until results stood at 7 for 115.
Noble and Poidevin then got together, and thence on the
bat proved superior to the ball. Noble’s strained leg was
a load to carry, but he shaped full of grit. With 43 down
to him Poidevin gave a hard chance, and runs subse-
quently came fast till Barnes clean bowled Noble for 74.
The eighth wicket added 149. Noble’s total occupied 2J
hours, and included nine fours. Later, with Iredale as a
partner, Poidevin notched 13 off Braund in one over.
Wickets down were : 1 for 35, 2 for 63, 3 for 69, 4 for 101,
5 for 106, 6 for 115, 7 for 115, and 8 for 310, all out for 422.
At time of writing the English second innings had com-
menced, and 4 wickets were down for 141. Poidevin
compiled 140 not out against South Australia last season,
and with 77'5 was second to Olem Hill (103'33) in Austra-
lian Sheffield Shield averages. After, taking 5 for 22 in
the early part of the match Braund had 92 scored off
him without getting another wicket. At one stage of
his innings Noble only accumulated 13 in 40mins.
»•*. ■ • ■
Braund is going to be a terribly expensive
bowler in Australia, as indeed he is in England. He is
the delight of the spectators, as his delivery means either
runs or wickets. At Adelaide most of the batsmen were
all at sea with him. But the good batsmen ought to get
his measure in about two matches, and then the fun (for
them) will begin.
* * \ N
Barnes’ performances thus far have raised the
question whether there are many more at ’Ome like him
outside of the county teams. The chap who took 12 Vic.
wickets (six clean bowled) for 99 runs, seems to have been
quite unknown to the people who publish little books
about “famous” English cricketers. An apology for
Barnes was offered by A. O. Jones in a London newspaper
article shortly before Maclaren and co. set out to try their
luck. Wrote Jones: —“ The greatest surprise of all, per-
haps, was the announcement that Barnes, of Burnley,
was to have the last place in the team. Personally, I
have never seen him bowl, but I have heard from a very
good source that he is a really' fine bowler, and would
have played for Lancashire if his League engagements
had permitted. lam sure Maclaren must have given it
ver,v serious consideration, and knowing, as I said before,
Maclaren’s sound judgment, I shall be much surprised if
Barnes does not turn out an acquisition to the team.”
But at that time Jones didn’t expect him to bowl rings
round his colleagues in the second match of the tour.
» • * •
Maclaren is said to hope that his side will win
the toss in some of the test matches, to give his team a
chance of setting their opponents a big score. The bad
tossing luck of visiting English teams is proverbial. The
inter-State captains have won the choice of innings in
each of the first three engagements of the present tour.
Maclaren might take comfort in the good old “ law of
averages.” He must win some tosses, and having lost the
inter-State ones, has a better chance of success in the
test matches.
» * * •
To break the monotony of the main grand-stand
the Sy'dney Cricket Ground trustees have built three
pepper-box minarets on its top. The shadow of the cen-
tre one falls right across the wicket, exactly on the
“ blind spot,” which is a severe handicap to the batting
side. The £IOO spent on these turretty tops was not
only thrown away, but has caused the only grievance ever
urged against the splendidly-appointed Sydney ground.
* * * *
“Mimic” Kelynack, of Melb. Herald, is again
attached to the English cricket team as rep. for Reuter’s,
who “do ” the tour for pretty well all the English
papers.
• * • •
S. A. eleven for inter-State matches, as selected,
was naturally the same as beat Maclaren’s team. Giffen,
however, pleaded inability to get away. He used to do
just the same with regard to English tours 10 or 12 years
ago, and now, as then, opinions differ as to his motives.
The colt who takes his place was captain of Prince Alfred’s
College last season, and an all-round player. Local en-
thusiasts give (besides the absent Darlimr) Hill, Giffen,
Hack, Travers (“ as good as Blythe any day ”), Jones and
McKenzie all a chance for the test-matches!
* * * *
Big cricket-match affected attendance at A. J.O.
November meet (Saturday) considerably, but sport was
good. The bejewelled one had a great turn up, spite of
three well-backed nags landing prizes, for betting was
close enough in each instance to provide him a good mar-
gin. Dunk (Stockbridge Handicap) and Courada (Trial
Stakes) each provided a -complete “ skinner ” for the
Moseses. Dunk was only invested upon to win a com-
parative trifle for fear he might get home ; and so little
was thought of Courada’s prospects that, though his
stable-chum—Barley Bree—carried a fair weight of coin,
not a bean went on the winner. Courada is a well-bred
’un of good shape, by Haut Brion (imp.) from Plevna
(imp.), and looks a racer, but up to Saturday hadn’t
gathered in anj’thing for two years. He is owned by one
of the raucous-voiced—“ Jack ” Samuels. Mr. H. C.
White bred t’other surprise (Dunk), who is by since-dead
Melos from Venapa by Martini Henry from Formosa by
Yattendon.
* * * m
Tyro Stakes (4fur.) for 2yr.-olds at Rand wick,
Sat., seemed soft for Great Scot on his recent Melbourne
running. But when Ceres went out, and money came
along in heaps for similarly-owned Chantress, it looked as
if her chance was rosy, as Ceres shaped particularly well
at Rosehill a fortnight before, the inference being that
the two had had a trial. Great Scot broke away first,
and, carrying some of the starting-gear with him,
appeared to hold the race safe, but Chantress, coming
full of vim, squelched the big fellow easily. Chantress is
a beauty worth watching. She is by Bill of Portland
from Chand Bee Bee (imp.), by Royal Hampton from Miss
Baba, by Springfield from Gunga Jee, by Orlando from
Himalaya, by Middleton from Moodkee, by Venison.
Two fillies mentioned herein (Ceres and Chantress) are
promising champions, and unquestionably the best seen
out this season.
* * * *
Those pars, in the Melb. dailies on Melb. Cup
morning as to the alleged probability of Wakeful being
scratched for the big event were followed by some nause-
ating babble re the noble unselfishness of owner Leslie
M‘Donald in permitting the mare to run for the mere sake
of the public who had backed her. Says “ Terlinga ”
in the Australasian— “ That she (Wakeful) would
have _ won all the w.f.a. races if she had not
run in the Melbourne Cup is very likely. Mr.
M'Donald’s wish was to scratch her once Revenue was
safely landed on the course, but friends persuaded him,
and he ran her, with results that were not satisfactory to
himself or to those who laid odds on her for the Flying
Stakes. . . . That running her in the Melbourne Cup
meant risking the loss of the Flying Stakes was just what
her owner feared. When you come to think of it, the
public did not benefit by getting a run for their money
in the Melbourne Cup. She had no chance of beating
Revenue, and the race probably knocked her for the Fly-
ing Stakes, in which her defeat cost her Melbourne Cup
backers more money.” “ Terlinga’s ” veiled sneers at the.
foolish public who expected a run for their money with
Wakeful are as amusing as the statement that Leslie
M'Donald wanted to scratch the mare on the
morning of the race. In the first place, the
stable must have put some money on the mare at one
time or other. If she was good enough to back for
Caulfield Cup she was good enough to back for the bigger
race beforehand, on the very likely chance of Revenue
going amiss. Having lost the Caulfield by a short head
she was undeniably “ well in ” the Melbourne Cup, and to
say she “ had no chance of beating Revenue ” in a race
where 20 horses run and accidents and ill-luck are possi-
bilities, is to talk nonsense. Mr. M'Donald knows from
his own experience of Nada’s defeat in Patron’s year that
the best of good things runs in danger of bad luck. And
knowing that even Revenue was no cert., except
in a turf way of speaking, what a foolish Leslie
he would have been to deny himself Wakeful’s
chance of winning either of the three stakes—£sooo,
£IOOO, or £SOO ! As for the talk about the mare spoiling
her prospects of winning all the w.f.a. races if she hadn’t
run in the Cup, there were only two w.f.a. races in which
Wakeful could have run—the Flying Stakes, in which she
did run, and got £IOO for being second, and the O. B.
Fisher Plate, on the last day of the meeting, for which
she didn’t start. The prize available for the winner in
the first-named flutter was not more than £4OO, in the
Fisher Plate it was less than £3OO. And in the Melb.
Cup the mare had a rosy chance of earning more oats
than that by finishing second to Revenue. But just
here the “fly-flat” critic has probably winked his
other eye and remarked that the stakes in these w.f.a.
races are a mere bagatelle, and the®befs are what the
stable would have scooped if Wakeful had been reserved
for the minor events. The delusions of the fly-flat are
amusing. To win £IOOO over Wakeful in the Flying
Stakes a man would have needed to risk £4OOO, probably,
which is not the sort of gamble that any M'Donald cares
for. The mare’s success in the F.S. would have necessi-
tated odds of 6tol on her for the Fisher Plate. Put the
Australasian pars in the light of common-sense, and
look at them through spectacles, and you can only
wonder what it all means. Present scribe takes it to be
simply grovel and spinach.
• • • •
The fine attendance at Flemington on each of
the four days of this last Cup meeting was not more
noticeable than the falling off in the business of Ikey Mo.
Every year the “ Carnival ” becomes more of a picnic and
less of a gamble, owing to the educating influence of the
tote in other States. Soft-headed shepherds may con-
tinue to fight for the Mo. monopoly in Vic. and N.S.W.,
but they can’t shut out the Terewth concerning the sinful
shortness of his “prices” and the roguery that is the
natural outcome of the betting-market system. Argu-
ments in favor of the tote have at least revealed to the
tote-less punters the folly of heavy wagering with the
“ books,” and it now seems probable that owners, finding
the “Ring” so reduced in financial capacity, will advo-
cate the introduction of one principal bookmaker—the
machine—for the convenience of all parties.
* * * *
Of £66,082 distributed on placed horses in
“ Tatt.’s” six Cup sweeps this year, no less than £34,875
went to Victoria. Tas. took £13,500 in one lot, S.A.
£7830, N.S.W. £6367, Q. £2025, W.A. £1485. Another in-
stance of the rapacious Victorian wolves robbing the
weaker sister States.!
* v * * *
She’s coming along. At a Queensland race-
meeting the other day a lady owner was suspended for
two years, and her mare disqualified for life for
suspicious practices. Is this the first case of its kind out
here ?
* * * *
Now turns out that the estate of reputed fabu-
lously wealthy late jock, Tom Hales, is only worth £IBBO.
When Hales retired he was undoubtedly well fixed. Some
assessed his accumulations (cash, nags, station-property,
and otherwise) at £40,000. A Riverina station and stud
farm spec, together with other badly-judged or unlucky
investments, however, made a big hole in Hales’ capital.
He also let a fortune slip when he parted with the crack
sire Lochiel.
The little syndicate that bought Revenue from
the late St. Albans estate was engineered by Colin
Templeton, who had been for several years W. R. Wilson’s
confidant and financial agent—a connection that dated
back to the early days of Broken Hill. Though the estate
held its tongue well, Templeton sent some strong and
early advice to old friends still battling on the silver-
fields, and some of them used it before it was too late.
• » • *
Bike v. nag. Revenue’s 3.30 J for latest Mel-
bourne Cup looks poor alongside ’Ome pro. bikist Chase’s
two miles in 3.8 4-5. Both times were accomplished from
standing starts. Chase chased a motor-tandem.
• * * »
Prizes at recent Casino (N.S.W.) sports: —
Trial Handicap : First prize, pair of trousers. Dairymen’s
Race : First, 10-gal. cream-can ; second, set of swingle-
trees. Throwing Ball: Pair of boots. Member’s Race :
First, set of carvers ; second, a pipe. Other prizes : A
bridle and a pig.
* * * *
Man-eating Irishman Denny Moloney went
through his great hurricane act, at Sydney Golden Gate
A.C., Saturday night, and fairly smothered comparatively
ill-conditioned Fraser. Sweltering hundreds cheered
like mad while Denny rushed and ’rastled and sprawled.
Fraser, much the cleverer, dodged well, ducked, and
timed nicely occasionally, but to little purpose ; Denny
was always there or thereabouts, despite his wild work
and frequent fruitless forcing. Towards the end, lack of
fix told on the Melbourne man, and he weakened, while
Moloney punched hard and strong as ever. In the seventh
round Fraser was spread-eagled and counted out. Denny
is looking round for the next man already, and wants to
fight every night in the week if victims can be served up.
* * • •
The daring of it. Sydney Sportsman last week
published a capital picture of pug. Albury Clifford and
called it M'Coll. There isn’t one point of resemblance
between the two.
* « * *
Decadence of Britain is complete. Murkan
middle-weight pug., Jack O’Brien, having grabbed the
heavy-weight championship of England, now deals out
stoush to two in one ring. Lately he backed himself to
knock-out both inside 10 rounds, and neither survived the
third.
• • * *
At the initial gathering of M.L. Axemen’s
Association, J. Pettit (Tas.) put up a world’s record in the
single-handed sawing championship, getting through a
2ft. block in lmin. 18fsec., previous best time being 1.49.
The champion chop fell to a local man, C. Casey ; Tassies,
0. Hutton and J. Pettit?runners-up. Chopping-matches
are likely to take on in M.L.
* * * *
The passing of the naked rowing-man at Sydney
regattas is announced—N.S. W. Rowing Ass. having decreed
he shall, in future, be fairly-decently clad—in short-
sleeved guernseys. Hitherto, great lumps were scissored
out of each side of his singlet, leaving nothing but a strip
of stuff down the chest and back, exposing an Esau-like
body that hadn’t much else to recommend it. Why, was
a mystery, as the less seen (uncovered) of the majority of
him the better he was.
V * * •
In England M.L. sculler Tom Sullivan defies
all-comers, bar Towns and Britisher Barry. Harding is
a possible acceptor, A match between Phelps and Sydney
crack, Harry Pearce, is probable. World’s champion
Towns and an “unknown” were matched for £SOO aside
to row on the Thames. Surmised that Eddie Durnan
(Hanlan’s nephew) is the mysterious one.
* * * •
Adelaide has had two bicycle fatalities almost
simultaneously. One was directly due to the free-wheel,
the rider sliding along (on the level, but with a strong
wind behind him) and breaking his face in against the
broadside of a tram car that was crossing. In the other
case, a young fellow was found lying dead by a broken
machine on one of the big hills behind the city.
The destruction by fire of that ancient
timber building known as the Oriental Hotel, in
Wellington, M.L., accompanied by horrible
panic and loss of life, ought to wake up the
Wellingtonians to several facts. First, it
is worse than useless to leave to the City
Council the task of compelling Mrs. Hash or
Mr. Bung to provide proper fire-escapes. Very
often Bung is the Council. Secondly, the time
has come to condemn at least the wooden hotels and
boarding houses, if not all large wooden build
ings, in Wellington. The fact that the city is
built over a fault, which lets the whole place slip
down anything from a fraction to the eighth-of-
an-inch every three or four years, has caused most
of old Wellington to be built of timbei’. Still,
there are a lot of stone, brick and cement buildings
there now, and it is infinitely preferable to
be buried and crushed to death in one act
under a stone or brick building than to be slowly
roasted like a rat in a trap in a burning wooden
one. Last time the writer went to Wellington
he called at that self-same hotel, and was con-
ducted to a room with only a skylight in it.
Asked for one where he could sling out his rope in
case of fire, and the co. ;rcd gent, explained they
hadn’t one—all full up. So this scribe sorrowfully
left his portmanteau and went out for an all-night
stroll.
About the Chinese assault case, which has
occupied the expensive attention of a Sydney
Court for eight sittings:—
There has been much discussion as to the translation
of the circular which convened the alleged illegal meeting
where the row took place. Half-a-dozen expert witnesses
gave different literal interpretations, backing what they
urged with quotations from Chinese classics and diction-
aries. What makes the matter so bewildering is that a
Chinese word has quite a variety of meanings. For
instance, “ kwong” means “to bar a door,” “ to have
connection with,” “ to pass through,” “ a Customs
House,” “a line,” “a consequence,” and so on. The
witness best educated in English made one clause read
“You are requested to attend without guile.” The others
could find no characters to represent the last two words.
And so the case has been dragging along. The lawyers
engaged don’t seem to mind : the Chinese are always
ready with cash for litigation. There is a libel-case to
come on this month with the same crowd. The split
is between two Mongolian parties represented in
Sydney—the Reform party, and the Yin Lik Tong, the
latter a charitable society, and the former an institution
“ for reforming China politically.” The two societies
fight whenever they meet, with bamboo sticks or writs as
the occasion seems to suggest.
A recent Bulletin paragraph mentioned
that books on the S’African war may be obtained
direct from London per medium of Bulletin
Office. We now learn that Will Andrade, the
Melbourne bookseller, has stocked “Peace or
War in S’Africa,” one of the aforementioned
works, and the same can be obtained from William
for Is. 3d., post free. His address is 101 Bourke-
Btreet, Melb.*
Victorian politics are more than mixed.
The Govt, has the confidence of scarcely a dozen
outsidethe Ministry, whilethe.Oppositiomsineven
worse case. Last week, Outtnni — the renegade
Liberal —tried his hand at forming a party, and
was left in the lurch. Irvine has a censure motion
in his pocket, but his hopes of a working majority
are Buckley’s. The only visible combination pos-
sible is one of country against town, but tliere s
no leader in sight who can unite the forces. Only
Peacock’s popularity, backed by his fearsome
laugh, keeps his Government on the front bench.
The Laborites don’t love him, but neither do they
adore Outtrim, while Irvine and Gillies are worse
than poison.
That wonderful body, the N.S.W. Public
Service Board, on 15th last month completed an
investigation into the administration of the old
dead-and-gone Marine Board, abolished by the
Navigation Acts Amendment Act in ’99. The
old Marine Board was responsible for the Atacama
disaster, and for the running of steamers, on
Sydney Harbor with plates so thin that sometimes
the painters shoved their brushes through them
when laying the paint on heavily, and the Public
Service Board has feebly grasped some idea of the
iniquity of the awful thing nearly two years after
the Board is dead and buried.
The present conjunction of the three
large (to the human eye) planets of the solar
system, Venus, Saturn, and Jupiter, is exciting
some interest. This foregathering of our fellow-
worlds is, of course, only an apparent one, and is
simply the result of perspective. But so close a
conjunction is a rare occurrence. Jupiter and
Saturn will be near enough on Nov. 28 to be seen
in the same field of a telescope—a sight not
granted to the human eye since 1683. Many
generations will pass away before such a spectacle
is visible again. So look to the West! Such a
sight will come to you nevermore.


Hall-Marked Silver-
Mounted Scissors,
5 6 7/6 S/6 16
Xmas Presents.
Hall-Marked Silver q/c -| O Iti -JK/
Shoe-Lift and Buttoner, *7/0 lOyw Iw/*
Pe jljoderi |rt Jeuiellery go.
187 PITT ST., SYDNEY (next Shadier's Cafe).
Hall-Marked Silver
Serviette Holder,
your
NEW
BICYCLE
You want a Bicycle to ride that you can be proud of. One that
is in every way up-to-date—that runs easy and looks neat and
trim in its appearance. That is what you want. If you buy a
f^asssy-Harris Bicycle
you are the possessor of a wheel which will carry you every-
where, and which has all the latest features embodied in its
construction.
West Australian Depots: Hay-st., Perth; and Hannan-st., Kalgroorlie.
Branches throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland,
New Zealand.
When once you have used
GLOBE TEA
It’s self-evident superiority is apparent to you. You
need not depend on what WE tell you. Try for
yourself. Compare it to anything you can get any-
where else at the same price. It is superior because
we have exceptional facilities for selecting and buying,
and because we have the knowledge necessary for
turning these facilities to the best account.
Send for Samples and
Price List.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
TEA MERCHANTS,
284 George Street, Sydney.
THREE * * *
DESIRABLE
FEATURES
Absolute Purity « « Richness in
Cream « Absence of Chemical
Preservatives •««««•«••••
THESE POINTS EFFECTIVELY DESCRIBE
cm n.s.w.f r«i> food«ice m
lUlfl Pasteurised IWIk. mm
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS
The Folding Pocket
Kodak is made in
Four sizes.
0
No. 1, for Pictures
2£ x 3£ ins.
No. IA, for Pictures
x 4i ins.
No. 2, for Pictures.
S£ x 3J ins.
No. 3, for Pictures
31 x 4J ins.
o
Pbioes fbok i
£2 ss. to £3 16s.
Loaded and Unleaded
in Daylight.
THE
FOLDING POCKET
KODAK
A light, compact Camera for hand or stand work,
taking large pictures, yet folding up so as to be
readily carried in the coat pocket. Specially
suited for holiday-makers, cyclists, tourists, «tc.
No dark room is needed for changing the films.
Send for Price List, and mention this paper.
KODAK, Ltd.,
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins-st., Melb.
Free Lessons dally at 3 p.m., at above address.
Made
iO
Sydocy
Will be the synonym for “well made”
in a few years—as regards jewellery.
Very Solid Gold Bracelet, with Invisible Snap and Joint, 60/-
Children’s Size, 35/-
Sydney manufacturers know a good article always appeals to solid people, and so are making to a high
standard. . . .
The bracelet illustrated is made in our Hunter-street premises, and will compare for exquisite finish with
London’s best, while it is infinitely more solid.
It will last a Lifetime .
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
V
A
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Tasmanian advfc. :
BIRTH.
Reward of Love.—On Monday morning at 3 o’clock
Mr. , of Gormanston, received from his
wife a very handsome present in the shape of a
pretty little girl. Both mother and newly-born
daughter in very high spirits.
Zeehan paper please copy. Inserted by A.Y.
Tb«
CallagbaQ
Boot
Nooe&t
it) etfery pair.
This Boot is
a
Photograph
from Stock.
I
WBHKm
[-■- •
.
■SIfcSBP!
/ft . ■■
[SIB * *
ii
m
sa~& /
■
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct,as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Patenb Calf, calf-kid legs, full goloshed, 1901 lasts, button or lace, 25/-; post paid, 26/-
MAIL YOUR
ORDER TO-DAY.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney.
By Special
fd
Appointment.
6. H. SMITH and SON,
gfd
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, <Ssc. and
in.all colors in felt,
io/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Mads to Order
W W ' C ?™ ME !?’ S . , ?, ew . Book ’ “ sha rpshooting- for Sport
Price 1/2 ported. Rlflemen *ould read this Book!
, W W. Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate-; 10 shots in 2 inches at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s
Sporting Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &e.
Greener’s Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the hands of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving e-reat
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes’ made
r '^ es ?00 yards ; 93 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan OaDt-
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105* at inn
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Sta well ’
Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas always in Stock
Prices and Catalogues on Application .
Clxas. W. Buck 1 and,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
At Poverty Point.
“ Tatt.’s ” announcement that the first prize in one of
his Cup sweeps had gone to a Theatre Royal syndicate,
Melbourne, was followed by a rush of begging letters and
congratulations to the wrong people. Distressed agricul-
turists and impecunious clerks selected Bland Holt for
the position of lucky friend-in-need, and wrote him
urgent requests for £lO £nd upwards by return post.
Also Chris. Simonsens the business manager, and trea-
surer Sproule found themselves pursued by the conven-
tional “ lame dog ” who needs helping over a stile to the
pub. beyond. Likewise, the existence of Baker and
other members of the co. was embittered by the smiles of
many friends and borrowers-elect. It comes hard on
the management and co. to be suspected of unnatural
good luck after losing their bets as usual. Meanwhile,
the actual syndicate of six supers who drew the winning
ticket were content to keep dark and wait for the coin.
An awful mistake to seek the bubble reputation at the
borrower’s mouth.
“The Message from Mars” seems to-have been doing
very well in Tasmania. Miss Winifred Austin now appears
as Horace Parker’s girl, instead of Miss Ruby Ray ; and
Hammond, late of Tyrone-Power’s co., takes the place of
Thos. Holder as the young man who escorts H.P.’s
fiancee to the ball. The change from Holder to Hammond
is a gain to the pretty little show, anyhow, and more
especially in Tasmania, where last-named was a popular
amateur for years ere he went to Melbourne and broke
out in a professional capacity.
Louis Lohr, at latest, was still undecided as to his
choice of a Vic. country hotel (with shooting and fishing
attached), where he can run the show for an unlimited
number of years and develop into a shire councillor, or
something, if the district needs shaking-up. The exact
location of Lohr the Genial ought to be worth an
announcement from every, newspaper office in Australasia
that has had the pleasure of his acquaintance. By-the-
way, Phil Stuart—an old friend and contemporary of
L. J.L. in the show business—has already established him-
self behind a bar. Phil is licensee of the Fawkner Club
Hotel, Toorak-road, Melb., where he draws sundry hogs-
heads per week of a particular beer which has more
virtues than a patent medicine.
The tenors are changing their spots—or the tenor of
their ways. Courtice Pounds, once with “The Firm,” is
playing Shakespearian clowns with Beerbohm Tree in
London, and Joe Taple.v, better known to Australians, is
appearing in melodrama with our old friend, Charles
Cartwright, and has made something of a hit as Gringoire,
the ballad singer in “ The Shadow Dance” —a new version
of Hugo’s “Notre Dame ” that is making money for
Cartwright. The critics all manifest surprise over Tapley’s
ability as a comedian, and his singing is described as a big
factor in the success of the show. Evidently Joseph’s
coat has more colors than we suspected in Australia.
While “Tyrone Power” (Mr. Edith Crane) has been
playing in Australia, another “ Tyrone Power” has been
playing at Dublin Gaiety. The original Tyrone Power,
the great Irish comedian, was lost 60 years ago in the
ship President between England and America. No trace
whatever of the ship was obtained after she started from
port.
A musical prodigy, a pupil of Louis Grist, of Sydney,
has been exciting Maoriland. Miss Kate Nicholls’l
17 years have, according to the chief newspaper of Mas-
terton (no less), found her endowed with a “ rich,
powerful soprano voice of wide range and cultivation."
The audience of the Masterton Town Hall, which gave
Kate her first hearing, was, according to the same organ,
“fashionable and critical,” which in Masterton means a
good deal. They accorded Miss Nicholls “ imperious
encores,” mainly for something that one editor man next
morning described as “Orpheus and His Tante.” Miss
Nicholls is to take a look-in at Australia by and bye,
prior to astonishing London, but the B. wouldn’t advise
her to go until she has got the verdict of Bulli (N.S.W.),
Nhill (Vic.), also of Birdsville (Q.). What a tired place
London must be, with all the geniuses of the Empire con-
verging on it and clamoring at its front door for the foggy,
blase old city to get up out of its bed of ages and be
astonished once more !
Miss Billie Barlow shortly leaves South Africa for
England—not for the Australia where she is so anxiously
awaited by Bulletin Bill.
Osmond Tearle died the other week. Tearle for a long
time ran a co. round the English provincial towns,
playing Shakespeare and the “legitimate,” but he had a
reputation, also, in America, where he was the original
Silver King. Present scribe saw Osmond Tearle play the
part at Wallack’s Theatre, New York, with a co. that was
almost as good as the Firm’s original “ Silver King ”
crowd in Australia. Either of them could give points to
the Wilson Barrett co. who “created” the drama in
London.
Re “Methuselah” and W. H. Williams (8., Nov. 9).
W.H.W. never belonged to the A.B.O.—Amateur Benevo-
lent Comedians—l was the founder, secretary and
manager of this club, and ought to know. Also, Win.
levers didn’t belong to it. In after years W.H.W., W.I.
and myself were members of the Garrick club. I have a
programme in front of me now, a performance of the
“ Poor Gentleman,” May 7, 1866, in aid of a memorial to
G. V. Brooke. The caste included W. levers, D. Martin
(secretary for Agriculture), G. A. Walstab (journalist), and
John Edwards the younger, solicitor. After the comedy
a “ Threnodia,” written bv R. H. Horne, and composed
by J. Summers, Mus. Bac. Oxon. (brother of the sculptor),
was sung by W. H. Williams, Donaldson, Amery and
Angus. Williams’ name is at the foot of that bill as
printer.—F.
Melb. Philharmonic Society has engaged the one and only
Dolores to sing at its next subscription concert, at Melh.
Town Hall, on Saturday (30th). For this joyful occasion
Sullivan’s “ Golden Legend” has been ear-marked, and
Mdlle. Dolores, who has sung the music in America, will
show how very golden the “ Legend ” can be made.


‘woor.. PRODUCE. grain.
The Few Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
.A.OT -A.S SSLLIiv Gr BROBZKR.S ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum, of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (|) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
r (lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under I S . 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of "Weighing 1 .
Way Bills sent on Application.
cat™ , PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins. Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
'VtriOIIELA.T.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
g
fdg
nothing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT * FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., B9URKE ST., MELBOURNE.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. Thev do
not acore the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Solegentfor Australasia: R. /\ . HERVEY.
Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney _ N.S. W
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
The Public think Soap is Soap.
So it is—but there’s a great
difference in Soaps. Some injure
the Complexion, but VINOLIA
improves it.
VINOLIA SOAP is Specially prepared
for delicate, sensitive skins, and is acknow-
ledged in every country the Finest Soap in
the World for the Complexion.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and. STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged .
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES 27ie Best Brands Only oj SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS Catalogue
French’s Acting: Edition.
fd
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
2 M Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELEOTRIG
MINING
MACHINERY
OP EVERT DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
IOA-FT" O (XUalse
(T/l M ITJDD),
lawarra),
n ©ar SYOUEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PHODUCBRB
OF
FINE SILVER.
gfd
MAKERS OP
S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes
' <M>I,D ’ SIL PBICTS ORES> CTANII,E SLAOS JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BELLI ».V
G E&r IIIICI]S PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS,
or a in orxnation residing Rates, eto., apply to P. 8. Morse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.B.W.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.— nr
lowest interest.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
tct.s.-w-.
(IJontdepieteO.^l.Co-.t^-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ * SYDNEY
ETTRTAOE BENNETT, Manager.
-THE-
- Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
TOR
Mutual Life Assurance,'Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney-
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman; Hon. 0. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ••• £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
- *350.00.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough,
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
||eui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
PAI./-1 P CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J A minn S GE r. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Jl)€ Trustees, €*€chtor£,
AND
AgsoCY ConjpaijV Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 t 6,388,976
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C-.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
£BB5B 7 3
5 3
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. • • • • • ■ £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Dat. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gruarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
I The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Svdney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Mbbks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq. , , ~ „
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montbfiorb.
J J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THB
(jilted Australian (Ijatial Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Vive. Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
*-he savings bank in victoria
I HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria, _
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 30, 12 Noon.
-Buninyong, Tues., Dec. 3, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 7,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 30, 12 Noon
Burwah, Tuesday, Dec. 3, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 7,12 Noon
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 30, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 7, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from
weekly. Passengers
booked through.
Townsville
and Cargo
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, comer George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Dec 13
Jan. 3
Jan. 24
/111 imc auuvc ‘-’p'*'-
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Hiddart, Parker & C OB C> oB
—TO—
MELBOURNE, 'HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
g
AKT3D
line
fdg
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most ac-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold ol Cane Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States. , .
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, a l'P l >' |^°N STEAM SH |p COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government, .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
musical Instruments. &o.
JJOWARD & CO. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
I\/rANDOLINES, {rom ig. weekly. Write for lists.
-LVL tioward & CO.. Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
BRASS TnsTRUMENTS, from Is. week.
CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
HOWARD &
TV/rUSICAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
IVL HOWARD & 00., Woollahra. Write for lists.
“\7~OU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
JL STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each.
A Lists free. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A UTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
A woollahra. Write for lists.
Woollahra. Write for lists.
GUNS and RIFLES, 2s. fid. weekly.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
Write for lists.
FLUTES, from fid. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TTIOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
V HOWARD & CO.', Queen-st., Woollahra.
BANJOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A CCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
A lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
/TnGLOCONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
A write for lists. HOWARD & OQ-, Woollahra.
mYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
1 HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TJICYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
1) Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
PIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
OWARD & CO. extend their easy terms all over the
colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
-yIOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
TIME TABLE,
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
fd
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 28th NOVEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, _ , „ _ ~
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOL.OGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
r> »
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
GEHuCXai
ti'lftiHiia
gf
11l STK ALIA'
BtHEranga
/"iHEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 3(j
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, ls;100,2s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
ITlel bourne
3”he best House for
ic. Pianos. Violins and
all ITlbst'cal sundries
Collins St..
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr, ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY*
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Karaweera,
Friday, November 29.
(Oargfo OnJj).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
Novembsr 29, at 5 p.m.
S.S. Adelaide (Captain D. P.
Davies), Saturday, Nov. 30.
Rest, and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE, W ekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccornrnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
■* ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
BRITANNIA
AUSTRALIA
VICTORIA
ROME
HIMALAYA...
H
Commander,
6525 F. A. Seymour ... Nov. 30
6901 F. J. Cole .. Dec. 14
6527 F C. A. Lyon, R.N.R. Dec. 28
5545 E. Street .. .. .. Jan. 11
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. Jan. 25
Sydney,
Noon
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £ 121
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, a 3 follows ,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
AIRLIE ... 25005 t. John George.. February 15
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
fq‘|liuraith,M‘Eachari)&Co.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLG-AYIRIDIIE], 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY betiveen
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M'ILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR
Price 6d.;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON W€ALTH-


amusements.
c
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLAM.
General Manager „ .. A. MIDDLETON.
EIGHTH WEEK.
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON
AND COMPANY.
SATURDAY, NOY. 30, Paulton’s Delightful Musioal
Comedy, DORCAS.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE, FRIDAY. DEO. 6.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
|_|ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), and ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
THE SIGN OF THE GROSS.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 30, and for a Limited
Number of Nights Only, THE SILVER KING.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 5s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
T HE ATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of EAST LYNNE, and LAST TWO
NIGHTS of the SEASON.
Return to Sydney of the ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 30, for Six Nights Only,
FLORODORA.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s , Is.
Early Doors (6d. extra), Open 6.50. Ordinary Doors,
7.30, Commence 8. Plan at Elvy and Co.
EMPIRE th eatre,’ sy d n e y.
Lessees and Managers .. John Fuller and Sons.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturday, 2.30.
CROWDED HOUSES NIGHTLY 1
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Adelphi Dramatic Co. in “ IT’S NEVER TOO LATE
TO MEND.” Our Bright Stars, McKISSON & KEARNS,
IDAROSSLYN, WILL STEVENS, WILL WATKINS. Last
Few Nights of DENIS CARNEY, TED HERBERTE,
GLADYS BOYD, VERA ROSE. Six New Artists Next
Saturday. Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ; F. Circle, 6d.
T H E A TRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, in the Grand
revival of the Stirring Spectacular Military Sensation,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 30, HONOR THY FATHER.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Saturday, 21st December,
THE
ELYSIAN
CREATION,
THE ARCAPIAN NI6MTS.
MISS MARY ROBINSON.
■ 'PUPILS ’ RECITAL,
Y.M.C.A., Saturday, Nov. 30, at 2.30 p.m.
INVITATION CARDS may be Obtained at Pleyel’s,
325 George-street.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of
Mdlle, WADINE (Direct from St. Petersburgh).
THE 4- RIANOS in their Acrobatic Comedy -Sketch.
ATHAS and COLUNS in their Latest Specialties.
JOHN COLEMAN. MDLLE. LUCRETIA.
WALKER and MAY. OARLETON and SUTTON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
RIC HARDS’ NEW O PERA HO USE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’ NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Enthusiastic Welcome and Success of Mr.
EDGAR GRANVILLE,
England’s Vocal and Comedy Artist, in his Up-to-date
Monologue, “ MASQUERADING.”
JAMES OPIE, the Young South Australian Baritone.
Entire Change of Programme by DORA TAYLOR,
LITTLE GULLIVER, AMERICAN BIOSCOPE, WILLIAMS
SISTERS, and the Whole of the Great Tivoii Company.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr.,E. J. Tait.
AN UNPARALLELED MUSICAL TREAT.
FAREWELL SEASON of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
(Prior to their Return to Europe).
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, LA BL1EME.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, LA GIOCOHDA.
ORDINARY SCALE OF PRICES prevailing at this
Theatre, viz., 5s., 3s., 2s., and ONE SHILLING.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <Sc MENAGERIE.
THE SHOW OF ALL SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SEASON—1901.
THE GREAT LONDON; SENSATION,
THE HIGH DIVING HORSES.
ST. KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
FRANK JONES. /
Reps.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of .. .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING. LAST TWO WEEKS.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
FRIDAY, NOV. 29, LAST NIGHT of THE MAGISTRATE.
SATURDAY, NOV. 30, First Production in Melbourne of
MRS. DANE’S DEFENCE.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 5s. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, Is. (Early Door Amphitheatre, Is.
extra.) Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzie’s, and The Grand.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FOURTH WEEK and Sustained Popularity of the
Great Dramatic Masterpiece,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
Popular Prices, 3s., 2s. 6d., 2s., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Situations Wanted.
THOROUGHLY PRACTICAL GUNMAKErT with Knovv-
ledge of the Cycle Trade and Sporting Goods gener-
ally, will be open to an engagement after next April.
Many years’ experience in England and Australia. Ad-
dress : Manager. Gun and Tool Departments, Army and
Navy Oo-operative Stores, Bombay, India.
Missing Friends.
M~ UMBY, GEORGE IIUMBLE7— For-
merly of Broken Hill, N.8.W. Please
communicate with McDonell & Moffttt, Solici-
tors, Mutual Life Association Buildings, George
and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
THE FEDERAL JEWELLERY CO.
Gold SOVEREIGN-PURSE and MATCHBOX, £5 10s. Silver, 25/-.
Gold 14cb. KKYLKSS WALTHAM,
Silver Keyless do., 55 - and 70/-
Guarantee.
£lO 10s.
XO-year
£3
i
IScfc. Gold Hunting Keyless.
This design, £5. 10-year
Guarantee.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless,
20/-, 25/- and 37/6 for the
Best. 10-year Guarantee.
23 & 25
Strand
Arcade.
9ct. GOLD LINKS, 20/-.
Amethyst Rin?, 9ct. Gold, 20/-.
Emu Egg
Trinket, 6/6.
Turquoise and
Pearl Heart, 15/-,
All Goods Sent POST FREE.
WRITE TO-NIGHT!
Absolutely No Duties Charged on Anything.
Lovely 9ct. GOLD BROOCH, set Ruby or
Sapphire, 15/-.
il ■■ !l >" 0
Charming Little 9ct. GOLD AMETHYST
BROOCH, 10/6.
All our Jewellery is the best English Hall-Marked.
dg
fdg
THE FEDERAL
WATCH
Absolutely the
Best Timekeeper
in the world.
In Nickel, Silver or Oxidised Gun-Metal Case, Elegant and Neat
20/- Post Free.
These Watches are English Levers and Compensation
Balance. A guarantee of 10 years accompanies each watch.
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
FAWERESJIks
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime .
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE
‘PLUM’
fd
THE
‘PLUM’
Gf.ENTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground rine-s
7 like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of vears f
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS numDer of years, can testify to
The “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case 21a
i. Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World. •
Please add 6d. exchange on Cquntry and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Agents craig & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
mm
»w
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
JERATEDWATERS.
“AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODA WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Writs for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
* HDJ.VM NVWHSna
gfd
g
3®.
Camden Buildings,
420 George St, Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving; of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY, A
SOLID SILVER GOODS, V
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Writs for 80-Paged lUastraUd Catalogue Pott Pros.
Business Announcements.
CALVE RT S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
The FEDERAL
Balmoral
BOOT
lOC
1
Onr new “Federal *
Balmoral is the best Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the sol* s are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made purposely for ns,
and you can’t get it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand is
half a guinea pair. Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST.. COLLINOWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lO George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
fd
gfd
g
fdg
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- AI.Ii CHEMISTS.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ ELECTRICON ”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means.ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
RHEUMALGIA
mhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica.
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
is
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3s. 6d. POST FREE.
Kheumalgla Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S. W. and Q.
DRUNKENNESS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism in anv
form) CUBED BY EUCRASY. Can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It oper-
ates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, And it
does not impair or injure the health in any wav.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE, and EUCRASY is a
safe, sure, and speedy Antidote. Write for book of par-
ticulars and testimonials from living witnesses—sent post
free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANCSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOli
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
mopmg, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor’s Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing 1 .
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores tho shattered consti*
tution like magic.
ADDRESS :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cm-. RUSSELL <mi COLLINS STS., MKLB.


-rom Doctor to Doctor.
A VAIN SEARCH FOR HEALTH.
REWARDED AT LAST.
Th* Case of
Mr. J. FARRELL.
(by a local reporter).
In these nays of C oiniuon wealth festivities,
proclamation 0 , and liolidays, one hesitates
to write a line that has not something about
federation in it. But as many of our fellow-
mortals are physically unfit to push their
way through the crowds who are bent on
seeing everything worth looking at, the
writer waited on Mr John Farrell, of No. 8
Victoria Place, Adelaide, in the hope of get-
ting a word in edgeways which may be read
by those whom >t may interest.
“ When resident in Sydney,” said Mr.
Farr 11, “ I had a close shave of being placed
under the ground through a complication of
diseases which followed an attack of typhoid
fever. My mother took me to nearly all the
doctors in Sydney, but their efforts to relieve
my sufferings wre all in vain One medical
gentleman said my kidneys, and also my
liver,’’were in such a hopelessly diseased
Bt ite that I would be a martyr to the most
dually ailments which aff ct mankind for
the remainder of my life. He could do as
much as it was possible for medical science
to accomplish, lie st-'ted, hut I was no' to
expect to he cured, as I was too far gone for
that. I was inf uiiual that m> life might be
prolong'd a little by the exlii larating effects
of changes of air, sol resolved to travel
about as long as my means permitted me.
Then 1 came to Adelaide, feeling more like
a corpse than a man, and immediately
placed myself under the care of an eminent
physician. The same experience as I had
in Sydney was repeated here. From one
doctor to another I went in quest of relief,
and after d i.sing me up with physic till my
stomach could not take it any longer, 1 was
given up for a had job. The prospects of
my living were just as remote as those of a
man awaiting his do m without the
slightest hope of a reprieve, for my diseases
had set at defiance all the medicines which
had been prescribed. Alth ugh 1 had been
pronounced to be incurable by those who
had treated me, 1 determined not to die
without making a struggle for life, so I pur-
chased many advertised remedies. Would
you believe that those advertised nostrums
only aggravated my sufferings to an extent
which drove me to despair, fo" I was now
convinced that I was going to have a life of
purgatory. With this conviction in my
mind, and the dreadful verdict that I was
doomed to destruction still ringing in my
ears, I made still another att inpt to grapple
with my enemies, and this time my persever-
ance was rewarded with success.”
The listener’s interest now bordered on
exciteme.it, and in answer to the question,
“ How were successful resul ts accomplished ?”
Mr. Farrell proceeded to relate :
“By taking several bottles of Clements
Tonic —a medicine that would have saved
me years of suffering if I had taken it at the
start ofmyillmss. As all pi svious treat-
ment had failed I had not the faintest idea
of getting anything like permanent benefit
from any medicine. No man in this world
has suffered more than I have done, and I
had arrived at such close proximity to death
that the most I could hope for was a little
temporary ease. A strange numbness, like
paralysis, used to strike my hands and pro-
ceed up my arms and into my tongue, and
my throat became so affected by this death-
like sensation that could scarcely breathe.
I had frightful bilious headaches which
made me thoroughly helpless, and at the
commencement of my illness, before I had
to lie up altogether, I used to go quite blind
from a sense of giddiness which overpowered
me, and often had to be led home like a
child from my work. My heart fluttered
and throbbed so painfully that I was afraid
to move lest I might make it worse, and
when I suffered with wind, which always
happened after taking a little food, I
swelled up and could never get any eaoe
until I started belching. I was extremely
nervous and so weak through being unable
to digest any food that I could not stand on
my legs. A heavy sensation across th«
chest served to trouble me greatly, and the
pains between my shoulders were equally
annoying. And as for sleep —well, the most
I got lasted about an hour, and even then I
did nothing but dream, and when I awoke I
felt more weary and worn-out than if I had
been awake all the time. Not only was my
urine cloudy and scanty, but I also had
severe attacks of diarrhoea, followed by long
terms of constipation, and I had such a
dreadful taste in the mouth that I was
always retching. Right across the kidneys
I was so afflicted with pains that I was no
better than a cripple, and the aches in
my loins were agonising in the extreme.
A mist hung before my sight, my eyes feel-
ing hot and swollen, besides being sunk
back in their sockets, and as my skin be-
came yellow and I was very thin and emaci-
ated you may tell that I looked like one
whose days were nearly numbered. My
hearing was so defective that all sounds
were converted into a peculiar rumbling
noise ; but my greatest adversaries had yet
to be met Probably through taking so
many useless medicines, my stomach was so
deranged that my food would not stay down,
and the cramping tortures I endured were
enough to kill any man. It was at this
time—at the last moment, as it were—that
Clements Tonic was brought in, and fro n
that day my miserable existence began to
mend.”
“ How did Clements Tonic affect you ?”
“As no other medicine had doiu,
Clements Tonic rescued me from the diseases
which were said to be incurably rooted in
my system, and actually saved my life.
This gigantic task was acomplished with the
greatest of ease by Clements Tonic, it b work
being commenced by a sure suppression of
all pains and the restitution of an appetite
which gave me strength The numbness
died right away, and the more Clements
Tonic I drank the more active and vigorous
I got. To my heartfelt relief I lost those
frightful headaches, and when I woke up
after a good night’s rest I felt as fresh as a
daisy, with a clean tongue and my mouth
quite sweet The removal of constipation
troubles accounted for these blessings, and
the splendid tone given to my nervous sys-
tem also resulted from the use of Clements
Tonic. Sunken eyes, the yellow hue of my
skin, the belching of wind, vomiting and
retching—all those troubles vanished after
taking Clements Tonic for a few weeks, the
symptoms of kidney disease being likewise
abolished. Soon I was entirely free from all
pains, and wherever I may go I shall always
tell other sufferers that Clements Tonic
changed me from a wretched, lifeless
creature to a happy and healthy man.”
“ Your experience will prove valuable to
many.”
“ It ought to, and you are free to publish
what I have said in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, John Farrsll, of No. 8 Victoria Place, Adelaide,
in the State of South Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any manner my
statements-which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an act made
and passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled “an aot
to repeal an act of this present Session of Parliament,
intituled ‘an aot for the more effectual abolition of
oaths and affirmations taken and made in various de-
paitments of the State, and to substitute declarations
m lieu thereof, and for the more entire suppression
of voluntary and extra judicial oaths and affidavits,
and to make other provisions for the abolition of
unneces- nn-h's.’ ” /
f
Declared and subscribed at Add 'de in the State of
South Austral.a this twenty-ninth, yof June, one
thousand nine hundred '■» ’ one, bwfbre me,
HENRY JENK***, J.P,
Zhe jtfost Refreshing tDrink in jTustralia,
££
Montserrat
Lime-Fruit Juice
apa Cordials . . .
(TRADE HARK)
The LANCET sayss— |‘W«
counsel the public to drink
Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list. It is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
M ntscrrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees
-EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co„ Sydney ; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
‘ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
Business Announcements.
you SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There Is not a more health-keeping form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we' Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated Negligi, and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses.
Sole Agents in N.S. IF.:
David Braham & Go.,
73 and 75 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
HI
SAHITAS
in'
% ''SANITAS" K>
■bl * !t
“'AN! IA” . SANITAS
OUR rwu Rr.CHTf.ftfb■i'fl.'SDC MARKi
"SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOtS NOT STAIN
DISINFECTANT, antiseptic,
and deodorant combined
"a peoples HEALTH Is A NAI lON'S WEALTH
T H.t SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
-|3 BETHNAL GREf N, LONDON.t [-J.
FLUID
11-
Also
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
"The list of ‘Sanitas’ preparati ns is now so great as to com-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
"The composition of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas,’ a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.”
•, —Lancet, August 24th, 1895, p.SOL
“HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write ior treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
fdg
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen st.,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
LINCOLN, STUART & GO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to seleot from.
fd
Our Suit to order at 4£s. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class l f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 12s. fid.
Dress Suits, to measure,
Clerical Suits, to measure.
K ding Breaches. 255.
hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
i capital Tweed Suits i£|s. A 2"»9.
f Fann us Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 235.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 3s, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. I9s fid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Buits. 19s. fid. W ite frill
Sacs and Trousers, 10* fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, l is fid.
Black and Grey Alapaca S c*.
fis. 9d, White and Brown I rill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4* 9d.. 3* fi i
Travelling Trui ks, Ba s a d
Bugs in great variety
Men’s White Shitts, colored
front and cuffs 2s. 9rt.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, 3s. id.
White Matte Shirts. collar and
pocket 3s. fid.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. fid., all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4". fid. Caps. Is.
V erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
6*. 9d . Bis. (;<l.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our hook, “'I he Philosophy of I ress ” a >
patterns of a 1 kinds and Surowieiit forms posted free
Write for th m.
v GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
man
DEAF.
mmJ
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Remits obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
uiß
DEAF
®J3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Won months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
g
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par•
ticulars, the.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Maker*
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
MB
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles.
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION.
This sue*
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, arid kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Tiierapion ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.


A Jingo daily paper with any sense of
humor would surely avoid publishing in the one
column, from the pen of the one cohentingenter
the following (it appears in Sydney D.T.)
An order wa3 issued that we were each to hand back
one of our blankets. . . . After shivering for a while
under a single blanket, we decided to rush the guard and
get back what was taken from us. . , .
Then—still speaking of the same district—
We came on the convoy unexpectedly at daybreak. . . .
We burned all the waggons, leaving the women and
children on the veldt.
“ J.E.” re Australian “accent”:—
“To speak correctly one must have a good teacher.”
Now, is the average Australian school-teacher qualified to
teach young Australians to speak pure English ? Can he
teach them the correct vowel-sounds ?—how to open their
mouths, use their lips and shape their tongues ? Does the
average A. s.-t. know anything about elocution ? Remem-
ber : he is the person responsible for the Nation’s accent 1
—and hearken to his pupils’ almost unanimous answer 1
The remedy : Make every school-teacher go through a
course of lessons in pronunciation, etc. Make him pass
an examination in elocution, and let him be kept in outer
darkness till he can speak well enough to satisfy his
examiners. Eliminate Euclid, Latin, Algebra, if neces-
sary, and replace them by lessons in Elocution. Let
inspectors frequently visit schools, examine scholars and
see that the teachers are up to the mark. This need not
cost much more money, and it will fill the bill.
[Yes, and fill Australia with sucking Jay Pays and
“ eloquent ” aldermen. Teach Australians to
open their mouths instead of shutting up ! The
man who keeps his mouth shut gets no flies down
his throat, and can pull in the national traces
without wanting to rest every minute to cough up
“a few remarks.” To shape their tongues ! Rats !
Eliminate Algebra and replace Elocution—to
raise up a race of posturers, shallow-pated gab-
blers, prattlers, actors, street-corner politicians?
Angels and ministers of Grace, defend us !]
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
fdg
I
SS"BS
il
fIV
> . ■
•iSS3K<Si’:>j
Photo from Life.
Original may be seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
mm
m 3
1
THE HAIR
w®
Oncier Royal Patronage.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
II is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
I* I cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
111 for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
111 new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
ill beoause it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
111 makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
•* ‘ that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
111 because it the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and
11* keeps the hair in whatever position deßired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, concams no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it. once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye*
KOKO is sold in 1/-, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot, Koko-Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
f CAUTION— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle _
K
&
H
A
I
R
-
rnr
8w«8
SafiS
ma
sm
sm
B®s
PSyia
ma
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FA.MOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure ' It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. y
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Ilearnp.— Dear Sir,—l aiv> writing to tell you
about tlie wonderful cure your medicine lias effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
Beveral occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
lny case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HE ARNE’S BRONCIL i'io CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
Until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
nt once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
nsl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
"Mr. Hearne.—•
‘‘Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
‘‘JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
" 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract, from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer. Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send' it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my ease every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED:
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Oharleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, # Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.L.ONDON Medical Record.
Food f »r
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., anrywhara.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by d
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects—these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity for
7^
<S
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, 1/1J and i/g.
ERASMIC —
-- PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
Ready November 25th.
PEARS’ ANHUAL,
Xmas 1901
t
Will consist of a capital Christmas Story entitled
“Nat Harlowe, Mountebank,”
from the Dramatic pen of the ever popular
and versatile GEORGE R. SIMS.
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White,
Specially Drawn by Mr. Frank Dadd, R.l.
With the Above are ....
3 targe presentation plates
1. WITCHERY. By A. Piot.
2. LITTLE BOBS By Edgar Bundy, R.L
3. THE COMING NELSON, By Fred. Morgan.
Each printed in 13 Colors in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithoyraphic Art.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the world.
A Day in the Far West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One typical day—month, say Eeb. Time, 4 a.m.
The station manager is suddenly startled into
wakefulness by the melancholy howling of dingoes
down by the fast-diminishing tank that supplies
the head station with drinking water, and also
supplies sundry mobs of half-starved sheep.
Muttering a hasty morning prayer, he rolls off his
bedstead—no bed-clothes, too hot—and creeps to
the place where he keeps his gun. On reaching
the tank the dingo has disappeared, but in the
grey, sickly light of morning, he sees a familiar
sight, sheep hopelessly bogged round the sticky
margin of the tank. Another morning prayer
follows, and the man proceeds to extricate those
of them whose eyes have escaped the crows. In
so doing, he gets himself covered with greasy
slime which won’t come off when dry. The
miserable, rescued animals are propped up in a
standing position, and the manager walks back to
the house.
Five horses are mournfully standing as close to
the stable as they can get ; they have long since
given up even looking for grass. The boss opens
the door and feeds them with some rubbishy stuff
called chaff, of a quality which apparently pro-
duce-merchants reserve especially for the back
counti’y, and which costs anything from £7 to £8
per ton delivered, being brought on the final
stage by worn-out, lean bullocks urged to about
seven miles a day by green-hide and oaths. Hav-
ing fed the horses, and made a mental calculation
as to how long his stock of dusty chaff will last,
he returns to the house to wait for breakfast.
In the laundry is the manager’s wife, already at
work trying to get the washing over before the
daily sand-storm begins. The “ married couple,”
after the manner of their kind, have chosen the
most inconvenient time to go on strike, and have
retired to the nearest shanty to knock down their
cheque.
After breakfast, manager and jackeroo proceed
to the stable, and the routine work of a drought
day begins. “You take the old mare, ‘Sally,’
to-day, Tom, and go out to the dry lake and bring
in all the sheep you can find there to the scrub-
cutters.” Upon examination, however, it is found
that “ Sally ” has a puffed back. Also, both Tom’s
dogs are so worn-out and footsore from constant
work' that it is absolutely necessary for them to
have a spell, so a new arrangement has to be
made. Ultimately Tom gets away on another
mare, “Gracey,” taking with him a quart-pot,
tucker, and water-bag, to spend a long, miserable
day under a blazing sun, driving, or rather, kick-
ing along, small mobs of knocked up sheep, on a
knocked-up horse, and with not even a dog to
help him. His faithful little slut, “Grannie,”
makes a feeble effort to follow, and then crawls
under a turpentine bush and lies down panting.
Enter Mick on the scene carrying two milk
buckets each containing about a quart of milk,
which is all he can get from six cows. “Old
Bally don’t give any milk worth speaking of now,
boss, and she’s that poor that what she does give
ain’t healthy-looking.” “ Very well, turn her out
and don’t inilk her any more.” “ What about the
piping for the M'Comas water-lift?—the pump
won’t draw another day without another length
put on.” “I’ll get Kelly to attend to it.”
“What about killing-sheep? Those few in the
ration-paddock ain’t worth killing, and there ain’t
a bit of fat in the kitchen.” “Well, I’ll bring
back a sheep to day from the scrub-cutters’ camp.
I have to go there in the buggy with rations.”
“I see the draught horse has got a sore shoulder
from carrying so much water through the heavy
sand.” “Oh, damnation !—well, pad up the
collar the best way you can. You know if he
goes back on us I shall have to send 300 miles to
where the spelling horses are.”
The manager then goes and interviews Kelly
about the piping, listens to a lot more worries
about tyres getting loose on drays, etc., and then
goes to the stores to put up rations for the scrub-
cutters. He notices grimly that the daily dust-
storm is beginning to rise, but is pleased to see
that his plucky little wife has got the washing
done; and the clothes dry almost as quickly as
they are hung out. By the time he is ready to
start a tornado of sand is whirling past. The
pepper-trees, the only ornamental foliage about
the place, bend to the force of the gale, and every
building resounds with the rattling of iron roofs.
Papers, feathers, leaves, empty kerosene tins,
buckets, and even live fowls go flying past, and are
caught up on the fences. Altogether the aspect
is mean, very mean ; but the manager is used to it,
and goes out to put the horse into the buggy,
stopping to kiss his three little ones playing quite
unconcernedly in the dust-storm under the hot
verandah, their faces thin and wan from the long
hot summer.
Before reaching the spot where the scrub-
cutters are at work—seven or eight men at 255. a
week and their keep—he has to carefully thread
his way through thousands of acres of black fallen
mulga scrub, the only food the sheep have had for
years. He delivers the stores to the cook, who re-
marks, ‘ ‘ I’m about full-up of this blooming caper,
I’m goin’ to leave.” “Very well, come in and
get your cheque,” says the manager sharply,
although he adds to himself, “ I don’t know where
to get another cook, I’m sure.” He then drives
off to visit a tank which has not been looked at
for some days, finds the water all gone, except a
little drop right in the centre, and sticking in the
black stinking mud he ruefully counts 39 sheep,
on the eyes of which the vile crows are hard at
work. There are also four young emus, and one
weak kangaroo, who gazes at him with large mourn-
ful eyes. More slime work. At the end of nearly
two hours he has rescued and propped up about 15
sheep. The rest, and the unfortunate native
animals, have to be left to their ghastly fate. On
his road home another tank is passed, but this has
had wire-netting put round it. There are, how-
ever, about 100 obstinate sheep, which, in spite of
the fact that they have been taken almost daily
to the station tank, where there is water, will
keep coming to the dry one. Manager makes a
mental note that these must be looked after to-
morrow, or they will die,
During the lonely drive home the aspect of
affairs comes before him in all its grim reality.
Tanks dry, and half-filled with sand; the drains
leading to them hopelessly choked with drift-
sand. Fearful loss of sheep ; no lambs last year,
and no chance of any this. No crops for the
last four years ; all horse-feed to be bought at
drought prices ; the face of the country partially
covered by a network of fallen scrub, and cost
of scrub-cutting averaging about £lO a week. It
is not a pleasant picture ; and, when at length he
reaches the stable, his temper is not improved by
the sight of a strange horse standing in one of the
stalls, munching. “Well, old man, I am come
on a begging mission,” says his neighbor, the
nominal owner of Sandy Rises. “ Can you spare
me a half-a-ton of chaff till my teams come?”
“ Oh, certainly,” replies the manager, trying to
look as if he had a haystack or two on hand, and
remembering, at the same time, that his neighbor
had done the same to him last year. Then the
neighbor lets out a flood of miseries: “In a
fearful fix, old fellow ! Something gone wrong
with one of my best wells, and, until it is put
right, I have to muster the sheep every day and
take them to a boggy tank, miles away ; and my
chaff is all done, and the mailman says that the
teams cannot reach the station for two weeks yet.
The bullocks are very poor; two have died, and
they don’t know how they’re going to manage that
dry stretch from Eurugabah tank to my place.”
As they are talking, the sullen red sun sinks
behind the low western hills, and with it sinks the
wind. Tom arrives home red with dust, both
man and horse fairly knocked-up. The three men
go to the house, where a vigorous onslaught is
being made by the wife on the cubic yards of
sand which have found a lodging in every room
during the long weary day. Then comes the
bath —half a kerosene-tin of water to each man—a
nip of whisky, and dinner. In the evening,
whilst smoking outside, the notes of the piano
came from the lamp-lit room, and, for a time,
they strive to forget the miseries of their sur-
roundings.
N.S.W.
BILBY.
This Morning.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun rose on the Wail Village Settlement as I
passed this morning, and from a clump of gums
that barred the green with long morning shadows
thousands of birds twittered a welcome, self-
assertive magpies’ voices leading the irregular
chorus. To the left, the unbroken reserve un-
dulated steadily, rising gradually in a long,
sweeping, marigolded slope to the darker-green
fringe of timber that showed the beginning of the
sand-belt. The railway-embankment’s whitish-
brown and red relieved the never-ending stretch
of green, and from the vistas of the scrub-belt
peeped here and there the yellow tufts of golden
wattle-bloom. Wreaths of smoke rose straight
from chimneys of every variety of architecture,
and seemed to rest complacently at some 20 feet
or so above the iron-roofed houses, nestling in
their diminutive enclosures. Gardens streaked
with grey pathways intensified the snugness of
each house, and bespoke subtle suggestion of the
combination of Vitality and Beauty.
Poverty was there—the all-enduring, ox-like
stolidity alone making it bearable —but it struck
me that, in His painting of the morning-picture,
the Great Artist had purposely concealed it. Men
whistled cheerily, as the magpies, to the morning
sun, whistled their tribute to the Artist’s cun-
ning—spoke to their teams as to long-tried com-
rades—persuasively, almost gently, as if kindness
were, after all, the better incentive. An old
decrepit man raised his furrowed face and creaked
out “A great marnin’ ” as I hailed him from the
embankment, and a barefooted youngster steering
the rear cow of a short procession by the tail, gave
v ent to the vigor that the beauty of the picture
had unconsciously lent to her. A snatch of song,
a cheery objurgation to “Rosy,” a run to head an
obstinate calf that would wander ! The child’s
mother, carrying a bucket, moved lightly and
sprightly towards some yards a little way from
the house.
The long red road to the township stretched
away to the north through an avenue of dark
green mallee. A lonely gum raised itself here and
there, like some grim old rock amid the sea of
green. Out to the eastward, green plains rose to
the horizon, with their clumps of dark bull-oaks
looking like belated flocks, awakened by the
dawning—one had strayed away for feed —and
another —and another. The white roofs of the
far-off farmhouses gleamed good-morning; vari-
colored herds of cattle, deep to the knees in trefoil
and grasses, dotted the uncropped paddocks. It
was a master-picture of calm content and peaceful-
ness. “Too calm —no relief —nothing of that
contrast which humanity demands ere it grants
its tardy appreciation ” —so thought I as I sat on
the top of the embankment.
Over the hill rode a mounted constable, spick-
and-span, on a prancing grey. He called out
“Do you know where —— lives ? ” I didn’t. I
was a stranger. I watched him ride some distance
down the road, refer to some paper, as if to a
plan, and look around. I watched him ride—the
representative of Law and Order, the visible
emblem of unalterable rigidity, the outcome of
humanity’s desire not to be got-at by its next
neighbour—l saw him dismount and go in at
the gate of the paddock from which the old man
had hailed me. He threw down the reins of the
well-trained grey, and, as he walked to the house,
I saw the coat lifted and a gleam of steel cross
the intervening space. The door opened, and he
entered, to reappear shortly in company with a
tall, ungainly fellow, with whom he walked to the
stable. A horse was led out, and the trooper gave
the man a leg-up. The two, riding, left the house
and re-passed me on the hill. The prisoner looked
quite a lad —about nineteen —and he hung his
head despondently while his fettered hands hung
limply on the horse’s neck. A man in a cart
turned to stare at them, and when they had gone
over the brow of the hill, I hailed him and asked
for information. He reckoned “ young was
nabbed for sheep-stealin’. Time he was, too.”
An ignorant lad in the clutches of a remorseless
law—an old man sobbing in that hut by the road-
side —and on such a morning. I am wondering if
the Artist didn’t surpass Himself.
VIC.
L.M.D.
“ F.” : Was surprised to find “clinah”
spelt that way in a recent Bulletin. I don’t
know how the more endearing term for “donah ”
is spelt in the Slang Dictionary, but it is clearly
identical in meaning with the German Jcleine, and
is intended to have exactly the same sound,
whereas “donah ” is just as clearly a vulgar per-
version of “donna.”
N.S.W. Hansard staff, during a recent
sitting of the Assembly, was kept continuously at
work for 30 hours in a vile atmosphere, and at an
occupation which calls for the patience of Job,
the arm-muscle of a cricketer, and the brain-
alertness of a cashier. Such a, fact is entirely
discreditable to the Assembly; if it must gabble
for unreasonable hours it 'might make some pro-
vision for the relief of its unfortunate employees.
The Upper House proved that it had some bowels
of mercy by adjourning in a hurry when it heard
the facts, so as to give the miserable shorthand-
writers a rest.


FACE TO FACE WITH FACTS
Most all the Aches of Kidney Ills start with
FACTS.
A lame back is a bad back.
A weak back is a bad back.
An aching back is a bad back.
Bad Backs come from sick
kidneys.
Sick kidneys cause backache.
Backache is the first step.
The first ache of kidney iUs.
Urinary troubles come next.
Disturb your night’s rest.
Annoy you all day.
Dangerous Diabetes sets in*
Then Bright’s Disease.
The end is near then.
Iliad Back.
Every Case of Back-
ache, Diabetes, or
any Kidney E!!s can
be Cured by
MORE FACTS .
Don’t pay to experiment.
Kidney trouble is too serious.
Delays are dangerous.
Experiment means delay.
Take a remedy that’s endorsed.
But get good endorsement.
A stranger’s word isn't sufficient.
Hard to prove testimonials from a
distance.
Take the word of people you know.
Of friends and neighbors.
Easy to prove such evidence.
Ask them about it.
Local testimony is the best.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Fills
No other Kidney Remedy has ever received such emphatic
endorsement. Read the testimony of
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
CVS;
lii!Uii I f! 11 f 11! VI f i /111 !f Ifllf Illtf f flllf
&
:
N
m
vl
s:
J
y
FROM LEICHHARDT.
Mr J. Cameron, 297 Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this city,
vg For a few years I had been trying to get the upper hand
of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were futile until I used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I used to have pains in the back, and
these were so bad I had to lie about pretty well helpless, which
will eive you a better idea of the serious condition I was in than
anv other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was not in
the Dower of medicine to bring me relief, when I got a box of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newmans Pharmacy King-
street This remedy began to do that which so many had failed
to do ' A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured me completely of pains in the back, and put
mv kidneys in perfect older. I can give these pills a first-rate
recommendation; I know others who have been cured by their
iFROM GLEBE
Mr. William Greenland, who is a printer, lives at 22 Foray th-
street, Glebe. He says : —“ For some considerable time I suf-
fered from backache and kidney complaint, having a heavy aching
pain in the small of my back just over the kidneys, which troubled
me a good deal. The secretions were very much disordered, con-
taining a large amount-of sediment. I procured some of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-street,
and now I have pleasure in stating that they did me a great deal
of good, completely removing my trouble and putting the kidneys
in a healthy state. Although I had previously tried a number of
other remedies I failed to get any benefit from them. I have
recommended Doan’s Pills to a number of people, some of whom
I know have tried them, and, like myself, have derived great
benefit from them.”
Get what you ask for. Get DOAN’S.
Don’t accept something just as good. All
Chemists sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you wliat you call for.
Some may attempt to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Insist on
having DOAN’S. Price 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.) Posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Starry Camp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the cool night-winds are blowing
And the foot-sore mob’s at rest,
And the camp-fire logs are glowing
Like a sunset in the west;
When the dews are glistening under
And the tufted pines are damp,
Then I lie awake and wonder
If there’s grass on Starry Camp.
The stretching plains seem silent friends,
The clouds take shape of trees,
And surely yonder starry bends
Are bluegrass to the knees !
And when the red lights twinkle
You can catch the moan and stamp
Of the cattle, and the tinkle
Of the bells on Starry Camp.
Here, behind, the creeks are drying,
And the water’s scarce ahead,
And two hundred steers are lying
Back between our camp-fires dead ;
But away up there, high over,
Every star’s a golden lamp,
Lit to light the road-sick drover
To his rest on Starry Camp.
Don’t you hear the night-winds sighing
Through the cloud-bush, lute and lyre?
Can’t you see the drovers lying
Head to saddle, foot to fire ?
Hear them sing the soft words suited
To the tune the soft winds, vamp—
Careless singers, spurred and booted,
Round the fires on Starry Camp.
Yet it’s not all rest up yonder,
I suppose there’s work to do ;
How d’ they hold the wings, I wonder,
When the gray mists veil the blue ?
For whenever rain comes stinging
And the roaring storm-winds tramp,
You can hear the cattle ringing
Round and round on Starry Camp.
I am getting tired of roving
Round those hornies in the lead,
And I’m tired, sick tired, of droving
On the stock-routes bare of feed ;
But I’d chance another battle,
With no chain-wide lanes to cramp,
Idling down with mud-fat cattle
Round the bends to Starry Camp.
N.B.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Magda in the South.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The level, lonely plains, treeless, brown from
the drouth of Australian summer, stretched far
into the distance on all sides. The railway, its
metal 3 gleaming hotly white beneath the afternoon
sun, ran through in a curving line that took its
apparently endless way as far as eye could reach.
It was broken in one place only, in all those im-
merise spaces, by a platform and crossing, beside
which crouched a low-browed, blue-stone cottage.
It was the dwelling of the station-mistress of
“ Digger’s Road ” ; and past it ran the high-road
which was the excuse for this stopping-place,
separated .from the surrounding plains by low,
roughly-heaped walls of the dark stones that lay
scattered thickly over the ground in all directions.
The train from Melbourne had stopped, set
down a solitary passenger, and rushed away up-
country. The solitary was a young woman, tall
and full-figured, with a clear pale face, scarlet lips,
and red hair waving softly above her delicate
brows and creamy neck.. She was dressed
luxuriously, yet with a careful simplicity, in
faintly-tinted thin silk and lace. As she stood on
the platform an elderly woman came up to her,
looked into her face inquiringly, and kissed her
in a sudden, unemotional way. She was tall and
spare, dressed in a dark linen gown with a coarse
hat tied under her square chin. Plain and even
common as her clothing was, there was an air of
dignity in her free, strong- movements. As the
girl stooped to take up the portmanteau that the
guard had put down beside her, the elder woman
prevented her, saying as she lifted it herself,
“I’ll take it. It would spoil your gloves.” She
spoke in char, unhurried tones that accentuated
the independence and dignity of her appearance.
In a few minutes the two women were sitting
in the shady front room of the stone cottage. It
was a plain room, the only noticeable furniture
being a shelf of books, solid-looking and well-worn.
“Well, well, to think you’re actually here ! ”
said the elder woman. “Doesn’t it seem
strange ? ”
“It does indeed,” assented the girl. She
seemed a little ill at ease, and her beautiful eyes
rested anywhere but on her companion’s. “You
always managed to keep it cool in here, mother,”
she said, irrelevantly; “that is, you can keep it
cool for the first few days of the heat, but it gets
dreadful when the stone is heated through, I
remember. You must come away, mother, as
I’ve so often asked you to; now that I’ve come
back to Australia to fetch you.”
“I don’t think so,” the elder woman said. “I
like my own ways, my, own work and my own
earnings too well. But it’s good to see you ; I’m
lonely here sometimes. I never was one to have
many friends—you. remember that ? Not that
there’s anyone within reach, anyhow.”
“Lonely ! ” said the girl. “ It’s heart-breaking.
I’d go mad if I lived here like you. Surely you’ll
pay me a visit while I’m in Melbourne, mother,
even if you don’t give this up altogether. You
could get leave, I suppose ? But I’d like you to
come Sack to Europe with me.”
“Would you?” said the mother, quietly. “I
might come to Melbourne while you’re there. You
mustn’t think, child, that I’m not delighted at
your success. It fills me with pride to hear of
your wonderful voice, and of people all over the
world bowing down to your singing. Yes, and I’m
pleased at your wanting to share it all with me,
even though I can’t possibly take what you offer.”
“Why can’t you, mother’ ” asked the girl, with
some irritation. “It is so ridiculous, your living
on alone here, working hard, when I have ever so
much more money than I know what to do with.
Parents oughtn’t to be proud about taking things
from their children, any more than children ought
to be proud towards parents.”
“The cases are quite different,” said the elder
woman. “ Or, anyhow, I feel them to be dif-
ferent. Besides, you are in a world that is utterly
strange to me. I should be awkward in it.”
“You would soon beat home in it,” said the
girl, eagerly. “You speak and move with more dig-
nity, as it is. than most of the women one meets.”
“ I don’t know that I want to be at home in
that world,” said the elder woman, slowly, ignor-
ing the compliment. After a moment, she went
on : “ You did not answer the question I wrote to
you, Dorothea.”
“ What question ? ” asked the girl.
“I think you know,’’said her mother; and waited.
“ I suppose,” said the singer, unwillingly, “you
mean your question about the truth of what people
say about my private affairs ? ”
“ Yes,” assented the other.
“Howl hate those newspapers!” the singer
burst out. “If it were not for them ——”
“ if it’s untrue,” interrupted her mother,
“ you’ve only got to say so. What do I care what
they say ? ”
“They exaggerate so,” said the singer, im-
patiently.
“ Exaggerate ? ” repeated the elder woman, in
her measured tones. “What do you mean ? A
thing of that kind is true or untrue. That’s all
that matters. They led one to believe that you
were living almost openly with a man who is not
your husband.”
The singer threw out her hands despairingly.
The struggle had to come, apparently.
“ Was it true ?” asked the mother.
“Yes,” said the singer, moodily.
Her mother looked at her with a kind of hard
curiosity. One would say that the word just
uttered had swept all memory of her motherhood
out of her heart. “ Why do you do it? ” she asked.
“ What is the use of my telling you about it ? ”
said the singer. “ You would never be willing to
understand.”
“ Perhaps not,” replied her mother. “ Yet you
had better try me. If you can’t make me under-
stand, as you call it, and if I can’t make you see
your wickedness ” ——
“ Mother,” broke in the girl, with almost pas-
sionate pleading in her voice, “Why won’t you
let me love you and take care of you as I want
to ? Why won’t you take the good that’s in me,
and—love me as any other mother would ?”
The elder woman ignored the tone and the
words altogether. “ Are you still living with this
man ? ” she asked.
The daughter’s face set into hard lines like her
mother’s. “ Yes,” she replied.
“ Won’t he marry you ?” her mother asked.
“I don’t know,” the singer replied, with a
cynical smile. “ I never asked him ; I daresay he
would, if I said he must.”
“Don’t you want to maery, then?” asked the
other.
“No, I don’t.”
“ Don’t you care for this man ? ”
“Yes, I care for him.” The daughter looked
at the inscrutable face opposite to her for a
moment or two, and then burst out, “What’s
the use of my answering you ? You can’t under-
stand. Why should I marry and bind myself
down like other women—like ordinary women?
I have a great gift—l have a voice that makes a
queen of me; and as well as that I am an artist —
I am a musician—l love my art. Oh, the two
things don’t always go together, I can tell you.
If you’d only come with me you’d see what
it all means, you who have suoh a splendid
mind, a hundred times quicker and stronger
than mine. Won’t you come?” She paused,
but the sombre face she gazed at gave no
stir of sympathy. She went on: “Well, I sup-
pose you will say that if I care so much for my
work —if I won’t marry—l ought to have nothing
to do with men. But I don’t choose to sacrifice
so much of the sweetness of life just because I
want to work. Why should a woman have to
choose between love and work? I have both. I
want both. Love is actually necessary to make
one understand and interpret great works. I
should be a half-developed, powerless creature
unless I knew what it means —this loving and
being loved. I choose to enjoy life and to know
life to the full—and to remain free.”
She stopped, and the elder woman repeated
after her —“ To know life to the full. Have you
a child, then ?” _ .
A rush of red came up over the singer’s fair
face. “No,” she said.
The mother smiled slowly, “lts
you who can’t understand,” she said. “ Why,
here in my loneliness, I know more of the realities
of things than you. Great joys and great sorrows,
delight and despair and death, these make a
a woman live to the full, and these come to wives
and mothers with a glory and an agony that such
as you can never know. You live for art ; what’s
art but a glorified plaything ! Live for realities,
and then you may speak of living to the full.”
There was a silence. Presently the singer said,
in a low voice, “ I do understand. Come with
me, mother.” '
“I’ve said nothing of the sin you are commit-
ting,” went on the mother, inexorably. “ And it
is that which hurts me most. If I came with you
would you promise to make an end of it now from
this moment ? ”
The singer’s face paled. “ No,” she said ;“ it
takes different people to make a world. It takes
my kind, as well as yours. I can admire your
kind, but I can’t alter myself. I will not.”
Her mother rose, as if there was nothing more
to say. “I must give you some tea, Dorothea,”
she remarked ; “you must be wanting it.” As
she went about preparing it, she continued, in
matter-of-faot tones, “ How long did you think of
staying with me ? ”
I have to be back in Melbourne very soon, ” said
the warbler. “lam to sing there, you know. I
thought I would stay while you get ready to come
with me.” She stopped, but the elder woman
said nothing. The singer continued, hesitatingly,
“If you would not stay at my hotel because of—
others who might be there, you could stay where
I could often come and see you ; and you could
come and hear me sing. It will be a great night.”
“I shall not come with you to Melbourne,” said
the other.
The singer rose to her feet with an angry ex-
clamation : “In that case, I see no use in my
staying at all,” she said. “Tell me what time the
next traintoMelbournestopshere, and I’llcatchit.”
“As you please,” said her mother, steadily.
“But there is plenty of time for you to take
something to eat and drink first. I can’t let you
go without that.”
They sat and talked commonplaces for the
remainder of their time together, and the mother
brought her daughter to the station in time for
the evening train to town. As it drew up to the
platform the singer leaned forward and kissed hei
mother’s firm, unbending lips. Then she got into
the carriage, and was carried back to the city, to
the passionate arms of her lover, to the adoring
admiration of her audiences, to soft living and
luxurious surroundings. But none of these will
ever deaden her vivid memory of that forlorn rail-
way platform, lonely and bare, with the brown
plains stretching from it on all sides, and the little
blue-stone cottage crouching beside it ; and,
before all, standing there in the red light of the
setting sun, the tall figure of her mother, dignified,
steadfast and alone.
A.E.I.


THE
FREEMAN & WALLAC
This is the only
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical lijStitOte.-
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress In »M- departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
AHHnners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
of HWaTlaoe Flectro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
hind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon.all special complaints they still eon-
ti'nue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUK COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIAKY.
Ever}' Fanner, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION-ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
<^SP€CIAim€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation! Blood and Skin Diseases.
.
-'- V
F.T
MW
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising* is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our' help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patientsi We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty .o£ culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting: Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
home treatment.
—lf you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our .wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty" of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
% ElizaMb BatbGrSt Sts, Sydoey
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N ,B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising: as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.
BEECHAM’S
MUSIC FOLIO
Beyond Contradiction by far the Cheapest and Best
Collection of Music yet Published.
VOLUME 19 NOW READY.
Special Grand Number, Containing:
SOLDIERS’ CHORUS (from “ Faust ’’(—THE RED, WHITE, AND
BLUE—KNEELING BEFORE THEE (Ave Maria), Gounod—WHEN
THE HEART IS YOUNG (Dudley Buck)—BELLE OF BALTIMORE
(Barn Dance)— THERE SHONE A STAR IN HEAVEN (Frank L. Moir)
—The Good-bye at the Door—Queen of the Fairies (Barn Dance) —Beloved, it
is well—Mendelssohn’s Lieder (Book 5), No. 28—Mendelssohn’s Funeral March
(Book 5), No. 27—Thou art my Rest—Silver Chime (Pas de Quarte) —Who
shall be Fairest I —Art Thou my Saviour ?—Dream of Angels, Little One—A
Quiet Lane—Children of Jerusalem —Home they brought her Warrior—
Highland Queen Schottische—The Token—Sir Harold the Hunter—lf I were
but a King—Phoebe, Dearest! —Hush-a-by—The Blighted Flower—ln the
Calm of Twilight—Winter Song—Come to me, dear Mother—When
Thou art Near.
BEECHAM’S MUSIC POLIO is lithographed from well-engraved plates on stout
paper, and edited by an eminent professor of music, thus guaranteeing perfect accuracy. Each
volume contains thirty different pieces of music, either old gems or some of the most popular
songs of the day, some of which, being published at 25., have been included at considerable
cost. The songs have all the original symphonies and pianoforte accompaniments in full.
Volume 19 and the preceding 18 Volumes can be obtained from Messrs. Gordon & Gotch and
from most News-agents, Booksellers, and Music-sellers in Australia.
Published at Twopence per Volume by
THE PROPRIETOR OF “ BEECHAM’S PILLS,”
ST. HELENS, JSSZKTGK
Sep
1 'fi »/., t»..C
■SLL
/&/ r't »
\) /' /V " r-p-.
m>r. I
f/ -Ai
a/,
*////
Crozine BliftoSJUrug:
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is uncqualed for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use Crozine” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A'-.
'» ov *'s TO/v ®
IRISH noss
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
rrs i O Q
Ask for Bonnmg ton’s
an^seetKatvoi^e^^
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


►UNSHINE AND WATER.
Plenty of both is what YOUR GARDEN wants.
You needn't bother about the Sun —THAT’S ALL RIGHT
IT’S THE WATER TT
GARDEN HOSE
We’ve been selling
Garden Hose for
20 years, but never
so cheap as we in-
tend selling this
season.
OUR PRICE list:
X 3 Ply-Rubber Hose, 50ft. Coils, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil
Cotton-covered (Eureka) 50ft. Coils, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d per Coil,
Controlling Nozzles, Is 9cl; Hose Unions, Reels, &c.
Nozzle Sprinkler, 2s each.
The Ball
PERDRIAU and CO.,
Samples of Hose
Post Free.
ONLY
ADDIiESS :
Street, Sydney
Cft YEARS DYEING
IyP'JUP for the ladies.
W. c. IBIXDIRXIDGKE & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOllli STIU'iiOT, SIDNEY
COpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post Irani all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
j-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
fd
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pimps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
GENUINE
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
COOLGARDIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
*
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
\v'.i
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
3.1- a :<F ox
in King: St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
. *. • , v ,
GRAT®FUL~COWCPORTINa
COCOA
BRE AKP AST - SUPPER.
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT?
stay on the sheep’s back as long as required, It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOO. CMIMDE * CO.. IDEEBOUOBE.
VLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)-
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/0
3/0
3/0
<4/3
per Gallon.
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
m
§ reg-ersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.
-
m
-JXE
• • M
a jl I
AO
o AOVT * 3» y
' ■ • ' ••
■■ m
m,
gfd
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MEL .BOURNE 435 Bourke Street
■ ; !
rs and General
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Go’s Lathes
Goubert’s Feed Water Heaters
;p«!
i ksES
1
sm
cixniami
u s A-
