

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The
Lancet.
X£. Gr. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2700 Hydr o-JUxtractors Sold and at worlr
WINIS!
winu !
WINES!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST
AUSTRALIA.
£3T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON
&
ikKSWK
85 Pitt Street,
SNTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
HYDRO-E
Theso machines have t
Salt, Chemicals, tl
Testimonials and full
Goods,' Sugar
Send fo:
THORNE’S
A 1 W
That’s All!
TOOTHI
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
«2fc 00. Ltcl.,
Sydney.
D
htobaht
Botsl.
eu 8
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA / SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
s-3=l ®'Te*333XTDE3'5r.
Telegraph-" HER VEY, SYDNUY."
Mining & Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives.
n
Builders’ &
r Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
Oils, Pacleings, &e.
Campbell" Gas& Oil Engines,
1 Clarence St,., Sydney.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING?
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. c. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Rnnehes • P Frankel & Co., Edvvard-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H K. Fysh and
00., Collins** t., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ,
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is,
per Post Is. 3d.
gtrls and gray horses.
§d 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
G
G
gar
Sill
. . STOCKS KEPT OE . .
CO
s n
4
Si
o
h H
h
CO CO
& S
CO
0 s
s
0
4 k
0
o
4 H
f S 3
6
o O
Pig® &
a?gg® 0
1
m| B
3 s h fl d
MELBOURNE
486 COLLINS ST
FREMANTLE ♦ KALGOORLIE
214 HIGH ST T MCDONALD ST
WATERBURY WATCHES
PERFECT TIMEKEEPERS.
Varies® witbin tli© 3Ft.ea.cl3. of Everyone,
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business'entrusted to him.
Public and
rivate Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Jimter Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
"" "
Ediswan - Lamp
OJiSWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations .
THE EH a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrtngton-street,
WYNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Yol. 22.—N0. 1110. J
("Saturday, May 25, 1901.
Eedstered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
m
.
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 akd 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE .
Loyalty’s Literary Product.
THE Duke of Cornwall and York, heir
co the British throne—“ our sailor
prince,” who, it is reported in Syd-
ney Telegraph of 16th May, preferred
to go overland from Melbourne to Brisbane
because he is “subject to sea-sickness”—
spoke a stodgy piece the other day to some
Victorian school-pupils ; and this was part
of it—
If I may offer advice I should say be thorough.
Do your level best in whatever work you may be
called upon to perform. Remember that we are
all fellow subjects of tbe British Crown. Be
loyal—yes, to your parents, your country, your
King and your God.
If his hearers took his advice, and were
thorough—thorough in thought, thorough
in argument, thorough in demanding that
everybody’s say-so should stand and deliver
reasons for acceptance, they would naturally
ask “ Why ? Why be loyal ? How does
loyalty pay us ? What are we going to get
out of loyalty ? ” For a loyalty which does
not pay the loyalist has plainly no valid leg
to stand on.
Loyalty to parents ? We can understand
and endorse that ; for in most cases our
parents have deserved it: we live, we have
lived, at their cost : what we are we owe to
them, partly or chiefly. It is true that the best
gratitude to one’s .parents is shown in taking
care of one’s own children—in passing on to
the next generation the care and protection
which we have received from the last. In
begetting us and nourishing us our parents
sought the satisfaction of their own instincts,
and they cannot claim as a right the grati-
tude which we nevertheless often owe to
them as a duty. Loyalty to our parents pays
us because we in turn hope to earn loyal con-
fidence and support from our own children.
Or we can deem parents our best friends,
and give them the loyalty due to friends.
In either of these cases there is a clear justi-
fication for loyalty.
Loyalty to our country—that, too, is in-
telligible, - for it spells self-preservation.
Communal life is only possible on a basis of
giving for getting—that is to say, on a basis
of exchange. We exchange our loyal sup-
port for. our country’s help and protection,
its means and laws of life, its sympathy
and shelter. Even loyalty to a God may be
justified for those who believe in a beyond-
the-grave heaven and hell : there is clear
payment in heaven for prayers and oblations
rendered. But loya'ty to a king? How is
it possible to justify that for people who do
not find in such a kind of loyalty the satisfac-
tion of their hereditary instinct to crawl to
the steps of a throne ? ,>v r
It is not possible : the modern monarch
has no justification ; he exists in modern life
because monarchy is a mental tradition which
many human minds are not yet original
enough to destroy. Possibly, while most
people remain mental cripples, monarchy
can be defended as a useful crutch ; but even
that defence is shattered by the fact that
already many communities get along as well
or better without a monarch.
In advancing along the line of evolution
humanity retains many acquisitions, physical
and mental, long after the need of them has
been outgrown. There was probably a time
when the ancestor of humanity found good
use for his vermiform appendix—that little
pipe-stem cul-de-sac which sprouts from
the large intestine, and which at present
seems to serve no useful, purpose what-
ever, while it is a frequent contributor
of illness and death. Monarchy is
humanity’s mental vermiform - appendix.
The ancient monarch could usually give
good reason for his presence, such as js
given by the savage chieftain of to-day. He
was probably the best man of his tribe ; he
won his place by prowess ; in difficulty or
danger his followers relied on his brain
and arm. But the puny scion of a
dying stock, so weakened that it re-
quires to be mated continually with good
blood in order)to perpetuated, gives no
such reason for the honours paid him. The
hereditary system of monarchy which issues
in a Duke of Cornwall and York is a self-
convicted absurdity.
Why, then, do people honour the heredi-
tary monarch ? Simply because the habit of
reverence for monarchy is inherited, and
they are born true to type. Why are
people born with two eyes, not three ?
with five toes on a foot, not
four or seven ? Just because the germ
plasm follows its law of life, and perpetu-
ates the ancestral habit—varying slowly,
very slowly, in countless generations. Simi-
larly, the causes which impel Dr. Graham,
Mayor of Sydney, to give gold albums
to the Duke of York, are probably
just as much beyond his control as is his
physical shape. His loyalty is an ancestral
inheritance, like his Mayoral legs. By
reason, of course, homage is rather due from
' the Duke of York to Dr. Graham, from the
physically, and mentally weaker man to his
superior But the ancestral force in Dr.
Graham is, as it were, stronger than himself.
Go to a South Sea Island, and you will find
the chief busily receiving the offerings of
his tribesmen. The women dig his yams,
the men catch his fish, and the best of the
product is reserved for the chief When his
appetite is satisfied, the followers get their
i uferior share. The Victorian Govt.’s offering
<»f a black wood trophy to the Duke of Yorkt
the Sydney Council’s offering"of illuminated
addresses, proceed exactly on the same prin-
ciple with the difference that their chief
does not earn them. They are honouring
the ghost of the shadow of the memory of
something their ancestors honoured in
Edward the Black Prince or William the
Conqueror. And there is no sense in them
—only heredity.
The concerts, the reviews, given for the
Duke of York, have their parallels in savage
life, which represents now-civilised life at
perhaps a thousand or two thousand
years ago. And the countless “poems”
written for the Duke represent the
savage bard's enthusiasm when his chief re-
turns in warrior-guise from some triumphant
foray. (The Duke of York is not a warrior ;
but he plants trees, and that satisfies the
hereditary fetish.) Naturally, the “ poems ”
are bad ; because poetry nowadays is a more-
or-less intelligent product, and the first
result of intelligence is the abolition of here-
ditary fetishes as far as possible. But some
samples of the way in which hereditary
loyalty displays itself are interesting as
showing just how far we have progressed,
just how little, after all, is our reason-gain
from the slow, slow centuries. Here is a
Ballarat specimen—
Tha t is a very fair average of local loyal
“ poetry ” ; and it has all the hereditary
attributes which result in a Fijian canoe
being launched on “ ways ” of loyal stomachs.
The stomach, as has been noted, plays a great
partin “loyalty ” ; and it is not impossible
that the hereditary seat of some loyal
emotions is in the region of the solar plexus.
But there are loyal “poems” and loyal
“ poems ” —such as this one :
The Author trusts that at this crucial juncture
in the history of Australia and of the British
Empire, the preceding impromptu lines, com-
posed by request, on the eve of the Common-
wealth Elections, will be received by the people
of the Commonwealth of Australia in the patriotic,
federative, hopeful spirit in which they have been
written, and that they will assist to bring together
a Parliament capable of worthily laying the foun-
dation of the Australian Nation.— f.l.w.
These verses are composed by Mr. F. Lyon
Weiss, F.E.I.S. Mr. Weiss is now Principal of
the Bureau and School of Mines, Perth ; has been
Head-master, Lecturer, Assistant, &c., at the
largest and most reputable University Colleges
and Schools of Mines and Technics in New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia. He is a scien-
tific and educational author, and is also the com-
poser of the anonymously published poem,
“ Rally, comrades ! round our Empire Flag un-
furled,” which has been recorded in Parliament,
and upon which the honor (unprecedented in his-
tory) has been conferred of being dedicated by
Lords Roberts and Wolseley to the British army.
The following is a copy of an autograph letter
received by the Hon. Sec from the LIEU-
TENANT GOVERNOR of VICTORIA, His
Exoellency SIR JOHN MADDEN, K.C.M.G.,
8.A., LL.D., Chief Justice, Chancellor of the
University, endorsing the laudatpry letters pre-
viously received from their Excellencies EARL
HOPETOWN (THE GO VERNOR - GEN-
ERAL) ; from LORDS BEAUCHAMP,
TENNYSON, LAMINGTON, RANFURLEY,
Sir A. MILNER (Governor Cape Colony), and
Sir A. ONSLOW, and from Generals, Command-
ants, Poets, Actors, Scholars, Municipalities, &c.
“ Government House, Melbourne,
17th January, 1901.
Dear Sir, —I am obliged to you for the copies
which you were good enough to send me of Mr.
F. Lyon Weiss’s anthem and panegyric odes.
They are broad in conception, lofty in patriotism,
and spirited and poetic in expression, and are
likely to become “ songs of the people.” In this
respect their adaptation to well-known music is
no small advantage, and I willingly add my con-
gratulations to Mr. Weiss on the success with
which, while others have been fighting our
Country’s battles, he has been making its songs.—
Faithfully yours, JOHN MADDEN.”
Mr. Weiss has shared the hardest and fnost
dangerous manual labor ; has organised, addressed
and influenced important movements as to Min-
ing, Banking, Justice, Life-saving, etc! (three
gratuitously); has had his services recognised by
the Australian Contingents and by democratic
organisations, etc. ; and has been publicly eulo-
fised by such representative men as Sir Henry
’arkes, Right Hon. E. Barton (Premier of Aus-
tralia), and Sir A. Ren wick, M.D. This League
(a non-party-political, un-sectarian, but patriotic
body) therefore issues these memorable verses at
this crisis, in the belief and trust that the advice
of a man with Mr. Weiss’s record commands re-
spect, and that Australian-Britons will once again
be influenced by his graphic and stirring words.
A. Cooper, Acting Ho<n. Sec.
The League would be pleased if you would cir-
culate these verses, and if you would kindly send
any reprint or expression of opinion to
THE PRESIDENT, EMPIRE PATRIOTIC LEAGUE, ;
53 William Street, Perth, W.A.
Where also requisite information, membership,
&c., can be obtained.
Here we see loyalty passing from the
monarch (the little round button atop) to the
Great Panjandrum of Imperialism. Com-
ment is hopeless.. But note how the
trail of notoriety follows in the loyal
“poet’s” wake, Here are Governors
galore, and Chief Justice Madden of
Victoria, patting this producer of balderdash
on the back—because he points the right
loyal way, apparently. They say Judge
Madden knows so little law that he
ought to know a little literature by
rule of contraries ; but- ! Similar stuff to
be “broad in conception,” “spirited
and poetic in expression ” ! Surely even
Judge Madden is not so ignorant as that.
No ; his praise, like the others’, must be
due to the High Policy of praising the tenets
approved for the people who sweat in
shadow at the root of the social tree by
those who sit in sunshine at the top. The
sentimeut of—' • _ ■
God bless the squire and his relations,
And keep us in our proper station's—
will always find an echo from decorated dig-
nitaries.
To vary the round, choose from the work
of James Purtell, a thoroughly loyal poet, a
piece in another hereditary category. Pur-
tell, like the kangaroo, is “an amoosin’
little cuss,” and he is the only professional
poet in Australia —the only, man who makes
a living solely and wholly by poetry. He
invariably refers to his product as “ effu-
sions ” —sentimental gush poured out in a
stream—and the effusions are sold by thou-
sands to the illiterate bulk of Melbourne’s
population. All news-agents—one penny
per effusion ! And Barnum-Povvell (no less)
has praised them.
Kronstadt, South Africa, 3/9/00.
Sir, —Many thanks for your spirited lines, and
I thank you for the kind motive that prompted
you to send me your song on the Relief of Mafe-
king.—Yours very truly, Baden-Powelb.
To James Purtell, Melbourne, Australia.
This is printed because Mr. Purtell wants it
printed. Some time ago a Bulletin comment
brought this indignant letter—
Sir.—l have been shown your scathing article
about Myself in the issue of your Dirty Contempt-
able Rag of two or 3 weeks back, and it is a great
pity you can not stick to truth, for when you say
My songs are hawked around the City of Melb
on the milk-walk Principle, you tell a Most Bare
Faced Lie, and the public of Victoria at Least
Must Smile When they Read your Article, For
My Songs are Sold at All Respectable Agents in
Victoria, and it is the Public of Victoria Who I
Look upon as The Critics, Which thev have
Proved by buying Thousands upon thousands of
Every Effusion I have Written during the past
ten years. I dont Look upon The Editor of the
Meanest Rag in Australia as a Critic, For you
are not a Critic, you are What I term a cynic,
And a Mean one at that. Although your scathing
article Does Me no harm, I believe In Fair
Criticism, and yours Is Most unfair, because it Is
untrue, and again you Make your own paragraph
Look Small when you say I have cold bloodedly
adopted Poetry for a Living, for a Man who can
obtain a good Living for nine or ten years out- of
his writings (penny Effusions) Clearly shows that
the Public Appreciate what he has put before
Them. I Enclose for dear old Bull my Latest bit
of Doggerel Re the Return of our Contingent, also
(on the songs) A Copy of Baden Powells Letter
To Me. of course it would Not suit your paper
to publish The Letter for Me. However I Thank
you for all your Extremely Kind Advertisements
And when I take a trip to My dear old native
Land (Sydney) I will call and pay you for Kind-
ness, so you can Expect Me Before Christmas.
And now Dear old Bully in conclusion Let Me
tell you that I do Hot Write about the Birds and
The Sea and Fishes and all Nature Like some of
your Clever Poets, if I did I would soon Be in the
Benevolent Asylum. Bub what Ido write about is
Fact, Rhythm, Rhyme, sentiment And Last but
not Least Common sense.
Yours Etc
James Purtell
And here is a copy of what, some date last
year, was— /
Observe that the quoted effusion is not
half bad—is indeed very good—for Purtell's
audience. It hits them where they live.
They do not want “ the Birds and The Sea
and Fishes and all Nature.” They want
the titillation of hereditary instincts—
“ loyalty ” one of them. Purtell lays to his
book ; and, as he is very common-sensible,
it may be that his effusions do good rather
than harm. They give his readers the
emotions which fit his readers. By-and-by,
via Purtell, Purtell's readers may learn tb
appreciate something better. By-and-by,
via loyalty to the Duke of York, Australians
may learn to appreciate loyalty to Australia.
You can’t hurry the universe or the race.
Let us hope.
THE BOOKFELBOW.
A HYMN OF WELCOME.
“GOD BLESS THESE TWAIN SO GREAT.”
[On the occasion ot the visit of His Royal Highness
the Duke of Cornwall and York, accompanied by his
Consort, the Grand Duchess, May, 1901.]
Tune —“ Grafenberg.”
J oy-bells of earth are ringing',
“God bless this Prince so great,
Who comes from dear old England,
Its Royal Delegate.
With heart and voice united,
God’s blessing we entreat,
While we for angels listen,
They this refrain repeat ”
High above the welkin,
Beyond all earthly ken,
To such appeal unto our King
We add — Amen.
Hark ! sweet-voiced children singing,
“God bless this Prince so great.”
Their love is worth the winning.
Their love will ne’er abate,
Good Prince, fair Consort, list ye—
Those rosy lips reveal,
A pure white love for you twain,
A love all yours to seal.
High above the welkin,
Beyond all earthly ken,
To childhood’s prayers unto our King
We add — Amen.
Our Austral sons are calling,
“ God bless this Prince so great :
Whoever doubts our loyalty
The red veldt should him sate.
We’re true to God in heaven ;
Hence, true to man on earth :
Then swell the crescent praises,
Till strains like these break forth
High above the welkin,
.. Beyond all earthly ken,
>ll manhood’s prayers unto our King
We add — Amen.
The agisd sigh but softly,
“ God bless these twain so great,
Whose veins contain the purple
Of saints in heav’nly state.
O may these lives when ended,
A regal weloome have
Where royalties commingle
Beyond the muted grave ! ”
High above the welkin,
Beyond all earthly ken,
To old folks’ prayers unto our king
We add — Amen.
BALLARAT.
Lambda.
AN ELECTORAL APPEAL.
AUSTRALIANS! GUARD YOUR RIGHTS!
Australians ! Guard your rights, and keep
Your Race the grandest born !
Australians ! watch your weal, and sweep
Your fair land free froip scorn !
Your warriors brave, on land and wave, shall
guard ’gainst foreign foe,
But who shall fight, for People’s Right, ’gainst
trusted traitor’s blow.
If men to whom you trust its doom, would wreck
or wrong your State,
At country’s call, up spring ye all, and mete
them miscreants’ fate 1
Australians ! Gather 1 Guard your Right;
And let but patriots guide your Might.
11.
Australians ! Guard your rights! and see
They ne’er shall be betrayed !
Your Isles the home of JUSTICE be,
Of free men undismayed !
The maxim trite that “ measures should be valued
more than men, ”
Though Thebes disproved, may catch the ear,
e’en now as it did then.
But earnest, fearless, noble men, make laws and
statesmen true.
So, choosing thus, each State will have good men
and measures too !
Australians ! Gather ! Guard your Right !
And let but patriots guide your Might!
111.
AUSTRALIANS ! Guard your rights, and pass
Your fiat to elect a man
Who merely represents a class,
A creed, cabal, or clique or clan—
Ye sons and daughters N-ENGLISH, IRISH,
SCOTCH—true Britons all!
Your offspring hands for Motherland ye joined at
Empire’s call:
Now, join hearts here; sink strife and schism ; •
outvie far-named Idalia;
Send honest, righteous, loyal men to GLORIFY
A USTRA ij 1A !
Australians 1 Gather! Guard, your Right !
And let but patriots guide your Might !
18/3/1901.
F. Lyon Weiss.
PURTELL'S LATEST.
The Soldier’s Dream of Home.
Air —“ The Miner's Dream of Home."
’Tis nine weary months since he left Melbourne’s
shore
To fight for the flag of the free,
And he longed to return to his fond loving wife,
And children far over the sea.
But the fever was raging, and sad cruel Fate
Decreed that no more he should roam,
So while he reposed on his sick bed of straw,
He dreamt of his dear friends £ft home.
j Chorus.
He saw in his dream, all the faces he loved
He thought his poor mother stood near,
And he listened with joy to his bright little boy
And the daughter he cherished so dear.
His head was burning frightful,
From the fever contracted in War,
As he dreamt of the poor broken hearted wife,
He would see no more.
He dreamt of dear Melbourne the land of his birth,
And the school where he went at Fitzroy,
He thought he was home with his mother once
more,
In the house where he lived when a boy. ,
His sweet little sister, he saw her bright face,
As she kissed him and begged him to come,
With her arms folded round him she sang that
sweet song,
The song that he loved —Home Sweet Home.
Repeat Chorus.
When the morning broke forth, he awoke from his
• dream,
The cannon’s loud roar he could hear,
The bright sun was shining, and close by his side
The Nurse and the Doctor stood near.
“ 1 am dying,” he murmured, for Empire and
Queen,
And the flag that is justly unfurled,
So tell young Australia I died like a man
For England the Pride of the World.
Repeat Chorus.
James Purtell.
Price: One Penny.
Extra copies of this effusion will be posted to
any address in Australia on receipt of stamps for
number required,
Mb. JAMES PURTELL,
The Young Australian Composer of Many
Songs. . ’ " A >
A Card.—l desire to thank my numerous friends
and the general public for the kind and liberal
patronage accorded to all my Songs, .Poems, etc.,
during the past few years, arid it is my intention
(D.V.) to keep putting these Penny effusions
before the public, I sincerely hope to merit the
same patronage in the future as I have in the past.
My next effusion will deal with Death Sentences on
flimsy evidence, and also our lunatic asylums and
the perversion of Justice.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES PURTELL.


PRICES
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING- TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED, and Reduced .
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
C B B
\
tm
58 00
<Sfcs
S JO)
Stio;
5800
©o&narcreed oof lo or bora
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
fCBB
BRIAR
suouuis 0111
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIBT
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOORS FREE.
STAMPS OB POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
dossal JUUcmwtl
WHITE’S
PATENT.
The “TITAN” (Regd.)
Without Attachment.
N.B,—When ordering, the s
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking - suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers Attachment,
and Ladies’ Outfitters throughout Australasia. ” uu Aiwvumcun
size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAIS# W
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Sole Manufacturer,
Mrs. A. WHITE, 1,2 & 3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
supplied through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia and New Zealand.
£3" The Trade
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet. for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for nse in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOUJN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand I<td., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COWS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Sample? and Pamphlet* to ha obtained from QOLLIN & 00., 172 Olarenoe Btreet, Sydney.
THE CONINCHAM CASE.
The Suppressed Book of the First Trial-
Together with the report of the SECOND TRIAL,
with its exciting and dramatic ending and subse-
quent developments.
A Complete History from Start to Finish. —Illustra-
ted with Photos and Sketches of Principals.—A
Fair, Unvarnished Account.
THE BOOK IS NOT FAKED.
The Parties to the Suit.
The Abigail Case.
Private Detectives at Work.
Petitioner’s Story.
The Written Confession.
The Baby in Question !
Co-respondent’s Denial.
“ I’ll be a Protestant in the Morning i ”
The Teachings of Liguori.
Who’s Zero ?
Jury Addresses.
The Second Trial.
Spies Galore !
The Relief of “Burrilda!”
Drugged Colonial.
The Mysterious Mrs. B --
The Final Verdict!
Subsequent Developments.
Price SEVEN PENCE (posted anywhere).
ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA, OR
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney.
Bend Your Consignments of .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
Then obtain the 11 ighest Possible Prices.
Ltd.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET, Stores: PYRMONT.
So l e Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“UAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
oOuMtd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
T>v. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep:; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
BXDeriments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
hrines the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour, who are Failing in n ea ith, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
rumtir Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
narts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will brine happiness arid health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and
will uring rr THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
K
CALL OR WRITE— OWL
CUT
RATE
DKUa STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
We
V?
r*4v
iy/y
fVhen
writing
please
mention
Thb
Bcllbtin
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o'. STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmenc, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention,
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ a. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
antashments 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of .remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. BTEPHENSON, , „ „
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hot>art.
Ist June.
Ellesmere Stakes.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
NEW CASTLE CUP. June 15.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
£
:
GRAND NATIONAL H. July 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£ : :
SILVER CITY C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


/ANGIER’S\
WITH HYPOPHQSPHrrfeS
Cures Coughs
BUILDS UP THE SYSTEM.
IT is foolish to rely upon ordinary cough
mixtures for the cure of a really
troublesome cough. These mixtures
usually contain opiates that soothe and
quiet the cough temporarily, but do not
cure it. They also frequently disturb
digestion and thus do more harm than
good. What is needed is a remedy that
while having a soothing and healing effect
upon the mucous membrane of the lungs
and air passage,', will at the same time
promote appetite, aid digestion, and build
up the health and strength, putting the
system in a condition to resist disease.
Nothing is equal to Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion for accomplishing this result,
and we are constantly receiving reports
from alll over the English speaking woTld,
showing its remarkable power to relieve
and cure coughs and colds and all chronic
lung affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Or all Chemists <fc Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY, N.B.W.
Why not look
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
twenty
years. You
can do it
easily with
Ayer’s Hair
Y igor, for it
gives all that dark
and rich look to the
hair which belongs to
young life.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
You know the story tow good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
hair of a peasant girl, said, “There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “real royal crown”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Yigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling out.
When your hair is rich and. heavy,
and when the closest inspection fails to
detect a single gray hair, you will cer-
tainly look a great deal younger, and
you will be much better satisfied with
yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SVofJ.VJ.IW/
jiojjtevtoag]
M Joioi) Sw9n<o
SaWo<M Jvi vW
j
lo^Vcf
r (W
ladies.
AriDRESH-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“No Newspapers, No Anarchists. A man
can’t get his name up, Hinnissy, by wheeling a
barrer. 80 he goes and kills a King.”— Dooley.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hall-dozen, free, l>>/ post thronyho ut
A ustmlia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on ApplloatiOD
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Atistraliai} WtOal ProVidcot Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cant, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary. _
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IQ»r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILIiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OB SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
& Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&68, King St.,Melbourne
■
■
w
1
l
111
'
■■
i
■
"
WmmM.
m
mm
m
wmmm
mmm,
©ll
m
m
L
JNT.S-
-~X757~. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Manf- c^?^ PBny
193 to 195 Cleveland-strect, Redfern, SYDNiki
ta uarifom Raiiwayobation).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £l ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shalt
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices, bend us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do so, and you pay 15 per
oent more for your requirtments.
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Dolirered at any Wharf #r
N.B.W. Ballwayn, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Poor Man's Prayer.
Protect me, Lord, from these Thy saints, the
sanctimonious few;
Oh ! save me from their clutches when my mort-
gages come due.
Oh ! put me not into their hands —these brethren
long and pale,
Who call this earth a “ vale of tears” and promptly
seize the vale.
Oh ! guard me from the blue-nosed good, who lend
at 10 per cent, .
And take a good five hundred lien for ninety
shillings lent.
Make me instead the debtor of some man with
human taints —
At any rate, protect me, Lord, from these Thy
pallid saints.
Oh ! save me from the sanctified, the too uncom-
mon good,
Who tell us what we shouldn’t do, and preach us
what we should;
Those saints who squeeze a shilling twice and
wear cheap aureoles ;
Wno take our children’s bread and then attempt
to save our souls !
Give me instead a worldly man, with some few
healthy stains
That show he has the common blood of manhood
in his veins,
And heart that swells enough sometimes to over
throw constraints,
But in my need protect me, Lord, from these Thy
hungry saints.
MAORILAND.
The Master Mood.
The moon hath lifted the heart of the sea,
And great is the sweetness thereof:
Oh, great is the moon, and great the sea,
But greatest of all is love.
The stars withdraw from the bridal hour,
The sun shines not in the skies :
Oh, kind are the stars, and kind the sun,
But kindest of all thine eyes.
Exults the sea in the light of the moon,
The moon in the peace of the flood ;
And sea and moon they have filled my soul
With the light of a master-mood.
O thou who sittest so pale and still,
With lips like the reddest wine,
Be thou the moon to the sea —my soul:
Draw thou my heart to thine.
The Sea roars loud when the moon shines not,
And rage at his heart hath he ;
And I will go like a lion forth
If thou smile not on me.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Horse o’ Gold.
Fantasy, Fantasy, fly away !
I’ll mount you; we’ll follow the hurrying Day,
Chase the gold through amethyst lakes,
Burn our bosoms with scarlet flakes,
And leaping over the sunset’s brim
Steal a chord of the young star’s hymn.
Ah, Fantasy, you and I
Stop for nothing on earth or sky !
Charger of Gold, with arrogant feet,
Carry me, serve me !
Let me ride and dream on your haughty hock
Till ive come to the Little Death Track;
Then, Fantasy ! then, ah then,
A bosom of earth, and a horse of black.
Fantasy, Fantasy, fly away !
I’ll mount you : we’ll follow no Gold to-day,—
Turn our ways to some uttermost grove,
Look once more for our Perfect Love,
And calling, calling, into the mist
Hear a voice that the stars have kissed.
Charger of gold, with arrogant feet,
Carry us, serve us !
Let us ride and dream on your haughty back
Till we come to the Little Death Track.
Then Fantasy ! Then, ah, then !
Her passionate arms and her hair of black.
Fantasy, Fantasy, ah, the day !
I mount, and you sadly refuse the way,
Tired or halt, with impotent feet,
Blind and weary of wind and heat, —
Ah, stumbling, sorrowful, deadly hour
When Fantasy falls like a rain-torn flower.
Once, Fantasy ! you and I
Stopped for nothing on earth or sky.
Charger of gold, ivith wayworn feet,
Onward a little !
While I promise and pray on your weary back,
Soon to come to the Little Death Track.
Then, Fantasy ! gladly then
I'll yield you, my steed, for a horse of black.
N.S.W.
LOUISE MACK.


D03DC3-E
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 „ ,, wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
i. Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE HBCy Co. ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
New Lucky BROOCH,
Solid Gold, Gem Set, lls od, Post Free.
Latest Forget-Me-Not Gold BROOCH, 14s.
90 XING-ST.,
SYDNEY.
Please send for
our Illustrated
Slips of Latest
Novelties.
Note. —Kindly
cut out this
Advertisement
and forward
when ordering.
Latest Gem Set Gold BROOCH, 14s 6d.
msmsamm
Solid Gold, set with Pearls and Red or
Blue Stones, 15s, Post Free.
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
m
English Boots at
14/0 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line —Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING- ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
Has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
V
YANKEE DOODLE
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 INCREASE - - 109,397 lbs.
1899 INTCRSASE! - - 173,332 llos
1900 INCREASE - - 228,263 ITos.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY!
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good — For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAIVSPION Gold Leaf, Plug 1 and Cut —Choicest Natural Flavor —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS— 4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONOPOLE— The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OF ALE KINDS
DIXSON A SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1110.
SATT7EDAY, MAY 25, 1901.
Prior 6d.
THE SYDNEY TOWN HALL MEETING LAST MONDAY.
HIS COLONIAL OATH ; THE PARSONS TRYING TO REVIA T E THE SMOULDERING EMBERS.
Rev. Mervyn Archdall, M.A., was received with tremendous applause as he rose to move the first resolution, which was worded as follows “ That this meeting protests against any alteration
being made in the form of the Coronation Oath and Declaration of the Sovereigns of Great Britain, on the following grounds, viz. : —That by the Act of Settlement it is decreed that the Sovereign of
these realms shall be of the Protestant baith; that the aggressive claims and attitude of the Roman Catholic Church are such that it is necessary that there shall be no relaxations of the safeguards
which ensure the continuance of the Protestant succession; that, as the Roman Catholic doctrine of mental reservation permits oaths to be taken in other than their generally-accepted meaning, it is
incumbent on the Sovereign to make his declaration in terms that are not capable of being taken in any other than their ordinary and obvious meaning, and to declare his adhesion to the Protestant
Faith in terms that cannot be misunderstood.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
•• Australia for the. Australians.”
Printed and Published by William MACLEOD, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRTBBR^
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maori!and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
PI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland*
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiik Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xn® Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and aft, Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—any picture which has to be re-drawn—will bs paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MAY 25, 1901.
Colored Labor Legislation— At Once!
The colored laborer in Australia, like the
moon, presents through varying phases one
single face. In different languages and with
many tones he asks the white Australian one
question only : “Is this country to belong
to me or to you ? ” There is no third cate-
gory ; for unrestricted influx of colored
races is not compatible with maintenance of
the white breed and the white civilisation.
Either White or Colored must be Eclipse ;
for in the strife of races Piebald is nowhere
The Bulletin asks the Commonwealth Par-
liament to justify its election by voting
Australia All White.
• * * *
Even the restricted influx of colored
races means social disease in the present,
social danger in the future. For, like the
grave and the barren womb, the employer
of colored labor is never satisfied. Once the
thin end of the wedge is in, you can rely
upon him to drive it home and split our new
nation asunder. Look at America ! Who
would have thought, when the first cargo of
negroes reached Virginia in 1620, that in
less than 300 years the negro population of
the United States would reach eight millions
—8,000,000 of aliens, who cannot be per-
mitted to mix their blood with the blood of
the whites, yet whose birth-rate is greater
than the white birth-rate, and who are
gradually ousting the whites from some of
the former slave-States. Two hundred years
ago—even one hundred years ago—how few
foresaw such national danger from the plan-
tation laborer, the idyllic “ nigger ” ? Can
we not learn from America’s experience ?
Must we iu Australia pursue the old road of
error, stumbling into every pitfall, flounder-
ing through every quagmire, in defiance of
the Past ?
“A little more sleep, a little more slum-
ber,” says the sluggard. “A little more
laborer, a little more time,” says the national
sluggard of Australia the employer of
colored labor who is kept warm between his
Asiatic blanket and his Kanaka blanket. It
is into Queensland that the colored laborer
is coming faster than elsewhere; and his
employer pleads continually for “a little
more laborer ! a little more time ! ” He
never dares to advocate permanent admis-
sion of colored laborers ; but he pleads for
“ an extension of time ” before the dreaded
day of exclusion. As long as 12 years ago,
A. S. Cowley—the gentleman who says
“I love the Kanaka ! ” and who is, perhaps,
the most prominent Queensland advocate of
colored labor—said in Queensland Parlia-
ment (Hansard, June 6, 1889): “An ex-
tension of five years would answer all present
requirements, and would not pledge the
country to anything very great.” Only five
years—in 1889 ! Only five years —in 1901 !
The colored laborer, even by his advocates,
is always put forward as “ temporary.” But
well those advocates know that you have
only to continue “ temporary ” long enough,
and it spells Permanent. Look at America !
* * * *
Yet every Queenslander who has studied
the colored-labor question knows that the
introduction of colored laborers, even tem-
porarily, involves the gravest national risk.
The two most prominent Queensland
politicians in recent years were Thomas
MTlwraith and S. W. Griffith, the latter
now Q. Chief .Justice. More than twenty
years ago, on May 22, 1877, Thomas
MTlwraith spoke these words in Queens-
land Parliament—
We have to deal with a real tangible evil- -the presence
of an alien and degraded race, who are coming more and
more into competition with us every year, and crushing
out the white population. . . '. White labor has
deteriorated in the interior, although the rate of wages
may still be the same ; and this, I contend, is owing to
the fact that the best part of the population has been
thrust out in the face of the black labor. Therefore, I
maintain that it is the duty of the Government . . .
to attack the evil at the foundation, and to adopt this
night some steps by which the House will commit itself
to the abolition of the traffic —at all events at some future
time, if it cannot he done at once. . . . It is a mistake
to suppose that the sugar industry cannot be carried on
without black labor, and if many of the small farmers,
who have been reduced almost to starvation by growing
maize, had been employed in sugar growing, they would
be in a better position than they are now.
Six years later, on July 30, 1883, S. W.
Griffith published this as his opinion—
After a very full consideration of the matter, I am con-
vinced that it is impossible for an inferior servile class,
and a free white laboring population, to permanently
exist side by side with one another.
Nine years later still, S. W. Griffith’s
opinion had not changed ; for, in his mani-
festo to the electors of Brisbane in 1892, he
wrote—
The permanent existence of a large servile population
amongst us, not admitted to the franchise, is not com-
■ patibie with the continuance of our free political insti-
tutions.
And The Bulletin affirms that those are
Chief-Justice Griffith’s opinions to-day ; it
challenges him to deny them—despite the
fact that in 1892 he weakly yielded to the
“extension” plea, and revoked the policy
of exclusion based on the report of the
Royal Commission seven years before.
Here, then, are Queensland’s two most pro-
minent men uttering, with full knowledge,
deliberate opinions adverse to the continu-
ance of colored labor. Even the chief
Brisbane, newspapers, when it suited their
policy to look the facts in the face, have
denounced the coloured-labor traffic. So
lately as 14th May, 1895, Brisbane Tele-
graph wrote that “Nothing that can be said
in favor of Kanaka labor should reconcile us
to the idea of its permanence on these
shores.” And, as for Asiatic labor, even A.
S. Cowley condemns it.
• * * *
And why this unanimity of opinion (when
they think they can afford to speak the
truth) from these men and others who know
most about colored labor ? Because they
have seen the thing go on ; they have looked
beyond the present into the national future ;
and they have looked at America. The
colored laborer is a danger, firstly, because
he is cheap ; and the curse of cheap labor is
that it always tends to swallow up dear
labor, even moderately-paid labor. That is
an economic fact—a commonplace of the
text-books—an induction from a million
observations. Employers’ greed or competi-
tion invariably forces wages down to the sub-
sistence-limit, or as nearly as circumstances
admit. The colored man lowers the subsist-
ence-limit. A Japanese tradesman can sup-
port a family on 10s. to 15s. a week ; a Jap.
laborer does it on less. The regulation
Queensland Kanaka’s wage is £6 a year,
with food (!) and clothes (!!) and lodging (!!!)
estimated to cost about £9 a year more.
And it is these men whose competition the
white Queensland laborer has to face. How
can he do it, without descending to their
level of life ? How can he descend to their
level of life without descending to their
level of civilisation—without losing his
white value, his white attributes, and becom-
ing a kind of “white nigger” himself?
Even the small cane-farmers in Queensland,
supplying mills erected by Government
money, employ colored labor as far as possi-
ble—employ it and indent it. They want
cheap labor just as much as the capitalists ;
they have to compete with the capitalists
who employ the Jap. and the Kanaka.
And every year in Queensland sees
the colored - laborer extend his boun-
daries. He is supposed to be brought
for plantation-work only, but he does
many things beside plantation - work.
Before the rising tide of cheap labor, the
white man and the white civilisation are
every year receding. Thomas MTlwraith
saw that. The Associated Workers’ Union
at Mackay (Q.) saw it when its 1894 mani-
festo affirmed that “ the tendency here is to
reduce the white worker to the level of the
Kanaka.” A public meeting at Ballina
(N.S.W.) in 1891, three years before, had
affirmed the same thing —“ Hindoo competi-
tion reduces the price of white labor to
Hindoo rates.”
* * * *
Further, if Australia is to be a coun-
try fit for our children and their
children to live in, we must Keep the
Breed Pure. The half-caste usually inherits
the vices of both races and the virtues of
neither. Do we want Australia to be a
community of mongrels ? There are now
some 100 Queensland Kanakas married to
white women ; do we want an increase
of such marriages or similar mar-
riages ? No ; for such union is degra-
dation. Brutal whites fall as low
as brutal Asiatics ; but Asiatics have not
white possibilities. Whatever our failings,
we are the heirs of European civilisation ;
and we cannot merge our nationality in a
barbarism, or in an alien civilisation to which
European ideals are incomprehensible.
* • * *
So, if there were question of the ruin of
Australia or the ruin of the sugar industry,
The Bulletin would unhesitatingly prefer
the ruin of the sugar industry. It would
not put sugar before civilisation, sugar
before humanity. But there is no such
question. The proof that white labor can
do all the work of the sugar industry is found
in the fact that white men are doing it—in
New South Wales, and in Queensland as far
north as Cairns. That is not the main
point; for colored labor has to be excluded
because it is a cancer in a white community—
a menace to the white Australian race. And
it has to be excluded now. The State most
concerned is Queensland ; and Queensland’s
wish was signally shown at the Senate elec-
tion, w’hen, on a clear issue, manhood-
suffrage elected all white-labor advocates,
and rejected all notorious colored-labor
advocates. Yet already the Queensland
members of the Commonwealth Parliament,
are complaining of the Barton Cabinet’s
indecision, of the Barton Cabinet’s very
guarded language in the Opening Speech.
And it is whispered to The Bulletin from
Queensland that a very prominent member
of the Barton Cabinet has given a highly
confidential hint to the Queensland Govern-
ment ring and the Queensland financial ring
that colored-labor will be let down as lightly
as possible with “ another extension—a little
more laborer—a little more time ! ”
• * * *
There is no need of indecision. There is
no room for dubious language. There is no
reason for “a little more laborer—-a little
more time.” There is no excuse for waiting
for reports and Commissions—all the in-
genious apparatus of delay—while indents
are being hurried forward, cables sent, re-
cruiting-vessels despatched in a hurry ; and
every effort is made by the colored-labor
gang to get in some thousands more cheap
aliens before the door closes.
* + *
Let the Barton Cabinet move at once—
the first week that Parliament meets. There
is no need to complicate legislation by deal-
ing immediately with the colored population
that is already here. The vital thing is to
stop the comi"g flood. Let the Legislature
pass at once a short Act levying a £lOO poll-
tax on all colored immigrants, as is done in
N.S.W. in the case of the Chinaman, or
applying a stringent education-test ; and let
the Govt, anticipate assent by regulation,
without losing one day. There can be no
question of the Commonwealth’s right to do
this ; nor of the necessity to do it. There
is only one question : Is the Barton Ministry
courageous enough to do it ? And, if it is
not, will the Commonwealth Parliament see
to it ?
The Case of See and Lee.
New South Wales will shortly have a State elec-
tion, and J. See and G. Lee have both laid their
programmes before the electors. The people
know See as the second-in-command of the bad,
shuffling, prodigal Lyne Ministry. It remembers
Lee as an inferior hanger-on of the still worse
Reid Ministry—worse because it had all the bad
qualities of the Lyne Government, together with
a unique capacity for mendacity, and an aggregate
snuffle that the olden Pharisee might have envied.
See is Premier, and Lee wants to be Premier.
See isn’t a wildly-promising Premier, and Lee
has all the ear-marks of a dull and ordinary public
ass; the fact that he never rose to be more than a
stop-gap and a last chance in the very ordinary
crowd which included Garrard and Sunday
BrunkEr points strongly that way. Both See
and Lee promise a reduction of the
membership of the State Parliament (in-
cluding Council Reform of some kind),
an improved system of Local Government,
land-law reform (good old stand-by), and many
other things. On most of these and the other
subjects both men are vague and painfully non-
committal. On almost every point Lee is either
“ prepared to take steps ” or to “ give the subject
his earnest consideration,” or he is going “to
deal with the matter, ” or else he intends to appoint
a commission, or he proposes to “facilitate”
things. See is a little more definite, but not
much.
* * * *
See comes before the public as the representa-
tive of a Government which, with only 20 months
of office, and these sadly broken in upon by
Federal elections and Federal politics, at least
contrived to give the country two great demo-
cratic measures—the Old-Age Pension law and
the Early-Closing law. Also be was a leading
member of the Government which gave N.S.W.
One-Man-One-Vote. Lee represents the party
which promised N.S.W. a Local Government Bill,
and indignantly withdrew it because the House
refused to let it give the Fatman sixteen votes at
municipal elections, and cut him down to four;
which withdrew its Closer Settlement Bill; which
was twice returned with a majority for the special
purpose of reforming the Council and left it unre-
formed ; and which promised a State Bank, a
State note-issue, a good Industrial Arbitration
law, and many other things, and gave none of
them. He professes to represent the gang of
political liars and fakirs who called themselves
Freetraders, and raised over £700,000 a year by
Protective duties, and denied that they did it. On
the other hand, Lee is such a painfully humble
person that he can’t be held responsible for these
things. To hold him responsible would be like
charging the faults of the commander-in-chief to
the ammunition-mule.
* * * •
See represents a Ministry which has the worst
and most shameless record for financial faking
in N.S.W. history —except the record of the
Ministry with which Lee was connected. The
Lyne-See Ministry is spending loan money at
the rate of about 2f millions per annum. It
has made its revenue look about £126,000 more
than it fairly is by taking possession of a large
area of Sydney and spending the* rents as if they
were clear income with no liabilities against them.
When it pays for the resumed property, which it
must do some day, it will also have to pay interest
on the purchase money from the date when it
took the property over, and all these rents
will be wanted to pay the interest with. There-
fore they are really trust funds. But by gaily
“ blowing ” the rents this year, and leaving the
interest to be paid next year, the disgraceful
Lyne-See Government makes things look better
for the present and cheerfully damns the future.
* * * *
Further, the Lyne-See Government, which See
now represents, is the awful crowd of political
jobbers who annexed as revenue the extra railway
receipts created by the rush of people to witness
the Commonwealth celebrations, and didn’t charge
the cost of these celebrations to expenditure.
Neither did it charge to expenditure tne plague
outlay nor the war bills. It hadn’t the front to
pay these items out of permanent loans, nor to
add them to the deficit, so £445,000 of money
actually paid away isn’t mentioned among the
public expenditure anywhere. It only appears
among the trust funds. These are crude, stodgy
ways of frying the public accounts. In any
country where the finances weren’t run on the
principles of the confidence-man and the wheel-
of-fortune spieler, not only would the Lyne-See
Ministry be dead on account of things like these
—it would also be so dead that none of its mem-
bers would be ever likely to see office again. And,
in addition to all this, the Lyne-See Ministry is
using the loan funds for purposes of ordinary ex-
penditure—purposes other than the “ permanent
and reproductive works ” for which they are sup-
posed to be reserved—at the rate of about £850,000
per annum.
* * * *
And, on the other hand, Lee was a member of
the Reid Ministry, which first reduced politico-
financial dodgery to a science—which practically
invented the system of stealing the loan funds for
revenue purposes which did the historical
£700,000 “fake” in 1896—which made the public
finance of N.S.W. a cash Ananias, and a swindle
and a leprosy, and a thing beside which a cork-
screw would look like a straight line. And the
best that can be said for Lee personally is that
he was such a very temporary and obscure mem-
ber of the Ministry that he couldn’t be held per-
sonally liable for these things. Practically Lee is
acquitted on the ground of deficient intelligence.
* * * *
See says nothing about reforming the monetary
methods of the old Lyne Ministry, but Lee says
he is much shocked at See’s doings. Lee declared,
in his address of last Thursday night, that the
building of roads, bridges and harbour works out
of loan moneys and calling them “ permanent and
reproductive works” was a Wrong Thing, and he
said this was the first time—the very first time—
he had heard such things called “reproductive.”
As Lee was a member of the Reid Government
which spent nearly £3,000,000 of loan money in
four years on exactly the same kind of unpro-
ductive jobs, and also called them “ permanent
and reproductive,”—the Government which prac-
tically invented this unsavoury dodge; and as
Lee, before he entered that Government, consis-
tently voted for and supported it and its
road and bridge dodges, the said Lee looks like
either a very weary humbug or a bitter and
unexampled public ass. And Lee, though he was
so hurt at the See Government doing these things,
didn’t offer anything at all resembling a promise
that he would leave off doing them if he became
Premier. He also promised to largely reduce
railway fares, so it seems likely that, in order to
keep up a pretence of solvency, he will have to
boil the public accounts even harder than the See
crowd has been doing, though he probably doesn’t
realise this yet.
* * * *;
Also Lee was justly indignant on the night of
16th May, 1901, because the Lyne-See Govern-
ment hadn’t called Parliament together since its
adjournment on sth December, 1900—a period of
162 days—and called on jthe community to smite
the Cabinet which thus ruled “behind the backs
of the people.” The Lyne-See crowd has cer-
tainly this much excuse : There has been a
Federal election. It was impossible for many
weeks to get Parliament together because half its
members were away canvassing Federal elec-
torates. It was difficult to get Parliament to-
gether after the election because almost every
politician was away celebrating, and waving his
brolly, and uttering wild cheers in Melbourne.
And so many State members have stayed in
Melbourne to be Federal members that there is
no Parliament —only a tatter of a Parliament —
left to call together until after the general elec-
tion. If the tatter was called together, and pro-
fessed to legislate, many electorates would have
no member at all, and the way Lee and his crowd
would curse about the unconstitutional character
of that proceeding may be guessed. Besides, Lee
himself belonged to a Ministry which, without
any such excuse, kept Parliament shut up for 145
consecutive days in 1895-96 and .162 consecutive
days in 1896-97, so Lee’s shocked state seems
quite uncalled-for.
* * * *
Behind See and Lee, the two dull, incompetent,
mud-throwing financiers, stand the main causes of
the trouble—Sydney’s two disastrous morning
papers. For years the Telegraph and Herald
have demanded “the reduction of the public bur-
dens” in order to prevent taxation being levied on
their especial friends, the British and German
Calico Jimmy firms of Sydney. They harried
Dibbs out of office because he taxed these foreign
vampires, and thereby raised about enough income
to keep the State solvent. They whitewashed
Reid’s huge deficits, and denied their existence,
for Reid freed the rich foreign importers of mo3t
of their tax burdens ; and the fact that it was only
done by leaving the State in a condition of prac-
tical insolvency had to be covered up. Few
printed sheets have been so grievous a curse to
any country as the two shoddy organs of Sydney,


and very few people have been such a public dis-
aster as the conductors of them.
» * • *
And if N.S.W. rejects both See and Lee —both
of whom, on their financial policy, any sane com-
munity would reject—its third alternative is the
Labor party, which doesn’t profess to have
any financial policy at all, not even a
bad one. But, on the other hand, it
has never been in office, and it has no
frauds and deficits of its own to its discredit. If
it announced itself now as the party which was
going to absolutely stop deficits, and borrowing
for unproductive works, and the use of loans as
revenue, and promised to make N.S.W. raise
enough money to pay its way, it would get
a lot of support. If it declared that it
would no longer vote for, or connive at,
the frauds of either the See party or the
Lee party, and that in future it was going to play
a lone hand as the Honest party, it would start
a new era in politics. It would be the possessor
of the only political war-whoop that hasn’t been
talked to death. It would be the one refreshing
novelty in Parliament. It would be the one
crowd which had something fresh to say,
and which had a policy that would do good
to everybody. The Labor party is supposed
to be the party of democratic ideals, and if public
honesty isn’t a democratic ideal then it is time for
decent men to go out of the democratic business
That party had sufficient voting power to stop
almost every one of the frauds of the last six years,
and it didn’t use the power ; it hardly even raised
its voice in protest. Still, it didn’t devise these
frauds, and it has plenty of time to swear off.
The See and Lee crowds appear to be past all
swearing off.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bail-way Smash.
While the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are
dancing attendance on the Duke and Dukess, the
little sins of their administration have been finding
them out. The terrible smash at Sydenham was
due to the simultaneous coming home to roost of
several small defects, none of which in themselves
were likely to cause any serious trouble. But
when they all happened together, several people
suddenly found themselves in eternity. The two
latest smashes do not fall so heavily on the Com-
missioners, but still they leave their mark behind
them, The collision at Rydal was due to care-
lessness on the part of the train-running staff,
and partly due to the Commissioners having failed
to provide other checks ; and the railway manage-
ment that does not provide checks for every ordi-
nary contingency is guilty of criminal careless-
ness. At Rydal the Western railway is only
a single line. A heavy goods train was
waiting there to cross another coming from an
opposite direction. The station is on a dan-
gerously steep incline (partly 1 in 75 and partly
1 in 95). That train had waited 40 minutes, and
the air had leaked out of the Westinghouse-brake
tubes, and the grip of the brake became relaxed.
The driver alone was on the engine, the fireman
and guard being on the platform, waiting to re-
ceive the train-staff from the incoming train.
When the brake had become sufficiently relaxed
the weight of the train began to take effect, and
the whole mass of engine and trucks commenced
to slide down the incline towards the track up
which the other train could be heard ap-
proaching. The driver jammed on the West-
inghouse brake, but it was inoperative; all the
air had escaped, and there was no power. The
grade rapidly became one in 50, and though the
driver had reversed the engine, it could make only
the slightest headway against the weight behind,
and as the grade grew steeper it lost even that
semblance of control. The fireman and guard let
down the drop brakes, applied the hand brakes,
and opened the tap of the empty Westinghouse
tube at the rear of the van, and still the train
slid down, gathering speed as it went. Then
realising that they were helpless against gravita-
tion, they dropped off and waited breathlessly
for the smash, that came in a few seconds.
The Commissioners have sacked the driver,
fireman and guard of the train that was waiting,
for not having all the available brake power hard
on. That it should have been is, of course, patent.
But the fact remains that had the engine been fitted
with the steam brake in addition to the Westing-
house, and the crossing place fixed at a station
with a less dangerous grade, the carelessness of
the staff would not have had such tremendous re-
sults. It is merely a matter of money. If Rydal
is a regular crossing-place its grade should be cut
down or levelled up; and every engine in the
service should have something more powerful
than the ordinary screw-brake, in case of the
sudden failure of the Westinghouse. The West-
inghouse is a good brake, but it is not infallible ;
and every time it goes wrong on N.S.W.
railways something expensive seems to happen.
The practice of crossing trains on heavy
grades is bad, and shows slipshod manage-
ment. There ought to be absolutely safe
crossing-places provided at regular intervals.
The Commissioners say that had the train been
braked with the drop-brakes of the trucks and
the screw-brakes of the guard’s van and the
engine, the slipping could not have happened.
That is very good as far as it goes. But what is
required on a single line in a country of heavy
grades is a duplicate apparatus by which a train
can be promptly brought to a standstill on any
grade in about twice its own length. The steam-
brake on the engine won’t do that, but it will act
a lot better and more quickly than the ancient
hand-screw brake with which Pharaoh stopped
his war-chariot when he found it bolting down a
steep place into the Nile.
The Great White Elephant.
The Federal Premier has already allowed it to be
known th at hef eels no very immediate interest in the
idea of taking over the Northern Territory, which is
one of the most disappointing things he has said
up to date. He is coldly considering the matter,
but he isn’t rushing at it. In The Bulletin’s
opinion one of the most urgent duties and most
profitable opportunities of the Commonwealth
lies in the direction of the Territory—the Great
White Elephant of Australia ; but it fully recog-
nises that it has that opinion very much to itself.
And by way of putting as clearly as possible its
views on a large and very urgent matter which
doesn’t seem to seriously interest many people, it
summarises the case once more :
(1) The Territory includes 523,620 square miles (almost
twice the area of New South Wales), of which 739 square
miles have been sold, 291,596 square miles are leased, and
231,285 square miles (almost as much as all New South
Wales) are neither sold nor leased.
(2) It contains some of the best rivers in Australia, and
much good land (as good land goes in this country), and
a great part of it has a good rainfall.
(3) The population, when last reckoned, was 3600
Chinese, 1160 Europeans, and a considerable number of
aboriginals. There h one white inhabitant to 450 square
miles. The debt is about £2,852,000 (£1,013,200 for an
unfinished railway which hardly pays working expenses
and contributes nothing towards interest on cost ;
£452,713 for a very profitable telegraph line ; and the
rest for miscellaneous works and revenue deficits). The
debt is at present lumped in with that of South Aus-
tralia, but if the Territory and its responsibilities are
taken over the liability is £2460 for every white inhabi-
tant.
(4) The annual deficit is something awful.
(5) The whole trouble lies in the fact that the Territory
has no convenient market and no convenient outlet.
Population settled in the south and east of Australia
largely because the original gold-rush was there, and the
north has been neglected. South Australia can’t find the
money to finish the transcontinental railway, or to con-
nect the Territory with Queensland and N.S.M ~ so the
bit of rai 1 way already constructed is almost useless. The
Territory could produce almost anything or everything,
but its products are nearly worthless for want of access
to a market.
(6) It is just in the position that the Great Boulder
mine would be if it belonged to a person who hadn’t and
couldn’t raise the money to sink a shaft and get at the
wealth below, and who could do nothing but hold the
ground and see taxes accumulate on it till they ruined
him.
(7) If it remains in the hands of South Australia, all
that State can do is to lease or sell it for a song,
in huge estates, to land-grab syndicates, in order to raise
a trifle (it is only a trifle at best) toward the deficit.
These syndicates only run a few cattle, or float a few
wild-cat mines, and do nothing to encourage real settle-
ment. It is impossible to g§t an agricultural or pastoral
population until there are railways to carry products to
a market, and S.A. can’t supply the railways.
(81 If the Federal Government takes over the Territory,
and builds the railways, then it will have the earn-
ing’s of the railways (which would probably earn
something when they led to some definite place
and went somewhere); the earnings of the tele-
graph system which is already a paying property ;
231,285 square miles of land (much of it valueless,
by the way, though some is good); and a lien upon the
291,596 square miles of leased land (mostly good), much
of which is already forfeitable for non-observance of the
leasehold conditions, and most of which could be
recovered for closer settlement purposes under a judicious
land and absentee tax law and a system of compulsory
repurchase. Also, any big freehold estates could be
broken up for closer settlement by wise legislation.
(9) And if the Federal Government doesn’t take over
the Territory, it will have to build the transcontinental
line all the same, some day or other, for defence purposes,
but then the increased land values which will be thus
created will go, not into the Federal Treasury, but into
the hands of the big syndicates which are gradually
devouring the country.
(10) And if it takes over the Territory some years hence
the only result of the delay will be that there will be a
bigger debt to take over, less State lands to set against
the debt, and more syndicates to deal with.
(11) The commercial aspect of the question is this : Is
it probable that 522,881 square miles of unalienated
(though partly leased) land is worth £2,852,000 (say £5
10s. per square mile or less than 2d. per acre). This is
saying nothing of the existing railway, telegraph line,
and some sundries, which will be thrown in. Tub Bul-
letin reckons most emphatically that it is.
By way of an alternative proposal, a retiring per-
son named Butters (who is connected with a
Melbourne syndicate which has leased a huge
area of the Territory), and certain friends of
Butters demand that the Territory shall be
made into a separate State. Of course, it
would promptly go bankrupt, with its debt
of £24GO for every white inhabitant, and the
only thing it could do would be to hand itself
over bodily to the syndicate. And the syndicate
and its employes would probably outvote the
other 1160 white inhabitants, and return the Ter-
ritory’s six Senators and five members of the
House of Representatives (presumably these
would be the numbers) on its little own. Conse-
quently the syndicate would not only govern the
Territory, but have a very large say in governing
All Australia as well. And the syndicate wants
the Federal Government, in addition to other
trifles, to build the transcontinental line without
getting the benefit of the increased land-values
which will thereby be created. There is certainly
nothing of a needlessly bashful character about
the good old syndicate.
The Troubles of Preacher Hay.
A curious side issue in connection with the case
of preacher Hay, which lately filled up so much
space in the Sydney papers, consisted in the
powerful remarks made by the Law and the Bench
re matrimonial agencies. Preacher Hay has long
been the tame parson of one of these places where
the cheap and scrambling marriage is put through
with as much dignity as can be expected for the
money. He is also the representative of a more
or less spectral denomination called the “ Inde-
pendent Presbyterian” Church. A little while
ago the Registrar-General removed him from the
list of clergymen authorised to perpetrate mar-
riages, on the ground that he was not a regular
officiating clergyman with a findable congregation
“ within the meaning of the Act.” What the
exact meaning of the Act may be, or how findable
Mr. Hat’s congregation may be, this writer hasn’t
inquired, but when Mr. Hay (whose matrimonial
agency crust had disappeared) appealed, much of
the Crown lawyer’s time was taken up with de-
nunciations of matrimonial agencies in general.
Julian Salomons said, among other things, that
Preacher Hat’s conduct in haunting these places
and putting through the economical ceremony
there was an “awful reflection” upon his holy
calling—which perhaps it was. Also Judge
Stephen suggested that, if allowed to resume
business, he should abjure such agencies, and be
a better parson in future, and he promised to do
so. Seeing that Hay was abolished, for marrying
purposes, because, in the opinion of the Law, he
wasn’t connected with any sufficiently discover-
able sect, all this was, of course, a secondary
element in the case. Still these questions natur-
ally crop up : Does the Law object to matri-
monial agencies ? Does the fact of a parson
marrying people at these agencies tend to make
the Law inquire into his status as a marrying par-
son under the Act, when otherwise it might let him
•slide —in other words, is a marriage agency so
objectionable that its parson is naturally a sus-
picious character who calls for inquiry ? And if
so, does the Law intend to suppress the agencies ?
When the authorities hire an expensive barrister
to point out that any connection with one of these
establishments is an “awful reflection” on a
preacher’s character (present writer doesn’t know
enough about preachers’ characters to have any
opinion of his own on the point) its opinion of the
said places must be pretty bad. Yet these same
authorities allow the agencies to exist, and
Preacher Hat may have thought that when good
men like See and Hassall and O’Sullivan per-
mitted them to remain in the land that was suffi-
cient proof of their respectability. Now that
their absolute want of respectability has been
discovered, at the cost of much painful language
directed at Preacher Hat in a public place, The
Bulletin presumes that next Parliamentary
session will see them wiped out. If it doesn’t
there is a dreadful discrepancy somewhere.
-
Gambling' -with the Hangman.
Sooner or later the Federal Parliament will be
entrusted with the work of making a uniform
Australian Penal Code. When it does this it
should consider something more than the code it-
self ; it should likewise deal with the administra-
tion of it. At present the chief products of the
system are uncertainty of punishment and dis-
agreements of juries. The trouble is that juries
feel their position to be one of vast responsibility
with very little power. A jury is in the position
of a child who sets a stone rolling down a hill.
Once it gives its verdict—say in a capital case—
and starts the State Slaughter Department mov-
ing towards the neck of the accused, it has no
power to stop it. On the other hand, it is weighed
down with the heavy responsibility of endangering
the welfare of the community by letting dangerous
criminals loose to dv further damage to society.
In civil cases the jury has not only the power to
fix the guilt, but the <\ "ree of guilt, by assessing
the amount of damss. In criminal cases,
juries, in Australia, have no such power,
though they have in some other countries.
They can say “guilty ” or otherwise, but with the
punishment they have nothing to do. They must
either set the stone rolling or let it alone. A
jury that brings in a verdict of guilty, with a
recommendation to mercy, has no guarantee
that the recommendation will be acted upon.
In the hands of a skilful and daring counsel this
fact can be made of great use in defeating justice.
It can be hammered into the jury that it is its
Verdict that sets in motion the whole train of
incidents which finally culminates on the gallows ;
and that once it is cajoled into convicting, it has no
power to influence the consequences. Imagine a
dramatic, eloquent lawyer, drawing himself up to
full height, pointing with the finger of conviction
at the twelve, and hissing out something to this
effect: “Gentlemen, remember that it is not the
stons that rolls down the hill, but the individual
who sets it rolling'who is responsible. It is not
the Judge who passes sentence, or the Executive
which confirms it, or the official who signs the death
warrant, or the hangman who adjusts the rope and
pulls the bolt, who is going to slay that person
sitting there behind those spikes, but YOU !
And, gentlemen, for ever more, at every hour and
every place, your mothers and wives and children
will know you for a person, who, in company with
eleven others, slew a fellow-creature. You would
scorn to sit down with the hangman who pinioned
the prisoner, and drew the bolt, but your
children and your friends, when they sit with
you, will be in company with the man who
was the real hangman. When the wife of
each one of you caresses you she will know she is
touching the lips of a thing stained with human
blood—a thing that once broke a human neck,
and, perhaps, if she is imaginative, pictures of
you breaking it may flit through the silences of
the night and haunt the days.” It would be hard
to find twelve men—in a case where the law pro-
vides the death penalty, yet in which something
less than the death penalty seemed called for—
some of whom would not flatly refuse to convict in
the face of such an appeal. And the imaginative
wife is not a fabulous circumstance. She is a solemn
fact, and belonged to a Sydney juryman once
engaged on a celebrated murder case. She was a
highly-strung, nervous woman, and, in the illogical
manner of women, she asked her husband if he was
going to hang the prisoner. He replied that the
jury’s duty was merely to say if the accused was
guilty. The punishment, and the infliction of it,
were matters for which the Judge and others were
responsible. He said he wasn’t going to hang the
accused, but the local Ketch of the day probably
was. Like Pilate, he washed his hands of the
responsibility in a most complete and circumstan-
tial way, but his sensitive wife could not see it.
She went to bed brooding over it, and awoke in the
night, shrieking that she had seen her husband
hanging the prisoner with his own hands. In the
morning she declared that if the prisoner hanged
through any verdict of her husband’s she
would go mad with horror. And that prisoner
didn’t hang. He went free. Whether the case
was a rare one or not it is impossible to say—pro-
bably it isn’t rare. And the country doesn’t want
a judicial system under which murderers shall
have an exciting gamble, and mostly go free, if
they have the means to hire a clever counsel
capable of rousing the jury to a horror of its
unknown and indefinite responsibility. Yet so
long as the law demands life or nothing it will
continue to mostly get nothing. Wherever there
is room for the shadow of a doubt the thoughtful
and conscientious juryman is haunted by the
fact that he can’t find the prisoner guilty without
almost certainly consigning him to a penalty which
is beyond any possibility of repair if it proves to
have been inflicted by mistake, and for which the
wrongly-convicted person can in no way be com-
pensated. So the conscientious juryman (who is
the kind that is wanted) often refuses to take the
responsibility and lets the offender loose. And
the butcher-juryman (who is the kind that isn’t
wanted) hangs him, or anybody else, cheerfully and
isn’t in the least troubled by bis responsibility.
Hobart has a stipendiary “ beak ” who, the othss
day, sentenced a man to 12 months for stealing s»
few shillings worth of goods, and fined a “ push "
leader 40s. for assisting, without the slightest pro-
vocation, to kick a citizen almost to death. This
sort of thing is getting so common that even
Hobart threatens to wake up and protest. How
the average Australian magistrate loves brutality ’.
Even from a purely property standpoint, the m m
who was battered by the “push” suffered more
loss than the other plaintiff ; the damage done to
his clothes by his assailants was more, from a
strictly cash standard, than the damage done to
the other fellow’s goods by the thief. Therefore,
the only possible inference is that the brutality,
approaching very nearly to murder, was regarded
as an extenuating circumstance. The worst in-
centive to crime in Australia is the brutal push-
sympathising magistrate. The next worst incen-
tive is the weak-kneed, push-sympathising Govern-
ment. Some day, perhaps, a sane Parliament will
havethe courage to come down in real earneston the
push-ruffian by making 12 months hard labour the
minimum punishment for unprovoked assault in
company, but it is very long waiting.
♦
There is a certain low-down quality about things
when the police and the J.P. arrange publicly to
lay a false charge against a man, and run him in
on it. That really happened the other day in
Melbourne. Old William Millard, aged 78, and
unable to walk, was hanging about the court
in a cab while the policeman explained things to
his Washup. Old William had just been dis-
charged from the hospital, as cured as he was ever
likely to be till he died. Something had gone
wrong with the schemes for getting him into a
charitable institution, as something often does in
the city of the Ducal Arch. He had an old-age
pension of 10s. a week, but he was quite helpless,
and he couldn’t hire a nurse or keeper out of that
sum. He couldn’t be left permanently in the cab
outside, for the fare was accumulating audibly.
He couldn’t be put in a nice warm gaol for
vagrancy, because he wasn’t quite penniless. So
the court agreed to charge him with “insulting
behaviour,” being perfectly well aware that the
respectful old man hadn’t insulted anybody, and
he was shifted off to gaol on these terms. It
is a beautiful satire on Melbourne’s benevolence
when his Washup and two well-meaning police-
men conspire in open court to bring a false
accusation against a perfectly well-conducted old
man to prevent him being left out in the rain.
♦
Another Sydney Telegraph shout (16/5/’01):
“ The existing tariffs in all the States,” says the Gover-
nor-General’s speech, “ have given rise to industries, many
of them so substantial that any policy tending to destroy
them is inadmissible. A policy of destroying substantial
industries has never yet been propounded by a respon-
sible person in this or any other part of the world. If the
industries that have grown up under the tariffs are of a
substantial character, no one would be less inclined to
wantonly injure them than the intelligent freetrade
elector of the Commonwealth. Freetraders do not pro-
pose to interfere with any industries ; their policy is to
give absolute freedom to both the substantial and the
unsubstantial, so that neither may be taxed for the
support of the other.
The Bulletin hasn’t the least hesitation in saying
that the above is the flattest kind of lie. There
isn’t an alleged Freetrader of any standing in
N.S.W. politics who is game to live up to his
creed and give “absolute freedom” to all in-
dustries, and there never has been. To do so it
would be necessary to abolish the free newspaper
postage by which the Telegraph’s industry is
pampered and propped up; to put another 3d.
excise on local beer so as to put it on a level with
the imported article ; to enormously increase the
tobacco and cigar excise so as to put them on a level
with the imported articles ; to abolish the sugar-
duty, or levy a corresponding excise on local sugar;
and to take the existingproteetivedutiesoff biscuits,
confectionery, and a large number of other things.
Th.. is how they do things in England (or did,
until the new sugar-tax capsized the Freetrade
legend somewhat); but there isn’t one among all
the howling frauds of the N.S.W. Freetrade party
who dares to propose real Freetrade of that pat-
tern. There is much talk in a general way about
the “ bracing atmosphere of Freetrade,” but as to
letting it in on the protected Colonial Sugar Co.
and the protected Tooth brewery and the pro-
tected Herald and Telegraph —well, wild oxen
wouldn’t drag even a mention of the painful sub-
ject out of any notable of the great Dry Dog
party.
■■ --
At the first meeting of the Federal Labor party
in Melb. 23 members were present. Some, like
the Victorians and South Australians, were pledged,
definitely to Protection ; a very few, exclusively
from N.S.W., were pledged, though less definitely,
to Freetrade. The members, of course, were
utterly unable to agree on the fiscal question.
Some couldn’t discuss it because they were pledged,
and the rest said it was no use arguing with men
who were committed already. In the end' they
had to comfort one another with the remark that,
anyhow, there were scores of questions on which
they could agree. But all these scores of things
are not the one test question ; while the very
thing they cannot agree about is just the thing on
which members will have to give a definite “ yes”
or “no.” And if the Laborites are divided on
this test question, George Reid’s troubles, and
the troubles of every other average political
leader, whether they are agreed on others or not !
The sequel of the murders of missionaries in New
Guinea —the so-called “ punitive expedition ”
has resulted in the indiscriminate slaughter of a
couple of dozen or so of savages and the destruc-
tion of certain villages. As the offenders in such
cases nearly always make for the interior, the
chances are that they have entirely escaped, while
many perfectly innocent persons nave been
slaughtered. And what is the good of it all ?
James Chalmers knew—no one better —that
sooner or later he would perish as he did ; and
when he landed in the delta of the Aird, he
knew that he was running into imminent danger.
Chalmers was an enthusiast who carried round
the doctrine of non-resistance and the forgiveness
of injuries into dangerous places. And “ religious ’'
people all over Australia —people who also hold
in holy reverence the doctrine of non-resistance
and forgiveness—howled for blood and murder
and vengeance when Chalmers and his companion
were advanced to that crown of martyrdom which
they, above all things, desired; The idea is, per-
haps, to make the mission business absolutely
safe, and so deprive it of its greatest attraction to
the best men ; but the missioner who ivants to be
safe has missel his vocation.
s
In the cases of persons charged with crime
probably due to obscure cerebral disease, there is
frequently evidence tending to prove that the
morbidity exists more or less in every member of
the family and is probably hereditary. Take the
case of a N.S.W. man recently sentenced to 5
years imprisonment for a criminal offence upon a
young child. Not long ago he was charged with
a similar crime, and he has yet to be tried for
another such offence. Now, there was evidence
that this man’s near relatives were living under
Alas!
One of the features of last week’s Burst of Glory
in Melbourne was a sumptuous and stately smoke-
night at which the Federal Ministers entertained
the Select Press. Federal Premier Barton was
in the chair, with Morning Post Knight on his
right and the editor of the Argus on his left hand.
It was a solemn and impressive function. Barton
proposed the toasts of “The King,” “The Duke,”
“ The Governor-General,” and “ The Press,” and
—as if carried away by the gorgeousness of his
responsibilities—ended a gushingly loyal speech
with the triumphant remark—“l am no Repub-
lican.” There was no necessity for this statement,
but it told magnificently. Is Toby going the way
of all the other Lost Leaders ?
Was it the strain and stress?
Was it the bill of fare ?
Was it the Loyal Press,
Witli lurid eyes aglare,
That sent him rampant there ?
Alas, it matters not:
The fact confronts us here—
He rushed, with haste red-hot,
His loyal fame to clear,
And raise a Tory cheer.
He is no more his own
Master, for good or bad ;
The Shadow of the Throne
It seems, has sent him mad,
And made the Toadies glad.
“I’m no Republican ! ”
He said, that crowd to please :
Australia’s Chosen Man
Is going in the knees—
Prepare his obsequies !
Nay, let us fondly trust,
When York has left this shore,
And over is the Bust,
That Toby —sound at core—
Will sober up once more.
C.R.


THE ROYAL VISIT
PREMO CAMERAS
=2 PERFECT PICTURES
And you can rely upon getting good results of
the festivities if armed with one of our
it®* No. 15 PONY PREMOS.
The Latest and Most Up-to-Date Cameras.
Price, from 255. up to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to
875 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane
THE
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for harge Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manaqbr
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
e
most depraved conditions. One member of th
family had possessed himself of his brother’s wife,
the deserted one consoling herself for a time with
a cousin, and then with his wife’s sister. The
mother was also “ living with ” a man, and
the family history for at least two generations is
much to the same effect. Even taking into
consideration that the culprit had received no
training, educational or moral, there is yet a
strong probability that he suffers from some brain
peculiarity which would render any amount of
punishment absolutely useless as a deterrent.
We are behind the times in this matter ; but our
jurisprudence will ere long have to include the
irrestrainable sexualist amongst those considered
legally irresponsible for their actions.
♦
The Cheap Politician.
The Federal Constitution fixes the rate of pay for
Federal members at £4OO a year until Parliament
otherwise provides, and, as it is impossible to get
the most capable men to work for the salary of a
manager of a little branch bank, the Federal Par-
liament, if it has any sense, will provide otherwise
(very much otherwise) with all possible speed.
Australia has either to raise the pay of its Federal
representatives to about £lOOO a year, or else it
has to hand over the business mainly to rich Tories,
who can afford to work for a nominal wage while
looking after their own interests; or to incompetent
poor men, to whom £2OO a year (the other £2OO is
inevitably absorbed in expenses) is an adequate
wage because they can’t earn more at any other
occupation; or to clever and unscrupulous men,
who will supplement the salary by steals and axe-
grinding. Britain, it is true, gets along with-
out paying its legislators. In Britain, 80
per cent, of the total wealth of the coun-
try is owned by per cent, of the adult
population, and out of its (say) 400,000 very rich
adults, it can easily find a sufficiency of legislators.
The natural result of entrusting legislation almost
wholly to the very rich is that Britain has the
most rigid land monopoly in all Europe, that of
Portugal alone excepted; and even the most
liberal of British Parliaments holds this awful
land monopoly as something sacred. If wealth
was reasonably well-diffused in Britain, instead of
1J per cent, of the population being rich while 98J
per cent, ranges from comparatively poor down to
destitute, then Britain would also have to pay its
legislators. Already the Australian Tory press
is barracking for a system which will
tend to keep Federal legislation (as State
legislation has been kept) in the hands of
the rich man, the incompetent man, and the pur-
chaseable axe-grinding adventurer. Though the
Federal Constitution gives unlimited power to
increase the remuneration of members, the
Sydney Telegkaph, with its usual vast inac-
curacy, denounces any such increase as a “gross
violation of the Constitution.” And in this matter
it and its Tory contemporaries appeal to a very
common public prejudice. When one considers
the calibre of the average politician he appears to
be well enough paid already, and the popular idea
is to wait till he shows signs of being worth more
before giving him more. But the existing man is
never likely to be worth more, and the other kind
of man isn’t likely to be found without adequate
inducement. No country buys a £2OO a year rail-
way commissioner, with a vague half-promise that
he may get £2OOO a year if he proves worth it. It
understands that it would probably get a man
whose whole value was £2OO a year, and that he
might very speedily make £200,000 worth of
disaster. Therefore it buys a £2OOO a year man at
the beginning, and the same principle should be
followed in politics. The cheap ruler doesn’t in-
variably give cheap and nasty results, but the
balanoe of probabilities is always that way. And
out of 125 cheap rulers it is almost certain that 100
will be just the kind one might reasonably look for
at the money.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera Co.
Lyceum “ Night Birds of London."
Queen’s Hall Snazelie.
Criterion ............ “ The French Spy.”
Palace “Message from Mars.”
Her Majesty's........ “Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Rbdfern Wirth’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her, Majesty's. ....... “A Royal Divorce.”
Theatre Royal “ Woman and Wine.”
Bijou “The Power of Wealth.”
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall G.B. Biograph (Last Nights).
Town Hall Trebelli-Dolores Concerts.
George Musgrove’s Grand Opera Co. opened
its second Sydney season, at the Royal, on Satur-
day night last, with Gounod’s setting of the dolo-
rous old tale of Dr. Faust. Grand Opera is a
world in which people carry on the ordinary con-
versations of every-day life in song, and even their
request to the old woman to fasten a refractory
shirt-stud is a solo. They swear in song, their joy
is a burst of melody, and their grief is a wail of
music, and, though it takes a long time to express
the ordinary emotions in that way, it is pictur-
esque. In “Faust,” the world-weary old doctor,
who has neglected to sow his wild oats at the
proper season, bewails his missed opportunities in
doleful numbers. Few things are so sad as the
sins we omitted and the badness we didn’t do.
Though no one can recognise a word Berthald
sings in his somewhat ineffectual voice, the dullest
listener cannot help understanding that the old gen-
tleman in the brown cloak is upset about some-
thing. Berthald looks, on the whole, a small, ineffec-
tive man to conjure up so very large a Devil.
And, on the other hand, Lempriere Pringle looks a
stupendous character to spend his time in pursuit
of the very little soul of Berthald. Pringle’s
towering figure fills the stage all through, and his
Mephistopheles has the dignity of a fallen angel
—not a mere jeering imp. Also, he has a voice
which it is worth going far to hear, and his con-
ception of the character is excellent. The Prince
of Darkness shouldn’t be thin and shrill, with the
manners of an angry police-court solicitor in a
dirty paper collar. Pringle understands this and
makes him a gentleman. He can be best summed
up that way.
• • • •
Madame Slapoffski’s impersonation of
Marguerite emphasises very strongly the moral
danger of moonlight and jewels. When Mar-
guerite enters the garden she looks somewhat like
a somnambulist, and one cannot help being im-
pressed with the idea that a little vice would rub
off some of the mawkishness and be a decided
improvement. Madame Slap’s Marguerite, who
may be called Slapguerite to distinguish her from
other people’s Marguerites, is almost impossibly
innocent and unsophisticated in the early stages of
the play. But later, Madame Slap puts her whole
soul into the tragedy, and she has a considerable
amount of soul when the occasion presents itself.
She and Lempriere Pringle are the only people
who leave a very enduring impression behind, and
Pringle leaves the largest impression. It is ques-
tionable if any other Mephistopheles that Sydney
has seen gave more general satisfaction. Law-
rence Mooney makes at least a respectable Valen-
tine, and Agnes Janson’s Siebel is a very fine
piece of work. “Faust” will probably re-appear
later in the season, but by the time this gets into
print the co. will be busy reviving “Lohengrin,”
“ Tannhauser,” “ Carmen,” and other trifles. In
fact, the succession of plays goes so fast that it is
hardly worth while attempting to keep an eye on
them. The present attempt is something extra,
by reason of Pringle’s Mephistopheles.
** * *
Tony, the sacred bear of India, is adver-
tised on Sydney Empire programme as presenting
“ an imposing appearance when standing erect on
his hind legs, ” and considering that the majority
of the human species fail to look imposing under
these circumstances, this attribute alone redounds
greatly to the holy one’s credit. Tony also plays
at see-saw, and walks a globe up and down a
plank, or revolves two globes among his pretty
black paws while lying on his back. But the only
occasion on which he docs not pause now and then
to utter ungentlemanly remarks to his keeper is
at supper, when he is invited to drink a bottle of
something to the very last drop ; and Tony
manipulates for that drop till he gets it. The
Lester Bros, perform trapeze acts over the heads
of the audience, thus giving their patrons a chance
in _ the slaughter that may occur some day.
Miss Ivy Fulton reminds Tommy that the nation
will look after the little things he forgot to attend
to personally—a series of remarks which by this
time may be regarded as a biting satire. The rest
of the entertainment proves that Ben. Fuller’s
variety show is sufficiently various to deserve its
name;
* * *
Thanks to the talent of Snazelle and the
punctuality of the man behind the scenes who
makes the water swish and the cannon bang just
at the right moment, “Our Navy” has been
arousing steady interest in the jewel-like theatre
opposite Sydney Lyceum. A picture of the
Queen lying in state has been added to the others,
and King Edward opens Parliament in the snow
and fog to stately music from an invisible source.
Our late Sovereign has died and our new one
opened. Parliament several times already in this
world’s history, and as the Cin. has settled down
to stay during the coming centuries, it looks as if
all our entertainments in this line are to be
clogged by Royalty and its various deaths and
burials. Snazelle moves his show on Monday to
the Queen’s Hall.
** * *
On Monday night Hawtrey will re-open
in the Palace with the “Message from Mars,”
and a curtain-raiser, entitled, “The Ivy Leaf,”
recently perpetrated for the occasion by Bernard
Espinasse.
** * *
“Florodora” has evidently struck this
continent permanently. Sometime during the
present week it reached its 150th performance in
Melbourne and Sydney, and still the people pour
into Her Majesty’s to hear Gilfain’s many girls
declaim, “I must love somebody, and it
might as well be you ! ” and to watch the vagaries
of Professor Tweedlepunch and the lost Dolores.
A No. 2 Florodora Co. is being formed to raid
Westralia, with Cecile Englehart as leading lady,
but it will suffer sadly for want of the one and
only Lauri as Tweedlepunch. In the meantime
this paper continues to marvel at the taste of the
world, which makes such a success of “Floro-
dora,” and is only coldly polite to the more
brilliant “Rose of Persia.” It may have men-
tioned this before, but it feels sufficiently aston-
ished to repeat the statement.
*# * #
“ The Night Birds of London,” at Sydney
Lyceum, has many discrepancies besides the
small boy who keeps the lost will so successfully,
first in the pocket of his night-shirt, and later in
the ragged garments graciously allowed him by
Bill the Slogger. In fact, his discrepancies
multiply at a fearful rate on extra inspection.
We note, for instance, that London houses are
generally built with convenient steps down from
the roof, and though this is handy in case of a gas-
explosion, it must be rather useful for the mid-
night burglar. There is nothing to steal in this
house certainly, except a child, but as the stage
infant is generally a valuable asset, and is
frequently burgled along with the jewellery case,
the changing of a homestead into a staircase may
be regarded as an architectural blunder. In this
play most of the people are married two or three
deep, and the heroine is continually in a state of
expecting the good husband and getting the bad
one, or expecting the Stolen Infant and getting
the husband—the bad one—again. She also
appears in her night-dress, and the pronunciation
of her name varies as much as her clothes. The
play ends in the usual way with the hero explain-
ing to the casual crowd which collected to see the
fire that he is heir to his estate at last, while the
poverty-stricken humorous man receives notice in
the middle of the night that he has also come into
a property. In the last act of a big melodrama it
practically rains property.
** * *
To-night (Saturday) Madame Belle Cole
and her Imperial Concert Co. commence their
Australian concert tour in the big Centennial
Hall, Sydney. There are a lot of shows in the
city, but there is still room for a good concert co. ;
and the Imperial C.C. has a strong cast. Madame
Cole, the contralto, has been in this country be-
fore ; and brings with her Mdlle. Virginie Cheron,
Avon Saxon —a big Canadian baritone, late of the
Carl Rosa co., and a young Sydney violinist in the
person of Raimund Pechotsch, who was born at
Waverley in 1888. Madame Rudyini, the accom-
panist, is also a Sydney woman. This writer has
discovered that there are a number of people born
in Sydney with fearful and wonderful names.
** * *
The story of the Missing Document of
great national importance is still being told at
Sydney Criterion, and the various people who are
all trying to find one another out still look care-
fully round tho stage before mentioning things
that don’t matter, and then blurt out really im-
portant fac.'. < when several of the enemy are
obviously listening. Charles Holloway acts well
as the chief of the Russian police, who grunts and
grumbles in general, but is very respectful when
anyone mentions England. On the stage,
foreigners become very humble, even in their own
land, when a casual stranger remarks that Eng-
land has its eye on them.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus, as already faintly indi-
cated in these columns, opens in Sydney this
(Thursday) evening.
« » *
In Harry Rickards’ French Parlor a nice
little girl with a pleasant face sings a song of a
firl and her motor-car, and the infantile Baby
’arkes does a humble ditty about a water-melon
party. Miss Rosie Aquinaldo is back again, in
green all spangled over with silver stars, and her
limbs and figure twine inextricably and wonder-
fully till she finally whirls herself violently round
her own head and sits on her hair. The new
arrivals are Austin Rudd, James Wallace and
Frank Latona. The latter is the much-advertised
Musical Tramp, and his dummy donkey seems an
intelligent animal. Frank himself is a sort of
handy man, who gives operatic selections on a
one-stringed instrument that was born of a ’cello
father and violin mother—and gives them very
well. His trombone solo seems to have an ex-
hilarating effect on the donkey and the audience.
All things considered, he is a valuable man to
cheer up the desert places between drinks.
** # *
Caliban, the knife-grinder, is still danc-
ing attendance on the ladies at Melbourne Royal,
and the gruesome chuckle of that brick-red citizen
is a principal support of “Woman and Wine.”
Arthur Styan—as The Bulletin forgot to men-
tion last week—resumes the matted, ruddy mane
and the vindictive hunch of old friend Caliban.
Also he wears the same blue blouse and blood-
shot eye that distinguished him a while ago,
but the deformity in his off hind leg looks
wickeder than ever, and his capacity for pro-
moting hatred, murder, and sudden death seems
to be further developed. Altogether, Styan is a
delightfully genuine fiend. Walter Baker’s lapses
into liquor, and his stern determination to make
things unpleasant for the woman who broke him
up, are likewise convincing. Crowded houses
have seemingly worked a considerable improve-
ment in the Bland Holt co. Miss Harrie Ireland
lets herself go vigorously in the character of
the Woman with a Marble Heart, and though
her marbleness is a little too palpable and
her walk off the stage sometimes suggests
springs in her boots, Miss Harrie promises to
play Miss Elizabeth Watson’s parts with capital
effect before her next birthday, whenever that
may be. The Bland Holts, together with their
live baby, and the Japanese ballet, the steeple-
chase and a number of other matters, will tend to
maintain “Women and Wine” in a state of
affluence till further notice, notwithstanding the
drama’s preposterous latter end. Most dramas
terminate in a blaze of absurdity, but the climax
of Bland Holt’s latest entertainment is received
with exceptional scorn.
** * *
“Melbourne Bijou, the late domicile of
Rickards’ frivolities, has been confided to the
direction of the Dampiers, and on Saturday night
the new season opened with “ The Power of
Wealth,” which odd, funereal drama happened
first in Sydney in August last. It is more or less
adapted from Marie Corelli’s story of an Italian
count, who got interred alive, and subsequently
shoved his way through his various coffin lids,
and made a burglarious escape from the
family vault, and returned, under a noble alias,
to the palace where his widow was fooling
with another fellow. The Count’s hair grew
white in the awful night when he was pushing
and clawing himself back to everyday life; there-
fore the lady doesn’t quite recognise him as the
husband she had planted. Nobody quite remem-
bers him, although he speaks in the unmistakable
tones of the original Dampier, and behaves in the
weird, peculiar manner of one who could a tale
impart. Having re-married his widow, and found
her no better than before, the revengeful, white-
haired Lazarus takes the lady down to his vault
and shows her a big box of rubies previous to sen-
tencing her to a life-long agony among the crum-
bling bones and evil smells of that cool retreat.
A severe course of conversation leads up to this
gloomy crisis. The entrapped victim remarks
casually that rubies resemble drops of blood, and
then the word “ blood ” inspires her to knife the
baleful Lazarus, who seemingly dies once more.
At this the lady laughs “Ha! Ha ! ” with great
violence until an earthquake comes along. The
family vault falls in upon her sin and wickedness;
soft pieces of masonry, like puddings, strike the
stage and bounce therefrom, and one long, flabby
strip of earthquake is understood to be crushing
the faithless Nina to death, what time her stabbed
husband recovers his self-possession. In the fifth
act Count Lazarus appears in a monk’s raiment
and talks gloomily of redeeming his soul—the soul
he had pawned in his trance. But a loving cheeild
calls him Father, by which means he acquires a
new interest in life, and his lost spirit troubles
him no more. He lets it rip.
• * * *
There are many moments in this loquacious
drama, and some of them are sufficiently im-
pressive. Dampier’s slow, incisive elocution
achieves a solemn effect at times when he speaks
of death and burial. Also, Miss Lily Dampier is
not afraid to stretch out her arms and express her
feelings in a large buxom manner which has
caught a little fury from Nance O’Neil. In the
minor part of a ruminative clothes-dealer, George
Buller is good, as usual. He curdles his customers’
blood by telling them they are standing in homi-
cidal boots, or sitting on chairs of ill omen. But
the unimpressive portions of “The Power of
Wealth ” are long and frequent, and the limited
audience on Saturday night didn’t promise a
brilliant success.
** # *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) there was an
interval to be filled between the departure of
Nance O’Neil and the arrival of Italian Opera on
June Ist, and the management is now marking
time with “ A Royal Divorce.” The present pro-
duction seems rather suggestive of its having
started on a Friday. The four tableaux which
commended the “Divorce” to favor at the
Princess’s are less satisfactory pictures when
they come under closer view. Cecil Ward,
as the little conqueror in the historic great-
coat, likewise suffers somewhat from odious
comparison with a heavier personality ; whilst the
Josephine of Miss Linda Raymond has a more
gay and festive air than circumstances warrant.
Yet, inasmuch as the previous Bonaparte and
his first wife were never taken very seriously, the
difference between them and their successors
doesn’t hurt anybody’s feelings. Lissant,
George Majeroni, Plimmer (as Augereau) and
several other people, including some nice girls
in strange bonnets and an airy French ballet
are gaudy figures in the proceedings. Miss Rose
Musgrove is a conspicuously fresh and clever
Stephanie—so clever that the present scribe, re-
membering the young lady’s quiet, pathetic Mimi
in “The Only Way,” begins to suspect her of
being a born actress. And the show derives a
particular Melbourne interest from the first
appearance on the local stage of Mrs. John
Sandes, wife of a respected Argus verse-writer
and daughter of Graham Berry. Mrs. Sandes
looks handsome in the unpopular character of
Marie Louise, and is likely to earn judicious com-
pliments from this scurrilous journal when rhe
nervousness has abated.
** * *
Rickards’ new Melb. Opera House, built,
it appears, on the lines of the Palace Theatre,
Sydney, came to light last Saturday, without
much preliminary flourish of trumpets, or any sort
of inaugural pomp. A fine, roomy house. The
Eillars that are a decorative nuisance at the Palace
ave been dispensed with in this case, and the
color-scheme is not distracting to the eye.
In short, the Opera House and its rich
furniture and fittings are all that was
expected, likewise more besides. The open-
ing programme makes a new and blessed
departure in the first part. The people who used
to sit around on chairs, gazing coldly and stiffly
at the auditorium, are now required to walk about
and make an animated background whilst the
“turns” are happening. As for the second
Eart, it is naturally all right. Marie
iloyd reveals an astounding hat to Mel-
bourne for the first time. Mme. Bobe beats the
Xylophone as no previous madame or man
has ever castigated that effective instrument
within the memory of the oldest inhabitant.
Rickards sings a song; also his young daughters, in
charming pink raiment, dance very gracefully
and warble a nice little warble in front of a fetch-
ing coon ballet. Moreover, Alec. Hurley, Mary
Lynne and Irene Franklin are there to add im-
portance to the dawn of the new Rickards era.
** * *
Mdlle. Dolores re-appeared at Melb.
Town Hall last Saturday in a white gown with
black fixings, and sang to the hearts of a large
audience, who had mostly loved her before she
changed her name. All other changes in
Dolores, nde Trebelli, are for the better if possible.
She is a beautiful singer and a fascinating artist.
She educates her public in the way they
should think about songs and singing, but the
culchaw imparted by Mdlle. is a kindly, unassuming
influence —not a bit like the culchaw whose voice
breathes o’er Bayreuth, and can’t breathe in any
other direction. Further Dolores concerts, which
include a pleasing pianist, Mr. Newell, in the
entertainment, will be given on dates not yet
specified, and for whatever date the prima-donna
announces a repetition of “The Shadow Song”
she may expect a large-sized crowd to hear her do
it. Always a great vocalist, Trebelli — i.e.,
Dolores—is positively immense in “ The Shadow
Song.”
** * *
Next lime Nance O’Neil goes to London—
say twelve months hence—she will appeal to the
female mind of the metropolis in a spectacular
play written to order by S. A. Mills, of the Bul-
letin. The subject is classical, and the name-
part seems to be better suited to Nance’s bossful
method than any of the characters in which she
challenges comparison with actresses of wider
range. Anyway, her heart is set upon it, whilst
the amusing Rankin vows that he sought in vain
the ideal heroine of this particular ancient story
for 25 years ere Providence introduced him to
Nance. By the way, there is no classical reason
why the heroine aforesaid should turn the scale at
15st.; but, on the other hand, it is open to Nance
to establish a precedent in the matter. The story
dates so far back in the dim past that nobody can
fix a limit to the leading lady’s avoirdupois and
force of declamation.
The M.L. Grovt. is making very stringent
rules under the new Health Act. When a person
suffering from an infectious disease has been living
in a room, the wall-paper must be taken down and
the room thoroughly disinfected. Bodies of those
dying from such infectious diseases are to be
wrapped in sheets dipped in corrosive sublimate,
and buried in quicklime, or, where possible,
cremated.


“ENGLAND'S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
The Cobar Chesney mine, Cobar, bave lately
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany for a pair of powerful winding engines to haul from
2000 feet. These engines are rapidly approaching com-
pletion, and will he delivered about first of next month.
The same firm of engineers have also supplied the Occi-
dental mine, Cobar, with a handsome pair of winding
engines, as well as a boiler. This machinery was delivered
in very quick time and should give great satisfaction.*
* * * *
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 19th October, 1900, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
Society can justifiably point to the adequacy of its
reserves, which are of a magnitude and a character to
command the fullest confidence.”*
* • * *
The Mount Drysdale Gold Mining Co. has
recently installed a rock-drilling plant, which should be
the means of largely increasing the output of this
property. Following the lead set by the Great Cobar
Copper Mining Syndicate, and other mines in the district,
it has adopted the Ingersoll-Sergeant type of drills and
compressor. The boiler is of the most modern return-
tubular pattern, and the whole plant was supplied by
Parke and Lacy Company, Limited, the Ingersoll agents.
» * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* » *. »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Yanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Ooolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. -Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * «
Curtin-Davis Co. (Tas.) : “Four tribute parties
are working in the levels driven by the co. Occasionally
rich shoots of fahl ore have been met with, but, as a rule,
the veins are short, and cut-out in hard country.” How
refreshing the truth sometimes is, but how seldom it is
told, except of a mine that is being worked on tribute ?
When tributors start to mine, lying for the co. usually
ceases.
* * * *
Hercules (Tas. ): Said to have entered into a
contract to ship 10,000 tons of ore to Dapto, the first con-
signment of which has given a profit of £3 per ton. If
this average profit can be kept up, much better to con-
tinue shipping ore than monkeying with a sulphide pro-
cess which has been long promised to this and the Mt.
Reid mine, and never fulfilled to date. The time will
come when a man with a new sulphide process will not
only carry his life in his hand but will do a public
service by losing it occasionally.
* * * *
The old Durham mine, on the Etheridge, so
much messed up by the Bull co. that mismanaged it, is to
have another chance. This time some real good Croydon
and Georgetown mining men are taking a hand, amongst
them being Karl Karius (the Etheridge king), Fred Cuth-
bert (the lucky and plucky Croydon mining magnate),
and Peter Jackson (a canny Croydon Scot, likewise store-
keeper). A development co. is to be formed to open up
and prospect the property.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. tyarkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per pent,
pure), Bleaohing Powder, Mining Requisites.
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Thomas M. : There is no remedy. A fool of
a law makes the granting of any surrender value quite
optional. At one time that same institution gave no
surrender values whatever.
* « * *
‘ ‘ Draftsman ” : It is good enough for a rich man
to speculate in, but it isn’t good enough for a poor man to
put all his savings in. That kind of stock is a gamble.
* • • *
The Australian Mutual Provident Society:
Premiums, in-
cluding con- Interest, Total Added to
sideration for &c. Income. Funds.
Annuities.
1893 .. £1,272,171 .. £669,779 .. £1,941,950 .. £626,138
1894 .. 1,270,835 .. 699,654 .. 1,970,489 .. 480,654
1895 .. 1,311,585 .. 698,259 .. 2,009,844 .. 727,372
1896 .. 1,333,241 .. 696,433 .. 2,029,674 .. 565,927
1897 .. 1,374,296 .. 706,270 .. 2,080,566 .. 751,039
1898 .. 1,431,570 .. 720,607 .. 2,152,177 .. 699,471
1899 .. 1,510,689 .. 732,955 .. 2,243,644 .. 895,691
1900 .. 1,597,094 .. 767,122 .. 2,364,216 .. 955,104
The income and the amount added to the fundsare both the
largest on the Society’s record. The total assurance fund
is now £17,029,845, an increase of £5,701,396 in the past
eight years. And expenses have been reduced materially
as compared with the rates for 1899. This is the record
for the past eight years, depreciation of furniture and
improvements to office premises being included :
Expenses as compared with Total Income.
1893 .. £177,062 =£9 2 4 per cent.
1894 .. 165,027 = 8 7 6 „
1895 .. 170,452 = 8 9 7 „
1896 .. 183,561 = 9 010 „
1897 .. 182,258 = 8 15 2 „
1898 .. 199,793 = 9 5 9 „
1899 .. 225,852 = 10 1 4 „
1900 .. 214,681 = 9 1 8
As compared with last year (when expenses were swelled
by the payment of a Jubilee bonus to the Society’s
officers) the rate shows a large reduction. But even in its
worst years the A.M.P. remains, without exception, the
most cheaply-managed office in Australasia.
* • • *
Interest receipts, on the other hand, show that
the percentage realised on the investments is still grow-
ing less, which is also the case with all other Australasian
offices. Interest earnings for 1900 are £752,922—equal to £4
10s. lid. per cent, on the average amount of the life
assurance funds, or £4 9s. 7d. per cent, on the total assets
(life assurance fund and reserve for depreciation of securi-
ties). This compares with some previous rates as follows :
Interest Bealised on Average Funds.
1893 .. £5 13 6 per cent. 1897 .. £4 17 0 per cent.
1894 .. 511 10 „ 1898 .. 414 10
1895 .. 5 5 2 „ 1899 .. 411 10 „
1896 .. 5 0 5 „ 1900 .. 4 9 7 „
It is certainly a great slump, though it looks worse than
it really is. If the A.M.P. instead of keeping a reserve of
£245,264 to meet “possible depreciation of securi-
ties,” and keeping, presumably, that amount of in-
flated values standing among its assets, would write
down its assets by £245,264, its interest earnings as men-
tioned above, would be Is. 4d. per cent, better than they
are. Meanwhile, the A.M.P. makes good preparation for
facing the drop. Its estimates are now based on the
assumption that its investments will yield £3 10s. per
cent., so it has really £1 os. lid. per cent, margin. And,
with a caution which can’t be too much commended,
£90,255 is set aside as a provision towards reducing the
interest estimates to 3 per cent. Even after doing this,
the surplus available for division reaches the splendid
figure of £537,895 —the largest sum which the A-M.P. has
divided in any one year up to date.
* * * *
Most of the changes observable among the
assets are distinctly for the better. The item, “ Proper-
ties acquired by foreclosure, £604,100,” is £20,000 less
than it was a year ago, so it would appear that the dead
stock of land and houses is becoming saleable at a
better figure. The Society’s holding of State securities
(£2,533,231) shows an increase of over £300,000, and an
increase in this eminently safe form of investment is al-
ways commendable. If Australia goes on borrowing as
it has been doing, the time will certainly come when
these securities will not be eminently safe, but The
Bulletin still hopes that a lucid interval will arrive in
this country’s politics. And there are no “ deferred in-
stalments of annual premiums ” or like dubious assets on
the list. Taking everything into account the A.M.P.’s
balance-sheet for 1900 is the best in its record, and the
progress shown is most gratifying.
* « * •
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Building,
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) publishes another
of those painfully indefinite balance-sheets for which it is
remarkable. So far as all available evidence goes, the in-
stitution with the very long name is perfectly sound, but
its mode of presenting its accounts is exasperating. It
habitually pays 9 per cent, per annum to paid up and 8
pey cent, to contributing shareholders. The balance-sheet
never, by any chance, shows the amount of profit earned.
This year it is mentioned casually in the report that the
net profits were £7556, and as the balance carried forward
is £3392 it may be inferred that the dividends come to
£4164. Even this scanty amount of information, how-
ever, isn’t always available. The balance-sheet states
that the year began with a balance of £2209, and ended
with one of £3392, after paying, among other things,
£9839 as “ interest to depositors, shareholders and bank,”
and £35 “credited on investing shares.” Interest to
depositors and bank is an item of working expenses, and
after it has been debited the profit should be clearly
shown, and the payments to shareholders should come
out of that profit. The most definite estimate that can
be made of the position of the E.P.8.8.L. and S.I. is em-
bodied in the following statement of its total reserves at
different dates after payment of dividends
Total Total
Ppqprvpci Rpflprvpfl
March 1895 .. £29,003 ’ March, 1899 .. £28,339
1896 .. 30,438 „ 1900 .. 27,068
” 1897 .. 28,254 „ 1901 .. 26,682
” 1898 .. 27,313
The Institution, in addition to its substantial dividend,
pays considerable bonuses now and then, and between
dividends and bonuses it has contrived to reduce its
reserves considerably since 1895. It has now total share-
holders’ funds amounting to £97,629 (capital £70,947 and
reserves £26,6821, and, on the other hand, it owes £95,283
to depositors, which is a pretty heavy load to carry, all
things considered, for an institution with practically no
liquid assets.
* » * •
Thus Magistrate Beetham (M.L.): “It is in
the interest of the public to keep sharebroking as clean
as can be. If we don’t take care we shall soon have it in
the same condition as horse-racing.” Beetham isn’t an
up-to-date man. Some of the dredging swindles lately
perpetrated in Southern M.L. were far more atrocious
than the greatest turf ramps ever chronicled in that pro-
vince. The fear is that horse-racing may yet degenerate
to the level of sharebroking—not the other way about.
• * * •
The Critic (London) recently delivered a
“ Lenten Sermon ” on financial journalism of the day,
and selected the Financial News and London Truth for
some vigorous English. When Hooley was on the high
tide, the public did not expect to discover that the
owner of the Financial News had actually been in part-
nership with him at the time he glorified Hooley’s wares.
Also, it was found that, after “ Moses Moss ” had given
rotten concerns columns of puffs in Truth, he received
from the promoters big cheques for “ services rendered.”
The Critic says the public has been defrauded for years
bv these parasites. Of Labouchere the Critic says he
was a wealthy man before he founded Truth and added
to his fortune bv swindling the public, first through the
city column of the World and afterwards through
Truth. By his partner “Moses Moss” promoters, it is
openly declared, are blackmailed right and left, and the
paper’s readers are put into swindles by the score. The
cheque-books of Whitaker Wright, Frank Gardner and
other promoters could probably unfold a tale which would
cause a sensation greater even than that of the Hooley
disclosures.
* m • •
Dear Bulletin. —For pure cussedness and
malice aforethought, I opine the Australian coastal-
steamer about takes the cake. Lately had an interest in
the S.S. Blank, of the Blanky Dash line, which, leaving
Adelaide on Wednesday was timed to reach Sydney on
Monday. Bang up the local office Sunday afternoon and
was told she was expected “ sometime Monday morning.”
In Sydney D.T. on Monday I found under “ Melbourne
Shipping” : “ S.S. Blank sailed Saturday.” Then,
happening to look higher up the same par, I saw : “S.S.
Blank arrived Sunday.” Having thus learned that the
ship had departed the day before she arrived, I rang up
again on Monday afternoon, and was told to expect her
early Tuesday morning. More ’phone Tuesday afternoon,
answered that she’d be in first thing Wednesday morning.
Wednesday afternoon —again no. news of vessel, which
ultimately turned up on Thursday morning—2£ days late
in a 5-days’ trip. No stress of weather either. Quite the
regular thing. Apropos, when intending to leave Sydney
by a boat of this line, billed to depart, say, at 12.30 p.m.,
I generally stroll down between 5 and 6 p.m., and never
missed a boat yet! Bearing all of which in mind, is there
any doubt about the transcontinental railway being a
brilliant success ?
* * * *
“Alia”: Re the paper manufactory it is pro-
posed to establish in N.S.W. if a suitable site can be
found. Considering the great variety of raw material in
the way of fibres, grasses, wood, etc., used in the modern
making of pulp, what is wrong with a site on the Clarence
Biver ? Every year thousands of tons of corn-stalks and
husks and cane-trash are burnt off or ploughed in. This
could be obtained cheaply for working up into paper,
while the farmer would have a small return for what is
now practically a waste-product. Also, on the river
banks in the innumerable adjoining lagoons and lakes,
there are enormous quantities of reedy grasses that
should be capable of being worked up into the rougher
makes of paper. There is also the advantage of cheap
water-carriage both for the raw material and manufactured
article.
* * * *
Eleanora (Hillgrove) N.S.W. : “This scheme
for treating the co.’s 100,000 tons of tailings is on an ex-
tensive scale. These tailings are known to he worth £1
per ton as they lie in the dump.” It has been the prac-
tice to lie about them for many years. Possibly their
metal contents average £1 per ton. The fact that they
are base because of the percentage of antimony is always
carefully concealed, though it is well-known to those who
have hitherto made attempts to treat them, and to others
who have sampled the dump and then abandoned the
idea. There may be some way of making sdwt. antimony
tailings pay, but it is not known to the writer. Many pro-
cesses have been tried, but all have failed, and it is
almost hopeless to expect any system but concentrating
to succeed. Many thousands of tons of Eleanora tailings
have already been concentrated, and as a result the
dump has been impoverished.
Pambula Mines (a N. S. W. Bull-owned concern):
“ Cleaned up last night a crushing of 140 tons for 330 z.
gold. Tailings assay 28dwt. per ton, and are being kept
for cyanide treatment. Will start on Monday crushing a
parcel of 10 tons from Belle mine.” The taking out of
less than sdwt. and leaving 28dwt. behind is an interest-
ing feature. And when will the battery finish crushing
that 10 tons ?
* * * *
G-irilambone Copper - mine (N.S.W.): Still
being worked in a hand-to-mouth way, producing less
than 100 tons of ore per week and shipping away occa-
sionally small lots of concentrates and picked ore. Much
said about prospects, but the question as to whether the
mine is paying or not remains unanswered.
* » * *
Brown’s Creek G.M. Co. (N.S.W.): Another
application for suspension of labor - conditions for six
months. The Warden granted three months, intimating
that if the co. was not prepared to work the mine it
should remove the machinery and let others do so.
• * * 4r
To find out how the wholly-unsatisfactory con-
ditions surrounding opal-getting and selling at White
Cliffs can be improved, N.S.W. Govt, has agreed to
appoint a Boyal Commission —of three salaried officers of
the Mines Department. These individuals have to arrive
at an unbiassed opinion about how their own Department
and their own bosses have muddled things at White
Cliffs, or else they have to acquit themselves without a
stain on their own characters, and find that there is noth-
ing wrong, and that their own management of things has
been Al.
• * » *
Cobar (N.S.W.): First news for a long time is
that the Phoenix mine (once called the Berribungie) has
struck pyrites ore, some samples going 20 per cent., and
the average over 5 per cent. Why this dearth of news in
respect to the Cobar mines ? That camp produces far
more copper than the rest of N.S.W., and even more gold
than any other N.S.W. mining field. Its production to-
day in both metals is probably less than half what it will
be within the next year or two ; and less is said and
known about it than about any other N.S.W. camp. For
all the public know to the contrary, both the Occidental
and Mt. Drysdale mines may be shut down, instead of
which both are working and paying well. Cobar Gold
Mines, a Bull-owned co., keeps remarkably silent when it
is doing well. Believed to have recently started a large
filter-pressing plant on its slimes, and success has been
established by a high extraction at a low cost. How
many N.S.W. men realise that the Oobar copper-mine is a
bigger and more profitable mine than Mt. Lyell, and that
the auriferous main lode of Cobar is the biggest in Aus-
tralasia ?
* * * *
Five or six years ago what was known as the
Banfield process of sulphide treatment was referred to
here. The principle of the thing was that, as Broken
Hill sulphides consist of gangue and metals in mechanical
and not chemical combination, fine crushing is the first
requisite. For this purpose the Juggernaut mill was in-
troduced. The inventor of the process was an old
moneyless Cornish ore-dresser ; and he had for partners
in the enterprise two or three others of strictly limited
means. These men, like most enthusiasts, became pretty
generally known as cranks ; and as they had no big co.
behind them, and as their primitive appliances were
sneered at by the “ big ” people, the process soon ruined
them without getting a fair trial. Its failure then has
kept everybody off it since ; and with lead at high
figure nobody felt the want of it. Now, however,
a demand for something has arisen; and present
writer, who hasn’t and never had a shred of
interest in the concern, believes that some desperate co.
might do a great deal worse than test this poor-men’s
process. It seems ridiculous that, when two or three
mines that ought to employ 500 men among them, and
which actually did so until recently, are shut down, a
process which unquestionably gave good mechanical
results should not get a fair trial, simply because its in-
ventor was an uninfluential working man and his only
backers deplorably bad business men.
• m # *
B.H. Prop, is now paying more wages than at
any time since ’92. For mine-labor alone a recent “ pay ”
reached £14,500.
* * * »
The results obtained by the Wetherill (magnetic
separation) process from Broken Hill zinc-bearing “ tail-
ings” were recently communicated (it would seem
officially) to the International Institute of Mines at Paris.
It is claimed that from 80 to 90 per cent, of the zinc was
recovered (besides the bulk of the residue of silver and
lead), at a cost of under ss. per ton. The tailings contain
on the average 25 to 30 per cent. zinc. Notwithstanding
all which, the works erected by the co. at Broken Hill,
shut down four months ago, remain idle.
* • * *
Another system of concentration is suggested
in connection with B.H. sulphides and the zinc “ tailings.”
This is the Elmore oil process. It seemed too fantastic
to be worth much consideration until the issue of a report
of the test of a 700-ton lot of ore at a Welsh gold-mine—
the Glasdir, near Dolgelly. The recovery here was 80 per
cent, against 141 per cent., the best obtained by any other
process. The claim is that carbonate of iron, all earthy,
silicious and aluminous matters, and zinc blende pass
through the oil; while copper pyrites, iron pyrites, lead,
silver and gold are suspended in the oil. If this is
demonstrated, the process is applicable to the B. H.
material—which the ordinary gravity-processes only treat
with a very modified success. Some preliminary tests
have, however, not given much hope.
* • • *
Average price of lead (London) for March,
1900, £l6 12s. 3d.; ditto, 1901, £l3 7s. lid.
* * * *
Ivanhoe and Boulder Junction (W.A.): Having
proved its own mine to be a hopeless duffer, this co. has
acquired an option over another called the King Edward,
in the Mulwarrie district, North Kalgoorlie. “ This dis-
trict is well spoken of by experts as one of very great
promise as a gold-producer.” Writer imagines that he
has heard something like this before. If foolish people
deserve luck, the Ivanhoe and Boulder Junction crowd
ought to achieve it in their new venture, for their folly in
spending tens of thousands on such a property is as bound-
less as it is incomprehensible.
• • • *
Ivanhoe Junction is quite another mine at the
same place. “ The development continues to contain the
value expected of- it. The lode is a large body of stuff,
and samples give every indication of permanency.’ Rot
—unmitigated and unadulterated —but rot nevertheless.
Perhaps, after all, it is only natural that rot should come
from a rotten mine such as the Ivanhoe Junction un-
doubtedly is. More than a million has been wasted m
hopeless prospecting around the big mines of Kalgoorlie
without finding one other mine.
* » * *
Boulder Half-Mile South (W.A.): “In places
the ore-body is 4ft. wide, and so far as explored it aver-
ages 2ft. 6in. The seams of quartz carry visible free gold,
returning 1 up to 3oz. per ton. The bulk is of low grade.
Driving on the course of the lode should give better
results.” Why should it? Why should drives, winzes,
and all other workings, improve as they go ahead ? Some-
times they do ; often they don’t —but the latter is never
anticipated. If the seams of quartz went 30oz. it would
be of little use if, as is admitted, the bulk is of low grade.
The B.H.M.S. is a hopeless “ wild-cat,” known as such to
the school-children of Boulder City, and laughed at by all
men who have seen it and who know the difference be-
tween a mine and a lime-kiln.
* • * *
Hannan’s Brown Hill: 4538 tons, 56090 z. Ton-
nage greater and average considerably less than last
month, but quite good enough if it could be kept up.
Sooner or later that must be admitted as
impossibility. Shareholders would have known it
long ago if they were not kept absolutely in the
dark. The oxidised ores have long been exhausted,
and the end of the sulphides will be reached before
the end of this year, unless some new discovery is
made in the mine. It has been so pierced with diamond-
drill holes running in every direction as to make this
hope a very remote contingency. As a last resource, a
proposal was recently made to amalgamate with the
Northern Associated on terms which showed the dilemma
the Brown Hill was in. Both mines have been examined
and the verdict is that the Brown Hill has plenty of
machinery and no mine, and the Northern Associated is a
splendid mine without plant. So hopeless is the position
of the Brown Hill mine that the terms of amalgamation,
favorable as they seemed at first sight, have been con-
demned as not good enough for the Northern Associated
under the circumstances. A few months more and the
end of the Brown Hill will be reached. In the face of
this palpable and deplorable fact, it still, during the
recent share - boom, had a valuation of over half a
million—shares 90s. In the collapse last year the
directors only issued a circular explaining the true
position after it was so well-known that further
denial was useless. History will probably repeat
itself. When the last good crushing has been arrived at,
another circular may be expected, intimating with great
regret that the sulphides are exhausted, that the direc-
tors had been unable to amalgamate with the Northern
Associated, and that the game of buying mines at extor-
tionate prices only for the purpose of giving valueless
area to the Brown Hill is played right out. About
time Bull shareholders pondered over the fact that more
than half of the shares in the Brown Hill Co. have been
paid for adjoining leases from which no gold has been
obtained.
* • * *
Northern Associated: Another 500-ton parcel
of rich ore going to the Fremantle smelting works, and
the mine is developing remarkably well in the sulphide
zone. The deeper the mine the better the ore. Remark-
able that this mine should be so poor in its oxide zone.
The oxides seem to have been shed into the Brown Hill
in some way or other. That mine paid nearly all its divs.,
and big ones they were, from the oxide zone, and the
little sulphides it' has left are dangerously close to the
Northern Associated boundary. A well-known mining
engineer who recently examined the Northern Asso-
ciated declared that shipments of remarkably rich
ore could be kept up without robbing the mine
of its eyes, and that long after shipping has ceased these
rich leases would serve to keep up an average as high as,
if not higher than, any other the field.
The Great Western Railway promoters have
rushed their first venture on the market with the flota-
tion of the Barn Bluff discovery. Writer is intimate
enough with the district to believe that the Barn Bluff
copper (or whatever it is) mine will ultimately prove to
be a repetition of the Lake Dora show—that “magnifi-
cent” and “inexhaustible” property which is now as
dead as Grandfather Adam. The G.W. syndicate has
frequently spouted about the numerous Mount Lyells
existing carelessly around and within its dominions,
but if the Barn Bluff show is one of them, writer knows
of quite a number of neglected iron outcrops that look
equally promising. These remarks do not mean that the
Lake Dora and Barn Bluff discoveries are not promising
prospecting shows, but the G.W. syndicate ought to know
better than to rush on to the public a concern which has
been only a little more than scratched on the surface.
The Government official’s report, following on the violent
skite of the mine manager, a few weeks back, is enough
to damn a very decent-looking outcrop.
* * * *
Barn Bluff (Tasmania), the vicinity .of the latest
mineral “ blow,” is a sharp-looking peak on the Cradle
range, standing about 35 miles east in a direct line from
the Emu Bay railway at the Mackintosh crossing ; and 30
miles north from its nearest point to the .Great Western
Survey. During three months of the year it is quite
possible to experience a fine day at Barn Bluff, and at
times it is necessary to take your coat off ; the remaining
nine are passed in fog, rain, hail, and snow—mostly the
latter. A friend of writer’s spent two months there in
mid-summer, and the greater part of his time was passed
in severing the ropes of fog off his heels with a sheath-
knife. New-ehum, and old-chum, explorers and prospec-
tors are herewith advised to paste this on their hats:
Never leave camp, on the finest day, or any other day,
without compass, matches, tucker, and a rug. Never rely
on following a strange creek in the Bluff country, more
especially toward the south-east ; it will invariably, in
level country, lead you to a small lake, connected with
another lake, and another—there are hundreds. Writer
was once three days in a fog, traversing the shores of
small lagoons, and didn’t progress five miles in a straight
course. And unless you have lungs of leather, legs of
steel, a dog’s stomach, a clear head, and a good heart —
don’t go there at all. A few weeks ago a man named
Connolly started from Rosebery to the Barn Bluff coun-
try. His swag and tucker have been found untouched,
but their owner has apparently vanished from the earth’s
surface. The searchers have now abandoned hope, and
Connolly’s disappearance is probably another of the many
Tas. cases of lost confidence.
• * * »
Western Mine (Tas.): In a bad way because of
low-grade ore and a lower-grade lead-market. Last six
months, produced 439 tons less ore, and £7400 less value.
Re-arrangement of surplus-plant completed, and pre-
paring to carry down the mam shaft from 600 ft. to 800 ft.
For the first time in the history of the co. it is found
necessary to make calls for additional plant and develop-
ment, and, unless an improvement takes place in the
lead-market, or a big improvement in the mine, it cannot
be worked to pay.
• • • ♦
Mt. Lyell: Further improvements announced
in newspapers. In the north drive No. 6 tunnel, stoping
ore 35ft. wide of high grade. At No. 7 level the new find
has developed splendid sulphide and fahl ore. Assays up
to 20 per cent, copper and 15oz. silver. The market has
not budged, showing that people have long wearied of
these newspaper yarns, which, even if true, would not be
believed. Short-lived mines often reap the benefit of
newspaper lying, and long-living mines, like Mt. Lyell,
have to suffer for it.
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To Measure” Clothing
.. at ..
PRICES-'
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PBVID JONCS & COMPANY,
<*gorgg 8t Barrack Sts., Sydocy
WENTWORTH HOTEL
Church Hill, SYDNEY.
Entirely under
New Management*
Hotel, Townsville, Q.
Forget <ll your troubles,
Reverses %nd debts,
n peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
oc °y T ; I went with the throng to the
opening of Parliament. In self-defence I stood
on my chair A fashionably-dressed woman
climbed on to the back of it and leaned with no
light weight against my ear. From her point of
vantage she kept the blocked-out spectators be-
hind well-posted as to the movements of the
royal pair. I remember the following ■“He is
sitting down beside the Duchess-oh, no < he s
standing up ; it’s hard to tell. . . Lord Hopetoun
is whispering to linn. . . He has a prayer-book
or something . . He is opening his mouth just
like anyone else. . . The Duchess is putting her
hat straight- no no, she is scratching her ear. . .
His head is bald .He blew liis nose with a
white handkerchief. . . He sneezed. . . He has
put his handkerchief in his pocket. . . . He’s
reading a speech or a prayer. . . She is’ such a
beautiful woman, but I can’t see her face. . . He
FEMININE AMENITIES.
“She has a good complexion
“ Excellent. She always yets the best-thats one of the advantages of being rich.”
has a red nose. . . Her figure is so ” Then
the chair broke, and my share of the show was
over.
* * » *
The royal visit to Ballarat resolved itself
into a sort of Roman chariot-race between the two
Mayors—the Mayor of the city and the Mayor of
Ballarat East. One of them had secured a pair of
the best buggy horses in the district, and the
other is said to have borrowed the two fastest
Domt S tn r T- t f e fi J e ; stat , ioll - The y raced from
po nt to point, and hustled to get their women
! ( ' k Presented to the Dook and Duchess When-
ever the Governor-General was slow in this direc-
hemsei e ves WOr o y M^,° rS used to take a hand
duced hhf f„ m ° °? tiem ’. 14 is calculated, intro-
times to be , onglngs no fewer than six
wards the Ms, yal w? le ‘ , At the dinner after-
‘‘The y°^ ^otl Spo h- one stated
an ’itoh ” k Du e ,iess ad passed off without
Dook and nV he ?^ er Said be “believed the
larat » 88 w? d e £ 3 ° yed their trip to Bal-
K 1 Wh en Peacock laughed at this
wJ» he -7 aS sternly reprimanded. “ I’ m
“hif this WM n V> tumble of Ballarat,
Hit this ere Mr. Peacock hain’t a noosance.”
* * * *
QT all „ tbe painful figures who took
Govt h n d , lrect from the .Took at Melbourne
Mavnv W 10 mo ?t, sorrowful self-abaser was
“rovnl . War< i’. f f r°.n Adelaide. The etiquette of
mervl 1 t vestltare ~°r whatever name the mum-
,rf ‘w nOWI “ b y -T requ 1 red each chosen example
V,rtU ° aad (vide Lord
befori fK V ad T nit , 1011 ) to kneel on one leg
hbnT, i York fetish whilst the fetisli tapped
Then ?ti h f sb( ? ulde ror pinned a badge to his coat.
Jr®*! 19 fetish would take the hand of the lowly
K[ a,S ? bim t° his feet, and send him bowing
backwards to the place whence he came. Ware,
g a ™ ere candidate, had to receive a
badge only. Ihe consciousness of his comparative
cheapness moved Ware to flop himself upon both
knees, and from this attitude of prayer the prostrate
man refused to rise until he had imprinted a chaste
kiss upon the royal hand. The Jook tried hard to
eep is flesh unspotted by Ware’s caress. There
was a silent struggle extending over five seconds,
-i* S lu * Jook pressing his arm downwards
whilst the fervent groveller from Adelaide resisted
the pressure and bent his meritorious, virtuous and
loyal mouth towards the duc;al extremity. When
m ai u , mad y licked the extremity, the Jook
blushed red as a boiled lobster—the blush of a man
who teels more ridiculous than angry.
ri* * * •
Ihe journalists who came with the Yorks
from London muster among them some good yarns,
new and old. One of them was on duty when the
JJu ke and Duchess toured Ireland. The Duke on one
occasion took Lady Londonderry into dinner, and
she inquired how his Highness was feeling gene-
rally Ihe Duke answered : “ I’m worn-out. It
has been a terrible rush ever since January, and
in the very middle of it came the baby.” “But
!uu y V r ?!, narked his hostess, “ the Duchess had
the baby ! ”
* * * *
Melb. University students are the only
people, so far, who have treated the Jookoyork
with cheerful and friendly irreverence. On Com-
mencement Day, when H.R.H. entered the
“ wi° n Dali, he was met by a stentorian chorus,
What ho! George, how goes it?” He was
cheered, as a matter of course, and he was also
openly congratulated on possessing a missus o'
whom the students could approve. In fact,
their trank .assurances to Mr. York that Mrs.
York wasn t half bad were almost embarrassing'
He was further treated to a great deal of advice
regarding the rearing of infants from the medical
side ot the hall, and was instructed to send the
same advice along to Pa-in-Stocking-Feet who
was doubtless having a hard time walking the
flow with the kids at Windsor Castle. George
didn t seem to enjoy the chaff at all ;■ but as
A WISE MAN.
CURIONUS CUSTOMER : “How many children you, John?”
C HOW: “No savee. My missy got seben.”
George never seems to enjoy anything, there was
no way of telling whether he was more miserable
than usual or quite happy. The dailies kept an
awful silence about these irreverences. They de-
tailed how Barton was importuned for a speech in
a set chorus, and how Peacock resisted a similar
invitation to laugh, but the jollity of the students
was neither denounced as a disgraceful affair
which would require another contingent to wipe
out, nor was it gently slapped on the back as evi-
dence of the good nature and high spirits of the
sons of the Naicest. There was no precedent to
go on, no previous royalty having been joyfully
“barracked” in Australia, and the sup-Press
evidently couldn’t decide in time whether to be
shocked or not.
* * * *
Bridget Dunn’s fate should be a warning
to all womenkind. She was a bright - eyed
and joyous domestic at Adelaide, and the way
she shined the pots and pans of a gratified mistress
marked her out as the future treasure-wife of a
happy husband. But in an evil moment the ad-
mirable maid consulted a fortune-teller, and when
she left the establishment she came away without
her gaiety. She never smiled again. In three
weeks she was “found drowned”; verdict, suicide.
Apparently she had struck a low-spirited fortune-
teller who foretold eerie things, and Bridget
Dunn took her fortune-teller seriously. Strangely
enough, a month earlier, another Adelaide girl
committed suicide after interviewing a fortune-
teller. If it was the same one it would seem that
that prophet or prophetess requires to be sup-
pressed. The ordinary kind who tells the client
for 2s. fid. that she will marry a peer and live in a
marble tower is only a cheap fraud. The pessi-
mistic kind is not only a fraud, but also a funeral.
A promising youth, who will presently be
reaping a healthy crop of wild oats at the age
when most men sow them, admitted in Colling-
wood (Vic.) court recently that he had been
drunk six times in as many months ; also that he
had surrounded four long si ee vers during the pre-
vious evening without much subsequent discom-
fort. As the child was just 14 he probably belongs
to the Early-Drinking Association.
* * * *
“B.”: The discreditable feature of the
celebrations in Melbourne was the wild, mad,
food rushes. Nothing so indecent has been
seen for years. There was almost no organ-
isation. Those who charged the refreshment-
tables first scooped everything; and the quiet
people, who couldn’t or wouldn’t trample on
their human relations, got nothing. And to
get nothing, under the circumstances, was
a terrible ordeal for hundreds of folks. They left
home early to get a place ; they sat many hours
waiting for proceedings to begin; and if they
tried to get a meal at a restaurant they found
every place crammed. It is stated that the Vic-
torian Govt, paid £35,000 for “refreshing” its
guests. A strict inquiry ought to be made as to
how this money was spent and why only the
strong, the impudent, the rude, the pushful and
the Hebrews could get anything.
“A.C.H.” :
The lives we
lead: —
I live in a me-
tropolitan suburb,
and being an en-
thusiastic gar-
dener get home
early every after-
noon. My next-
door neighbours
are a young couple
childless and
when I arrive the
wife pretends to
garden among a
wilderness of
weeds hut in
reality watches
every car for her
husband’s arrival.
Sometimes he is
very late, and
then he tells her
loudly how hard
he has been work-
ing. Frequently
his work takes
him back to the
officeatnight. She
always sees him
to the gate, and
for a long time
stands there after
he has gone— a
slender little
figure, pathetic in
its loneliness. One
evening I had been
detained, and as I
was waiting formy
car I idly looked
at a little group
of three standing
near me. They
had returned from
the seaside, judg-
ing by the spade
and bucket that
the youngster—a
sturdy boy of four
—carried. Some-
thing familiar in ,
the child’s free ■
struck me, and 1
glanced at the ■
man. The boy’s :
face was the rep-
lica.of his, and the
man was —my
next-door neiirh- -
hour!
• *
When chein-.
ists claim to be ■
registered by
N.S.W. Dental i
Board on the .
ground that
they have been i
practising the ■
business for so long, the Board writes inquiring l
the names and addresses of patients. A good
principle, if judiciously used.
, . * * 1 * *
Still another cry of rage :
If the arrangements for the reception of the Juke in
other capitals are to be as thorough as in Melbourne,
curses both loud and deep are likely to follow that placid
nonentity all round the continent. Everything went a'
smoothly as a spendthrift down the road to destruction
m Melbourne-for his royal nibs, but the people who
paid for, and in some cases themselves constituted, the
entertainment, got precious little consideration The
police restriction of traffic was so close and blundersome
that it was often impossible to get across Bourke or
Collins-streets for hours together. The tramway service
was utterly disorganised, though the co. didn’t lose
much, as it early acquired a sweet habit of collecting the
full fare and then dumping the passenger down about a
mile from the city and telling him the cars “weren’t
running any further just now.” The State school kiddies
gave one of the prettiest shows to the visitors -and were .
themselves kept waiting about on the day, unfed and un- .
howH f ° r ' 2? th f Ul " l \ t of the Domain fireworks, a
how luif,, maddened crowd was kept penned on Prince’s
Bridge m the ram for over an hour, that a clear course ,
might be kept for the Royal pair to the Town Hall. And [
out a? 7 e sn e r;, Tl' "j h ° Tu e the Show were trained
out at 7.30 a.m. and kept on the wet ground till 5 p m
to th°e U citv T r sup ’~a nd marched the six miles back
to the city. True, the soldiers were allowed 2s. for their
day s tucker, but they expected the department to supply
«“ er could b uy with the 2s.—which it
ffidn t Somebody catered for the swell Scottish regiment
~while tCresM y r Sh ? red itS , bit With the Senior Gad ets
—while the rest looked on and swore. But even the big
and a bßof cake th 6 day ° n three
* * • *
Vic. Defective Christie was always within
a few feet of the Jook, though in an unobtrusive
fashion which did not excite comment. Twice
during a Government House crush Christie nodded
m a tired way towards someone in the crowd—
which someone was promptly led into outer dark-
f, e,SSI d “ e public would much like to know what
the two were suspected of—high treason or a ten-
dency to sneak the spoons.
* * * *
The loyal ladies of Hobart recently met in
conference, and almost unanimously decided to
present the Duchess of York with a platypus-skin
rug, for winch, it is stated, “the present owner
asics fcW. And now cynics are writing to the
papers suggesting that as the rug is second-hand
the ladies committee had better see to its effective
fumigation, and shake it hard with a view to pos-
sible insects, before handing it over. Also one
indignant correspondent wants to know if’Tas-
clo' Ua Come down to making presents of old
*
About a month ago a Melbourne police-
man hearing loud howls from a house in a city
by-street about 4.30 p.m., rushed in and found a
girl tied to the bedstead “and with a linen gag
across her mouth.” She said that she had been
alone in the house, and while she was quietly
reading the usual purposeless strange man rushed
in and tied her to the bed. Then he went away
J_ tSt T mg ??. ythln g. or d «ing any further
damage. 1 lie public is waiting for the capture of
that remarkable man, but apparently he is still ’
lie gains by bursting into houses;
•innp,r y > trange glrls to bedsteads doesn’t.
2PP®”». S a , ver y profitless occupation,
i here is a very large class of literature-
in which the beautiful heroine is tied up,
to something by the wicked baronet, with a,
his pJfG kl n ng her ma f‘ ,y him and reside in
his castle, and many girls who read this try to.
infuse a semblance of romance into their lives by
HARD LUCK.
While shooting at Kilmany Park (Vic )
last week the Dookoyork saw a snake crawling in
Ins direction, and raising his gun to his rov-d
shoulder immediately took aim and blew it' to
pieces with great gallantry. t 0
Within a Gippsland brake,
Last week, with courage grim,
The Look he mat a snake
That crawled in front of him.
It did not want at all
To use the Dook for food ;
It merely wished to crawl,
As Nature meant it should.
The Look he had no sword
His dress not needing one—■
Its crawling to reward
And so he used a gun,
And blew it, as was fit,
To blazes, as you see,
Instead of making it,
Perchance, K.C.M.G.
C.R.
LOVE.
“ Love never dies,” says joyous youth,
“ Why argue such a patent truth ? ”
“ Nay, Love must die,” says middle-age,
“No matter how one’s heart may rage.”
The old and wise say, with a sigh,
“ What never lived can never die.”
H.E.S.


The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives ,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your
passage, write for
Gazette, and Sailing List
THOS. COOK &
Steamship
Travellers.
; with map’
SON,
269 Coinns-st., Melbourne
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
JJ.K.Z. 111.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOOK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
S'
*0
a
&
&
v
&
A
a:
The Callaghan Black vici-Kid
Boot for Gentlemen, straight caps, always
soft to the feet, and
yet wearing like calf
different shape toes.
23/6
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydney
tying themselves to a bedstead and then calling
for help. The helper is generally so excited that
he unfastens the distressed heroine without much
inspection of the circumstances. Then she tells
her unfinished tale about the unknown male who
wasted an hour (in which he might have made Is.
working in Fitzgibbon’s drains) and about six-
penn’orth of good rope in mooring her to the fur-
niture, and afterwards went on his vacant
way. A rigorous search of the young lady’s box
for literature with wicked baronets and girls
languishing in chains in it would usually be a
■paying spec, in such cases.
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” writes :
Concerning knights and baronets. Do you know, Bul-
letin dear, that, but for a little accident, I, your humble,
not'to say abject, servant, would have had the power ot
conferring these titles—thus: The Earl of Stirling re-
ceived a grant of Nova Scotia and the right of creating
knights and baronets of that cold region. For treason,
he was attainted, probably beheaded, and his lands, &c.,
forfeited. Years afterwards, one of his descendants
forged a document, called an “ Excerpt from a Statute of
Novodamus ” (which is just bad Latin ; it ought to have
been dedimus). This document purported to give it all
back to him and his heirs. It’s not so long ago since the
trial Verdict, “ Not Proven ” ; but he didn t get the
property. He only wanted that little province, all the
American fisheries, tremendous possessions in Great
"Am I not as! always was," So came.
The sad enquiry, is my face less fair?
I look within the glass, all, all is there
You loved a year ago ! I am the same
Then why should love for what is living die
Since I have held each charm that musten-
dear?
shamefaced the answer faltered To her ear;
"You are the same and thats the reason[?]
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Britain and the Isle of Man, and an enormous sum in the
Funds. Now, I’m not joking-; lam a nearer heir through
John Alexander (there were four of them), of Menstrie,
and I believe that, if Sir James Alexander had tried
forging a similar document, he’d have got it, because he
is a swell. Then I’d have stepped in with my little claim,
and have been able to make you Sir Bed Bag of Austral-
asia Baronet. And I might have daubed the aged bone-
picker, Sir Dawvid Syme, of Smellburst, Knight.
All the facts of this can be found in Samuel Warren’s
“ Miscellanies,” under the heading “ Bomance of For-
&er y-” ,
The medal presented to the returned con-
tingenters by the Jookoyork is about as
poor a sample of silversmith-work as even
a churchwarden could devise. One side is a
kind of dubious half-crown, with a profile of the
late Queen, and on the other a great struggle has
been made to crowd a panorama into the space of
an inch and a-half. A commonplace Britannia
extends a laurel-wreath, under which can be seen
in the distance a crowd of British soldiers storm-
ing a kopje, while behind her are a cluster of war-
ships m harbor. What awful taste the authorities
who arrange these things must have.. A two-
guinea prize offered in any art publication would
bring a score of far better designs from students
in their teens.
* * * •
A returned first contingenter from the
Flyspeck intended joining the last squad of Boer-
huntars, but prior to the swearing-in ceremony he
demanded the sum of £lB odd due to him for the
first trip. Money was not forthcoming, neither
was the soldier. Writer saw him slinging
sawn stuff out of a timber craft’s innards, the
other day, while saying disrespectful things about
the State for holding on to his hard-earned £lB.
* *
What has become of the £20,000 worth of
presents the Jookoyork was alleged to be bringing
to Australia for distribution? So far, the
generosity of the heir apparent has been a quan-
tity represented by at, and even the old black-
fellow kings, Billy and Bobby, who travelled 20
miles to show George some boomerang-throwing,
on ]y got in return what Baron Brassey used to
cast about with such prodigality -his patronage.
* * ' *
Marcus Clarke’s widow (who certainly
plays that interesting character for its full worth)
presented a specially-bound copy of her late
husband’s works to the Jook, but nothing came
0 f ft—for the widow —except a letter of “ gracious
acceptance.”
Talking of Marcus Clarke, his ancient
rhyme of “Bill Jenks ” often attributed
to Lindsay Gordon —cropped up at that cham-
pagne and smoke yabber-yabber which the Barton
Ministry lavished upon the Celebration Press last
week. “ Bill Jenks ”is the invariable recitation
of Goorge Jenkins, o*6, on such f«Uve tat
weighty occasions. Jenkins, C.M.G., ot tie
flowing beard, has a sort of historical right to do
this thing over the flowing bowl, because the
verses were written at his house, one Sunday m
the ’6o’s, when poor Marcus needed a humorous
outlet for distressful thoughts. Hence the title
“ Bill Jenks.” The author would have made it
“George Jenks,” but the longer word wasn t so
suitable as ‘‘ Bill.” Also, he foresaw a future time
when the dignity of his host might shrink fiom
the pointed allusion. The career of a Parlia-
mentary Jenkins casts its unctuous shadow before.
The most beautiful creatures in the Duke’s
entourage are the footmen, grooms, and outriders.
These are evidently all selected for their beauty,
and are tall and shapely and wonderfully shaven.
They turn out at a function as lovely as a band ot
male ballet girls, heavily painted and powdered
with lips incarnadine, and eyes bright with
the mysteries of make-up. _ The rouge and powder
are too painfully evident in the glare of day, and
give the observer that weary, unreal feeling which
comes of meeting a painted girl in tights walking
down the street in the sunlight. When frescoed
grooms are necessary to the maintenance of Koval
dignity it is time to wonder if, after all, the whole
business is as effective as a pantomime.
* * * *
Premier Peacock’s wasteful expenditure
of a grovel souvenir on the Jook was to all intents
of speech denounced as foolishness by the recipient
when he said : “It would not need this very hand-
some gift, which you have been good enough to
present to me, to remind me of our visit to your
State, because I never could possibly forget, &e.,
&c. But, although no such gift was necessary as
a reminder of our visit, I shall always retain it as
a pleasing memento,” &c., &c. After which the
Jook passed the casket of blackyvood “bearing
specimens of Vic. gold and Prince of Wales’
feathers in N.S.W. diamonds ” along to somebody
who put it among the Royal baggage, and Pea-
cock’s grovel was duly rewarded with autographed
photos of the Jook and Jukess.
* * * *
One big Vic. butter-making firm presented
H.R.H. of York with a beautiful casket made like
a butter-box, painted with the co.’s trade-mark,
and containing 501 b. of the company’s unparalleled
cow-grease. And then during the royal stay a
big shop-window in the city was loaded up with
butter, topped with a shrieking label which stated
that it was of the same churning as the royal
sample. This looks very like having royalty on
toast.
* * * *
“ One shall be taken and the other left.”
A Melbourne man was escorting his best girl
home the other evening when, as they crossed the
South Melb. railway-line arm in arm, a light
engine dashed by, snatched the girl away, and
went on leaving the man absolutely untouched.
The body was found on the rails a chain away.
*• * * *
The church still appears to take its conse-
crated bone-yard quite seriously. A suicide was
buried recently in the Church of England ceme-
tery at Birregurra, Victoria ; he somehow got
there without the knowledge of the clerical
authorities. When they heard of him, which was
in itself a profoundly foolish thing to do, they had
the remains dug up and ejected in great haste.
Where the bones got to after they were ejected no
one seems to know. The incident tends mainly
to show the church’s inability to keep its mouth
shut at the right time. A wiser organisation
would never have heard that the body was there.
A judicious wink in one eye and a judicious blob
of wool in one ear are calculated to keep many a
church out of shocking trouble.
* * * *
“Via” : Be lady barbers. There’s one
at Cunnamulla, Western Queensland, though how
she got out there is a mystery. Cunnamulla is a
place where it threatens to rain sometimes.
Points on domestic economy and
useful hints for the home can always be
picked up in court during the hearing of
divorce or maintenance cases. In a recent
Vic. wife-desertion case an excellent hint
to housewives was given. Defendant ad-
mitted that he “drank a little.” It was
shown that it was not the little he drank,
but the frequency with which he drank it
that led to the trouble. He had sold a
business on one occasion, and he drank a
little, and went home with a big roll of
notes in his pocket. His wife got at that
roll in the stilly watches of the night,
abstracted five £5 notes, singed the edges
of the rest at the candle, and returned them
to hubby’s “kick.” When the good man
awoke next morning he had a “head, ’
and, finding £25 missing from his roll, he
was smitten with horror and remorse, con-
cluding in his haste that as those remain-
ing were singed he must have burnt the
missing documents in his blind, drunken
folly. When, long after, he discovered the
trick that had been played upon him, he
packed his bag, and went to be a consola-
tion and a comfort to another woman.
S.” : Was amazed at the greeting ex-
changed by two British man-o’-warsmen at the
entrance to Flinders-st. station, Melbourne, one
night last week.' One, coming from the station,
met another entering. They shook hands; and
then, before the crowd, fell upon each others
necks and kissed. The men were a little drunk, X
admit. This form of salutation is not unusual
amongst Russian sailors, but the sight of two
A.B.’s of the British navy mugging was not good
for a bilious man.
* * * *
The municipal health officer of Townsville
reported recently, that he had paid a visit to the
Chinese quarter of the sultry town and discovered
that the Chows stored their vegetables and fruit
in neat little rooms measuring seven feet by four.
Also, that the Chow habitations admitted of little
or no ventilation ; that the floors were rotted by
damp, decaying vegetable matter j and that a
“thousand odours rose from the sewage-soaked
floor.” Added, in conclusion, that he had seen
nothing worse in the East End of London.
“Mors”: Went to a funeral in a A
bush township the other day, and to my sur-
prise the 0. of E. minister who read the ser-
vice was an elocutionist. Had always before
heard the words droned-out in dismal flesh-
creeping tones; but this performer marched
gaily up the cemetery walk with head thrown
back and radiant face, chanting the service
like a song of joy. As the paean of victory
from the magnificent words of the Book of Job
rang around, delightful mental pictures arose
of a happy release from the cares of life, and
of a glorious triumph over death itself.
Realised that I had heard the service pro-
perly read for the first time, and now think
that people ought to be buried to the inspirit-
ing strains of a band of music, whose tones
should enforce the real happiness of the occa-
sion ; because, after all, when a man is once
dead it is the most beautiful thing that could have
happened to him.
Some time ago a rumour went round Perth
(W.A.) about a plague-case in Chinatown, and a
search was made for the patient. He couldn’t be
found, and ©very Ling 1 and Lung and Ting and
Tong and Tang in the Chow quarter was quite
sure that the report was groundless. The
authorities reckoned, they were altogether too
unanimous, but nothing could be proved against
them. It now transpires that the Chinamen—
who didn’t want to be quarantined and white-
washed and aggravated—drove their plague-
smitten brother into the bush and left him there.
Then, to save time, the cart out of which he had
been dropped was used to carry back a load of
vegetables and pork for sale. Presumably, the
late Chow’s death was hastened through being
thus thrown out, and probably other people were
killed through the infected pork and vegetables,
but the responsibility rests among some 20 men
who look exactly alike and who seem to exchange
names every five minutes, so little can be done.
* * * , *
“ Melb.” : This photoing is downright
ridiculous. Last Sunday morning, when the
Duke and Duchess went to church, the photo-ers
outside were like a swarm of mosquitoes, or daddy
longlegses, not counting the shoals of kodaks.
Every camera is a little maxim for the destruction
of royalty. Wonder they don’t see it. The
Lama of Thibet, in his seclusion, is the wisest
monarch. Ho visible monarch is half so tall or
majestic as the invisible one.
* • * *
This advt., from a M.L. paper, shows that
housekeepers over there begin to realise their duty
to their employes
■WANTED,—A useful young Girl to help with the
V* Housework. Half-holiday once a week. All
evenings out, and Sunday afternoons. Apply sharp.
HOW THE DEAR CREATURES LOVE ONE
ANOTHER.
MISS NOAGE : “ Yes, my dear, I'm to be -pre-
sented to the Duchess .”
MY DEAR: “ Indeed! So glad. I hear the dear
Duchess always likes to meet the very early
settlers and hear their reminiscences.”
The most conspicuous new banner in
Melb. Eight Hours’ procession was that of the
Clerks’ Union. They also had a tableau contrast-
ing the ancient “scrivener” with the modern
typewriter—latter suggestively worked by the
cheap small boy who is shunting his father out of
the pen-and-ink market. But nary a one of the
lily-handed quill-drivers followed their flag.
« * » *
Brisbane has been, and still is, using bitter
language about the Dook. The fact that that
depressed, wrigglesome little man takes no real
interest in the plague city is too apparent to be dis-
guised. He went there with a reduced suite. The
fleet didn’t go up and make a display among the
sandbanks opposing the meat works ; and the
original programme was curtailed. The Brisbane
papers said publicly and bitterly that this was the
Last Straw, and certainly Queensland is so bare of
vegetation just now that the statement seems
quite probable.
* * * «
The parson-managers of Brisbane Tele-
graph, who advocate the benevolent asylum and
the soup kitchen in preference to Old Age Pen-
sions, will no doubt be disgusted to learn that
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum, which, previous
to the starting of the pension system, was ever
unable to find room for the numerous applicants,
now has 130 vacancies, and the old folks are still
leaving faster than they enter. And the cost to
the State is just about the same in both cases
* * * *
A lady’s superb embroidered dress, ex-
hibited in a Bourke-street (Melb.) window, is in-
scribed “ Made by Men Only.”
LOVE IS BLIND.
G INGER: “ Well, Sue, I hear as how you're gain’
to get spliced to Dido Murphy .”
CARROTS : "Yes. He ain't got no hearts, hut his
jigger's just like the dooic on the styge at the
Lyceum, an' ’e’s as ' andsome as Curly Bellow.
It ain't every girl as gets a bloke like Dido,
my oath.” (View of Dido in background.)
The Dawn is the first Sydney paper to be
entirely run by women ; edited by women, written
by women, printed by women —in short, as the
paper advertises, all its business is done by
women. And here is a page heading of a recent
number ; O UR STORY.
Hang The Baby.
That’s it; the hand that wields the editorial pen
cannot hold the feeding-bottle complacently.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For tho f un of the thing 1
MARK roy, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
The Govt. Prizes
were Awarded to
Three
Firsts
Coolalta Claret
AT THE
commonwealth show.
m
it
gnrat:
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TGIS have NO Equal.
A-tcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
_ . Sydney, May 21, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Saturday’s races brought out the few Anybodies
who didn’t go Duking to Melbourne, a large
number of dramatic persons, some pretty frocks
and some frantic frocks. Miss Palotta’s raiment
of pastel-green frieze was well set off by the green
grass over which the skirt trained ; as was her face
by the big, black-feathered hat that overshadowed
it at an angle of 45 degrees. What a noble thing
it is to have a complexion that can stand such
brilliant, uncompromising daylight as Saturday’s.
Miss Palotta’s skin (do you recollect that cour-
teous German who, wishing to compliment a lady
on her fine cuticle, told her she had a beautiful
“ leather ?”)—well, Miss Palotta’s leather and
the leathers of some of the “ Floradora ”
sextette can stand a combination of micro-
scope and Australian sunlight. The fair
Grace, by the way, waggles at the
hips in walking. Her waggle is a modification—
a very modified modification—of the Maoriland
wahme’s waggle. Marie Lloyd has the same de-
fect ; even the cat-cum-butterfly grace of Madame
Darto is marred by it. Perhaps the tight fit of
the skirt round the hips has something to do with
the discord of the grace note.
Some of the Australian born “leathers”
can’t be excelled. Mrs. Trench and her sis-
ter, Miss Gox, for instance. Former lady was
dressed in a beautiful shade of heliotrope,
but the style of the gown came under the
heading of Frantic. Its zouave made the
wearer hunch-backed and pigeon-breasted, and
her wide, flat hat was fastened down at the back
close to the nape of the neck in a fashion that
would suggest covering a bald spot at the base of the
brain. Mrs. Mackenzie Fairfax’s little figure was
quietly dressed, and the wide fur on her short
black sable coat was off some expensive animal
but it made her look very broad. One or
two beautiful white gowns were on the turf, and
seemed quite in season, so warm was the ’day
Friezes were plenty. I liked best a close-fitting
coat and skirt of a bright shade of navy-blue. It
was worn with a fur and floral toque, and the
wearer’s face was round as a rose is round, and
pink withal.
The choux ot ribbon or chiffon on the neck
just in front of the left ear was worn by a few
women. This fashion, it is said by English
authorities, has a strikingly softening effect on the
face, especially the lean-jawed face. If that be
so, is it not better to have two choux, one below
each jaw ? If you can get something of little Red
Riding Hood’s expression into the whole of your
face, why leave half of it reminiscent of the wolf ?
Where do the artists who run the tea pavilion at
Randwick buy their tea ? Or do they buy it at all ’
Is it grown on the sand hills round Randwick?
I have lapped better tea at a Poley Cow Creek
race-meeting—a place that is 90 miles from a rail-
way station, and whose grand-stand is a post-and-
rail fence, and whose Mayor disinherited his son
for “bloomin’ womanishness” because the lad
bought a nail-brush.
A musical evening was held at Pott’s Point, the
other day, but Sydney’s best was travelling Mel-
bournewards, so that, out of the 40 invited, only
one turned up. “What did you do with the
supper ? ” asked a lady friend of the hospitable
hostess. Oh, we just ate it ourselves, 93 answered
the dame, nonchalantly.
The Ballarat lady who presented fish-scale
flowers to the royal children will have many
imitators among that type of woman who believes
that genius is shown by making one article do
duty as something entirely different. Sydney
sassiety is busy at present making its husband
wear a dog-collar on his forehead and stand with
a plush tablecloth round his manly form, while,
inspired by these attributes of royalty, the soon-to-
be-presented wife practises her presentation curt-
sey in front of him. This is the only time on
record when a Sydney Society lady has bowed
before her own husband. Several Sydney dames
are indignant because George dismissed them un-
handshaken—or should it be unshook—from Mel-
bourne, telling them to apply again in their own
harbor-city. George hasn’t brought enough hand-
shakes with him to go twice round the same
people.
Presentation mirror-frame to the travel-worn
Princess is probably to be supplemented by a fan
of ostrich-feathers. There’s an ostrich-farm out
on the South Head Road, and the Bird-in-Chief
offers to supply fluffy part of fan for much love
(to Royalty) and a very little money. Committee
has close on £l7O, so the poor Duchess won’t
need to use a palm-leaf fan, or to make a breeze
on herself with a newspaper, any longer. Jewel-
lers who have the contract for May’s frame
are sad because a wonderful piece of
water-worn gold bought by them from ex-
plorer T. Kerry didn’t reach them two days
sooner. They think the committee would have
chosen it in place of a thing made by hands. It
resembles a half-wreath of delicately and minutely
carved flowers, and' is of perfectly pure gold.
Mr. Kerry is alleged to have picked it up on a
lone South Sea islet.
Concerning Melbourne evening dressing : Syd-
neysiders down to see the Mighty Atom and his
Duchess have come back with the remains of the
blush of shocked modesty yet on their cheeks.
They say Melbourne dames wear their evening
gowns very dec-ollette. One man from here said
that he never before saw so much of the other
man’s wife as he saw in one evening leaning
over the back of the dress-circle at the Princess’s.
Mr. Julian Ashton, back from Melbourne,
where he was sketching and Yorking, has a few
opinions on the carnival. The scheme of illumi-
nations at Prince’s Bridge was beauty itself. .
SSd°theS e arches Ugl^ 3 ° Ur
Chinese nil. ° f Annear. V
dragons 50 varrU T* Won f e " fui with its two
horEck 7 and^ h V nese * irl3 on
than ours at boorne had bigger crowds'
siasm IhST e 'f tim - 6 ’ but less eilthu -
OUS ‘ Thrma V Warrior S got HlOnOton-
“God Sa've” if °/ f? h<x>l children sang
Mice ” af ter the fashion of “Three Blind
Duchess is* f-„i! ? uke wears high heels, the
Melbourne thS, o a K dec.dedly developed ; male
rn ? thinks her handsome, but hasn’t been
who% seduced from its allegiance to itT favorite
A marriage celebrated very quietly and onlv
toMlssTaurie “th? il - He ” P^nketf
biblical i bnde 13 30 rlch that if the
true she wi?l ab ° Ut a Camel and a needle be
true she will never wear an aureole
An engagement: Dr. Worral, who lumped into
a big practice by the death ’of his E Dr
Smbrnor 1 ”’ fl a r! d Wh ° I s known aa the “ Money-
i,L • , . , 1K J lB a hard-shell bachelor, is as a
said to and , ° f , th ° fowler ' Miss bowler is
enmiled b ;n Jr' Ce K°n kmg u glrl who was Previously
robed oats mebody who represented Somebody’s
Madame Ella Russell off the stage in a white
S Per and “°rning light is much younger and
WaSr er T? a \ aS “ Elsa ” or “Elizabeth”
, Her strong white teeth, complexion,
and pile of flaxen hair are all her very own. She
mirtrS/? ° f EUen Terry ’ s and Mrs. Langtry's
portraits of some years ago. Madame’s constitu-
tion must be O.K. for she spent the day (from 10
to 7), previous to her debUt on Monday night fish-
ing in our Harbor. Just as Mr. Musgrove
commanded lines up ” the soprano caught a
prawn—her haul for the day.
Madame is wedded these eight years to an
Italian ex-cavalry officer, Signor de Righini, and
she has a most lovely humpy at Hampstead, and
her dogs—well, I don’t know how she had the heart
to leave her collies. She was the last singer to
warble to the late Queen in private, and on that
occasion sang nine songs. Madame tells the
curious if obscure item that Victoria hadn’t lost
a tooth. Dentists would come to Windsor to
fix up Beatrice s teeth, operations that intensely
interested Ma because her own molars never
needed tinkering.
At a little dinner at the Australia, on Tuesday
night, Madame Ella wore such a gown. It was of
pale blue meteor, Now meteor is the very newest
ot materials as new as our comet. It is going to
™ Bt P ai . lr ! e ’ and it resembles crepe de chine with
the addition of a satin finish. Well, this gown
was made in London, then sent to Paris to be em-
broidered with sequins—great scrolls and curley-
cues of dull silver sequins. The fashion of the
robe is Empire ; and its cost would nearly buy a
Place 00 ™ 617 a,llotment som ewhere about Martin
When the French Spy came on the Criterion’s
stage he discovered to the audience some delicate
and desirable dresses. Miss Watts Phillips’ first
frock is a white muslin with black lace
insertion over pink silk slip, wide belt of
pink satin, straw hat trimmed with black
velvet, and many-colored roses. Later, she gets
into a grey check coat and green velvet skirt, and
a big hat of turquoise-blue silk and chiffon, with
red roses and tulle strings. The burlesque dress
leaves a misty memory of gold braid, spangled net,
jewels, and a long cloak of white satin. Miss Ida
C resham s are first, a white satin with flounces of
embroidered net-work trimmed with rows of satin
ribbon. Her next is a pink, of mirrored velvet,
patterned with lace embroidery. The third gown
is of pale blue duchesse satin, with green chiffon
spangles and satin.
It is enough to make men sing a Te Deum ’
One of him has scored on the Oppressor Woman.
A decent old tradesman in Adelaide was awarded
a verdict of £25 against an elderly widow for
breach of promise. In summing up, the S M
put as one question to the jury : “ Did defendant
C( ? ntra ° fc deliver herself up body and soul to
plaintiff? And the jury said “Yes” to the
extraordinary query. Yet, after all, is this deli-
very of a soul desirable for either party ? It would
leave the woman with no soul while the man
would have two, and he finds that it takes him all
he knows to lose one. And if the lady was will-
ing to carry out her contract, how do you deliver
a soul ? You can t take it out and hand it over on
a fork.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
“ The dressing at all the recent Federal shivoos
was mournful and ineffective. One black gown is
like another black gown, and so women who
wanted to shine took it out in jewellery The
Duchess paralysed all by the numerous ‘ sparkle
crowns she displayed, each one bigger and
glitterier than the other. Her Ex. showed some
glittering diamonds and pearls, so did the Queens-
land and West Australian Governoresses Lady
lennyson wearing a meek, unaggressive tiara at
all shows. Both J anet Lady and her daughter-in-
law ran the vice-regalities very close in the matter
of gems. Miss Concord Walker wears some good
diamonds, but, being a spinster, she hasn’t the
right to sport ’em unlimited as a matron has. Of
Sydney visitors, Miss Whitney played the role of
Sw- f ea \ Spir \ fc ; M -T. R. Bavin and
Miss Winchcombe showed fine frocks. The
official ladies mostly run to black brocade and
unremarkable lace. Mrs. W. H. Freehill had a
pretty mauve gown. Melbourne maidens wore
white satin chiefly for evening gowns. Mrs
Claude Macdonald showed up well at the conver-
sazione in a wonderful cloak. Mrs. H M'Quade
also sported some nice toggery on that occasion
dome of the hair fixings were weird. A girl at
'Hoiise had a large transparent Katherine-
wheel of white gauze the size of a dinner-plate
stuck over her forehead. Many women tie white
tulle in their hair, and look as if they had their
heads bandaged. Perhaps the best-frocked woman
throughout the whole week was Mrs. Brookman,
?7 fe of the Boulder man, and Mayoress of Perth,
one had a dress of point lace that raised the envy
of every other woman present.
" v^ ie mi B ht y have been tumbling off their little
perches all the time in a fashion most refreshing
to the common, vulgah people, who acquired that
exhausted feeling through seeing the same little
tin-gods running every Melbourne show for years,
i ederation has brought about a great shaking-up
of the whole bag-of-tricks. The little cliques of
local Somebodies that used to be the ruling tone-
givers in each State capital have been welded to-
gether—petty coteries flattened out of recognition.
Snubs were freely dealt out by the Royal High-
nesses to many a pushful person. Melbourne’s
very Best People suffered some agonising
moments during Commonwealth week. After
practising bob - curtseys before the looking-
glass for weeks, even having their dress-maker
insert an elastic strap in front of the knee among
the folds of the dress to act as an aid to a graceful
duck, their genuflections were cruelly cut short by
Duchess Cornwall, who seemed wearied by over
much ceremony. At an afternoon reception a
wealthy widow and her daughter sidled up to the
much-stared-at group on the lawn and gave way
at the knees every time they caught the royal
optic. The Duch. was talking to somebody else,
and after three bobs and a grovel all the widow
received was a royal hand-grip lasting exactly one
half-second and a cool stare over the top of her hat.
Another lydy on the same day pushed up to be
introduced to a lady of the royal ‘sweet,’ but all
she got was a faint ‘ howde doo,’ an upward tilt
of an aristocratic Roman nose, and the cold
shoulder.
“ The appearance of the Ducal pair and the
Parly couple at the State Reception, when they
stood on the dais in the Queen’s Hall, struck every-
one. The Duke positively trembled with nervous-
ness, and his small, frail figure seemed to wilt in
the scorching light of many eyes. Lord Hopetoun
was as nervous. His face twitched convulsively
and his hands kneaded the air. On the other
hand the Duchess stood calmly bowing and
smiling to all around, and the Countess of Hope-
toun appeared cold and unmoved. Old women are
fond of saying there is a good, motherly look in
the face of the Duchess. This was never more
apparent than at the Public School display on
Saturday, when she beat time with a friendly and
well-meant gamp to the band music, nodded ap-
proval at the various turns the well-drilled kiddies
did, and earnestly battered her hands together
after every number. Apparently, she really en-
J?yed herself then ; anyhow, she and her frail
little Duke remained an Lour and a half instead of
the 20 minutes arranged.
Ihe Duchess was very sea-sick on her way
out, especially in the Bay of Biscay. The Times
said so. But the statement gave offence, in con-
sequence of which the Times, in a subsequent
article, stated that it didn’t really mean the lady
was ill; all it meant was that, from the roughness
of the sea, it was inferred that in all probability
the Duchess would be ill. You can’t be too
careful how you speak about royalty.
“Fagged-out celebrators feel that it’s not all
beer and skittles dining with Royalty. For when
Royalty stands nobody may sit. On one of the
fireworks nights, after the State dinner at Govt.
House, Duchess May felt inclined to stand at a
window to see the fun, and until all the rockets
and Roman candles had burned out the whole
party had wearily to hang about first on one foot
then on the other. They were all dead-tired, too,
after the functions of the day. At last the eldest
waiting-lady approached her mistress and hinted
that a chair would be a boon, and then the whole
fatigued company could flop likewise. H.R.H.
graciously gave the lady permission to go into
another room. And the party went on standing
on its last legs.
“ There is one memorable occasion of the Ducal
douche of glories on which the laughing Premier
failed to live up to his reputation. When leaving
for the landing procession at St. Hilda, someone
ottered the Peacock m his swagger Windsor plum-
a£.e f to °k ]t ’ an d stuck it absent-
mindedly in his tinselled coat. On being presented
to the Royal Highness—a most critical moment—
the cigar fell at the Royal feet. ‘You have
dropped something,’ remarked the Duchess
pointing to the fatal cigar. ‘ Thank you, your
Royal Highness,’ murmured the blushing Pre-
mier, losing his precious minute of presentation
over the worthless weed. And though everybody
else laughed, Peacock was as serious as the grave.
“ The gorgeous scarlet robe in which the Jook
got his degree of Doctor of Laws at Melbourne
University was borrowed from Treasurer George
lurner. It was all arranged beforehand that the
degree should be conferred, but somehow the
necessary red bull-frightener was forgotten.
Turner became an L.L.D. of Cambridge when at
Ume for the Jubilee, and a messenger was
despatched with a request for a loan of the piece
of stuff worn on that occasion. The future of that
robe will be curious to watch. Turner could sell
r-iA r t7 6 m? 6 ? • I * ;s value —cost price is about
.±,40. Possibly his missus may cut it up for a red
petticoat.
“ A Toorak matron paid a visit to the Russian
man-of-war on its arrival in our waters, and the
following Sunday had a return call from ten
officers, who completely upset her equilibrium bv
kneeling and kissing her hand, one after another
on arriving. When she could conveniently escape
she made a dash for the telephone and unselfishly
rang up every nice girl in the neighborhood, telling
her to come and be kissed also. For all-round
generosity I think that would be hard to beat. In
truth the hand-kissing of the foreign warriors has
sent the nice girls of Melbourne off their heads
Also button-collecting has grown to be an alarming
craze. One German officer cut the gold crown off
his cuff at the Wednesday-night reception, and
presented it ‘on bended knee.’ The favored
beauty wore it in her dress—as a brooch —on
Saturday night. What better scalps could any-
one desire !
“The crowd that went uninvited on tha
Brooklyn last Thursday, when the Yankee *At
Home' was on, scared other foreign hosts, and
the German Consul sent telephonic message to
those invited to the ‘ Hansa’ At Home that cards
of invitation were not to admit wholesale contin-
gents.
“Marshall-Hall, sac-coated and soft-halted,
was a conspicuous figure at the ‘ Hansa ’ social
event. So was Mrs. Eccles, in a black frock, with
a transparent vest letting in the light of day on a
very white neck. Mrs. George Chirnside was one
of the daintiest of figures in all cream. Mrs.
C. Yallange and Miss Ruby Madden—who pre-
sented a study in still life on the deck—were both
garbed in black. The suave, substantial Germans
looked with wonder on the ludicrously lean figure
of Captain Vallange in all his scarlet trappings.
“Prime-Minister Barton, like the Madden
family, was conveyed to the ‘ Hansa ’ in a special
launch—a gaily bedecked hooded one. Mr. Barton
carried the Duke’s present—the diamond snuff-
box—about with him, and facetiously offered
brother politicians a pinch. Mrs. Barton added
bunches of violets to a smart black outfit. Mrs.
Isaacs was a limp and languid figure in an
apathetic couldn’t-help-it black frock, and an out-
of-mourning blue toque.
“The foreign vessel At Homes, with dancing
from 3 to 5 o’clock, kept the Melbourne girls tired
all last week. They didn’t want to refuse the
nautical darlings a dance, and yet the conven-
tions cried out against whirling about the decks in
tailor-made skirts. Lena Middell-Stanley, one
of the prettiest members of the Madden clan,
accepted a whirl every time, and was rushed
by Dutch, German, Russian, and Yankee officers
at all the At Homes. Byron Moore’s suite of
girls were also without scruples as to the look of
things and had ‘ a real good time ’—as Uncle
Sam s boys put it.
‘‘The most extraordinary-looking distinguished
visitor in the celebration pen was Admiral .Tessen’s
daughter—the picture of a back-country Phyllis,
with bright pink cheeks, wide eyes, in which was
a placid inquiring, ruminating expression, and
brushed-back convent head-dress.
“We needn’t talk about poor Hopeys little
tempers when a certain foreign Admiral is in
port. You never saw such a pepper-pot and so
hungry for his rights. On Public Schools’ Prize
day the fire-eater was placed with his ladies on
the guest dais of honor,' but only in the second
row. So he tackled the officials and with terrible
shoulder-shrugs pointed to the dome, in illnstra-
tKin of the ladies’ hats blocking his front view.
He and his charges were then stationed in front]
but on the ground floor, as the first row of the
dais was full. When the boys crowded there to
hear the Royal Speech, the foreign group became
engulfed. Janet Lady Clarke laughingly helped
the ladies up on the dais and wanted to do as
much for their Protector, but Himself was in no
mood for conciliation. He squared his shoulders
and flung himself back against the boys with a
face like a turkey-cock. The youngsters who
were lustily bawling ‘For he’s a jolly good
fellow! forgot to look who was pushing, but
well for them they were in their own backyard.
Otherwise they might suddenly have waked to
the fact that they were being knouted as ‘ revolu-
tionary students ’ or sich.
What hollow farces are enacted under the
name of official etiquette. When the Dutch
cruiser Noord Brabant arrived in Port Phillip,
the old Cerberus desired to salute her, but found
she had not on board a Dutch flag to hoist in
accordance with the recognised compliments of
the navy. The commander accordingly des-
patched a boat to the Noord Brabant, asking for
a Joan of one of its jacks, and when it returned to
the Cerberus the Dutchman was gravely saluted
with his own borrowed banner.
“ Lady Mary Lygon didn’t look her best when
here with Royalty. The refined effect of those
classic features of hers was marred by a coat of
red-brown sunburn—healthy, but not becoming.
“ Throughout the celebrations champagne flowed
like water, but only shamelessly-early greedy
birds ever arrived in time to pick up anything to
speak of in the shape of eatables or soft drinks.
This was rough on tired women who, after hours
of standing, yearned for a cup of hot coffee and a
morsel of cake. The average quiet-going she
lacks the pluck to toss off unaccustomed fizz minus
such precautionary ballast as a biscuit or a
sandwich. Some heroines took the risk. One
nice-looking old lady, for instance, rapped scribe
on the knuckles with a picked-bare turkey-bone
and invited her to share a cab home on the co-
operative system. When scribe declined on the
plea of prior arrangements, the ancient melted
into tears and thanked God she was not as Mel-
bourne women are. ‘ln Tasmania,’ she sobbed
Melbourne ladies are famed for loud vulgarity
no doubt their inheritance from old Gold Rush
days! ’
“Here and there, women in hats and sack-
ulsters ate jelly with their fingers, and a State
Minister is said to have spied a rural constituent
trekking home with bottle-necks sticking out of
his tail-pockets. But never mind ; we don’t kill
a pig every day.
(Continued on page 25).


A ROYAL
s * *" * :
of the Royal party whether
scapes, Seascapes, Portraits,
If you want a CAMERA that will take photographs
RidjW Driving, Walking, or Standing; Views of Streets, Buildings, Land-
etcTetc., then
VISIT . . .
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SHOWROOM
Where every description of Up-to-Date Camera is open to view and competent assistants
ready to give full working instructions —FREE !
Hand Gameras Stand Cameras Kodaks Pocket Cameras
and the Popular PREMOS !
In fact, Cameras for Ladies, Gent’s, Girls or Boys from ONE GUINEA, upwards.
HARRINGTON AND CO., LTD.,
Photographic Merchants,
Agencies Thswshmt Australasia.
66 KING ST., STDNIY
Branch— 93 Queen St., Brisbane
Citizens’Mssurance Company [lmited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES lIXT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., L.L.B
FACILE PRINCEPS,
The Only Scotch Whisky officially ordered for the “ OPHIR
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tom Brooker, S.A.’s new Education
Minister, runs a wood-yard in an Adelaide suburb.
Cardinal Cullen, uncle of Cardinal Moran,
was born in prison. His mother was the wife of
one of the rebels of the time.
Fate is indeed capricious. One generation
gets a trinket to swing at the end of the chain,
though the preceding generation had to do its own
swinging.
“Melb.’ : In the Carlton police-court
recently, a lawyer called another an “offensive
scoundrel.” A few minutes afterwards he called
him “ My friend.”
Eph. Walsh, one of the little party that
went out in search of the men who got astray
from Stockdale’s Kimberley to Fort Darwin ex-
pedition in ’B4, was killed lately while serving
with Kitchener’s scouts in S’Africa.
Fred. J. Broomfield, the well-known
Sydney journalist, was the writer who supplied
the historical sketch of the States of Australasia,
which fills 222 pages (pages 11 to 232) of the latest
issue of the “Seven Colonies.” It is probably the
best condensed history of Australasia at present
in print.
WAR ITEM: THE ENEMY IN FULL
FLIGHT.
Cabled that one Hugh Watt has been
mulcted in damages as a co-respondent in a high-
toned English divorce-case. Watt is the gentle-
man who interviewed Kingston, when the latter
was S.A. Premier, re some Northern Territory
•oncessions, and made a wild and precipitate
flight from the S.A. Premier’s office. He may not
have been a long-distance champion, but his time
over 100yds. on that occasion was pretty good,
considering that both he and his pursuer were out
of training.
A bitterly disappointed man is Mason, the
long, gaunt official with the vague whiskers, who
has twice been elected Vic. Speaker. A K.C.M.G.-
ship from the Juke was reckoned a certainty for the
lank Gippslander, but, like most other people, he
failed to catch the Royal eye, and now makes no
effort to hide his chagrin.
The Duke to Daniel O’Connor :—“ I re-
member you, Mr. O’Connor,” and public men
within hearing turned green with envy. The
Duke remembers Daniel, and the Duke, on his
way to Brisbane, fled past Daniel’s city without
stopping even for a drink. He evidently remem-
bered Daniel right enough.
Mrs. Nation, the Kansas lady who goes
about smashing liquor bars with her little tommy-
axe, lost her first husband by d.t. She was
arrested five times one Sunday, bailed out five
times, and employed the intervals in more
destruction at saloons. Kansas is a nominally
prohibition State, and Mrs. Nation is its prac-
tical prohibitor.
Victorian Premier Peacock (in Windsor
uniform) turned on his laugh during the dreary
wait at the Dook’s State Concert. When the
crowd applauded wildly he stopped short and
grew scarlet. Mrs. Peacock was at his side, and
the story goes that Alexander of the Shriek only
won her on his solemn promise to leave off that
deafening smile of his.
When the highly favored, and subse-
quently frustrated Fegan was promised the
Under-Secretaryship to the Lyne Department,
Newcastle (N.S.W.) admirers subscribed to a
testimonial. It is now announced that “in view
of subsequent events it was decided that the
amount collected be refunded to the subscribers.”
When Fegan had a good billet and a big salary
his friends were anxious to give him a cash
donation. Now that he has no billet they won’t
give him anything.
“Boko”: It is usual for the Moderator
of the Presbyterian Assembly to wear “ breeches”
during his term of office ; but, of course, this prac-
tise is optional. At one of the meetings of present
Assembly a member got up and objected to ex-
Moderator Dill-Mackv still continuing to assume
the pants of office, and Dill Macky rose excitedly
to his feet; “ I wore breeches before I was Mode-
rator,” he said, “and I’m not going to take them
off now for anybody.”
Old W. A. B. Gellibrand, whom the slowly
awakening electors of Tasmania threw out at the
late Derwent election, has worn out the seats of
the Legislative Council chamber at Hobart for 30
weary consecutive years. He slept on behalf of
the Derwent constituency all that time, and said
“No ” in his dreams to every proposal for upset-
ting the Mouldy Order of Things. The first time
old man Cellibrand has been really awake since
’7l was when his constituents the other day put a
new man (Ellis Dean) in his place by 53 majority.
Writes an S.A. lawyer :
It is certain that if little Way secures promotion, Bou-
caut will be the next Chief Justice of S.A. He is nearly
70 years of age, but still strong-brained and vigorous.
Boucaut spent nearly 20 years in politics, and was twice
Premier. His name will always be associated with the
proposal to defray interest on loans by levying land values
taxation. Parliament decided to spend the money, but
rejected the taxation proposals. This was in 1875, and
Parliament was sorry for it afterwards. Boucaut is a
yachting enthusiast, but his great hobby in recent years
has been horse-breeding. As a Judge he is distinguished
for his strict fairness towards prisoners, especially when
undefended.
' One woman describes another :
The Duchess of York—-if not a duchess -would be fairly
described as a strapping wench, long-limbed, solidly-
built, and somewhat goodly to look upon, though by no
means beautiful. She has a long neck and fine shoulders
for an evening-dress setting ; a shapely head thatched
with light brown hair, and pretty arms and hands. Like-
wise, don’t forget to look at her teeth when she laughs,
as she does freely. (The duke can’t laugh as his wife can,
he just titters and pulls his moustache nervously.) Her
face has a sulky aspect in reposp, but her laugh is win-
some. Suppose she were not a royal Duchess what would
she be ? Well, she would be a credit to the front row of a
comic opera chorus.
Dr. Lemon, who died recently in his 67th
year, was associated with the M.L. Telegraph
Department for over 30 years, retiring from the
superintendency in ’94. One of his first enter-
prises, in ’67, was the adjustment of the mileage
tariff for telegrams. Something of the kind was
badly needed ; at that time it cost 6s. Bd. to send
10 words from Charleston to Napier, and lOd. for
10 words from Auckland to Onehunga. There
were all manner of intermediate rates, and the
why of these amazing discrepancies no one knew.
It was on Dr. Lemon’s advice that Premier Hall
made the ’phone a State monopoly in Maoriland.
Melbourne is never quite free from
anxiety about Jenkins. The latest anxiety is that
Jenkins, who has a good ornamental billet in the
State Parliament, will I}B due for a pension after
another 12 months’ service—wants the pension,
naturally—doesn’t want to put in the 12 months’
service, but to get a Federal billet —and can’t find
out for certain whether his State pension will fol-
low him to his proposed Federal billet. The
necessity for providing for Jenkins being obvi-
ous, there have been proposals to give Jenkins 12
months’ leave of absence, so that he can go into
the Federal service and still remain in the State
service, and be in two places at once without being
a bird.
For a whole week farmer Larry O’Lough-
lin, S.A. Lands Minister, was also Attorney-
General, Treasurer, Works Minister, Chief
SOME OF THE SCENERY THE DUKE SAW IN AUSTRALIA.
HATS -robeJ.4l-
- a in
the y^rd.
Secretary and Minister of Education. With all
his colleagues away, Larry could have recom-
mended himself for a bonus of £lO,OOO, approved
payment at a Cabinet meeting of himself,
collected it at the Treasury and had a splendid
time. Finally, having reported himself for
criminal misappropriation, Larry could, as Attor-
ney-General, have entered a nolle prosequi, and
intimated that O’Loughliu hadn’t a stain on his
character. Being a poor but honest Australian,
and unconnected with any local tramway schemes,
Larry never thought of these things.
“G.” : Those who watched the Jook care-
fully throughout the Melbourne celebrations
agree that that exalted personage’s attitude in
private life is that of Princess May’s husband.
The assertion that the Jook is an extremely robust
individual suffering from temporary ill-health is
belied by his appearance. It is a sorrowful thing
to inspect the nervous, hesitating, weak-looking
little fellow, and remember all the wild flapdoodle
which was written about his hilarious, devil-may-
care rowdyism in the days when he was a mid-
shipman or sub-lieutenant. The only practical
joke he seems likely to rise to now is to call
“ 800 ! ” in a weak voice through a doorway, and
then trot gradually round the corner.
Robert Homburg, who succeeds Sudden
Solomon as leader of S.A. Tory party, is a dull
ballast politician of German descent, who has
been a great dead-weight in Parliament for 15
years without doing anything wonderful. He has
all the mental lightness of a bison. Hoinburg
represents a country constituency in S. A. Assem-
bly, and two-thirds of his electors are Germans.
Many of them cannot speak English, but they
always record Tory votes. He was Attorney-
General in 1892 in Downer’s Ministry. Homburg
is a man with violent prejudices—a bounceable,
breakable kind of man—and his capacity for acci-
dentally putting his hind foot on things while
trying to turn round will probably make the Ass
party regret its choice.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lee is a painful
apparition on the platform. At Sydney Pro-
testant Hall last week, the State became ac-
quainted, for the first time, with its future hope
and joy, and the vision was heartrending. Lee
read most of his speech, and gave the impression
that he had never heard of it before. He held the
huge block of foolscap up to the light with his left
hand, held his eye-glass before him with his right,
and lost his place regularly. About every tenth
word he would come upon something absolutely
unintelligible. Then he would ''give up the
manuscript as a bad job and wait a few seconds
till be could think of a word that would fill the
gap—by which time he had lost the thread of the
argument, and would start the whole paragraph
over again. By the time he got back to the gap
he would get mixed between the word that was
there and the one he intended to interpolate.
When he got through the manuscript, about 9.45,
he put it down with an expression of relief and
spoke with some slight approach to fluency ; but
he couldn’t round off his periods, and they were
left ragged and untidy. His party was so glad
to hear the last of him, apparently, that it started
cheering wildly before lie showed any signs of
getting to a finish. Altogether, Lee was a figure
to move a statue of Moloch to tears of pity.
The prisoner was charged with robbing a
lodge. Defending co .n il was urging that it
hadn’t been proved that there was any such lodge.
A witness had said that he knew the head-office
and had seen the name on it. “ There you are,”
Mr. Blank, snapped ’Sonah, “we must believe
the evidence of our eyes. I look out of the Court-
house door yonder, and see the sign, the Bkiga-
LONG Bunyip, and so I know that a paper called
the Beigalong Bunyip is published there.” But
the court simply flew on to the next point when
counsel explained that the Brigalong Bunyip had
expired two or three years before ! However,
’Sonah bore no malice—he directed an acquittal.
“ Barnacle ”on a one-time royal'y :
The Yorkess is stated to be of a somewhat stand-off
disposition ; this was a failing of her dad’s. I was on a
ship, where Teck occasionally dined, and one day, when
ashore with the launch, His Itoyal nibs, who was leaning
on a pile of railway-sleepers near the wharf chatting
with a high official, notified his intention of going off
with me. 1 told him we were going in a quarter of an
hour, and intimated when the time had passed. He took
no notice, and then, being young and inflated with ideas
of my own importance, I got angry, and stated my orders
were to leave at a given time, and if he didn’t trot along,
the boat would have to go without him. Then he came
with a look of ccld glassy astonishment in his eye that
was worth seeing. I wonder if lam the only person in
Australia who has told a member of the British Royal
family to hurry up or he’d dashed well get left?
“ H.” : Died in England, James barker,
Salvation Army colonel. His brother is the
harpist in Musgrove’s operatic orchestra. James,
by his own account, was a reckless young fellow
when General Booth laid his bony hands on him
and the shadow of Booth’s vast nose fell on his
path. Barker was picked to open fipte in Mel-
bourne. He married Captain Alice Collis, and
they started next day for these Antipodes. Their
first pitch was Collingwood Flat. In view of the
disagreeables that arose, it must be remembered
that, while Barker evinced pretty large ability,
he had General Booth’s prestige behind him.
Anyhow, in 1884, when he had been here
a year, the General decided that lie was
going too fast. The sanguine fashion of
Barker threatened to pile up financial em-
barrassments, and Booth loathed to see cash
dissipated. So Ballington Booth and Major
Howard were sent out to look after him. Balling-
ton ordered Barker to England. Barker refused
to go, entrenching himself behind a threat not to
give up the properties. A lot of his friends
wanted him to start on his own hook, but he was
loyal to the cause, and had a pathetic faith in his
pawnbroking prophet. Ultimately he was per-
suaded to go to London and see the General. An
arrangement, under which Barker’s Rescue work
was to be kept separate from the big-drum part of
the business, was come to, but did not work well.
General Booth sent a peremptory order for Barker
to take a final farewell of Australia, and return to
England. He went, broken-hearted. Thence-
forward he was in the shade. His Melbourne
popularity had been too great, and he was never
forgiven.
TO PREMIER SEE.
(For his Album.)
The bitter irony of circumstance—
Not you—has lost this everlasting chance.
The chance—good Lord, we shudder as we write —
To be a chrismed and sacrosancted knight.
You did your best; you put your hopes in pawn,
You spoke to Royal Highness on the Lawn.
You spoke so well, to put them at their ease,
These modest, young, retiring Royalties.
You spoke so well the Duke said, smiling grim,
“ I have no title big enough for him.”
The Other Bounders, sons of sin and wrath,
Met him mid-sea —and caught him in his bath.
They took from him his gewgaws—and, God knows,
The wonder is, they did not take his clothes.
There was, in times gone by, a Mister Pitt,
Not undevoid of wisdom or of wit ;
He held all Europe in his small, white hand;
For years and years he plotted, schemed and planned.
His little finger raised made King and Khan
Tremble to know there was on earth —a Man.
Kings, Highnesses, Transparencies and such
Small purple cattle wilted at his touch.
This common Mister Pitt, in days bygone,
Strangled the First and Great Napoleon.
Therefore be comforted, O plain John See —
Misters, not knights, have immortality.
C.R.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
WOLFES
1 ' SCHNAPPS.
I ® •
Kuppers Elberfeld Laser.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. --Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items etc., exact date and exact
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Did I ever tell yer ’ow I was taken-down
by ther confidence-trick?” asked Murphy. He
hadn’t. “Well, I don’t mind tellin’ you, as [
know it won’t go any furder. I was moochin’
about Sydney, an’ a friendly chap-—well-dressed,
an’ all that sorter thing—makes upter me, an'
offers ter show me round. We got into a pub.
down in Castlereagh-st., an’ another chap came in
as knew my friend. Well, I asted ’im ter ’ave a
drink, but ’e wouldn’t ’ear of it. ’E wanted ter
shout, as ’e was so glad ter meet me. Then we
sat yarnin’ for awhile, an’ th’ last-comer pulls out
a pocket-book, an’ begins huntin’ about in it for a
jooty-stamp. There was none, an’ ’e asted th’
landlord if ’e could oblige. ’E couldn’t. Then ’e
said ’e’d slip down ter th* P.O. an’ get one. I’m
sugared if ’e didn’t leave th’ pocket-book on th’
table, wide open. My friend took it up, an’
started lookin’ through it. ‘What’s in it?’ I
asted. Well, ’e went through th’ thing, an’ found
fifty notes (oners), a couple of fivers, four sovs.,
an’ 6s. 3d. in silver. ’E said ’e was naterally a
’onest man, but th’ temptation was too much for
even ’im. ‘ Tell, yer what! ’ said ’e, ‘ you give
me a tenner, an’ take th’ lot. ’ E’s got plenty,
an’ll never miss it; besides, ’e’ll never mind you,
as you leave by th’ boat ter-night.’ Th’ temptation
was too great for me. I ’ad £lO on me, an’ I
’anded it over, took th’ book, an’ sneaked. I
thought it was great biz. Wasn’t I savage when
I looked through it? Th’ 6s. 3d. was right
WAYBACK LOYALTY.
Mr. and Mrs. Bloogum, discussing the Jookoyork's visit.)
MRS. B.: “Ah, well, bless ’is ’cart, if ’e visits the farm
I’m sure ’e’s most welcome ter our bit o’ stewed
wallaby. An' we might git ’im ter stand godfather
fer Mary’s new baby; an’ the boys ’ud take’im out
’ possum-shoot in’ at night, an’ then wind up with a
concertina kick-up in the new hay-shed along with
the gals.” (Collapse of magpie).
enough, but th’ sovs. an’ notes was dummies.
No ! I didn't see th’ police—l left by th’ boat ! ”
* * * •
“ Cecil P.” : The “ confidence - man’s ”
victim is not always the far-back joskin he is
represented to be. Not long ago, a man from a
N.S.W. country district only escaped dropping
£lOO in Sydney through the chance appearance of
the police. Yet he is a storekeeper and J.P., has
kept a pub., and bears a Scotch name ! What
wonder that poor Corncob falls-in !
* * * *
“ Spare-me-days ” writes:—
Bulletin Bed Page (11/5/’Oli, in reviewing Brim ton
Stephens’s “Convict Once,” wants to know what Mag-
dalen Power could do to be transported at 16. This
scribbler can tell him. Once saw an old convict register
in which was recorded the history of some hundreds of
female convicts. Amongst them was a girl of 16,
described as “ nursery governess,” who was sentenced to
seven years’ transportation for wearing at an evening
party an article of dress belonging to her mistress.
Another case was that of a girl of 15, transported for
seven years for stealing apples from an orchard. And
there were plenty more like instances. The English girl
of the early part of this century could do plenty of things
whereby to get herself transported at 16. There wasn’t
the least difficulty on that score.
* • • «
Casey wanted a windmill to irrigate his
little wheat-field, and poolan offered to sell him
one of the two on his (Doolan’s) land. “And
why do you want to sell one of yours ? ” inquired
Casey— “are they not a success?” “To be sure
they are,” said Doolan; “but you see there is
only wind enough on this small selection of mine
to drive one windmill.” Explanation accepted,
and sale effected.
“ Alpar ” : That colored picture of “ An
Australian Dairymaid ” did make me laugh. Who
ever saw a girl go into a dirty stockyard with
uamty shoes and stockings and'a nice little cap
decked with ribbons ? Fancy said cap and rib-
bons up against a dirty cow ! The cows are not
groomed in this beastly country. Occasionally,
too, the cow switches her long, filthy tail —which
is mostly secured in a craqk in a convenient rail
and catches the maid under the ear, or around the
swan-like neck. And, fancy the little shoes
buried m the muck when the girl is bailing-up,
and the old cow is being chased around the yard
by a couple of dogs ! Far as I’ve seen—and I’ve
seen a few —dairymaids are dirtier than dairymen,
and that’s saying a lot. Let us have a picture of
a brawny, red-faced “piece,” with blucher boots
minus the laces, nature’s stockings, a dirty
‘ pinny, ’ one of the boy’s old coats, and the old
man’s hat with the crown gone ! Let us have
icality, at any price.
• • • •
“J. W. 0.” concerning rabbits on the
Queensland border :
_I saw rabbits on Bulloo Downs in ’B5 ; and when, in
’B7, I was erecting 40 miles of the border rabbit-proof
fence and had (owing to the difficulties I had to contend
with) to delay completion until Dec., ’O9, the rabbits were
going through the gaps in the fence in thousands. The
rabbit-wave, in fact, had reached the Q. border early in
’BB. “Ne’er-do-well,” in reply to “Clio. F.” (B. l/9/’OO),
ho.wever, is wrong about the young rabbits not being able
to squeeze through a smaller mesh than lfin. ; as, often,
when I have gone into the trap-yard (made of lfin. mesh)
the young rabbits have skedaddled through the mesh like
water through a sieve. They do not seem to try to get
out until they are frightened. In ’BB there were thou-
sands of rabbits near Hungerford after the fence was
completed ; but the fact was suppressed by the inspectors.
In fact, one station I could name had men poisoning rab-
bits in ’B7.
“ P.D.” : lie beaching'ships at
Port Darwin (B. 10/2/’01). In ’92,
the E. and A. Co.’s s.s. Menmuir
lost a propeller-blade, and was laid-
up on a beach at high tide near the
local hospital. A new blade was
fixed, and the vessel floated off next
day without shifting a ton of cargo.
Also, during the construction of the
Darwin-to-Pine Creek railway, s.s.
Euphrates, with 2000 tons of steel
rails, was beached at spring - tide,
rails unloaded, and steamer taken
off. She had, through meandering
on to a rock when entering the har-
bor, been in a sinking condition when
put ashore. The local tide range is
27ft.
“Deebly”: A characteristically
Australian institution is that of the
itinerant youthful prostitute. Along
many of the chief roads going West
these girls may be met tramping
in twos and threes —many of them
little more than 16 years old. They
are always accompanied by as many
“blokes” of about their own age,
as a rule, who are distinguishable
from ordinary “travellers” by the
diminutive swags they carry. The
girls carry nothing but a flippant grin
—“ without which none are genuine.”
They sing the latest “hall” songs
as they go, and make impudent
remarks about those they meet. Oc-
casionally they “spell” under a tree,
and have a swig of tea, or of beer, if
there is any left. Arrived at a
town, a calico “ fly ” is pitched on the
town-reserve, a fire made—and there
you are, all ready for business. And
there they stay until some night, as
the result of too much beer, wild
screams pierce the dead of night,
followed by language that brings
blushes to the cheeks of the honest
bullock-driver, camped in his virtu-
ous bunk hard-by. Then the local
bobby (reluctantly in most cases) is
compelled to give them “ the office
to git.” I have never, out of Aus-
tralia, met with this phase of the
“ oldest profession.”
Shearers’ cooks on the Darling
are mostly fair pugs, and after their
first spread often invite any dis-
satisfied partakers to “ come out-
side.” At Wayback one year, the
cook, a sparse, middle-aged man,
issued the usual challenge, and, in
response, six men filed out. The
tucker was all right, but to refuse
fight would have been unprincipled. The cook
bashed the lot, and the food was voted “ A 1 ” ever
afterwards.
“ Uloola ” : Along N.S.W. coast lands
after a hot day, if the white ants fly it is a sure
sign that a southerly wind is coming. The insects
swarm in thousands from old posts, stumps, &0.,
and after flying a little time their wings drop off.
* * * *
“8.5.”: I question if forest-destruction
be as disastrous as predicted. I know a district
which, when heavily-timbered, was practically
waterless in summer, but which, since being
cleared, has developed what look like permanent
springs. I also know of a creek which carries
more water now than when its vicinity was tim-
bered. Is this the effect of clearing, and a com-
pensation therefor ?
• * * *
According to N.S,W. Botanist Turner,
who has been urging on the N.S.W. Western
Lands Commission the importance of a better
conservation of indigenous grasses and scrub, one
Sydney firm lately supplied an Argentine order
for 50001 b. of saltbush seed. He cited this a 3
evidence of the high value placed elsewhere on
the native shrubs of the droughty inlands.
* *■ * •
“ Via ” : Saw two black “ dead marines ”
hanging from either end of a wayside railway
station verandah. Thought it was a hint; but
inquiry showed that the suspended bottle is a
certain means of keeping the swallow and sparrow
from resting on and defiling the eaves. Sort of
Australian bete noir.
A HEALTHY NEIGHBORHOOD.
INPECTOR : “ There's a very lad smell just here,
Mrs. Mulligan. I hope the drains ”
MRS. MULLIGAN : “ Shure, it can't be moi place,
fer the divil of a drain 'ave u-e got at all!”
I was looking for the township of Cotne-
by-Chance, and I consulted a gentleman of the
road-mending persuasion. This is how the dia-
logue went
“ Can you direct me to Oome-by-Chance ? ”
"Oican. Do yez see that old thrack that used to be
there? Well, follow that, kapin’ the sun in yer roight
shoulder till ye come to a lignum shwamp. Pass that
lignum shwamp, an’ ye’ll come to some brumbies’ thraeks.
Don’t follow the thraeks, but kape the way ye was goin’
till ye come to another lignum shwamp. Go through
that lignum shwamp, an’ ye’ll come acrost the brumbies’
thraeks agin gallopin’. Kape to the roight of the thraeks
an’ ye’ll make another lignum shwamp. Bear to the left
of that lignum shwamp an’ go as far as ye can without
hittin’ a thrack, an’ ye’ll see some tall trees with some
jackasses (lyin’. Kape the bir-rds on the left an’ the sun
anyhow ye loike.”
“ And where will I go then ? ”
“I don’t know where the h lye’ll go then; ye’re
losht 1 ”
* * * »
“ Trotter ” : On Mourilyan plantation
(Q.) recently, a row took place between the Japs
and Kanakas (something like 400 niggers em-
ployed there), and on the arrival of the police
from Geraldton the Japs simply defied them. No
wonder—with about 300 whites in the district to
about 4000 Chows, Japs, Malays and Kanakas.
The press, so far, has said nothing about this little
trouble.
* * * •
They were all growling about their bad
luck, when Stingo Bill remarked : “If it was to
rain turtle-soup I’d be sure to have nothing about
me but a fork ! ”
“ A.A.A.” : Talk about your city
Orangeman refusing to sail in the R.M.S.
Rome. Why, we’ve a L.O.L. dairy-
man up here who knocks that “kite-
high.” He’ll have nothing about his
farm but yellow cows ; and he also tries
to arrange matters so as to make most
of them add to the herd on or about the
12th of July. Up to a few months ago
he had two bulls, named respectively
William 111. and No Popery ; but one
night they accidentally tnet, and No
Popery promptly ripped William 111.
Sad to say, William 111. is now in the
land of Potted Meat, whilst the slayer
has been re-named “ The Fenian.”
♦ * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Houses on wheels
are becoming common about Broken
Hill. Know a teamster whose family
travels up and down the roads from
here in a neatly-built two-roomed house
with glass windows; and t’other day I
saw two 4-roomed houses passing down
the street to the auction mart. Many
of the houses in the Silver City are
built on leases, and, when sold, are re-
moved bodily on low 4-wheeled trucks.
Nothing unusual to see three or four
cottages standing to-day on what was
vacant ground yesterday, or to see vacant
land at night where neat little homes
stood in the morning. It’s just as well
here, where houses have such a habit of
disappearing, to chain your mansion up
before going out.
“Albion”: More about this J.P. busi-
ness. Our local member asked a certain decent
cookie if be might submit his (the cookie’s) name,
with a recommendation, &c. Cookie asked the
member if he were a J.P. “ No,” said the mem-
ber. “ Then,” replied the cookie, “you can leave
me out. It’s a bad enough thing to get from any
man; but, coming from you. I take it as au in-
sult ! ”
♦ * * *
The rum must have been plentiful :
Dear Bulletin. — Re size of iguana : Near Musweil-
brook, N.S.W., I once saw a “ goanna” basking on top of
a three-rail fence, his head resting on one post while his
tail hung over another. Posts over Bft. apart!—A.H. L.
* * ¥ *
According to a St. Arnaud (Vic.) paper
four cows were recently poisoned near Broadford
through eating poisoned rabbits—four rabbits
being found in the stomach of one defunct cow.
“It appears that the cattle allow the rabbits,
which are poisoned with phosphorised pollard, to
become very much decomposed, and then devour
them. Some think it is the phosphorus which
attracts the cattle, especially in the dry weather.
They instance the eagerness with which milking
cows will eat bone dust or phosphatic manures.”
“Iota”: Let the champion mean
woman have a show. A traveller called
at the house of a lady noted for her “near-
ness,” and asked not for food, which
would have been promptly refused with
—-“Be off, or I’ll set the dogs on you
but merely the time of day, as he wished
to know how long it would take him to
reach the next town. “I don’t
he was told. “My clock has stopped.
And right then the clock struck twelve !
♦ * * «
It is vouched for on various assorted
oaths by the whalers of those parts that
the seal—before his winter migration
southward from Behring—takes in a cargo
of “ stones.” There is no evidence as to
how he gets rid of the consignment on
arrival. Is it done to increase the weight
of said seal, obviate the necessity of mus-
cular effort to remain under water, and
thereby conserve all his strength for pro-
pulsion ?
* * * »
On the MTutyre River, one day,
an alioriginal youngster took a fit, and
the gins sent in haste for their tribal
doctor. The wise man came, and —sur-
rounded by an expectant crowd of blacks
—viewed his patient with a puzzled ex-
pression, until suddenly the frothing at
the mouth gave him an inspiration. “My
word,” be said ; “mine been thinkum
picaninny bin eatum plenty thoap 1 ”
* • « *
“True Bill ” : Going up the Paroo,
with stores, five or six teams of us, and
iust behind was an old Irishwoman and
her son, with a horse and cart. One
afternoon we struck a creek running a
banker, and as it was necessary for some
of us to swim across, one went back and
politely asked Mrs. Murphy to keep
behind a bit, as we would have to strip off.
Whereupon the lady, with a snort: “Sthrip, then
—an’ be damned to yez ! I’ve seen better min
sthripped than ever ye wor 1 ”
* * * - *
lie estimate of cost of bushman’s keep.
The writer has had survey-camp in various parts
of the State, and his practice was to make each
man pay his own share of the bills ; much more
satisfactory than charging them a stated sum per
week. Only once it ran up to 12s. (id. per week,
and the tucker was poor. After the cook had
left hurriedly without waiting for his cheque, it
transpired that he had endeavored to ingratiate
himself with the handsome daughters of a selector,
who lived handy, by boarding their father’s pigs
at our expense, and quite regardless of cost. His
sudden exit was due to the unseemly ardor of bis
conduct with one of the insufficiently mashed
damsels, and to the fact that the old woman re-
sented his behaviour with a small tree Average
cost was 7s. (id. to Bs. per week, including tea at
2s. per pound, white sugar, jam, condensed milk ;
puddings practically every day, &c. The average
employer who gives so much a week and board has
a habit of estimating board as being worth 15s. per
week. It isn't.
* * * *
The only barber in a Far Northern Q.
town was Ah Fong, who beguiled with opium the
intervals of business. One day a big hairy-faced
Irishman who had been tackling Q. rum at close
range, entered, and prowling through the back-
premises, unearthed the barber snoozing off the
effects of his drug. “Come out o’ that, ye lazy
haythen, an’ cut me hair,” shouted Pat, violently
MADAM VAN DER VERE GREEN.
shaking Ah Fong. “ All li, all li—me come bime-
bye,” drowsily murmured the Chow; and the
hairy one, returning to the shop, floundered into
the operating-chair and promptly fell asleep. He
was still slumbering when Ah Fong had finished
with him and had resumed his interrupted
dreams. Presently Pat awoke and gazed incredu-
lously at the dreadful apparition confronting him
in the mirror. “Howly Moses! phwat’s this,”
he shrieked, as he saw reflected a hairless face,
the deadly white shorn parts contrasting hideously
with the rest of its mud-colored surface, while a
fearful nine-inch gash, surmounted by an upper
lip straight and hard as a paving-stone, seemed to
merge into a pair of enormous ears standing out
from a scalp clean shaven, save for a tuft left at
the back of the crown. All Fong bad taken his
victim for a fellow-countryman. [And this, ye
gods ! is how The Bulletin gets its own old-time
lie sent back to it. Edward Dyson told the story
of Pat and Fong in this paper many years ago.J
* * * ,
“Jimmy S.” : That lingo mentioned by
“ Peter K.” (8.. 4/5/’01) is pretty much in vogue
about coal-mines just now, being Drincipally used
by trappers and chitter-pickers. It is one of the


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the. exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.-
Rote the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
many that grate on one’s ears at workshops,
mines, schools, street-comers, etc. Thus :
“ Itsynay oysbay erethay omecay ethay eacher-
tay ; utpay emthay incesquay intna ourya ockets-
pay.” Translation: —“Nitsy, boys, here comes
the teacher ; put them quinces in your pockets.”
One gutter-snipe will perhaps say to his mate :
“ Givesy mevesy thavesy bumpvesy-ervesy
whevesy youvesy arevesy dovesy wivesy ivesy.”
And what he means is only—“ Give me that bum-
per (cigar or cigarette stump) when you are done
with it.” Members of cliques and pushes, such as
the “ Kilkennies,” the “Rag Tag,” the “ Blood
and Tiiunder,” make night hideous with their
bawliugs. “Gerriger worriger. Gerriger ariger
biriger origer liriger lariger.” All they are really
saying is : “ Get work. Get a bit of light
labor.” Then there is a lingo which has a
special alphabet, and every word is spelt.
The alphabet runs—A. Bub, Cung, Dud, E,
Fuf, Gug, Huh, I, Juh, Kuk, Lul, Mum, Nun,
O, Pup, Quh, Rus, Sus, Tut, U, Vuv, Wuh, X
(pronounced ux), Yuh, Zuz. F’rinstance that
popular idiotic screech, “What Ho, She Bumps!”
would start “Wuh Huh A Tut,” &c._ Another
gibberish is formed by the transposition of the
initial letters of the principal words, or of a per-
son’s name, in a sentence. Thus, a beefsteak
becomes a‘ ‘ steef bake, ” a glass of beer—a ‘ ‘ blass
of geer,” and Bob Jones becomes “Job Bones.”
All of which are understandable when the prin-
ciple is known, but when rapidly gabbled off they
are an unintelligible medley. “P.K.’s” lingo
consists of inserting “ arp,” “ arpe,” and “ yarp ”
before the vowel sound of each syllable, and ocea-
sionallv, as in “blopoke” (bloke), inserting “p”
after the vowel sound. It is perhaps suggested
by one of the oldest English methods of canting,
mentioned in the oldest slang dictionaries, that of
“inserting a consonant betwixt each syllable;
thus taking G —“ How do you do? ’’ would be
“ Howg dog youg dog ? ” Some of the gibberishes
here mentioned are only remarkable for their
extreme silliness, and are strong evidences of
gradual brain-softening in the inventors.
» * * *
“ A lick ” ; Consider the lot of the South
Njoast cookie. I know a farmer in Illawarra dis-
trict who gets up in the morning somewhere about
midnight to extract the juice from his kine. This
he carts two miles to the factory, where it tops
the scales at 421bs. Milk is 3d. per gallon at that
factory, and out of the enormous income thus de-
rived he is supposed to find £ll2 per annum rent,
pay a laborer and buy h igh collars for his aristo-
cratic son. Again, a widow in Shoalhaven sent a
truck of pumpkins and onions to Sydney, and
received from the auctioneer as payment a penny
stamp ! Also, three farmers in same district sent
up two trucks of like produce and at settling-up
found themselves 11s. to the-bad.
» * • •
“ Ilevvi ” ; Resided for a time at a small
N.S.W. township on the Northern line—a great
pumpkin depdt— and daily saw truck-loads of
pumpkins consigned to down-country jam-fac-
tories. The railway officials told me that the
factories took the bulk of the pumpkins railed
from that station.
* * * *
Bill’s carefully thought-out sys-
tem of boozing was to split his cheque,
“ blowing ” a pound here, thirty shil-
lings there, and so on, getting at each
place as much “on the nod” as he
could. His last spree wound up at
the “ Forty-Mile,” the host of which
was a stranger from “further out,”
where pub. “points” are a fine art.
By most people Murphy was
promptly recognised as an individual
upon whom no flies enjoyed their
siesta, but Bill conceitedly thought
that he had forgotten more than
Murphy ever knew. And under this
impression (his cheque being no more)
he proceeded to flatter Murphy on his
and his wife’s appearance, the fine
growth of his children, the sagacity
of his dog, and the staunchness of his
draught horse. All this proving use-
less, Bill started to take fits—having
first emphatically impressed on Mur-
phy that nothing relieved him but
rum—“ plenty of rum.” This scheme,
however, was also a failure, Bill being
allowed to tear up about a dray-load
of gravel whilst Murphy kept his
eye carefully focused on a spotted
cow that was contentedly chewing
her way through the contents of Bill’s
swag on the bank of the creek. So
William had to recover “ on his own ”
and retire to the “dead-house”, to
think things over. Evening falling
and no “shouters ” having appeared
to supply his keen-felt want, Bill
emerged from his retreat to play his
last card. Murphy was smoking his
evening pipe on the verandah when
Bill, with rolling eyes and twitching
hands, accosted him with “Murphy !
Murphy ! Give it ter me. I must
do it. They’re tellin’ me to ! Give
it ter me, quick— quick J ther gun—
ther nun/’’ Murphy calmly went
behind the bar, and returned with a
double-barrelled breeoh-loader, which
lie handed to Bill, saying, “ Yer
won’t want both barrels, will yer?
The nearest side un’s choke fuller slugs an’ I’ve
killed pigs with ’er afore; so she ought ter
do you! But see—get roun’ ther back —I don’t
want no blanky mess ’ere!” Then William did
have a fit —of “ language.”
* * * *
“T.N.” : In Taranaki (M.L.) 20 years
ago, when the Tote first came into vogue, coin
was scarce and produce was often used instead. I
remember the “divvy” to the winner of a race
being 10 sacks fungus, 2 calves, and a waggon-load
of pumpkins.
“ P.L.” : Be the cunning
of animals —birds in particular.
Writer observed (in N.W.
Queensland) a hawk making
various attempts to rob a hen
of one of her chickens —but all
in vain. The mother was too
alert and wary. After a while
the bird of prey came circling
over the brood again with some-
thing in its claws. A piece of
meat suddenly dropped from
the air into a corner of the
yard. The poor hen immedi-
ately rushed off to secure the
prize, forgetting the chicks for
a moment. When she returned
the brood was one short, and
the hawk already far in • the
distance.
* * •
N. S. W. Land Appeal
Court decided a much-disputed
point lately. When a selector
has applied for land, some land
boards have allowed the squat-
ter, whose country has been
taken, to appear and take part
in inquiring into the man’s
bona jides ; others have shut
him out. The Appeal Court
decides that the squatter has a
standing, mainly because he is
entitled to the country a 3
against everybody but a settler bona-fide.
Charters Towers in slump-time ! Oh, the
nightmare ! Well, even the Peculiar Doctor has
left; so you can judge how bad things are. And
there’s some £2OOO of “Patriotic Fund’’locked
up in the bank; don’t the subscribers wish they
had it out. The “patriotic” hollowaremerchants
pause as they pass that bank, and gaze sadly —so
sadly. If pathetic glances could melt a strong-
room door !
“Prac.” : A middle-aged woman came to
my surgery and said she was suffering from
“laths.” Her husband was a lath-splitter, and I
was somewhat puzzled, until I found it was a case
of “ shingles ” ( Herpes zoster ). “ Well,” said the
patient, when I told her, “I knew it was some-
thing to do with wood / ”
“ Nurse ” : If all the Victorian magistrates
who adjudicate pension claims are like the one in
my suburb, they’re a pretty rough lot. He looked
over my papers and questioned me till he knew
more than I did myself, then says he —“Can’t you
do any work?” I’m 71 and have worked all my
life, and find old age beginning to tell. So I told
him I was very old, and had bad legs besides.
And there, in that court, I had to pull down my
stockings and show them my legs—and two great,
hulking policemen looking on. Then he says,
“Can’t you do sewing?” I told him my eyes
were none too good. He hums and haws, and
blurts out, “There’s a bit more work left in you
yet. We’ll allow you 6s. 6d. a week.” Ten
shillings is little enough : six-and six is only mak-
ing a fool of a woman.
WALTER LES THETRES, taking his baby-sister for a ride.
One of the first things that greeted the
Dookoyork the morning after his arrival was a silly
Age par stating that, on her landing, the Duchess
had made careful inquiries from Hopetoun re the
tree planted by the Dookoclarence in Ballarat
when he was out here long ago. The par described
how delighted the Duchess was to find that the tree
(which was said to be quite dead) had flourished.
This was too muoh for York, and the paragraph
was violently repudiated. It was worse than
having the photo. “of my first darling husband ”
put up over the bed of the newly-married widow.
A FATHER AND A MAN.
PIRATE: "’Ullo there, Buck, ain’t yer wearin’ yer
colors fer the Dook?”
BUCK: “ New! Nice fuss yer makin’ ’bout ’im.
Why I hearn o’ blokes in Inglan ’ as ’ave a
Dook fer an ole man.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Mangana : So badly spelt that we very nearly
printed it.... Percy F. : Yarn dull; considering sugges-
tion Malle: “Platonic” has nothing new ; “Girls”
less.. .Maia: Just found that out?... .Bakblox Bill:
Last damper must have disagreed with you, William....
A.J.M. : Wondering if we haven’t heard it before
Wintonia : None good enough A.D.B. : Don’t care for
“ 8a1c0ny.”.... Austin : Doubtful.... H.0.G.: Well meant,
but D.H.R. ; Not up yet. You have to preserve
your vigour, and improve your style Siandra : No,
thank you, ma’am C. Hop.: Sorry not interest enough.
W.G.M. : Go one verse—
They’re spending thousands on the Fete,
’Tain’t wuth it;
And heaping debts upon the State,
’Tain’t wuth it.
Illuminations, noise, and glare,
All to greet the Royal pair,
And make the people cheer and stare—
’Tain’t wuth it.
. . ..M.N. : Good in a small way—too small a way... .Will
j. : Don’t strain for effect; be simple Banana: No
interest H.R. : Stop there ! Cynic: Cheap idea ;
crudely handled... E.C. : Did you write those mother-
in-law verses yourself, or scissor them from a Yankee
paper? Jock: Splosh! Bell: Cracked G.A.C.
(Africa): Received.... Haldaco :No good.. .. J.O.E. : Re-
turned. ...Dora : All worthless Poiritßlank : “Terror”
well told ; not enough in it.. . .Robert A : First-rate
Prospect: “Horoscope” reads a little inflated; keep
simple. . .W. SI. : Right; the 17-year-old Forrest com-
missioned in W.A. Transvaal contingent is Premier
Forrest’s nephew, not bis son. The argument remains
unaltered A.E.S. ; Some sentiment, some melody;
not enough force T.H.M. : Returned E.A.Y. : Neat
—but trivial Goude (Africa): Too much pipeclay in
jokes; possibly one or tw0.... Emery : There’s stuff in
you, and we’re’ glad to hear from you, but your verse
isn’t, yet good enough Onlooker: Heavy R.A.K. :
“ Dreamer” uninteresting; “ Interval” thin Roslyn :
Slow as a dead snake Andrews. : The vernacular
rhymes too long and dull.. . .Paeohes : Lugubrious as if
going to their own funeral—and they went Phil.
8.: Might be worse; try again M.W. : Not up.
P.H.C. : No warrant for your brain-argument
A.U. : Glad to read that the lady is a “ calumniating old
bundle.” It is a memorable phrase.. . .0.0. : Grave poem
returned... .E.E. : “ Nemesis” is painfully conventional
—the beautiful, innocent girl, with the baby-stare in her
eyes; the good-looking bad man, the infant, the death,
and all the other mouldy props R.G. : Not much story
in “ bike to Like.”... .Smith S. Smith : Rather a crude
romance.. .. W.H.D. : “ Problem Solved ” is a weak solu-
tion of a problem that isn’t worth solving Yarrum :
Better give up “ Why ” as a bad job. There are some
tales so hard and angular that even a genius couldn’t tell
them properly Dabber : Poem rejected O.P. : Wait
till parties sort themselves out Miner : The man who
says he favors a White Australia and “free and unre-
stricted trade with all nations,” dunno where he are.
You can’t have a White Australia and also free and unre-
stricted trade with Chinamen,.. .23 : Too tired to be
seriously angry P.H. : But tell us, how do you propose
to start your press reform? Draft a workable scheme,
and we’ll publish it joyfully J.J. : Poem bad; logic
awful. Your theory is that we should accept the judg-
ment of “ the man on the spot,” because he must know
better than we. Well, Gehazi and Judas Iscariot, and
Nero and C;esar Borgia, were on the spot, so speak kindly
of them. Also, don’t contradict the Boer who was on the
spot quite so violently about the merits of the present
war Loco: The “Duke of Oornbeef and Pork.”
Thanks Thomas B. : Both sides were heard. But
when a dozen more people wanted to spread themselves
in about 40 columns of space we had to close the discus-
sion, and we shut out both parties Max : Do the S. A.
teachers deserve all that butter. Judging by their
salaries, anyhow, they don’t seem to have asserted them-
selves too success fully Riverina : Rather mechanical
humor Links (or Zinks): It’s better to be good G. R.
Sims than bad Byron. Yours is bad Byron—J.C. :
“ Old Cookhouse Table ” has all the blessings
and advantages of being nearly good enough
O.F. (Dayles.ord): You seem to be ignorant of the fact
that The P ulletin preached a Totalisator sermon on the
starting-prices of the favorites last Newmarket Handicap
day T.H.M. : Good versification, but quite unsuitable.
B.A.: Too many words, and too much “ His Majesty
Edward VII.” Sacer : Without form, void, blank,
empty—also there’s nothing in it Jack Ash : Too like
a bad copy of Max Adeler A.C.B. : “ Staying at
Ford’s” altogether too slow J.V.111.: You say, among
other things, that The Bulletin is an arrogant ruffian.
Hooray! And you are an illiterate bigamist with tight
hoots, and a moral incendiary, to say nothing of being
naturally seditious, and a somnambulist, and a dropsical
procrastinator-from Parramatta. Likewise you are uncivil
and an Insect, and your dog-tax is in arrear A.R.B. :
“Emotion” nearly good enough but rather slight
A.G.A. : Two drawbacks—the long, easy loping metre and
the obstetric subject Trial: Of no use to The Bulletin.
.. .Jack A. Clubs : Whole blackmail business hinged on the
victim's possession of the Govt, blanket. Blankets are
combustible. Why didn’t he burn it?—Scutum: One
will do. “Just dog” too aged.... A. Volkman : Letter
overlooked. (1) “Seven Colonies,” price 3s. (2) Yes;
George Reid reads The Bulletin regularly. (3) Yes. The
Mexican province of Yucatan is dotted with great ruins of
a very ancient civilisation, apparently somewhat akin to
the old Egyptian. (4) Authentic Chinese history is sup-
posed to go back about 4000 years. The origin of the
Great Wall is quite well-known. Look up article on
“ China” in any good Encyclopaedia... .Edwards : Public
debts (not including temporary loans to cover deficits)
were at June, 1900:—5.A., v7O Iss. per head; Queens-
land, £7O 7s. 9d. ; Westralia, £65 10s. 4d. ; N.S. Wales,
£4B ; Tasmania, £46 3s. Id. ; Victoria, £42 4s. 6d. These
were calculated on the estimated population. The census
has greatly altered the estimates. Allowing for
that and for recent borrowings, Queensland, /Wes-
tralia, N.S.W., and Tasmania probably owe more
now, and Victoria and S.A. about the same
C.A. : Good points in it, but hardly worth the space
Woman : If the verses were only as good as the sentiment.
... .D.H.R. : Pars, mostly good. Poetry bad. Consider-
ing tales Q.N.: The man who, for one reason or
another, shook his only pair of pants out of a window and
dropped tnem, has been written up very often.
Magister : Metre sags terribly in places M. 0.0. : Had
to make alterations. Surely the attempt to rhyme “ dog ”
with "bob” was an oversight J.E. : The blunder you
think you have detected is a common one, but the scribe
wrote, “ some idea of its apparent size,” &c., and was
therefore quite correct. The other part of your letter
“ goes.”... .Betrayer : Neither suitable. Style wearisome
in its affectations J.M.I. : Not enough in it 0.0. :
Some lyrical faculty, but no power or distinction....
H R.T.’: Painfully slow and tame Albert Mac. :No
literary aptitude Rover : Too slight.... Gerald M.:
You haven’t given it the necessary life and spirit
John Stanley : Reid protected most thoroughly (by levy-
ing a high duty and no excise) dried apples, biscuits,
candied fruits, confectionery, preserved, boiled, and
dried fruits, jams and jellies, sugar, molasses, &c. By
means of a light excise and heavy customs duty he also
protected beer, cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco. The chief
English trusts are the English Sewing Cotton, Cotton-
Spinners and Doublers, Thread, Indigo Scarlet and
Cotton Dyers, Bradford Coal Trust, Yorkshire Wool-
Combers, United Indigo and Chemicals, Calico Printers,
Wall-Paper Makers, United Velvet Cutters, British Cotton
and Wool-Dyers, Yorkshire Soap Makers, Portland
Cement Makers, The (-alt Union, J. and P. Coates
Limited, Armstrong-Whitworth-Garton-Anderson Com-
bine, The Linoleum Combine, two lace trusts, lace-mak-
ing combination, Lancashire Bleachers Association, Not-
tingham Lace-Curtain Combine, British shipping ring.
These trusts represent a capital of £50,000,000. N.S.W.
duty on sugar is 3s. per cwt. on raw, 4s. per
cwt. on refined, and Id. per lib. on candy. English and
Canadian prices of reapers and binders not available.. ..
H.R.Y. : Contingenter’s letter looks like a fake. The bad
spelling is much too elaborate.... A Citizen : Can’t pub-
lish the names of the allegedly-intoxicated guests at
Meib. State banquet—especially as you don’t give your
name so that we can find you as a witness when the in-
toxicated guest conies round for a bagful of damages.. ..
Ogus : Dreary statement ,of facts... .H.M.R. : A enerable
joke....J.T. : Not bright G. : Some good lines, but
metre uneven and ideas ordinary W.F.E. : Some of
the verses begin well, but all slump badly. Apparently
you were too tired to hunt for rhymes, and so when
you struck a difficult one it just “slid.” F.L.:
The Bank of N.S.W. is perfectly safe. If you fix
your money for two years you can get 3J per cent
RAJAH, the Sacred Rear of India, at the
Empire Theatre, Sydney.
W.J. : “When a Man’s a Child ” a triumph of the com-
monplace M.G.B. : Pars, not excessively useful..
W.P. : Story quite true. Perhaps that man has a habit
of being arrested for debt... .She Oak : Curious list of
names, but wants a better bard to bring- out the flavor
Doubtful: There was only one action—that over the
Atacama Ger-Frau : Thanks for letter T.G.F. :
(1) The poor man, it would appear, generally has a larger
family than the rich one. (2) Why not simply, after each
election, strike off the rolls all who didn’t vote,
and let them remain off till they take out new electoral
rights? F.D. (Q.) : Read you ; can't print you
Frank S. : Considering M.B. : Said lottery is a reason-
ably fair gamble ; but if you must gamble, patronise a
local sweep. In case of grievance, you get no satisfaction
from the other end of the earth—and little enough from
this end... .Grace : You are a very far-back female
Inquirer : Cobbold’s romance of “ Margaret Catchpole ”
is about equal parts of fact and fiction. It is not cer-
tainly known what became of her in Australia S.T.B.
(Brisb.): You see the class of matter we print. Send
samples of similar work Patricia : All trivial
H.S.R. : Military remarks have some interest, but not
our interest Hamer I. : “Wives” too slow and heavy.
“ When the post became vacant owing to the over-inebria-
tion of its last holder ”—how you lumber ! O.M.G. :
Dull batch Daffodil: Two cheap French tags, one “ jug-
gernaut,” and the rest sentimentality.... D. (Capetown):
Good—and unpublishable Ten Links : No good
Eveline D. : “Violet” will do Litera : One suggestion
unpromising; the other old,. . .L.H.K. : Only moderate,
and the rush of Dook literature is too overwhelming
Caro: Thanks. Will print J.O.R. : Hideously long-
winded. Have tried to get it within reasonable bounds.
D.H.R.: Neither quite up to mark G.M.: Couldn’t
chop any meaning out of it.


PUTTING ’EM THROUGH.
JUKE (adjusting his glove): “ Thank Heaven! that’s one disposed of.”


Melbourne, Friday.—A few of the
, /aluabie presents which the Duke of
1 Cornwall and York was said to be bring-
ing out for distribution in Australia were
given away to-day. Mr. Barton, Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth, received '
a beautiful gold snuff-box studded with .
diamonds.
Toby “ Why, dash it all, I
never took snuff in my
life. Still one is never
too old to learn ”
“ There seems to be nobody about ;
I’ll just ’’
Enter a press interviewer.
What an interviewer wrote •'
*■ Mr. Barton seerned to he
laboring under some peculiar
and unusual excitement and
volunteered very little. In answer to a question as to the members
who were likely to figure prominently in Commonwealth politics he
only mentioned one name, that of a Mr. Katzchiew, and he repeated
this name several times with great emphasis."
THE BEST REGULATED FAMILIES.
“ The physician inexpressibly pained, in fact stupefied, King
Alexander of Servia by announcing that there was no prospect of ,
the expected event at the present time. 1$)
it is a case of deception Imr Majesty Will]
probably be divorced.”— Cable. )
Mrs.\GaMP : “ Look ’ere, Monarch,
this ain’t no job for me ; wot you
' wants is a lawyer, not a nuau
Good-bye, I’m off! "
“ There arc
many precau-
tions to bo. taken
to secure safety to
the Royal party, and
an arrnv of officers,
from the highest to the
iowest, are required. And
In order to avoid disturbing
them during the night, every precaution
'is ordered to be adopted to prevent any
noise Engine-drivers must take care to
avoid any unnecessary whistling or emis-
sion of steam from the engines, so that
the Royal train may pas? through in
quietude^— pOpev
SUSPENSE.
With apologies to Landseer.
Ter Dry Dog : “My word ! won’t 1 get
a wetting when be gets about again ! ”
A few trifles to he givert away as presents to the
deserving rich of Sydney They may not he sa ornamental
as titles, but a lot more oSetul.
A. high official who accompanies thv
KoyaJ party sees that the track is kept
cleai While performmp thu duty h.e removes* his boots so as to
make as little noise as possible.
Tamworth, Monday.—The Royal party passed through Tamworth at a quarter
to 4 o’clock yesterday afternoon. Four miles from town, on the Goonoo Gcwnoo
State, Mr G. B. G. King, general manager, had a flock of 12,000 sheep mustered
for the Royal party to view, but for some reason the train did not stop.
It is said the sheep felt very sheepish indeed
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS
WEDDING AND PRESENTATION SILVERPLATE*
THE VERY BEST QUALITY. “SEND FOR 1901 ILLUSTRATED BOOK."
4 o'clock SPOONS, Fuie Solid Silver, six different patterns
as above, in Silk-lined Case, 6 Spoons 20s and 25g, ■with
Tongs 25 s 3 V, 355, £2, pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d, ig 8 ,20 s.
MOST USEFUL and ACCEPTABLE.
T EAPOTS, very pretty and useful,
Pure Silver-plated, Hand < hased and Ornamented,
•22s 6d.
Other Styles and Patterns,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 3i s, £2, £2 10s.
Serviette KING, Solid Silver, Diamond Cut.
8s 6d, l(k-, 12s 6d.
A.. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ IfeND.-Pure Solid Silvi r
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
BUTTER, All Metal, Pure Si ver platefl,
Nicely fhat-ed, 15s, 20s, 255.
M< >s* Durable.
J \ MS, Shaded «nu Ornamented Glass,
Carved Ornamented Silver-plated Stand,
12s 6d; similar, 16s. '1 hese are made in
6 Different Patterns.
Solid Silver I’HOTO. FI.AMLS,
Cliased and Oirumenteo,
1 R, 12s 6i, Pis, 17k <(1, 20, 25s ;
fm llui.irizts, 2s 6d, 3s (id, ss, 7s Gd
4-Bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET,
Pure Silver Electro-plated
on hard White Metal, 2 a.
Similir Style?, 255, 30s, 355.
6-Bottle, 365, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
Hot Water KETT LE and STAND, can be used
as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-plated on White
Metal, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 365.
Embossed and extra Chased £2, £2 10s, Other
Styles, £B, £8 10s. Handsome and useful artic'e.
A. SAUNDEBS.
BrSCUIT.- Floral Chii a,
real Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar Designs, 15s, 255, 30s.
Very pretty and acceptable
present.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latest Style.
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20*,
VERY CHOfCE.
A. SAUNDEES.
Eegist red Mntto, Silver-
plated CRUET
(“ Dinna Forget”), 21s.
Very choice and pretty.
Cake BASKET, Heavily Chased and Ornamented, 86s,
Similar Designs, 2us, 265, 3 Or, £2, £2 10s.
OUJR STOCK OF CAKES IS CHOICE AND LARGE.
EGO CRUET, Silver Electro-
plated, 4 Cups and Spoons, 20s.
Other Stvleß,
22s 6d, 265, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
rwmrß
“IMi
WTt
" Qt »«»ca»or«
M&M
ill
HM
BREAD BOARD and KNIFF,
Chanel, Silver-plated Rims aid B tse,
21s, 255, 30s, £2.
/'
is®
1
•• r:"::
A MOST ARTISTIC DESIGN.
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SET, HOT WATER KETTLE, WITH 2iin. SALVER, 20 GUINEAS.
The above Set is most Beautifully Chased, Fluted, and Ornamented, and the quality is the very best English
Silver-plate, which is guaranteed for 20 years. Other Styles, £6 6s, £6 b‘s, £7 10s, £B, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5. ' .'end for Particulars.
SUGARS, Hand I'haaed and Ornameuted,
Silver-plated, 16s 6d, 2<>s, 255, 30s.
SALTS, Pancy Glass and Plated Stand,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Pair,
■w ith Spoon,
ENTREE DISH, Silver-plated on Harp White Nickel Silver,
Eaid Sollered. £2 12s 6d. Make tvvo Di lies othei Styles,
32s 6d, 355, £2.
HOW HfT.iNOS,
J ilv r-pl ited. Cultured
ulass, ISm 6J pair.
TEA INFUsEfi, tj make a cup of tea, Silver-plated, 3s 63. Veiy L'seful.
Child’s CUP,
N icely Chased, Silver-
plated,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15-i, 20s.
3
l o i o’oljck IEA SET, with C >ver ,
ji rt Silver le tro-pla cd on Whi;e Metal, first-e-ass 1 ngiish Mal e, £.' 1
Similai St. le , £2, £2 15s, £3. £3 10s, £t.
NUf CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case,
Ch aed and Silver-pla'ed, 15s 6d, and 20s.
VERY USEFUL
A
h
TOAST RA r K. Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Style and Shae, 10-> 6d, 12s 6i, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s. A Nice Pres nt.
BUTTER, White Gla a, Chaaed and O nancn'ed
Rim, Silver plated, iOs ; r, l.">s 6d.
Very nea and pretty.
2 JAMS and 2 BU ITEH 3,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, very best Sil\ ei riat-e,
20 jj 255, 395.
A. SAUNDERS.
JE WELLER aK a SILVE RSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DI PLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mini, 815 GEORGE'STREET
>'E VBi.V OPE’O-'ITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
A Letter from Paddington.
8 Victoria-street, Paddington, N.S.W.,
July 28th, 1900.
Dear Sirs,
Some years ago I was under medical treatment
for severe pains in the back; in fact, I was com-
pletely prostrated. The doctors then wanted me
to undergo the operation of crushing a stone in
my bladder. I did not like the idea of this al-
though the pain I suffered was severe. A friend
advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and, after
taking 3or 4 bottles, I began to feel better. I
continued the course and am now, thanks to this
medicine, free from any trouble whatever.
Yours truly,
T. J. CASTNER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Limited.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the
kidneys and liver and disorders arising therefrom,
such as Indigestion, Rheumatism, Biliousness,
Impure Blood, Anajniia, Gravel, Gout, Neuralgia.
Debility, and Bright’s Disease.*
The old inhabitant has his uses, after all.
A man, replacing old posts near Mt. Barker
(8.A.), t’other day, found a lump of gold sticking
to the bottom of one of them ; and the local wise
men began to discuss the theories of “ the genesis
of gold,” when the ancient person limped along
with his stick. And he, being told of the find,
“minded that 30 years or so agone Mrs. Blank
was upset out o’ her cart and lost her false teeth
through the horse shying at some fencing, old
Johnny Brown (or somebody) was putting up,
and when they come back to look for the teeth
they couldn’t sight ’em nowheres.” The explana-
tion was accepted ; the teeth, with the solid gold
plate of the olden time, had apparently rolled
into an open post-hole, and Johnny Brown (or
somebody) had squashed a post on top and buried
them.
Whatever may be the future of the auto-
car, the gee-gee-car is showing great variety of
design and finish, and will make a good fight to
live. Witness the exhibit of the N.S.W. Car Co.,
of Cleveland-st., at late Show, when, out of 11
vehicles shown, nine were awarded prizes—many
of them firsts. Such a record would be hard to
beat.*
Many a yearning for Royal gift or title
must of necessity remain an aching void : The
giving of Gifts is a distribution of disappointment.
But consolation follows in the steps of sorrow.
Better than a Royal snuff-box or autograph photo,
or a C.M.G., is that great dispenser of delight, the
D.C.L. whisky. The D.C.L. gives comfort in the
highest degree. It maketh glad the heart of man
who has failed to shake hands with the “ Duke.”
It blesseth him that gives (or sells) and him that
takes—but especially him that takes.*
A large manufacturing rubber mill, with a
ground floor area of 42,000 ft., is being erected at
Montague, Melbourne, by the Dunlop Tyre Co.
The mill, which will cost £lO,OOO, will manufac-
ture not only tyres but rubber goods of all de-
scriptions, and a very experienced rubber expert
is on his way from Indiana (U.S.A.) to assist the
company.*
The Wentworth Hotel, Church Hill (near
Wynyard Square), Sydney, is now in the hands of
Mr. D. Maclurclan, late of the Queen’s Hotel,
Townsville, Q. For quietness of situation, ampli-
tude of accommodation, perfection of arrange-
ments, and reasonableness of tariff the Went-
worth, as now managed, would be hard to beat.
Two specially notable features in connection with
the establishment are the splendid harbor view
from the roof-promenade and the superintendence
of the culinary department by Mrs. Maclurcan, of
cookery-book fame.*
The Towers Printing and Pub-
lishing Co.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of EDITOR to the Charters Towers New
Eagle (Straight-out Labor Paper), at a Salary of
£4 10s. per week. Applications close with the
undersigned on June 13th, 1901. Applicants must
enclose copies of testimonials. Successful applicant
to be appointed on three months’ probation.
By order of the Board,
JOHN CHAPMAN,
Business Manager.
iMI
m
u
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Marlcopas Co., bd.,
14, Castiereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAPTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark iB on every bottle.
TvEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De*
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- O- & GO.,
DYERS k CLEANERS,
40 Y 011 14. STHlilliir, SYDN15Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Ordert by poet from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTELS
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Da}', or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas per Week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “The Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
"Missing Friends.
vyANTED the addresses of either of the following
’ ’ Helen Heuchy, who left Ennis, Clare, Ireland, for
Australia, about 25 years ago; or Mary Anne Heuchy,
her sister, who also left for Australia some time after-
wards ; or Margaret Heuchy, who left Ennis in the year
1884 for Townsville, Queensland. All daughters of the
late PATRICK IIEUOIIY, Buttermarket-street, Ennis.
Most important news awaiting them. Anyone who can
furnish this information, please communicate at once
with “ HONOR!A/’ c7o J. Haye.t, Arnold’s Bridge.
Victoria.
A Voice from the North.
“The Wreck” writes from the Herbert River
(N.Q.) —where the Jap-man, and the Java-man,
and the China-man flourish, and the White-man
is growing so comparatively scarce that you will
soon be able to put him in the Colonial Sugar
Co.’s museum as a curiosity, with the label—
“ White Man. Found on Victoria plantation,
Herbert River, N.Q. And these are “The
Wreck’s” doleful remarks, punctuated by some
remarks from The Bulletin :
Throughout the whole of this White versus Mottled
Australia controversy you Southerners have adopted a
tone signifying that Queensland is the principal importer
of aliens, of whom the Kanaka is the most dangerous to
the Commonweal. Moreover, your general attitude in-
sinuates that we are lacking in various economic virtues
of which the South has a superfluity, and the which, out
of its superior civilisation, it will graciously and gene-
rously bestow on us. Wherefore this scribe, now that
you have had time to sober up, turns over in his bunk to
make a few remarks.
* » * * *
The Bulletin is a Southerner bv location ; but
it is- by principle Northerner, Easterner, and
Westerner as well—that is to say, it is Australian,
and it puts Australia Always First. It isn’t
responsible for other people’s talk ; and, as far as
its own talk goes, it has always represented
the Kanaka as the least dangerous of aliens.
That Queensland is the principal impor-
ter of aliens at the present time is be
yond doubt, seeing that Japanese and
Javanese are being brought in by hundreds —
hardly a month passes without a fresh shipment
being reported. The 1891 census showed Queens-
land to have a larger propoi tion of colored aliens
than any other State. This year’s census will
undoubtedly show that Queensland’s coloured
population is increasing much faster than any
other State’s —both positively and proportion-
ately to whites. “The Wreck” evidently lost
his compass before he started drifting.
• * • *
In proportion to the wealth of the workers in North
and South, the South has the larger number of aliens. In
other words, the proportion of sordid poverty and desti-
tution makes the Southern alien a more superfluous
industrial factor and his competition with the whites
more bitter.
“ The sordid poverty and destitution ” of tho
Southerner is a myth. There are more poor
Southerners because there are more Southerners.
Savings Bank figures supply one fair test of
workers’ wealth ; and in 1899-1900 there were in
Queensland fewer Savings Bank depositors, per
100 of population, than in any other State ; while
the average amount deposited, per head of popu-
lation, was lower than in N.S. W., Victoria, West-
ralia, S.A., or Maoriland.
• • • *
Also, your aliens intermix with the whites in a more
baneful degree than do ours. The howl about com-
petition with Queensland nigger-grown sugar is bare-
faced hypocrisy, for Kanakas and coolies are extensively
employed in chipping and trashing on the N.S. VY. fields.
Comparison between sugar-lands for white labor north
and south of the tropic is absurd, and to say they are
similar betrays stupidity or bare-faced lying.
There are few Kanakas in N.S. W.— only the drift-
ings from Queensland. There are probably be-
tween 500 and 600 Hindoos; and The Bulletin
has objected just as strongly to the Hindoo as to
the Kanaka. Only it has objected more often to
the Kanaka, because there are more of him
between 8000 and 9000 in Q., besides the Asiatic
brigade. The Bulletin never said that N.S.W.
sugar-conditions were similar to N.Q. sugar-condi-
tions. The Wreck drifts about too promiscu-
ously.
* » * »
The All-White crank is either insincere or wanting in
courage, else a start would be made on his own pet alien
who grows vegetables and supplies opium to the Sydney
and Melbourne women, or hawks cheap finery to the
selectors’ womenfolk and frequently does worse when the
men are away.
The Bulletin started on the Southern Mongrel 20
years ago, and has kept going ever since. But the
Queensland Asiatic population is increasing by
upwards of 1000 ' per annum. The Bulletin
wants first to stop the rubbish from falling in, and
then to clean out the tank.
Your Southern-made Ministry is not honest or courage-
ous enough to put the matter to the people in the only
way in which they can realise its importance—the way in
which Laurier put prohibition to the Canadians. Dare
they appeal to the individual thus : “ Are you in favor of
the abolition of the alien from the Q. sugar industry ? If
so, will you pay a cash tax of £ —, that being your share
of the subsidy necessary to enable that industry to con-
tinue under white labor ? ” Also.: “ Are you in favor of
the expulsion of all Asiatics and Polynesians from Aus-
tralia. If so, will you pay £— as your share of the pas-
sage-money and compensation ? And will you actively,
and by force of arms, if necessary, back up this country
in any difficulty which may arise with the Imperial, or
any foreign government?” Of course it would have to
be stipulated that in the latter event there would be no
4s. 6d. per day. But, of course, you don’t propose to
abolish the alien—merely to remove the local regulation
of him, as did the Northern States in the ’6o’s —as Auck-
land did with its alleged “ social evil,” and as you’ve done
with your own nigger. The alien is to remain in the land
and live on air or liberty, as does the N.S.W. niggei - , who
seems to thrive without being employed 1
Certainly the Barton Ministry will dare to put
those questions to the people—as far as they are
necessary. If, to secure a White Australia, we
have to further protect Australian sugar, and if in
consequence the price goes up (which it won’t),
white Southerners will cheerfully paly to
make sugar-growing a white man’s industry.
When Bundaberg sugar-growers clear £l6 10s. per
acre over 20,000 acres—when W. T. Munro can be
reported from Cairns this year as having
made £2500 profit from 196 acres of cane,
employing white labor only —then the industry
can pay white wages without raising the
price of sugar. As to expulsion, we haven’t
talked very much about expulsion yet: time
enough for that when we’ve stopped the hordes
coming in. In any case, the Q. planter is bound
by agreement or regulation to send most of his
colored laborers home without asking for Southern
help. Yes, we do propose to abolish the alien;
we propose to get rid of the black drop and the
yellow drop altogether; and to preserve the
White Breed pure.
• « * *
The whole anti-kanaka agitation seems due to the
ghost of Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s hysterical sentimentalism.
It is fostered by the cant which condemns feudalism and
glorifies factoryism. That a man should starve or turn
criminal because he can’t make a decent living by honest
(sic) toil is nothing to worry about, but that he should
have no right to vote is a disgrace to civilisation and
demands armed interference. Is the “ free ” Rhodesian
nigger better fed than was his Transvaal brother, the
starving Indian of to-day than the fast-diminishing ryot
of pre-company days ? Is the colored loafer of the New
Orleans levee' preferable to his bonded parents—the
slumdom of New York to the serfdom of the plantation—
and will the free “ walk-about ” Kanaka be a greater
blessing than the present bonded nigger? And so you
yearn to civilise us, to make us a little three-bob-a-week-
half-fed-cocky-laborer, ora fifteen-bob-a-week-and-go-on-
the-street-to-'“ make-it-up’’-community, like unto your-
selves. You are quite disinterested, having “ most to
lose.” So you have—dirt, destitution, and degradation.
Civilization'? Shrivelization !
“ The Wreck ” is breaking up fast; and it isn’t
possible to catch every fragment of him. The
anti-kanaka agitation, to put the matter briefly,
is a protest against modified slavery ; it is a pro-
test against mixing of breeds ; it is a protest
against cheap labor, which tends inevitably to
extend its boundaries and swallow up well-
paid labor ; and it is a protest against
welcoming brown savages into a civilised white
community. The Rhodesian nigger and the
Transvaal nigger don’t attend Australia’s funeral;
the Q. nigger does. We don’t want an equivalent
of the New Orleans colored loafer here ; so we’ll
stop him from coming by excluding his parents.
• * * *
Well, the pastoral industry is wrecked, and its thou-
sands of workers only kept from becoming aggressively
evident by a judicious distribution of Govt, relief. And
you have hysterically decided to wreck an industry which
will add a few rilore thousands to the number of workers
who are degenerating into professional loafers. The sub-
lime ignorance and apathy bred (as Pitt intended it
should be) of indirect taxation, has decided that it is
preferable for an acre to lie idle rather than it should
employ one white and two Kanakas. That there is no
practicable alternative does not worry you—you are all
r 'K h t.
And you will build up big cities, with art galleries and
theatres and banquet halls for the favored few—and, as
for the others —will there not be the gutters, and plenty
of room in the dead west and north. And factoryism will
take root in the land and flourish exceedingly, and Aus-
tralia will be the most civilised country on earth, and
every starving man will have a vote. Selah 1
* * * •
“The Wreck ” has floated out of sight, and his
rhetoric can follow him. But as this correspon-
dent likes questions, The Bulletin puts three
questions to him : 1. What is your name ? If
those are your views, defend them publicly, don’t
hide. 2. What’s your relation to the Kanaka and
the Jap. ? Do you employ them ? Do they em-
ploy you? Or are you a Col. Sugar Co. mill-
parasite or field-boss. 3. How else did the tar get
into your cocoanut !
At Poverty Point.
(Continued.)
Coppin, as a young man, was in the employ of Daven-
port, the original Vincent Crummies, and taught the
Phenomenon to play the violin.
“Major ” Winchell, of the deathless Harmy, has been
unfolding to a ’Murkan newspaper reporter his scheme
for weaning sinners from theatres “ where the plays are
bad.” The Harmy will start a Grand Salvation Theatre
of its own on sound commercial principles. Everybody
concerned in the performances, including the band, will
give services gratis, so the only charge on the receipts
will be for rent, lighting and stage fittings. The item of
author’s fees will be avoided by the Major's simple device
of writing all the dramas himself. Thus far he has two
shows in active preparation—a six-act drama entitled,
“ Jonah and the Whale," and “ The Prize Fight of Life ”
in “ what he calls 10 rounds,” the last round concluding
with the presentation of a Crown of Glory to the hero
who lias knocked the devil out. These are “ great,” says
the author. They include strong scenes for the leading-
lassie and the principal man, likewise lots of fat for the
low-comedian-lieutenant, and the Major anticipates a
long hallelujah run for both pieces, especially “ The
Whale.”
A recent discussion at a London theatrical club (the
0.P.) brought out the opinion of one Mr. Montague Davis
that “ the club should not be bothered by the personal
quarrels of actors and critics.” What sort of criticism is
to be expected from men who expose themselves to the.
possibility of personal quarrels with mummers whom they
ought not to know off the stage !
Major Pond, the Lecture Engineer, in bis “ Recollec-
tions,” gives a strange instance of the callousness of
Bamum, on whom, however, he has a palpable edge of
animus. Pond was sitting by Barn urn’s side at the
Hippodrome when a lady was killed in the Chariot Race.
Pond: “This is shocking.” Barnum : “It will be a
benefit.”
“ H.” : I do insist that Oscar Wilde’s “ Woman of No
Importance ” is a right noble play—the finest, in point of
moral, written for a great many years. It made a deep
impression on me, as acted by Titheradge and Mrs.
Brough. The idea is from the “ Natural Son,” of Dumas,
dealt with in a robust, manly fashion. There is the
woman, anxious to shield her son from the contaminating-
influence of his father, and succeeding. The treatment is
from the highest point of principle.
The escapade of Georgia Hodson, afterwards Mrs. W. S.
Lyster, is detailed in Mrs. Gilbert’s Reminiscences, last
Scribner. She bolted shortly before a New York per-
formance of “ Pocahontas,” in which she had the chief
part. The audience knew the piece by heart, and that
was the prime joke in Brougham and Walcot gagging
without her. Brougham, as Powhatan, spoke her lines
with, “As Poky would say.” At last, when he had to
say to Capt. John Smith, “ Take her, and be happy,” he
handed him a broom.
Mrs. Gilbert, in her entertaining Reminiscences, now
being published, has something new about Wilkes Booth,
Lincoln’s assassin. He was the best Romeo she ever saw,
and a man of the most winning personality. Junius
Brutus Booth had three sons—J. 8., Edwin, and Wilkes,
all leading tragedians. “The Corsican Brothers” was
founded on a real case of fraternal sympathy—as it were,
Siamese Twins without any visible bond. Such a sym-
pathy there was between Wilkes and his mother. Start-
ling instances are current of her second-sight regarding
him, and the warning letters she would send.
Our old friend, Charles Cartwright, the strong, “ hard ”
actor, with the strident tones, has been playing Charles
II in one of the recent Nell Gwynne dramas. “Truth to
tell, the part does not sit well on him,” said the Mornino
Post. Which means, of course, that C. 0., as the giddy,
over-dressed royal masher, was about as convincing as
Charles Arnold would be in a performance of Oliver Crom-
well.
O. H. Taylor and Ella Carrington have made a hit,
touring Japan, with “ Rip Van Winkle.” A Japanese
legend is oddly similar.
The new Bishop of London, who promises to disturb
the alleged “convictions” of Anglican churchism, was
nearly married to Lady Ulrica Duncombe a while
ago. The engagement was broken off, otherwise
the alliance would have formed a notable link between
Alice Leamar and the Bench of Bishops. Sweet Alice’s
sister married a brother or uncle of Lady Duncombe
aforesaid, and although the Hon. Mrs. Duncombe was
subsequently divorced by her husband, the connection
between the two families still holds good in the sight
of Heaven, where marriages are made.
“ Pukaki” : In Auckland once, when a variety troupe
was performing at the City Hall, I used to look in there
fairly often, and noticed that when Evie Williams, a girl
of 16 or so, came on to do her turn, a youthful admirer in
the front row invariably threw her a miserable little
bunch of flowers, about the size of a buttonhole. I de-
termined to play him a trick which I thought at the time
was funny, but which I see now was merely “ low-down.”
I spent a few shillings on a really decent bouquet, which
I meant to throw to Evie as soon as her young
adorer had thrown his, and I grinned at the thought
of how he would be taken down. That night
I took the only vacant seat in the front row —next to a
young man in corduroy pants, evidently from the
country, half asleep, and exhaling a delicate odor of
whisky. I sat down and stowed my flowers under the
seat. He continued to doze, and at the interval I
went out, met a friend, and wasn’t in a hurry to get
back, as I knew Evie didn’t come on until near the end.
But when I did stroll back, after about 20 minutes,
another girl was finishing a song, and to my horror I saw
my drowsy friend rise unsteadily, and hand her up my
flowers, amid tremendous applause ! It served me right I
Died, lately in Berwickshire, Scotland, Lady John Scott,
who composed the best-known air to “ Annie Laurie.”
Far from Fashion’s feast and riot,
Where her maelstrom never whirled,
You have wrought in queenly quiet
Golden chains to bind the world ;
And tho’ none may know your story,
And tho’ few have heard your name,
Every bar of “ Annie Laurie ”
Is a wreath of deathless fame.
Fame that nought of wealth discovers,
Nor the laurel-wreath that dies,
But the thanks of laughing lovers
With the rose-light in their eyes ;
Not for you the rocking steeple,
Nor the rainbow flags unfurled—
But the hearts of happy people
Bear your love-song round the world.
And the air of “ Annie Laurie ”
Will ring on across the years ;
Men will hear the threadbare story
Smiling, some, and some with tears ;
And a-down the drifting ages
Through the wide world East and West,
All the stars on all the stages
Sing the old song “ by request.”
WILL OGILLVIZ.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
“ Gunner ” on an army subject :
Ed. Bulletin. —“ Scotty W.” (8., 13/4/01) doesn’t seem
to see all the bearings of alleged treatment of “ colonial ”
officers in British regiments. How many of said c.o.’s can
stand the regimental racket—can pay mess, band, polo,
and other subscriptions, and put up their share of the
cost of entertainments ? A British regiment is, in theory,
a club or a family, all members of which are expected to
live after a pattern which is generally set by the richest.
The result is that men avoid, if possible, regiments
affected by rich men, unless they can go the regimental
pace. The abolition of purchase also has operated against
the impecunious man, who used to drive a profitable trade
in changes. This system in its ultimate result was simply
a device forgetting seniors to retire, and thus quicken-
ing promotion. The principle was applied in the
“ Officers’ Benefit ” Funds of the E.T.O. regiments, which
had no purchase. If a field officer happened to be stop-
ping promotion he would be offered so much out of the
Benefit Fund—to which every officer in the regiment con-
tributed —to retire, and he generally took the offer.
There is one very serious ground of complaint against the
“colonial” officer. All vacancies in the British Line
regiments are supposed to be filled up, either
regiment-ally from the militia 3rd battalions
of the regiments, or by cadets who have
“passed” out of Sandhurst. Almost every officer
in the regiment will be more or less interested in candi-
dates pf one or both classes. The “colonial” man—per-
haps a person of mature years —joins as junior-subaltern,
instead of the lad of 20 or so. His character is formed,
and his habits are fixed by years of civil employment.
There is something very false for such a man in the posi-
tion of the junior-subaltern—ordered about by all the
other officers, checked for small faults by the adjutant,
patronised by the sergeants, and perhaps even
prompted in an under-tone by the men in
the ranks. In all this there is probably not
the least ill - will, only a half - contemptuous pity
for the bearded man who is willing to take a boy’s place.
The “ colonial,” even if he knows his drill, is necessarily
ignorant of the petty details of regimental duty ; and
when it comes to his turn to attend to these, the orderly-
sergeant at his elbow will be perpetually saying, “ Beg
pardon, sir, we do it this way ” ; or, “ Sir, sir—the Colonel
won’t have it done that way ” —and so on, till the poor
man doesn’t know “ where he are.” Then the adjutant
or captain of the day is continually “ getting-on-to ” him
about some unnoticed trifle. All this—which would
matter little to the boy-subaltern—is a constant worry to
the older man, who "cannot quite reconcile himself to
being found fault with for trifles which he cannot realise
as part of a system. The “ranker” is in a different
position. He knows all the ins and outs of the system,
and never makes small mistakes; nor does he put
on airs with other officers, as it is to be feared the
“ colonial ” sometimes does. The whole regimental sys-
tem is based on “ seniority,” not of age, but of rank, and
seniors will keep juniors in their places. Hence the
trouble.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
The Proprietors of Condy’s Fluid, of Goswell
Road, London, England, are now placing on
every bottle of Condy’s Fluid a most useful
Book containing instructions from Veterinary
Surgeons of the highest standing for the
treatment and cure of ailments affecting
Horses, Dogs, Cats, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, Pigeons & Cage Birds.
Condy’s Fluid is really a Magical Remedy
for suffering animals, and this book will be
found extremely useful. We recommend all
our readers to buy a bottle of Condy’s Fluid
and carefully read this Veterinary Book which,
is now attached to every bottle.
<3-0 TO H331L.1,-
« HKBLA Nl> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLTCR BRAPLCV # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Piotures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China,
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, eonducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales lleld at the A action Rooms .
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
high-grade
farm^
■
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
Ceorge-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“N. : Battersea, England, decides to
nan.e a street after Joubert. Who would dare
propose such a thing in Australia ?
In the Westraliau elections the Laborites
won five goldfields seats and only one other—
Subiaco and Leederville, which was collared by
Dagleish, formerly chief clerk in Melb. Detective
office.
“ We should have been stronger, richer,
and higher in the world’s esteem had our South
African possessions never passed beyond the
range of the guns of our men-of-war.”— Conan
Doyle.
In the Westralian State elections last
month no less than five candidates, in the one
goldfield electorate of Kanowna, failing to get a
fifth of the successful one’s total, forfeited their
£25 deposits. Hastie, a Laborite, won the seat.
Abraham, M.P., the Welsh collier mem-
ber, pleading in the Commons for time to deal
with a Miners’Eight Hour Bill: “Fifteen days
you have devoted to discussing amendments to
kill man ; not one day will you give for a bill to
save men’s lives.”
It works ! London County Council,
prodded by Maekinnon Wood, turns its attention
to the municipalising of London docks—a scheme
that will mop up, say, £30,000,000 for a start.
Wood has been so successful in similar agitations
before, that this may go through before long.
N.S.W. is again making a great effort to
“find work for the unemployed.” Minister
O’Sullivan is putting many hundreds on at scrub-
cutting, forest-thinning, ring-barking, sand-shift-
ing, and all the other stereotyped jobs, and the
good old loan covers the wage-bill as usual. Then
the loan makes more interest to pay, and that
makes more money going out of the country, and
that makes more poverty, and poverty makes
more unemployed, and they mean more scrub-
outting and sand-shifting and other relief works,
and these mean more loans, and so on ad
infinitum.
NO WAY TO TREAT A LADY.
J.P. (to drunk and disorderly): “Fifty
shillings or seven days.”
THE LADY: “ Well, I was never more insulted in my life !”
“ W.J.” : Melb. barrister Irvine clearly
showed, at the recent Federal election, that
the habit of being ignorant is growing on him.
Questioned as to a White Australia, he stubbornly
refused to know anything about the idea, and
finally summed-up the term as a “ political catch-
word.”
Ebenezer Ward, ex-actor, journalist and
squatter, is trying to succeed to Playford’s seat in
S.A. Assembly, He represented Gumeraeha, the
constituency he i 3 now canvassing, over 30 years
ago, and Gumeracha still remembers him. This
is bad for his chances, and defeat _is practically
certain.
The cable tells of the raising ~of the six
months’ siege of Hoopstad, whose garrison is
stated to have endured greater hardships than the
defenders of Mafeking. And there are no bon-
fires, no congratulatory cables, no big drunks. In
fact, nobody seems to be aware that there is any
Hoopstad.
The Daily Telegraph printed the See
manifesto and the Lee ditto in parallel columns.
This is how it begins to bash its Opposition Joss.
The awkward fact was that See came out with his
programme first, and then Lee came out with
exactly the same programme, and the Telegraph
rubbed it in.
Most likely the Laborites will find a
political resting-place for Donald Macdonell—who,
all things considered, made a good fight for a
N.S.W. Senate seat—as State Assembly Minister
for Cobar, the seat lately occupied by W. G.
Spence. Next to the Barrier seats, Cobar seems
about the safest M.L.A.’s job in N.S.W.
Pressed by the Victorian Christian En-
deavor Union, the Commonwealth Parliament
. begms to think of opening itself with prayer
They open up with prayer, the which
The Speaker mild rehearses ;
Then comes some unexpected hitch—
They carry on with curses !
Cabled that A. J. Balfour has stated in
the British House of Commons that there is no
chance of the “ Marriage with a Deceased Wife’s
Sister Bill passing this session. The only occa-
sion on which the present King, when Prince of
W ales, made use of his vote in the House of Lords
was when he gave it in favor of the Bill in
question.
From a letter by Isitt, the athletic M.L.
parson and Prohibitionist, now in England:—
Of one thing you may rest assured. Right or wrong, the
anti-war man is coming out on top. lam puzzled over
some phases of the question, and say little and hear all I
can, but already the evidence of a reaction is every-
where, and J. Chamberlain is riding surely to the fall
Labouchere and others so ardently desire for him.
Premier Seddon promises a new Local
Government Bill for Maoriland this session. If
it does something to cut down the numberless
County Councils, Road Boards, Town Boards,
Drainage Boards, Sheep Boards and River Boards
that now infest the country, it will be a boon and
a blessing to everyone. Almost every place in
Maoriland has six Boards on top of it, and the
country looks like a mental sawmill.
“ Democracy is aroused over there,” says
King O’Malley, and it really begins to look like
it. Gellibrand, the hardest fossil in Tasmania’s
Ancient House of Tombstones, has just been
opposed and beaten for his seat. The Mercuky
weeps sadly over the fact that a tried and reliable
sleeper of Mr. Gellibrand’s calibre has, after 30
(boo-hoo) years service, been passed over for a
new (boo-hoo) man who has had no (boo-hoo) ex-
(sob) perience (snuffle) whatever.
A letter from Westralia :
Saw poor old Premier Throssell and party a few days
before the State elections being driven in big style up
Bayley-street, Coolgardie. Although it was a Ministerial
visit, and the street was fairly crowded, poor old George
looked from side to side for an encouraging cheer, or a
wave of the hand, all in vain. Little knots of rude
men guffawed as the carriage passed, or made unkind re-
marks, or spat across the road. There is no sympathy
between the wrecked Bigjohn Ministry and the people on
the fields, no matter what anybody says to the contrary.
The Westralian Labor-party has pegged
out its six seats on the Opposition benches, so the
Throssell Government is now considered quite
dead. Another sign of the collapse of the old
Forrest influence is the fact that Bigjohn’s little
brother David was defeated at the Gascoyne.
Time was when the idea of the smallest Forrest
being defeated anywhere in W.A. was beyond
imagining. Now a Forrest is only an ordinary
man. And the time may yet come when he will
be only a bloke.
The report comes down from N. Queens-
land that Abdul Wade, the Bourke camel
man, is taking up 100 camels to carry
dressed ore, &c., from the outlying
Chillagoe mines to the railway. With
him goes, no doubt, the Afghan driver ;
and so N. Queensland grows more
Mongrelia than ever.
About the new S.A. Ministry :
Jenkins, S. A.’s new Premier, is believed to have had
some trouble in forming his Ministry. There was a sur-
plus of eligibles, and there were other difficulties.
Butler, who becomes Treasurer, is the only man available
with any ideas of finance, save Grainger, who has other
qualities which seem to keep him out of every Ministry.
Laborites are greatly chagrined at the omission of their
leader, Tom Price ; they expected a representative in
place of the resigning Batchelor, who was Labor leader
when Holder took him in. Brooker, ex-Govt. whip, is
Minister of Education. He has been an honest and con-
sistent democrat during his II years of politics. Jenkins
has got together about the best available crowd in the
democratic ranks, but almost any crowd is good if it has
a good leader, or bad if it has a bad one. John Greeley
Jenkins has been a first-class subordinate, anyhow.
Campbell-
Bannerman
at a banquet
of the Nation-
al Liberal
Club, given
to celebrate
the inaugura-
tion of the
Aust r a 1 i a n
C o m m o n-
wealth, ob-
jected to the
use of. the
term “ be-
stowal of the
Common-
wealth ” as
if it were an
act of grace.
‘‘ It was by
their own
right hand it
had been
fashioned and
brought into
b e i n g.”
Many ultra-
loyal folks in
this coun-
try, if these
utterances
had been
made by a
leading
Australian
politic ian,
would have
howled
them down
as sheer
sedition.
There is really an
idea prevalent in respectable circles that Aus-
tralians did not originate in any way their own
Constitution, but that it came blown oversea as
an emanation from Bull the Deity.
Good Samuel Mauger, Victorian temper-
ance boss and Pleasant Sunday Afternooner, was
much shocked by what lie saw during his visit to
N. Queensland. Chinese and Japanese swarming
everywhere, half-castes more than frequent, white
women living with Kanakas, Japanese prostitutes
openly countenanced because the hordes of niggers
are not expected to be celibates, and so on. “ The
moral degradation of the State is awful. For in-
stance, in one recent shipload of Islanders were
eight women, all diseased on arrival, but all freely
admitted.”
The usual returned Contingenter, signing
himself “Disgusted,” writes to Sydney Evening
News to say that he has been back four months,
that none of the loud, rich Jingoes who promised
the departing Boer-shooters their country’s eter-
nal gratitude will give him a job of-any kind, that
he is ill as the result of hardships in S’Africa, and
has to pay for medical attendance out of his own
scanty means, that he is £l5O to the bad, and that
Boer-shooting is all dust and ashes. And the
moral is : “ Put not your faith in Jingoes.” The
Bulletin said so over a year ago.
In educational matters the country people
of Western Queensland have a very serious griev-
ance. Townships that muster 100 children have
wooden, tin-roofed schools erected to accommo-
date 40, while the big towns, already well pro-
vided with educational facilities, are being daily
supplied with the best of teachers and apparatus.
The secret lies in local log-rolling. The big cities
can muster a deputation of members of Parlia-
ment at a few minutes’ notice, while sandy, dusty,
blear-eyed God-forgotten catches a flying glimpse
of its member, perhaps once in three years.
A reverend gentleman writes from Mel-
bourne :
An item in the reception of the D. and D. of O. and Y.
was suppressed by the Melbourne press. After the civic
functionaries had welcomed the visitors at Princes’s Bridge,
Mr. Fleming and the unemployed, with red flag and cross
bones, attempted to present them with an address. They
had proceeded so far as to have gained the ear of the
Duke when the leader was unceremoniously seized and
felled to the ground by a plain clothes officer. So ended
this part, and the Royal procession passed on. The Melb.
press was more reticent than the tomb on this matter,
and only those in the immediate vicinity realised t
had happened. This is a land of Free Speech !
Sydney Telegraph lamentation : V*
The Barton Ministry is a Protectionist Ministry, and
only wants the opportunity to tax the people to the last
limit of their endurance for the support of industries
which, without such subvention, could not be carried on.
And the still worse offence is that the Barton
Ministry doesn’t see its way to further tax the
people of N.S. W. for the support of the Freetrade
Telegraph, which has hitherto truculently de-
manded and regularly enjoyed 50 per cent. Pro-
tection under the postal regulations, and been
pauperised by public subsidies until it has for-
gotten how to carry on without them.
Dear Bulletin.— Re N.S. W. Full Court’s
extraordinary leniency in the Heydon case. A
few months back a certain solicitor, at the dicta-
tion of another solicitor, wrote a letter (for which
he was paid, on his own statement, six guineas),
which he admitted in the witness-box had not one
word of truth in it from beginning to end. Quoth
C.J. Darley at the time—“ During 45 years of
Bar and Bench, never have I heard a solicitor
make such an admission.” Yet we have heard
nothing more of this case. Why ? Some explana-
tion is wanted from his Honor, or some action on
the part of the Law Institute.— Qilerens.
Laborite Sleath, having mastered the art
of war, is now engaged in a campaign with th»
mysterious P.L.L. executive—the fundless body
which represents nobody knows who or what, and
FORGOTTEN.
GENT, IN KHAERI: “ Well, I'm back to my
billet!”
EMPLOYER: “ What billet?”
G. IN K.: “ Billet I had before the war.”
EMP: “ War! What war? But please don’t
annoy me. Don’t you see I'm writing accept-
ing invitations to meet the Duke of York.”
whose chief purpose in life seems to be to “en-
dorse ” candidates. Sleath’s charge, in plain,
words, is that the show is run by two or three
rabid Freetraders and land-taxers, and that if a
Labor man with known Protectionist sympathies
gets “endorsement,” it is only through fear that
he will win whether he gets it or not. To the
difficulties which Sleath says were thrown in his
way he attributes his withdrawal in the Gwydir,
and the consequent easy victory of gilt-edged
Cruickshank.
“ W.P.D.” on the Federal capital :
lie “ J.B.’s ” par. (8., 4/5/’l) about Federal capital water
resources. The cost of water conservation at the Bom-
bala site would be nothing for a long time to come, so
that of the Carcoar-Garland site couldn’t be much less.
“ J. 8.” hasn’t read Water-Engineer Blomfield’s evidence
m Mr. Oliver’s report. Blomfield says : “ A storage reser-
voir would not be necessary for some considerable time •
but, if required, was obtainable at an elevation of 60ft.’
above Lord’s Hill, where an inexpensive weir could be
erected 30ft. high and 600 ft. long, with good foundations.”
(Report, p. 72.) Mr. Blomfield’s “considerable time”
may be taken from the context of his evidence to mean
till the city has a population of 250,000, and surely that
is time enough. Bombala is a town with a swift, clear
good-sized river flowing right through it, and that is
something to start with in the way of water.
“ Trotter ” sends a yarn from the remote
North:—
When you have trotted around Queensland and come
to Thursday Island you would imagine you had struck
the Malay Peninsula. This place contains samples of
almost every conceivable colored race and clan and sept
under the sun. Work in hotels and billiard-rooms, boat-
building’, laundry work, boot-making, store-keeping and
every kind of labor is done by the dark man. White men
working m the boats for a well-known “ white ” shell-
getting firm receive the enormous salary of £2 10s per
month with rations of bread and meat included—milk
jam, butter, &e., they have to buy themselves. While
here I “ dined ” at a second-rate pub., and at one end of
the table a nondescript medley of colored people were
congregated. As I was in a hurry I asked the girl to
attend to me, when she replied, “ Wait till I’ve served'
these gentlemen.” And every white person at Thursday
waits till the colored gentleman is served—more or less.
Sargood takes his defeat for Presidency of
the Senate badly. When it was known that
Holder would be Speaker it seemed highly improb-
able that another South Australian would get the-
Presidency, and Sargood was considered a dead-
bird. A consoling theory advanced on Softgoods’
behalf is that S. A. men get both billets through
an unfair combination of “small States,” but if
there had been any such combination it is almost
certain that the small States would have demanded
a better division of the spoils. The simple ex-
planation seems to be that Baker’s only two rivals-
for the Senatorial Presidency were Tory members
of the unspeakably-Tory Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords, and the Senate wasn’t taking any
Victorian Bich Landlord. In other words, that
Sargood and Zeal lost on their own demerits.
During the last two years there has been
a grievous slump in Queensland’s sugar produc-
tion. That State turned out 163,734 tons of sugar
in 1898, 123,289 tons in 1899, and only 92,554 tons
in 1900. The drop in two years amounts to no
less than 71,180 tons—nearly one-half of the out-
put. When the Queensland sugar product in-
creased by only several thousand tons during part
of the time when Griffith was restricting the impor-
tation of Kanaka labor, it was set down by all the
Black Labor papers as conclusive proof that the
industry could not get on without its Kanaka.
The smallness of the increase was held as proof
that the business was lost, ruined, blighted. The
output increased very largely before the end of
the Kanaka restriction period, but these few years
are still the subject of loud hollering in the nigger
press, which calls them an evidence of the impossi-
bility of dispensing with Thomas Tanna. Now
with abundance of nigger-labor, a huge and per-
sistent slump has happened—and it is set down to
the weather.


FOR
ACCORDEONS
from 8/6, post free.
\Vrite for catalogues,
it will pay you.
CONCERTINAS
from 4/6 post free.
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
Anglo German
and English
CONCERTINAS
from 25/-, post
free. Write for
catalogues, it will
pay you.
MOUTH
ORCANS
from 3d. Write for
catalogues. It will
pay you.
VIOLINS
from 5/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
MANDOLINS
from 25/- Write
for catalogues, it
will pay you.
GUITARS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
faJ/s
BANJOS
from 25/-
Write for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
FLUTES &
PICCOLOS
from 4/- Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
IS.
¥¥
CORNETS
from 25/-
BAND INSTRU-
MENTS
by the best
makers. Write
for catalogues,
it will pay you.
AUTO-
HARPS
from 12/6.
Write for cata-
logues,
it will pay you.
POLYPHON
MUSICAL
BOXES
from 42/
Play any number of
tunes
Write for catalogues,
it will pay you.
PHOENIX
MECHANICAL
ORCANS
from 657-
Writ e for cata-
logues, it will pay
you.
Everything known in Music. Best Quality at the Lowest Prices.
W« H. PALING & GO., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PBLIH6 & CO. LTP.—
Can supply you with PIANOS specially selected from the very best manu-
facturers. You can choose from a stock of about 1000 instruments at prices
from £33 and upwards, and all purchasers may avail themselves of our
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
We are Sole Agents for the Celebrated ESTEY ORGANS, which are
particularly adapted to the Australian climate, and are acknowledged to be
best and cheapest instruments procurable. Our prices range from £lO up to
£lOO, and we can guarantee them without hesitation.
Our Prices are Low, and our Goods are Sound and Reliable.
Every article supplied by us is a bargain to the investor. Once give us your
support and we will take care not to lose your patronage. Our customers during
the past half century have been our best advertising medium, and indeed they
have been the important factor in the growth of our gigantic business.
W. H.
PALING & CO.
LIMITED,
338 George Street, Sydney.
OUR TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM
Enables you to pay £5 deposit on a piano, and the balance in 1,2,
or 3 years, payable by convenient instalments.
Larger deposits may be made and smaller instalments.
The system applies in like manner to ORGANS and any other
musical instrument, and of course the deposit will be in proportion
to the value of the instrument.
SHEET & BOOK MUSIC.
B*- We hold the Largest Stock In Australia. H
We shall be pleased to furnish Pull Particulars and Price Lists of Pianos, Organs,
and other Musical Instruments if intending purchasers will communicate with us.
Some scraps from an enormously long
letter left behind by a recent Launceston (Tas.)
suicide :—
“ Before reading further, get a firm grip of a post and
hold your breath while I break it gently. Now, ready:
hold tight, it’s coming. In the words of the Dutchman,
I am going to ‘ bore a leedle hole mit mine head in mit a
revolver.’ There, the terrible tale is told. Now, if you
haven’t fainted, you can leave go the post. ... If one
has an income of three or four thousand a year he can
make life worth living ; but with less it is only an exist-
ence. In my opinion, this world is a world of imperfec-
tions. The one and only perfect thing in the whole
universe is death. ... I want no glory. I just want to
be dead. Merely that and nothing more. Don’t you run
away with the idea that this is a terrible tragedy ; nothing
of the kind. Simply one of life’s little comedies in three
acts. Act 1—Dead, and like Paul Jones, doing - well. Act
2—Inquest; verdict, serve him right. Act 3—Buried,
and left alone in his glory. I have thought of every
death imaginable, but threw them all out except drown-
ing or shooting. I couldn’t make up my mind which
would be the surer death, so tossed up. Heads, shoot;
tails, drown. She came up heads, so shoot it is. It’s
very funny when you have only a few days to live ; when
{mu are doing or seeing this, that, or the other for the
ast time, especially when you forget about the shuffling
off, and get planning things for the future. . . . To-mor-
row is my last day, and I am going to make the most of
it. First thing, I will have a good go at the piano, play
all the old favorites for the last time ; then I’ll take the
dogs for a run, and have a look round the old town for
the last time, and I think I’ll invite myself up to have
tea with you and Nance, and finish up the day with a
little revolver practice—take pot shots at myself. I’ll
just give you a description of my death ; I think I could
do it in a little poem ; it will be very pathetic, but weep
not, tears are rain. Here goes :
The verse was very bad, but it was characteristic
of the Australian’s incurable tendency to dash off
a little thing of his own in all times and circum-
stances. The jury had never met a suicide like
this before, and was so shaken out of its ordinary
rut that it didn’t even bring in the usual verdict
of “ temporary insanity.”
The Dookoyork’s honor list in Victoria
was a Crushing Blow. Many who were rabid
loyalists two months ago are ready to bite your
head off if the name of the midget prince is men-
tioned to them. It was believed that honors were
to be shed around like feathers in the moulting
season. Their friends had already begun to call
Peacock ‘‘Sir Alexander,” and M’Culloch (the
chairman of the Celebrations Committee) “ Sir
William,” and Speaker Mason “ Sir Francis.”
Isaac A. Isaacs nearly got a permanent squint
looking round the corner for a knighthood. The
dailies gravely announced that the investiture
had been held back a few days in order that the
Federal Speaker might be included, but Holder
never got the refusal. People are now diligently
hunting about to find out whether there is to be
another list before the Dook leaves.
A special session of Tasmania’s Parliament
is to be summoned for the purpose of further re-
newing the concession of that dreadfully slow
public worm—the Great Western Railway Syndi-
cate. This will make the second renewal, the
syndicate having twice undertaken to get its job
done by a certain date, and having barely made a
commencement after all. It will also probably
be the last renewal; when the co. comes round
next time it is quite likely that railway construc-
tion will be a Federal matter, and it is equally
possible that the Commonwealth Parliament will
tell the co. that it is a fraud and an incompetent
delusion, and send it about its business. By way
of making it look as if there was some public busi-
ness on hand, Parliament is also to pass an address
to the Jookoyork and make some remarks about
an insect that is alleged to have got into the local
apple-trees.
The police-court Bench has ordered Police-
man X to hand over to witness Exton the famous
Coningham necklet. Presumably the case ends
there, though it is hard to say. The Coningham.
difficulty has broken out in so many new places
already that it may develope another fresh crater
any day.
A WONPCRFUL CUR€.
VITADATIO
-A-G-A.USJ*-
Suffered from Cancerous Growth for
14 Years.
THREE LEADING SYDNEY DOCTORS PAIL
TO CURE HER.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Woollahra, Sept. 11,1900.
Dear Sir, —I feel it my duty in the interests of humanity
to let you know what VITADATIO has done, and is
doing, for me. I have been a martyr to suffering for the
the last fourteen years with a Cancerous Growth and
Ulcerated Stomach, and Bleeding Piles, and Swellings in
the Legs and Feet. Nine years ago I was examined by a
leading Sydney doctor. He told my mother that I was
suffering from a Growth in the Abdomen, and would
never be any different. He operated upon me, and in
three months I was as bad as ever. He again operated,
with the same result. Then I entered the Prince Alfred
Hospital, and was there for six weeks, and the doctors all
told me that they could do nothing for me whatever, and
that I was suffering from Gastric Ulcer in the Stomach.
I left there incurable, and in a very weak state. Then I
interviewed another leading Sydney doctor. After ex-
amination he said I was suffering from a Cancerous
Growth, and he could do nothing for me. Not being
satisfied I called to see another doctor. He put me under
a powerful galvanic battery until I was black, and said it
was done to shake the growth down, and it was some
time before I was brought round to my senses again. He
sent me home in a cab, and told me if I had to call in a
doctor not to send for him. Then I was for twelve
months under the treatment of a well-known Sydney
herbalist. I received some benefit, but the treatment
did not effect a cure. Of late years I have suffered
terrible agony, and my body swelled to an en ormous size.
I gave up all hopes of ever being cured. I have spent
hundreds of pounds in medicines and doctors, to no
benefit. A few weeks ago a particular friend of mine ad-
vised me to take VITADATIO, saying that it would cure
me. I took his advice, and I am very glad that I did so,
for, to my surprise, after taking three large bottles, pieces
of white skin began to come away from me like whites of
eggs, and have continued to come away ever since. I
I have lost 121 b. in weight since the Cancer began to come
away. I can now go about and walk any distance with-
out any trouble, which I was unable to do previously to
taking VITADATIO. J
I consider that it is a wonderful medicine, and in my
opinion is worth £1 per bottle, and cannot be made too
widely known.
I shall be glad to give any further information re my
case on application for my address at the Institute, 184
Pitt-street, Sydney, or at the Paddington Agency, 377 .
Oxford-street, Paddington.
[Note.—The writer of the above wonderful testimonial
is a professional nurse, and does not wish her name
to be published in the newspapers. Full information
can be had as stated above.]
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
mu'M mi
f-
i
or
1 900
All
abouf
r EVERY
READER IS INVITEn
to write or call for a copy of this
artistic and interesting Booklet.
Contains 40 pages of beautifully
illustrated matter of interest to all
cyclists. A handsome supplement
of racing cracks is enclosed in each
copy. Absolutely the finest Booklet
k ever given away. A post-card
of our depots will bring
copy by return post.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.—.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
and at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*
BILLS
discounted*
3sr.s,"w.
(Dont delete Co., £td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
tyA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M. L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,268.
Policies issued 82,000- assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. *4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital *3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esa., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : 0. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH wales:
HYDNI3Y - 273 GISOIIGE STRIOICT.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant : N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with, agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
Un fed Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Tfee Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Pain-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350,000
|)eui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
A MUSK in KNT for OL T) and VOTING.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
vour character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to ari3 r address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
_ Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat,, May 25,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, June 1,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., June 11, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
-Buninyong, Tues., June 11, 5 p.ra.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, May 25,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues.,May 28, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., June 1, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 25,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., June 1, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mu taal Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TEE “ ALL RED ” MAIL ROUTE TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAM LINE
(C. & A. LIN E)
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about five davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
T>>« Trustees, €xcc(itorS,
AND
Rgeocv Conjpaoy Limited,
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BOl2
0 0
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 16,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
Banin of New. South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaiirin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reoinald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uthrr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
ireeoo
A evident
and
G^iarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M ‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Karquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Montepiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
3XT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to EUROPE, via SINGAPORE,
calling at BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA. MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
The favorite N.D.L. Passenger
S.S. STETTIN, 2428 tons, Captain Niedermeyer.
Leaving SYDNEY on MAY 18, and connecting at SINGA-
PORE with the homeward bound China Mail N.D.L.
S.S. SACHSEN, 5026 tons, due in Naples on July 24 next.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Sp ed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
1
m
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &e.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Scc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument .Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
“JPRIMXTS ”
Kerosene Bath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL. From 755. Each.
\ xs
m
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOURSELF.
COSTS HALF THE PRICE OF GAS.
Large Stock BATH HEATERS for Gas and, Wood.
Send for Catalogue.
BR.A.KT D T BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
TJSE
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
mm.
& m t
mtr**
(kTINT UEATHfR BOOTS
GLAZEC KlOS&f
A>*»*Alifr,♦»*##*■ *•«
'***«**#«»»
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (ia
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers o!
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking;
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(f.i m rri'iD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, So Australian,
Victorian and Ports.
FOIi MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT IT LIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports j
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
May 24.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
June 1.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S.'Cintra, Kiiday,
May 24.
Best and Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. Lf.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
c .v,^ n! ' ea^e with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S.
ROYAL MAIL
N. Ooy. Ltd.
COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOVVN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly
IJONEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN- Every II Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ceoinniodntion, A ttendanee and
Cuisine tinvjratted.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be asceit.lined on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Aus'ralia all lickeis are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, 4:38 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return 171 Ids to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling- at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R.__BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
nilinraith,(n‘Ea<Tliarii&Go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGABBIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MUILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


The Judges of Japan are out on strike for
higher pay—which is hardly surprising, consider-
ng that the salary of some of them is equivalent
io but £6O per annum.
So-called “ Paris-made” gowns are mostly
turned-out by Bohemian establishments; the
Viennese coming next, and the English being
well represented. Very little of such work is
really done in France.
The will of the late Marquis of Bute —
Disraeli’s “Lothair” —has just been sworn at i
£5,000,000.
Lovely metaphor employed by a Mel-
bourne gent, when pleading t’other day : “ And I
suppose you sneaked away like a lamb after the
slaughter.” He didn’t hail from the dishstresshful
Oisle, ayther.
“ Great Britain not only does not grow !
her own food, she is dependent upon pro-Boers for :
existence. Alone among the Great Powers, Great j
Britain is parasitic in this sense, that she can j
only exist for six week's without sustenance :
from outside. ... If each man, woman, J
and child in the United Kingdom were j
strong as Sandow, and could shoot as straight as
the Queen’s prize-man, the prowess of the whole
forty million hungry Sandows would be absolutely
useless for British defence if the British fleet were
beaten at sea, or if a naval disaster were to occur j
similar to one of the three defeats which Lord j
Roberts was sent out to redeem. They would
have nothing to eat.” — Aknold White.
: YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre-s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALPERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists," Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/IJ4. per bux, Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ELLIOTT 8R055., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g een la el on • ach box. (Regd. copyright).
fringes,
Mature! Curly, from 3/0 eafife,
PLAITS ond TAILS,
t6ln. long, fi/o. all real hafat
CUTTINGS & COMBHWa
•Ollted up, VO per oz.
wa are the cheapeStln Mb
India for all Hair Worfc.
Sand Color of LJair.
W. N.'WigzQll*
UOWtLMAM Strbbt,
earner of Pal memtreot,
SYDNEY.
Guido Tram will stop at Doan
Send stampn for full Prioo LlaV'u
rxvyt attention'll yen to Country
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Niekel-
V >,tcd), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
j nnd Inhalent,"and 1 tin ■( /_
asal Ointment, only ■”/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
dnasanoA
NOSIOd JL.NOa
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will oe obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
IF
$
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
in***
miWMfsw's
Rttimnu)
JihuineJ;
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425, and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, I/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
RASSHUSSINi
HEIMLUFUWPI
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable . in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE, 150 Bourke-street.
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street.
ADELAIDE, 154 Rund/e-st.
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER CITY, Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-street.
A FREE ROOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE
"later
Caution. Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWH€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Brice List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAll DRUM.”
Ithei
ml
UEARI
(COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
?§H
L Kl
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS'
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases.
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Byes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS'
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable, for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug 1
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPORT, England.
(DEAF]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.


He Took a Notion.
Better to take a notion than anything belonging
to another man. A notion will do you good if it
be of the right kind. There are good notions and
bad notions, but Mr. Creed, of Mayfield-street,
Drake, N.S.W., had a good notion —a notion, in
fact, which probably saved his life. What better
notion can any man have ? Read what Mr. Creed
writes to us:—“For a long time I had a very
violent cold, such a cold which leads to consump-
tion, or something equally as bad, and had a most
uncomfortable rasping cough, which used to shake
my whole system, and seemed to break me up.
I got a notion that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
would relieve me. I took them, and the result is
that they cured me.” To show his good faith,
Mr. Creed has got Mr. James Allison, proprietor
of the Mount Pleasant Hotel, Drake, to witness
his signature to the above statement, which we
have received. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
cure such cases, and are a positive cure for Sick-
Headache, Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Constipation, Liver Complaint, Kidney' and Fe-
male Troubles. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, price Is. per bottle, or six bottles for
6s. 6d., or same will be mailed, post paid, upon
receipt of price. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depdt), 58 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
How to Guard the Empire!
.. Bead..
“SbarpSbootipg for
apd War,”
By W. W. GREENER, Author of
‘‘The Gun,” “The Breechloader,” &c.
All about Rifles and Rifle Shooting
for Beginners and for Experts, Rifle
Clubs, Ranges and Warcraft, to-
gether with the history of the Armed
Civilian in ancient and modern times.
Positively the Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published.
pp-180 PAGES, 100 ILLUSTRATIONS FOR 1/- NETT,
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. BUCKLAND, Agent for
W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELBOURNE
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there la
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY A!
IN SYDNEY. That is . , .
“ ElHs’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GKO. W. KLLIS.
BICYCLC BUYCRS
*
THE RED BIRD
Is far ahead of its rivals in Speed, Strength, and Simplicity. Every race of importance has been on a RED
BIRD. We take your old Bike in part payment for our latest models.
branches in every state. GOOI«D BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAIKESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney Tatt’s club-meet at Randwick on
Saturday produced a bad accident. In Tatt’s Stakes,
Called Back came down beyond the 6-furlong post, bring-
ing Pebble and Laurel with him, while Speechless (well-
backed and thought a “good thing”) floundered to his
knees, throwing jockey Godby out of the saddle. None
of the riders were maimed. Called Back, though carrying
a broken leg, struggled 200yds. further, and was subse-
quently shot. Happening is attributed to Called Back
galloping on the heels of the ultimate winner, Caravel
and this is borne out by the raw appearance of Caravel’s
hind legs. Called Back, bred in N.S.W. by Messrs. F.
and A. Martell, was by the Grand Flaneur nag Aureus
from Charming by The Drummer, and promised well
• • * *
Deaths of crack pony jocks Cohn and Allen
through accident at Rosebery Park (Sydney) course last
week recalls that other riders—Rooke, Clayton
M Laughlin, and Elliot met their ends somewhere
about the same spot. Why is no effort made to render
the turn safer, or why does not someone in authority
move the authorities to make the effort ? That particular
place is generally looked upon as dangerous, to put the
thing mildly.
* * » »
Sydney-trainer H. Raynor’s diminutive appren-
tice, F. Richardson, hc.d the unusual honor of winning the
first race he rode in, when bringing Edna Lyall “ home,”
at Rosehill, t’other day. ’Twas a hot finish, too. Young
Richardson has only had six months of stable-life, but he
comes from a good stock. His brother was up when
Clean Sweep won last Melb. and San Fran last Sydney
Cup. J J
* * • •
Cornstalk State nags, which had been looked
upon as owning the programme, had a bad time at
Q.T.C. meeting on opening day—Saturday. Queen’s
Plate (ljm.) seemed a moral for Kelso’s champion Dandy,
at w.f.a., but, though heavily supported, he ran absolutely
last, and Bris des Nuits won. Description of the race
makes it appear that something akin to the bursting of
that blood-vessel in the head months since affected him.
Lord Rudolph—thought to have a mortgage on the Leger
—finished unplaced in a field of six. Ex-Sydney nag
Melodian appropriated Hamilton Handicap, but as he is
locally owned his win doesn’t count to the Cornstalk
State.
* » • »
Inferiority of N.S.W. “leppers,” as compared
with those of Victoria, is generally ascribed to absence of
encouragement. “ Bill ” Long once contended that the
class of jumping nag in the Cornstalk State wasn’t worth
catering for, and, judging by the response to Sydney Turf
Club’s offer of £l5O for ’chasers, the A. J.O.’s whilom chair-
man wasn’t far out. Only eight entries came along. Most
of those nominated have been with us for a big stretch
and are close up done. The A.J.O. offers £2OO for an
event next month, but the prospects of a good line-up,
unless some come from ayont the Murray, are very poor.
Remedy lies with owners generally. Why not try some
of the numerous unsuccessful flat-racers across country ?
Instances are plentiful where rank failures in one depart-
ment have been big successes in the other, and many
have shaped brilliantly at both games—Australian Star is
the latest case in point.
• * * »
“H.”: Wasat one of Adelaide’s big race-meetings
the other day. Near one of the main entrances, and inside
the track, I saw three knots of men, about 20 in each
knot. At intervals small objects went into the air,
scintillated a moment in the sunlight, then dropped. I
went over and found they were headin’ ’em. Nobody
seemed to mind, not even the police. Near by “ Yankee
Sweat” was doing a rare “ biz.” A little further on I
found that I could get on to a “ bob ” tote or a straight-
out bet at every 10 yards. All these things are illegal in
S. A.
• * « «
There is no mistake about M.L. turfite, Mr.
G. C. Stead’s luck. He has owned the biggest 2-year-old
winner eight times in the last nine years. His latest
(Menschikoff) has gathered in £2555 this season, which
has never been topped by any 2-year-old in Maoriland—
bar Multiform, with a record of £2762.
» » » *
Turf luck comes along to some people six feet
thick. A M.L. punter lately had a golden afternoon.
Possessing an unlucky bundle of 13 notes he put the
bakers’ dozen on a nag with a bookie, stipulating that
winnings, if any, were to be “ all up” on another gee
later on. First prad paid the “limit” (£10), and the
£l3O went on to the second moke, who paid £6 3s. ; total
(less investment), £786 10s. The same man had pre-
viously forwarded £1 to be put on a horse at another
meet on same day, and it returned £76 odd !
* • m m
Comparatively easy to nett a thousand or so
over a trumpery hack-race in M.L., if the nag pounced
upon is an outsider, is paying a tenner, and is able to win.
Money wired away from the course lengthens the totali-
sator odds, but if sent too early suspecting bookies will
slip most of it back to the machine. ’Tis when they
haven’t a chance of doing this that they bellow when
“struck.” But there are always plenty of waiters for a
“limit” price, and when three or four “morals” meet
in one race, well-backed by owners unknown to each
other, some very strong observations follow the result,
and the books have a chance of balancing things.
* * » »
Re par herein (18/5/01), announcing demise of
Tas. sport, Mr. Ohas. Agnew. ’Tis said that, years since,
he and the late Alec Robertson were discussing the death
of a cross-country jock. Robertson expressed a wish that
when his time came it would be as sudden, and Agnew
echoed the feeling. Robertson was killed, at Randwick,
while riding Silvermine— a nag that Agnew was wrapped-
up in, and which carried heaps of his coin on at least two
occasions. Mr. Agnew went off suddenly while crossing
from Launceston to Melbourne.
* * * *
Late ’Ome mail news tells that M.L. sport
Spencer Gollan made a nice haul when N.S.W.-bred
Australian Star landed the London Oup last month.
Prize was 1564 sovs. and a 100-guinea trophy. Twelve
started and ultimate winner, humping 8.11, went out at
11 to 2. Rate was run in mud and proved the softest of
soft things. At Kempton Park (Eng.) Easter Monday
ancient gelding Oban from this section, having 11.12 up,
literally “ walked in ” by eight lengths for 2-mile hurdles.
■* * « •
Worth a line that at Belmore (Sydney) Coursing
Club’s Derby and Oaks meeting, t’other day, pups (Row-
land Rowdy and Lancashire Lass) from one litter (Black
Douglas—Lenos) won the three big stakes, and another
(Black Duchess) of the same lot was runner-up in St.
George Stake to Coo-ee, also by Black Douglas, but out of
Benalla Nellie. This is surely a record ?
• * * *
It was first intended to send the little Jook on
the shoot at Manifold’s, but neither there nor at Ruperts-
wood or Werribee is there any game save bunny. When
Cornwall and York got among the quail, the grovellous
Melb. dailies were all broken-up with admiration of his
splendid shooting, because he brought down 32 brace in
four hours, with plenty of pointers and a loader. Bill
Adams, of Melb. Commercial Travellers’ Club, and Joe
Bannister, of Maffra, with a spaniel and a half-spaniel
half-mongrel, accounted for 230 brace of snipe, in one day,
in ’9B, over ground that was freely shot, not preserved for
a select party. And Jack Allan (bowler Frank Allan’s
brother) and Bannister have put up an even better record.
The York record was really about fifth-rate or thereabout.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby rep. team, which is expected to
leave Sydney about middle of August, will find Maori-
landers harder to beat than ever this season. More
attention to gymnastics is being insisted on in the
various centres, result being “ conditioned ” players and
fast and furious games. Visitors will probably play
Auckland, Taranaki, Wellington, Canterbury, Otago,
Southland, and an all M.L. team.
* * * •
Second round (Saturday) of Sydney first-grade
Rugby competition supplied further evidence of the fact
that there are no absolute “ certs” —not even in football.
Eastern Suburbs—confidently tipped by alleged capable
judges as sure winners right out, and" who in the first
round (previous week) brilliantly put down last year’s
premiers (Glebe)—went under to South Sydney (playing
one man short for some time) by 9 to 8. Attendances
bv island v afcC^ eS ' ? lebe settled Western Suburbs
3> and y ar ® lt y P«t up 18 to Balmain’s 7. North
Sydney notched 9 to Newtown’s 7, mainly through
O Donnell s brilliant goal-kicking and defence Desnfte
we°re n dMe a w°ith b^° rehand and a »er initial matches
appearance- ’ com P etltlon wears a very open
* * * •
battlers” who managed to
nowadavs k nn their football . subs - don’t flourish in M.L.
now adays. On any provincial union disqualifying these
endo?ses n^n R ri en Kh y th e ' controlling body of the province
endorses, and then they are “rubbed-out” in both
b?ff*hnnts^ eSUIt 18 th jt gadabout players can’t don their
big boots in any new district until the old score is paid
footballers are at sixes and sevens.
d ' Bla i? e ’ for playing Ernest Jones, the well-known
the latter having first qualified, has been
f del niv i lt9 twodr A fc Wlns - The club has withdrawn
S tbe Asso., and there is much blanky over the inci-
dent. ihe trouble came at a time when the game was
just recovering its old-time popularity. 8
* • • *
Though taken much aback at the cabled an-
nouncement (Thursday, last week) that Marylebone 0.0.
wasnt on with regard to organising a ’Ome team for
Australia next summer, Melbourne 0.0. quickly rose to
ri e n?<r Caslon 7 cab l e was sent to Lancashire skipper A.
n' m .iu? n i t 0 fill the breacb > and A.O.M. replied that
ne udo his best. M'Laren was out here twice in the last
decade. On the first occasion (’94-5 season) his finest feat
was 228 out of 416 compiled against Victoria. In ’97-8 he
ran Ranji very close in averages for all and eleven a-side
matches, and beat him by 54-22 to 50-77 in the tests.
Mac. holds the world’s best score in a first-class match—
-424 for Lancashire against Somerset at Taunton, July, ’95.
Ihe great cricket authority, “Wisden,” says, “M'Laren
may be lacking in some of those personal qualities which
are the possession of an ideal captain, but he has the
great essentials—firmness and decision—as well as a
superb knowledge of the game.”
* * * •
Maoriland athletic and cycling bodies now want
spoon-feeding, and intend asking Govt, to subsidise
championship meetings, which the unappreciative public
don t patronise to the extent of making them paying pas-
times. One reason for Govt, cheques is that “ such
sports materially assist in building up the country, and
consequently deserve encouragement.” The cool cheeki-
ness of the application will make Premier Seddon smile.
Govt, already subsidises swimming—an art in which
young M.L. should be proficient; but to demand the
country’s cash towards pap-feeding oft-time cronk bike
pedallers and providing tin-pannikins for lily-white
amateur runners is gall indeed.
* * * *
“ Crab:” .Looks as if the new thing in boats
that Oxford eight won with this year, and which it is said
was designed by and built to the order of Dr. Warr, of
Eton, will prove to have been thought out in Sydney
by the crack builder Ohris. Neilsen, especially as Aus-
tralian Tom Sullivan’s name is mentioned in connection
with Dr. Warr’s idea. Close on two years since Neilson
had instructions from the Mercantile R.O. (Sydney) to
make an eight on lines akin to those of his sculling boats,
the chief principle being to have the craft on top of
instead of in the water. Details of this production were
sent to Tom Sullivan by Sydney’s rowing enthusiast Mr.
“ Jack” Blackman after the boat was launched. The
dimensions and general description of Dr. Warr’s
“notion” fits Ohris. Neilsen’s to the letter. The short
sculling boat was introduced in England by Sullivan as
“ a little idea of his own,” but it is certain that Hunter
River sculler Towns and 0. Smith gave him the lines of
the contrivance.
* * * *
Recent case at Wollongong (N.S.W.) of a stake-
holder paying over to the winner, though warned not to
do so by the loser, and being mulct in the full amount of
the protesting party’s bet and exs., recalls a similar
episode years back wherein the late big sport George Hill
suffered. He held £2OO a-side in connection with a
champion boat-race on the Parramatta. The loser kicked
against the umpire’s decision and demanded the restora-
tion of his bet, but Mr. Hill handed it to the winner.
Subsequent Supreme Court action, however, compelled
him to refund the full sum and pay long lawyers’ bills.
Some pugs are given to this sort of thing but are often
baffled by an arrangement under which the stakes are
handed to a certain individual, who appoints a stake-
holder and passes the money along to him. No one but
the temporary bailee knows who the stake-holder is.
Therefore it is impossible for the loser to serve said stake-
holder with notice not to pay over.
* » * *
“ Spare-me-days ” : Under “ Sporting Notions ”
(Bulletin, May 18) “ Well-known Sportsman ” “ talks
through his neck ” when he gives the deaths of Jim and
George Clark, Pat Anderson, and Ted Barton as instances
of the evils of hard rowing. Good old “Jim” died of
cancer, and George died for the want of vigorous exercise,
for as soon as he left off rowing he commenced to pile on
fat to an alarming extent “Well-known Sportsman”
neglects to state that “Bob” Clark, the brother who
rowed as hard races as any of them (writer recollects
him fainting at the finish of a race against
the Mercantiles) still wears his hat jauntily on
three hairs, as in the old days. M. A. H. Fitzhardinge
and his brother, the Judge, look good for a century each ;
Q. Deloitte, who some 30 years ago was a champion, is to-
day as well-set-up a man of his age as Sydney can pro-
duce. Clarence Hannell, the Newcastle giant, who holds
the reputation of having pulled the poppet-heads out of a
skiff, must now be nearer 70 than 60. Tom Strange,
Jack Wilkinson, Jacky Thomson, Jim Brodie, Dave Mid-
dleton, Bill Bull, Nick Johnson, George Brett, Jim
M‘Kensey, George Seale, Bill Benson, Ted Simpson, Pros.
Williams, Pal. Simpson, Ted and Gerald Kennedy, Charley
Bros, and a host of other old-time amateur rowing men
are to-day very much alive. Chumley, who rowed in the
Victorian boat this year, is over 40 years of age, and has
pulled in seven winning inter-State eights. And then
the professionals. Dick Green, the father of them all, is
as lively as a spring chicken ; Laycock, Trickett, Rush,
“ Footy ” Pearce, George Solomon, Stanbury, Bill Beach,
all magnificent specimens of middle-aged manhood— in
fact the only dead one the writer can recall to mind is
poor Searle, who pegged out through fever whilst almost
a lad.
„ * * * «
“Hermes”: Concerning confidence-men. My
half-Chow spieling friend scooped in the trick and
chuckled softly: “You newspaper men amuse me with
all your balderdash about the poor plucked pigeons. The
birds we take down are not pigeons—they’re hawks and
crows. The pigeons we can’t get at. The other sort
think they are brilliantly cunning, and they always start
out to relieve the flash man with the roll of dummy notes
(two good ones on the outside) of the whole roll, and any
more he may have about him. And they usually fall in.
Sometimes we do the falling, but it’s mostly the other
way. The clever mug plays with nothing but good stuff,
and the innocent spieler plays with 90 per cent, bad stuff,
and that alone tells in the long run. On the other hand,
it is only a question of time till we get pinched. Any-
how, if you will carefully read the reports of the next
half-dozen pigeon-pluckings, you will see that the pigeon
who played up his stuff did it with a sinister design of
getting Very Much for Very Little or Nothing At All—
and, verily, they will no doubt get their reward
Clubs are trumps 1 ”
* * • a
Bruising struggle ’twixt ancient negro Starlight
and brawny muscle-bound Armidale (N.S.W.) laborer
M'Coll at Sydney Golden Gate A. 0., Saturday night, was
all hug and rough from end to end of five rounds. Star-
light evaded easily while he remained strong, which
wasn’t many minutes, and then M'Coll had the game to
himself, for after every swoop and bull-at-a-gate rush in-
dulged in by the up-country pug. the black would be
discovered floundering on the boards, carried there by the
bigger and much more powerful man’s desperate on-
slaughts. It wasn’t interesting at any stage, and only
exciting once or twice. Starlight’s “wipe” went up in
token of capitulation at the end of the fifth 3min. The
black has been in a good many fights of this brand lately,
and takes ’em on as fast as they come, irrespective of
persons or reputation. Same description generally applies
to all. Writer has a notion that “Star” is on a similar
lay to that of the Oalifo rnian Polish Jew Choynski, who
has been fighting anybody and everybody for years with-
out troubling much which way the thing goes so long as
half the money offered is guaranteed him. Most big
fights in Yankeedom are arranged on this understanding
nowadays, though the world is told the winner takes all,
or 75 per cent, with the balance to the loser
* • * *
OverWd at the Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney)
the other night. A successful novice and a still greener
one at the business were talking. S.N. (loq.) : “ Now,
take my tip, whenever yer gets ’urt don’t let the other
cove see it, no matter if yer Weedin’, ’cause if yer does
yer sure to ’ave ’im outer yer. W’ile yer crackin’ ’ardy
he s afraid of yer. Take my tip, thet’s ther way ter do
em. I wouldn’t ’a’ done so well only I kidded a lot, and
now they think I’m a second ironbark Burge, blest if
they don’t.”
* * * •
Sailor Ball and Maori Ruenalf (matched to “box
the best of 20 rounds” at Gaiety A. 0., Sydney, last week)
sprawled, scrambled, and floundered over each other, like
two escaped lunatics. Half-a-dozen times Ball was only
stopped from going through the ropes on to the floor,
some feet below, by hands from the crowd, raised in self-
Protection. Ball hung on to Ruenalf like a catamount,
ki ( I latter a^e ged) bit and chewed his shoulder, bringing
blood freely. Ruenalf tripped the crazy sailor once, and
then sat on his chest, thumping him, while the crowd
looking on swayed and went wild with excitement and
laughter. The referee—a newcomer, from Yankeeland—
was at his wit’s-end what to do ; the thing beat him
badly. Once he tried to draw the mauling pair asunder,
but Ball resented the interference by landing the
only straight punch delivered throughout the
s^ a ™ble, fair on the referee’s jaw, and that
official immediately squared up for a scrap. By-
and-bye, the police took a hand, and the wild and
woolly engagement was stopped, whereupon the
referee gave Ruenalf the decision because of the other’s
continued fouling, and declared all bets off. This scribe
is sorely puzzled as to why Ball ever gets a match. He
always acts the same way, and hasn’t the ghost of a
notion how to fight. The first time he showed in
Sydney was when he met the ebon-hued dude Felix, at
Seale’s Gym., and then he did nothing but rush head
down into the black’s stomach, under his legs, over his
shoulders, or through the ropes—when he wasn’t rolling
on and mangling the lathy negro on the floor.
* » » *
Whilom lightweight premier pug of this conti-
nent, Peter Murphy, was never in it with Jack Willis in
their match at Gaiety A.C. (Sydney), Monday night.
Money made Murphy' favorite, but after a few exchanges
there was a rush to hedge at an.y price almost. Willis
carried fullv a stone more brawn, and was perfectly' fit,
while Murphy might have been a deal better attuned.
But even if he had been it wouldn’t have availed him
much, for Willis has improved “ out of sight ” since he
came from Victoria, not many months ago. Willis
proved too husky, too tricky, and too hard a
hitter for his opponent, who has about reached
the end of his tether at the game, and should try
some lighter employ'ment—albeit he is yet in the twen-
ties. Things were lively from the jump, and both mixed
punches as if their very lives hinged upon the outcome.
In the second round Murphy was going, having been on
the floor thrice. The third brought the end. Murphy
came into violent contact with the boards early and
stayed there Ssecs., but had no sooner assumed the per-
pendicular than another right-hand smash sent him prone,
and out beyond recall within the allotted lOsec. Murphy
never had a chance at any stage of the disagreement.
ah * • •.
All accounts agree that the world’s “light ” and
“feather” champion (“Terrible Terry” M’Govern),
whom Victorian Tim Hegarty' has gone to ’Murka to
meet, is a model and exemplary citizen, which, seeing
that he graduated in the ranks of N’York newsboys, is
somewhat remarkable. Terry is full of sense, and so far
from looking for or submitting to the adulation thousands
of Yankee hero-worshippers are alwa.ys eager to pay him,
he evades and hides from it all he can. Travelling, his
life is as abstemious and unostentatious as it is at home.
He gets with his wife and youngsters as much as possible,
and stays in their company as long as he can. They go
everywhere with him. Yankee writers credit Terry with
being full of manly instincts and a generous friend. Has
M’Govern a parallel in the present annals of pugdom ?
* • * *
Top-notch middleweight Snowy Sturgeon, who
has been nursing a bad hand since his knock-out of the
Sydney football pug. Jack Oonlon, months back, is
matched to meet a recently-arrived Yankee bruiser giving
the name of “ Kid ” Parker, and will, subsequently,
take on Herb. M‘Kell, lately home from S’Africa.
“Snowy” evidently assumes that the fighter from the
U.S. is a “sure thing” for him, else why enter into
another engagement so soon ; but the man from t’other
side of the Pacific winks one eye and says, “ Wait till it’s
all over.” On appearances, however, writer won’t have
him against Sturgeon, who gave Cribb two such hot tasks
when Cribb was at his best. Apropos , there was talk of
a match between Sturgeon and black Tom Mitchell for
the 11.4 supremacy' of the States, but Mitchell couldn’t be
coaxed to the mark, though clever enough to tackle the
best. He has a fearful dread of Sturgeon since once, at
Werris Greek (N.S. W.), when the snowy one had the black
anyhow, and Mitchell’s supporters rushed the ring, tear-
ing ropes and posts away and ending matters with an all-
round scrap. At least, that’s the way Sturgeon tells the
story.
* • * *
‘ ‘ Old Timer ”: Principal objection of most
Yankee States to allowing the pending world’s premier
ship struggle between Los Angeles giant Jim Jeffries and
Akron giant Gus Ruhlin to come off in their backyard is
that there’s a probability of one killing the other. This
is bunkum. Deaths in the ring have mostly occurred
among the little ’uns —that affair in London t’other day
(Bulletin par, 11/5/1) to wit. ’Tis hard to find throughout
the annals of the P.R. any instances (bar those of
“ Sandy ” M‘Kay and Simon Byrne) of fatalities wherein
big men were concerned. Which reminds this writer
that two of the biggest pugs that ever contended for
premiership honors were Gully (afterwards M.P. for Pon-
tefract) and Gregson, subsequently the poet of the prize-
ring. Each of these was over 6ft. high, and built in pro-
portion. They met at the beginning of the last century
in Viscount Deerhurst’s Park at Bushey, near Watford.
This was a fight to a finish with a vengeance. Both were
so pumped out towards the close that when sent to their
corners after the last round even money was offered
neither would respond. “ Time ! ” galvanised Gully into
action, and he toed the scratch, but had'hardly done so
before he fainted in his second’s arms. Gregson wasn’t
satisfied, and the same pair met again, with an almost
precisely similar result. Yet there was no death, nor
any thing approaching it.
San Francisco Wasp —a notorious “bor-
rower in its issues of March 16 and 23,
drawings by a former assistant of D. H. Souter’s
—R. G. Russon —which poorly reproduce some of
Souter’s worst mannerisms (mannerisms which he
is now growing Out of). Though Souter has
taken hints from Beardsley and Bradley and
Parrish, lie has merged them in an individual
style of his own ; but Russon seems to be a flag-
rant and incompetent imitator. No decent artist
would deliberately copy another’s style, and take
credit for the copy as original; and no publica-
tion with any sense of artistic honesty would
print such travesties as original work.
Between 600 and 700 ironworkers have
gone on strike at Mort’s Dock, Sydney’s biggest
shipbuilding and engineering institutions, for a
minimum-wage of 7s. per day. The O’Sullivan
yeast is beginning to work. Govt, pays that sum,
whereas the ironworkers of Mort’s Dock have
hitherto been working at 65., and some of them
for ss. per day, for what is practically skilled
work. An engineering co. that cannot afford to
pay its employes 7s. per day has no right to live;
and the fact that a strike has occurred to gain
such a miserable wage from such a wealthy cor-
poration is a mighty argument in favor of a
minimum-wage law.
“ Mahlstick ” : Surfeited with royal paint-
ings, it cost me a little effort to go and see
Tuxen’s Diamond Jubilee, at Melb. Athenaeum.
This is a good piece of work, a cut above the
Royal Nuptials, over which poor Frith and others
wearily moiled. The point of view is from St.
Pauls’ steps, with Queen Victoria looking at you.
Well, it is only about as far from a Tuxen to a
Vernet as from a Vernet to a Velasquez, in deal-
ing with royalty.
“Sister Mary Jane’s top-note” of Jook-
grovel in the Melbourne press was easily reached
by the ’Erald. Reay, its editor, is a teetotaller,
but an editor who had been blind-drunk for a
month might have had a truer sense of proportion
than to pass a remark so utterly silly as that the
coming of little Cornwall was
An honor unparalleled in the history of our race ; it is
a still greater honor to have deserved it.
If the history of the British race included nothing
more honorable than the landing of a young man
and his wife at a suburban pier, then the Empire
is a poor and doddersome thing, and should be
given away with a pound of tea to get rid of it.
The Jook is a gilded fly on the window-pane of a
nation’s history, and the ’Erald is his fly-paper.
Re a portrait which appears in this issue.
The boy riding the bicycle-wheel with his baby
sister on his shoulders is Walter Les Theires, who,
with his two sisters and brother, have recently
been appearing at Sydney Tivoli. They are now
on their way to Maoriland. The eldest is Miss
Ada Les Theires, lfli years old. Walter, whose
picture is given herein, is about a year younger;
Maud is 14, and Charlie, the youngest performer,
12. The baby on Walter’s shoulders is as yet
only an honorary member of the family, being
just about 4 years old. Some of the bike tricks
of these children are really remarkable. Not-
withstanding their Gallic name, the family is quite
plain Australian, and the children are natives
of Brisbane. They were trained by their father,
Mr. Thyer, who in his own youth was connected
with Hutchinson and Tyler’s circus. They first
appeared in Sydney at the Lyceum about six
years ago, under the management of the great J.
C. Williamson. At Commonwealth time they
made quite a hit in Brisbane at a great open-air
performance, when unbelieving Bananalanders
climbed up on to the platform and felt the little
girl who sat on her brother’s shoulders, just to
make sure she wasn’t a doll. She takes a keen
delight in the performance, and Mr. Thyer
proudly swears that David has never had a fall
when riding the single wheel with the little girl
on his shoulders.


EXQUISITE . . .
OXIDISED SILVER
L.A.ZDIIEJS 7 COAT AAHsTID VEST
From the Paris
Exhibition
BUTTONS.
BUTTONS, IN GOLD RELIEF, FROM 6/6 TO I*7/6 SET.
PENDANTS, FROM 2/6 TO 12/6 SET.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3490.
The principle of the Co-Operative Coupon
system is the encouragement of cash trade.
People who used to buy on credit now pay cash
and obtain a discount in the popular coupons of
the Co-Operative Coupon Company, Limited.
Enterprising and just tradesmen recognize that
people who pay cash are entitled to be placed on
a better footing than the slow pay, the half pay,
and the fashionable never pay.*
it J :'S
'
HSBHMliii
SPOONS# FORKS
MAPPIN & WEBB, of London,
MAKE NO INFERIOR GOODS,
Silversmiths to Her late Majesty,
Queen Victoria.
Their Spoons are all
plated on White Hard
Nickel Silver bases, and
wear white throughout.
B QUALITY.
TEA SPOONS 5/- J-doz. Their Spoons and Forks are the most
DESSERT SPOONS & FORKS 7/6 J-doz. heavily-plated that are made in England,
TABLE SPOONS & FORKS .. 10/- J-doz. whilst in shape, weight of base and finish
they are the best.
The prices in Sydney are
the same as in England.
Australian
Representatives
<§airfa,K Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter St., Sydney.
The promoters of Barn Bluff—a Tasmanian
much-boomed low-grade, copperish show some 10 miles
off the track the Great Western railway may some day
run—are just now busily cursing Govt. Geologists and
similar interferences with private enterprise. Under-
ground expert Harcourt Palmer, of the 'famous Wait a-
While Gridiron Railway, recently got some Adelaide folk
to put up money to develop Barn Bluff, and on that the
shares went to over £5. Then the Govt. Geologist came
along and said there was nothing to show
that the 8.8. was not quite as good as the
promoters said it was, and on the evidence before him he
had no hesitation in supposing that payable mineral
might be discovered somewhere in the neighbourhood
provided the search was . made deep enough and over a
sufficiently wide area. It was a nice, kind, non-committal
report, which gave the Barn Bluffers such courage that
shares promptly dropped 50 per cent. But, all the same,
there may be something in Palmer’s boast that the B. B.
find is going to build liis beloved gridiron Wait-a-while
railway. One never knows.
• • • •
Copperfield, the once populous little field out-
side Clermont, is to-day a dead town. Most of the houses
are dismantled, in some places only bare posts are stand-
ing to show the traveller where they once were. A few
fossickers still drag out a precarious existence. Mr.
Howard Smith—no connection with the steamer co. —runs
a small store and has a very good private mine there.
Apparently he is the only shareholder in the original
co. who lives beside it. A co. has purchased the right to
the water in the mine and is now busy pumping it out,
having a system of precipitating the copper which gives a
good return for the labor expended. The old mine is a
weird place these times. As one wanders through its old
workings it might be a fairy palace of copper. Every
scrap of iron, every rail, every chain left behind by a past
generation of workers is encrusted with a green deposit
which eats away the original metal, leaving nothing but
a copper shell. It does the same with tin, consequently
old jam and meat tins, after being submerged in the
water for a while, are transformed into rather pretty
ornaments much prized bjr the people thereabouts.
* ■ • *
Morton, in the Port Curtis distriot (Queensland)
is another deserted town. There is a fine police
station and barracks which has never been occupied.
The building was only just finished when the place began
to slip away into “ goldfields that have been.” But there
are a dozen such places in the Gladstone district besides
Morton—Calliope, Crow’s Creek, Tableland, Max Welton,
Deception Creek, Targinnie are but a few, and on every
one there are still a few fossickers. The cyaniders have
stirred up all the old places again in search of tailings.
Wherever there has been an old battery at work within
the last twenty years, you’ll find the cyanider is either
going there, is there, or has just gone. There is hardly a
heap of tailings in Queensland at the present time that
has not been treated, or pegged out for treatment.
**. * *
Clermont (Q.) alluvial is just now dead as Julius
Caesar—no new finds, and old ones doing badly. On the
other hand reefing shows more promise than for many
years—the latest and apparently the best show is at
Western Creek, some 30 miles north of the township, in a
belt of country trending direct towards the old Cape
River diggings and Charters Towers. Ancient Copper-
field, with its copper mine, slumbers peacefully among
the dead.
* » • *
Blair Athol coal-field, 11 miles north-west of
Clermont (Q.), crows vigorously, latest development
being the striking of a 27 foot seam at Bore Hole Pro-
prietary mine. But at present, cartage to Clermont is
12s. per ton, hewing rate 4s. 3d. per ton, and Government
royalty 2d. per ton. Therefore, the find doesn’t amount
to so much as might appear.
» * * *
“A snug little property,” writes a travelling
Bulletin correspondent, “ is the Silver Spur near Texas
(Q.). Co. has capital of £24,000 —15s. per share paid-up.
It has never made a call. It is down 2'Dft., and its pro-
spects are as good as the proverbially-uncertain lens-
shaped stone will allow. It is working sulphides—of
which a goodly amount is in sight. A year’s supply of
stone has been opened out ready for stoping. Co.’s re-
verberatory furnaces have a capacity of 400 tons. Side
products are copper and lead, and the blast-furnaces for
smelting latter are equal to 1100 tons per month. The
slags from the reverberatory are now being re-treated in
the blast-furnaces. Output of silver 40,0000 z. per year ;
the mine has paid £20,900 in divs., and its average assay
value is 260 z. silver, o‘B9 copper, and 12 per cent, lead to
ton.”
* * * •
Hampden Copper Mines (North Queensland) :
This will be a big mine with railway communication,
which it is bound to have some day. The manager esti-
mates the quantity of ore available for extraction from
the mine at 116,000 tons, worth, on an average, 16 per
cent, copper, representing a gross value of £1,260,000. In
forming this estimate he did not take into account the
pyritic bodies recently discovered below water level, nor
did he include a portion of the mine on which insuffi-
cient prospecting has been done to enable an estimate of
value to be formed. Quantity of ore raised and sampled
on the mine, 5592 tons, worth, in copper, £52,811.
Though the directors regret that the proposal to build a
Normanton-Oloncurry railway was rejected, they antici-
pate that the measure will be re-introduced. The abso-
lute necessity for railway communication with such an
important mineral district must be admitted. Absence
of a railway, and the presence of a drought, almost en-
tirely suspended mining operations for six months. With
a railway, and a high-grade mine, it will probably be
found cheaper to take the ore to the water than fuel and
flux from the water to the mine—in other words, better
to smelt near the seaboard. Proposed to reconstruct the
co., to work the mine on a scale warranted by its value,
for it is generally believed that, with the railway, Olon-
curry will become one of the great copper-producing dis-
tricts of the Commonwealth. Pity equally great things
cannot be said of Chillagoe.
* * • •
Mt. Garnet Freehold : Shareholders determined
to have railway communication. The terms of the con-
tract opposed by one of the directors, J. B. Mackenzie,
who felt so strongly on the matter that he resigned. Re-
ported that, while the railway is building, coke will be
taken in, and matte out, by camels, and that a well-known
Afghan camel-carrier has tendered for the work. If so, it
will probably add one more to the list of appalling blun-
ders committed by the Mt. Garnet management. But the
writer will wait to see if the rumor is true before saying
anything more vigorous about it.
* * * *
Dredging on the west coast of M.L. will receive
a fillip by the investment of between £BO,OOO and £lOO,OOO
English capital in the Tasman Golden Gravels Co., formed
to work ten claims of 80 acres each. The areas are
situated on old bed of Hokitika river, between Hokitika
and Ross.
» * * *
“Shareholder” : The management of Victorian
mining companies may look good on the surface, but it is
tolerably dreadful underneath. For instance, how many
legal managers in Melbourne could take an affidavit that
they neither demand nor receive commissions or bonuses
from merchants to whom their orders are given ? I mean
how many could take it honestly, for some managers
would take almost anything that wasn’t nailed down.
How many could honestly swear that they receive no
consideration from the auctioneer who sells their forfeited
shares ? There is much that doesn’t appear on the surface
in that same forfeited share business. In many cases
forfeited shares are allowed to go at auction at a less cost
than the amount of calls sold for, hence the manager
often holds his own shares in the name of a dummy,
doesn’t pay his calls, gets his own shares forfeited for
non-payment, and buys them back (in the name of
another dummy perhaps) for less than the call. By
judiciously working this device it is possible to hold
shares and pay less than half the calls. Again, some
managers tout amongst shareholders of companies on a
good, solid footing, to get them to use their influence to
dispense with the present manager (though he may be a
competent man) so that he (the' tout) may be appointed
in his place. Where will you find the miner who will ask
a boss to sack a man so that he may get the job ?
* * * m
Loddon Valley : One of the deep alluvial con-
cerns of Victoria, manipulated by the London and Globe.
Congratulations are exchanged because the L. and G.
smash only injured the co. to the extent of £8690. The
extents of the L. and G. interest in it has not been re-
vealed. The chairman’s remark, “Unless you are ac-
quainted with this class of deep alluvial mining you can-
not realise the difficulties we have to contend with,” is
not reassuring.
Byron Reef (Vic.): “Has sufficient funds in
hand to pay a 6d. div., but the directors have decided to
defer declaring any until Is. can be disbursed.” It would
be much better for them to defer paying any div. until
the mine has been equipped with a stronger winding
plant and heavier battery. Better still, if the mine were
developed another hundred feet to see if the value of the
reef at that level warrants the additional machinery.
* * » »
Grlenfine South (Vic.): Another horrible drop
in the stock last week, from 80s. to 575., then recovered
to 625. Another fall in the yield— the last 1180 tons for
5630 z., a fraction over Oidwt. The crosscut off the south
drive at 250 ft. level proved a width of 29ft. solid stone.
The manager states that good prospects of gold were ob-
tained at times while driving from wall to wall. But
what does that mean? Anything or nothing. Obviously, the
market has taken it as meaning nothing. A few days later :
“ A full face of stone is being carried, driving south on
the western leg, and the manager states that the pros-
pects are improving.” This is all too indefinite. Vic-
torian mining managers are definite enough when they
can be so without danger, and when they can’t the na-
tural course is to talk of “ good prospects,” “ fine walls,”
“ solid stone,” &c., &c.
• • * *
Adelaide reports another S.A. rush. Some
specimens have been brought in ; some pot-holes sunk,
and 5 tons of ore is to go to the Govt, cyanide works at
Petersburg. “ Prospects considered so good that the
country has been pegged for miles near the find.” That
matters little, so long as the public are not pegged out in
Adelaide. So far no flotations are announced, which is a
good sign, indicating that even the Adelaide public are
coming to their senses again after losing their money in
other “ wild-cat ” directions.
* • * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * • •
As to tin-mining and market prospects, statis-
tics aren’t cheering. For year ending 31st March there
was, compared with the preceding 12 months, an in-
creased supply of 6151 tons, and a decrease of 1102 tons
in consumption.
• * * *
“ J.C.R.” discourseth about the searching of
miners question :—“The system of searching miners after
‘ putting in their shift ’ below is of old standing. And,
judging from the tales told by miners themselves of eva-
sion of precautionary measures (notably in deep alluvial
claims at Ballarat, where the searching system was
rigorously enforced), I think mine managers are fully jus-
tified in thus safeguarding the shareholders’ property.
Also, as regards reefing-claims, I can cite several convic-
tions for theft of specimens and amalgam. Why should
any honest miner object to be searched, and what other
method can miners suggest of minimising the gold-steal-
ing evil? I have worked on Vic. and N.S.W. goldfields
for over 40 years, and I know what I’m talking about.
Thirty years ago a trucker at Chiltern (Vic.) told me how
he had ‘ got away ’ with a 15oz. nugget from a Bal-
larat claim. He was trucking when the face-men (two)
found the nugget and he proposed to pass it through, as
truckers were not subject to the same vigilant scrutiny
as face-men. He went, accordingly, to the changing-
house, put down his oilskin coat (it was a wet evening),
stripped, and, picking up his oilskin, went into the
dressing-house ; and thence took his oilskin—wherein
was concealed the nugget—home. Five ounces a-piece !
Again, an old Ballarat man told me how a face-man, work-
ing alone in a cross-drive, found a big nugget and put it
aside till late in the shift, when he sent up all his wash.
Then, when the trucker was away, he wrapped the nugget
in a pair of old overalls, trampled the lot among the wet
muck under foot, filled all the mullock and cleanings into
the truck, and sent-up. At night, he went to the rubbish-
tip and raked it over until he found the overalls—and the
nugget. Another instance : A Oastlemaine reefing-co.
lost heavily through the passing of rich stone under-
ground along levels to where men sinking an exploration
shaft could pass the stuff safely through. The men
prospecting were not searched as were those employed
where the stone was mined. The licensing of gold-buyers
is a useless precaution. The latest device of organised
gold-stealers from deep or company-owned mines is to
have stationed at some alluvial diggings one of the gang,
who sells the joint stealings as gold won by himself.
* * * »
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Bow’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Fifczgibbon burst into loyal and spirited
verse to welcome the unoffending Yorks. Here
is the first slab of his “ Tribute” :
Son of the king—of old England’s king,
So lovingly long in our hearts enshrined,
That even yet it is when we sing
“ God save him ” that it recalls to mind
That prince before he is prince no more
By our gracious King and the Emperor.
The regrettable thing is that, in order to get the
rhyme quite right in that last line, he has to be
called the Empty Roar or something of the kind.
To those who know the feelings of the
men, the surprise of the recent Melb. demonstra-
tions is that none of the sailors of the visiting
warships came into collision with more or less loss
of life. The American cruiser lay exactly oppo-
site the big Russian boat on Port Melb. pier, and
the men loathed each other with the intensity of
two women friends. The Russians glared at the
Yanks, and in turn the Yanks loudly related tales
of Russian brutality in China, and asserted that
while the Muscovites were always willing to
bayonet Chinese babies, they were invariably in
the rear division when armed Boxers were encoun-
tered. The seamen with the twang further talked
with much disrespect of the immense Russian
ship, claiming that their own armament of fewer
but longer-ranged guns could blow the Gromoboi
out of the water at seven miles. Had the war-
ships performed any evolutions on the night of the
naval display, and had the control of the ships
been left to the crews, either the Brooklyn or the
Gromoboi would almost certainly have been acci-
dentally rammed and sunk. The Russian sailors
are, unquestionably, the biggest and most powerful
though most clumsily-built of all blue jackets, but
they have faces which stamp them ethnologically
as of an extremely low type. They were given to
drinking heavily while in Melbourne. How it was
that Bourke street or the Port Melb. pier did not
run red with gore is one of those matters that
nobody oan explain.
BOARDING-HOUSE EUCLID.
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS.
All boarding-houses are the same boarding-house.
Boarders in the same boarding-house and on the same
flat are equal to one another.
A single room is that which has no parts and no magni-
tude.
The landlady 61 the boarding-house is a parallelogram—
that is, an oblong, angular figure which cannot be de-
scribed, but which is equal to anything.
A wrangle is the disinclination of two boarders to each
other, that meet together but are not on the same floor.
All the other rooms being taken, a single room is said
to be a double room.
POSTULATES AND PROPOSITIONS.
A pie may be produced any number of times.
The landlady can be reduced to her lowest terms by a
series of propositions.
A bee-line may be made from any boarding-house to
any other boarding-house.
The clothes of a boarding-house bed, though produced
ever so far both ways, will not meet.
Any two meals at a boarding-house are together less
than two square feeds.
On the same bill and on the same side of it there should
not be two charges for the same thing.
If there be two boarders on the same floor, and the
amount of side of the one be equal to the amount of sidp
of the other, and the wrangle between the one boarder
and the landlady be equal to the wrangle between the
landlady and the other boarder, then shall the weekly
bills of the two boarders be equal. For if not, let one
bill be the greater : then the other bill is less than it
might have been, which is absurd.
"Re that Flemington famine —why did the
authorities hand over all the guzzles to one
caterer? Isn’t competition the soul of business?
’Tis said that What’s-his-name is the only local
caterer capable of ‘ coping with the multitudes.’
But does he cope with them successfully ? What
price his Cup arrangements ? An acquaintance of
scribe’s pitched a yarn at the Review with some
waiters, who had struck work because, so they
said, their clothes were being torn off their backs
by famine victims. When asked, as experts, to
apportion the blame of the fiasco fairly, they
exonerated ‘ the public.’ ‘ The public,’ they said,
‘ behaved all right till it saw itself diddled out of
its grub and invited to lunch on empty bottles.
Then it turned nasty and rushed the starvation
show.’
“An advertising doctor and his clan behaved
in true poster-family style throughout the revels.
A carriage and pair, flunkeys and all, were much
in evidence, also Madame’s expensive black
pelisse, and her two sons, rigged up in Etonian
top-hats, collars, jackets, gloves, etc. For their
short-skirted, long-haired daughter, the proud
parents engineered an introduction to Royalty,
encouraged by the fact that, eight years ago, the
same kiddie presented a bouquet to the Duchess
at the opening of the Royal Imperial Institute.
Little Miss What’s-her-name, egged on by the
ambition of her parents, sports a Royal Academy
of Music gold medal, and spends most of her
young life at the piano.
“Nellie Stewart’s voice rose to the occasion in
a quite wonderful way at the Commonwealth
Concert, on May 9th. She had to sing the first
solo of the evening, a ‘ Hymn ’ com osed by
Kenningham, under the awfully exacting title of
‘ Australia,’ and some 11,500 people were waiting
to hear what she would make of it. Another 1500,
or so, had by that time established themselves
firmly in front of the refreshment tables, and took
no interest in the concert, but Nellie’s ordeal was
made all the harder by the distant clattering
and cork-popping of these early feeders. The
plucky little woman sang with twice her normal
strength and sweetness. Granting that the music
was arranged to suit the vocalist, the performance
will stand as Nellie Stewart’s record in the
opinion of thousands of hearers.
“ After Nellie’s triumphant hymn came an
operatic quartette by Madame Slapoffski, Janson,
Pringle and Salvi. This was chiefly notable for
the intense loyalty of Salvi, who sang his part
with both eyes fixed on the Jook and Juokess, and
bowed to them personally bn the slightest pro-
vocation.
“ Ella Rufesell’s diamonds at the State sing-song
had a distinctive glitter even after those of the
Duchess, which had made everyone sit back and
hold tight. The Russell’s Count was in the
neighborhood, listening to his beloved wife’s sing-
ing with bated breath.
“ On the eve of the Royal departure, when the
Duke broke the seals of his box and scat-
tered little bits of sugar to the birds, Barton
got a bediamonded gold snuff-box ; Peacock, auto-
graph photos; M‘Culloeh, gold cigarette case;
Jenkins, gold pencil case ; Colonel Hoad, silver
cigarette case. But what about those knight-
hoods ? From title to trinket seems as big a fall
as that of the disappointed small boy who com-
plained bitterly that when he prayed for a tricycle
God bluffed him off with a new baby-sister.
“The departure of the Jook and co., on Satur-
day, from Govt. House, was more like a dusty
circus than a sad farewelling. A small crowd
wedged itself in between the barriers at Govt.
House gates. A solitary trooper made his horse
play-up whenever that minute portion of the
public looked a bit surgy, which it did
whenever the barriers were taken down to
let a tram roll by. The troops lining the
route, rather tired of waiting, leaned against
the Venetian masts for support. The wind was
north and knifey, and the band seemed bad-tem-
pered. The man in leopard-skin pinafore with
the big drum banged it viciously. A few coaches
drove out. The suite were trotted out in assorted
lots, and then the Jook and Duch., looking very
solemn and unsmileful. She wore a tiny hat —the
big picture toque is doomed in loyal Melb. from
this out, for the Duchess has worn her headgear
small all the time.
“There was a big double wedding at Kew
t’other day, when Softgoods Beath parted with
two of his pretty daughters at once.
“ I was in a show-room, waiting to be ‘tried
on.’ Scraps of talk buzzed over the low walls of a
street of fitting-rooms, and on all sides victims, in
screened-off corners, underwent operation by per-
sons with pins in their mouths, or consulted rever-
ently with toilet-oracles. Across one partition
floated the fruity tones of a blarneying Irish voice
wheedling a customer —a portly foreign vocaliste.
* Alter your purple satin, madame ? Sure,
wouldn’t you fancy a lovely black costume ? One
of those darling sequin-nets with masses of soft
chiffon on the corsage ? Black would suit your
beautiful white skin to perfection ! ’ ‘ One thinks
not of skins when one is no more young,’ replied
another voice. ‘ Nowadays a beaudiful bit saved
bleases bedder mine fat old heart ! ’
“Here my attention wandered to two lively
chatterboxes standing just outside the half-open
door of my retreat. ‘ When the invitations came,’
said one ‘ I was desperate. Not a rag to wear and
not a penny to my name. I thought of putting
on my best things, hat, gloves and all, and jump-
ing into a vat of black dye. Then Mother got my
black tailor-made cleaned, and I worked a lot of
point lace and mounted it on ivory-satin for
cravat, re vers and sailor collar. We rigged
up a black chiffon hour-glass muff with a
posy of scented white violets, and took an idea
for a home-made hat from Chiffon’s Paris show.
A white corduroy crown buttons with chic white
loops and buttons on to a black broadcloth brim,
turned up in front with black chiffon, white
violets and a buckle. Good enough ! For my
part I love the Duchess for setting the fashion of
velvet cloaks and ostrich-edging. Granny’s im-
ported mantle will be a perfect God-send to me,
and will pass for the new Victoria-Mary wrap.’
“ A few weeks ago this apparently doomed city
was threatened with a strike of slaveys. They
seemed to be holding the place up for a time,
asked what wages they liked, did exactly as they
liked, or else —no help in the kitchen at the Cele-
bration time. The missuses at first trembled and
gave in, but muttered, revengefully, ‘Wait till
after the Celebrations, and then— ’ But the
strike killed itself. The girls didn’t want to leave
Melbourne and miss the Celebrations. If they
resigned, and stayed in Melbourne, they could
only get board at famine prices. Their own aunts
and cousins scorned to take them in ; they wanted
to let the spare bedroom at two guineas a night
to a premier or a knight. And, on top of all,
country girls came pouring in and were willing to
wash the dishes at reduced wages if let out on
Celebration day.
“Out of the Celebrations have blossomed, among
others, two very intsresting engagements. One
is that of Miss Bertha Pratt, one of the most
striking frockers in Melbourne, and Mr. Lindsay
Ingles, brother of the late Mrs. Springthorpe.
Mr. Ingles has returned ‘ after the ball ’ in
S’Africa with on interesting limp. The second
engagement is that of Miss Winny Wollaston,
daughter of the learned Dr. of the Customs, to
Mr. Lockyer, Collector of Customs, in Sydney.
Mr. Lockyer, widower, is a keen horticulturist.
So the future bride must make up her mind to
take an interest in slugs and snails, and codlin
moths, and things.
“Big crowds sped the parting of Musgrove’s
opera company. Last night of the ‘ Flying Dutch-
man’ S’Malkum M’Eacharn brought a party of
ladies, and S’Rupert Clarke, as usual, occupied a
box. Our only baronet, by the way, is off on his
travels again. There were lots of Federal belles
on view that night—daughters of Senators and
sich—most of them smartly frocked in all-white.
Federal frumps were also in evidence. And I
never saw such a dismal creature as Lawrence
Mooney’s ‘Flying Dutchman.’ Far too plump
and pasty-faced for a perennial mariner, he looked
more like a lay-preacher, fresh from prayer and
meditation in a flour-bin.
“Young Teck, Cornwall’s brother-in-law, is a
magnificently-uniformed, handsome equerry, much
darker than his sister, but with her very blue eyes
and shortish nose. Their late father, in his youth,
was a charming and penniless Prince, whose looks
won for him the hand of Mary of Cambridge,
years older than himself. Queen Victoria favored
the match because she had an eye for beauty, and
had herself yielded to the wooing of pretty prince-
ling Albert, some years her junior. In later years
she encouraged Beauty Batten burg to reach out
for the hand of her daughter Beatrice. In this
case again the lady was her suitor’s senior.
Prince Teck seems all the more dashing, no doubt,
because of his cocked hat, martial cloak, glove-fit
breeks, and knee-high riding boots. Still, Vis-
count Crichton, a similarly plumaged equerry,
plus spectacles, looks thin-lipped and cross, not-
withstanding his fine feathers.
“ A well-known Sydney municipal lady told
Melbourne friends that she is to be presented to
their Highnesses in Sydney. ‘ Are you going to
practise your curtsey ? ’ asked someone. She gave
a smile. ‘That sort of thing comes to one with
the occasion,’ she replied quite quietly. It does.
At least twenty-seven different varieties of excited
bobbing-up-and-down came to the dames of Mel-
bourne on the occasion, and the effect will take a
great deal of forgetting.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


A circular just put forth by the Presby-
terian Church shows that its missionary subscrip-
tions, in Australia, amount to 8d. per year for
each person.
What pleasant companions the returned
contingenters will be —so autobiographical—and
so modest. How one writes to an up-country
N.S.W. paper:—
“ We’re just as good as little tin gods here, especially
those of us who have been knocked out by a bullet. The
boys suffering from fever and debility are treated with
the greatest kindness, but they do not boom so largely as
heroes as the man does who had a mauser slug through
his napper. My wound is in the leg and I can’t make
much out of it as an exhibit, but it makes me interesting
all the same. Whisper, I’ve had three proposals ! Sounds
disgustingly vain, doesn’t it? but ’pon my oath it’s true.
One nice little English girl put it this way : “ You’re
going to be ill a long time,” she said, “and you want
somebody to look after you. I’m single.” That was all,
I said: ‘ That’s very good, but I’m fixed out there in
Australia.’”
“ Old Soldier ” to The Bulletin :
As to the idea that the failure of recruiting in
Britain will cause the British Govt, to employ black
troops in S’Africa. It would he a terrible risk. In the
18th century, when Britain and France were struggling
in the names of various native chiefs for the lead in India,
the British and French troops were only auxiliaries with
the armies of the chiefs aforesaid. The repeated mutinies
of Indian native troops show how little they are to be
trusted, and for years after the organisation of the West
India (negro) regiments they were in a state of inter-
mittent mutiny. The black soldier is nominally 7 cheaper
than the white ; but when y r ou consider the cost of the
white soldiers needed to keep the former straight, and
the carefully picked officers required to manage him, the
cheapness disappears. Also when real hard fighting is to
be done the dependence is on the white man alone, and
he must be saved for that at any cost. As Haidar Ali
said, when he saw the British troops fight—■“ If I had
such soldiers, I would carry them in litters, and never ask
them to do anything but fight.”
Business Announcements.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
FOR
£2 tOs.
FOR
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels ; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases.
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 E!izabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find evei'3* comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfieid Parade
ST. KILDA.
npHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
x Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach.- Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
JAH€S REIP
PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
x MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects —Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 Springfield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
Publications.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
BEING .
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
PTH
iMJS
boo
f. !
rice
1/
4 Sh, Ift Slut. Irsd. JMorag
One of the Finest Albums of Easy Piano-
forte Pieces yet issued
ENTITLED—
Wild Flowers Album.
CONTENTS:
Published by
ALLAN &CO. Prop. Ltd.
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
For sale by every Music-Seller in Australasia.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,^
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
800 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, 7
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one boo]!. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful bools will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d.‘, posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Cli vmbers, 488 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writinn
ROYAL yiSIT.
■VTEW GRAND MARCH, commemorating- the visit of
x the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to
open the First Parliament of United Australia, with
three portraits. Also, KING EDWARD the VII. MARCH
and QUEEN ALEXANDRA WALTZ, with superb full-
length colored portraits of their Majesties.
Of all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
A POLICY FOR THE Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the clashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Svdnev. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will «- 0
into a pocket without squeezing ; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
the a beautiful fabric. (
JOUiS* Velveteen.;
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen i
bears the name (spelled L-0-IH~S and in no other!
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. <
NEWMAN’S
For Removing 1
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post— 2s. (id. a packet.
O. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
62 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
HIGH-GLASS TAILORING.
HATTE’S Popular Department.
n'j; Three-Guinea Dress Suit, with Silk Facings, beautifully cut and Finished. Cannot be equalled.
uur F, ve-Guinea Dress Suit cannot be procured elsewhere under £7 7s.
We carry an immense stock of West of England, Scotch, Irish, New Zealand and other Tweeds, all
m the Latest Designs and Patterns.
GENTS’ MELTON or SERGE OVERCOATS, from £2 ss.
« e *l ea * anc * or ® co * Tweed Suits, to measure, 455.; usual City Price, £3 3s
Matte's Famous Tweed Suit, with Extra Pair of Trousers, hundreds of Patterns to select from, made
to measure, £2 2s.
Gentlemen residing at a distance have only to write for Self-Measurement Forms and Patterns to
have their orders faithfully executed. All our Tailoring done on the premises.
|3P" Our Chief Cutter is the Best in the State.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
THE
‘PLUM’
PITS
THE
‘PLUM’
This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent . Post Free to any part of the World.
53F - Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Mount ache Producer.
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOUS AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6(1 to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
fSF” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORSE STREET, SYDNEY
I WAS
DEAF
for years.and almost -frantic
Wi th Head - Noises
I tried every Known Treatment and
device without help-Finally 1 cured
myself by Galvanic Electricity-If
you are deaf or yrowiny deaf or
have head-noises dont waste time
and money as I did -Write me men-
-tioniny this paper and 1 will send
full information FREE.
Address - L.R.VERNON
60-64 HUNTER ST-SYDNEY.
THE HIGHEST GLASS TOBACCO.
In Three Strengths : MILD, MEDIUM, FULL.
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“ARDAIH ”
The Healthiest Tobacco I
Name of nearest Agent post free on appl cation to
IW- RUTTY & Go., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:! La Casa de la Habana &“ An date ” Factory
JManuiac urers of Pure Tobacco, 62, , eadenha 1 ,treet, London E Jiand.
MOiR'S
HERRINGS
In Tomato Sauce .
In 1 lb. Flat Oval Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
HOTEL
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
queen’s gate terrace.
LONDON. S.W.
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.


Business Announcements.
Style with Economy.
Are you a “ Stickler to Style,” and yet don’t
want to spend much for a Suit ?
Then you should see our
READY-MADE SUITS.
Out with the same care as is exercised in
making Suits to Order, and finished in our well-
known “ FEDERAL ” STYLE.
You can feel quite comfortable m our Gar-
ments, because the Fit and Style are THERE.
Nobody would guess you had a Ready-made
Suit on.
Prices :
Scotch Tweed Suits, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-
West of England Tweed Suits, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
Heavy Sergerette Suits, 25/-, 30/-
Indigo Serge Suits, 25/-, 30 35/-, 42/-
Half-Sizes, Quarter-sizes, Three-quarter-Sizes.
Every Size always in Stock.
When you are in Buying a Suit have a look at
our
IMMENSE RANGE OF BLARNEY TWEEDS.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(GENTLEMEN.— Come in and see Our Suits
during your Lunch Hour.)
BALDNESS.
CAPILLA Hair-Tonic
(REGISTERED)
The Captain of the New South Wales Cricket Team
writes i— 1/ Hl*
“ Your ‘ Capilla ’is indeed a wonderful Remedy—it does
all you claim for it. Can recommend it to anyone
troubled with weak, thin, or falling hair.
“SYD. GREGORY.”
Ihe well-known Sydney Solicitor writes :
‘•114 Pitt-street.
“ After using one bottle of ‘ Capilla’ my hair stopped
falling out, and it is now thicker than ever it was.
“P. M. DANE.
Wherever it is possible, CAPILLA will produce hair.
None need despair of obtaining a good head of hair.
Leading Sydney Chemists, and from the Proprietor—
W. RICHARDS, 163 Pitt-st., Sydney.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; 4 bottles, which will effect a
cure in the most obstinate cases, posted free for 10/-.
ASK YOU R J EWELLER TO SHOW YOU
The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE' STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD,,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from SS. to £7 158.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this paper.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of—
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT
tu- KODAK.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 2nd May, 1901.
TREASURY BILLS ACT OF 1899.
SPENDERS will be received up to and not later than 4th
J-• June, 1901, for the purchase of £500,000 worth of
Treasury Bills, to be issued under the authority of the
Treasury Bills Act of 1899, which provides that, for the
purpose of carrying out certain Public Works, the raising
of a sum not exceeding Four Millions sterling is
sanctioned. ...
8 Such bills to the amount mentioned above, viz
£500,000, will have a currency of five years, and will bear
interest at the rate of 3J per centum per annum, payable
half-yearly, said interest to accrue from Ist June, 1901,
and be repayable at the Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, at par.
'A deposit of 10 per cent, on the face value of Bills
tendered for in Sydney, Bank drafts payable on demand,
cheques on Sydney endorsed by Banks, or Sydney Money
Orders, must accompany each Tender, and the balance of
accepted Tenders will be payable at The Treasury, Sydney
within three days of date of allotment.
Bills will be issued of the following denominations, viz.,
£lOO £5OO, £lOOO, £5OOO, and where possible will be
allotted in the values applied for by successful Tenderers,
but the Treasurer will not in any instance guarantee
division of values to Tenderers.
Applications will be receivable for sums of £lOO (one
hundred pounds) and upwards. . , .
Forms of Tender and all particulars can be obtained at
The Treasury, Sydney, on or after 4th May, 1901.
Tenders to be addressed “Under Secretary for Finance
and Trade,” and endorsed “ Tender for Treasury Bills.
The highest or any Tender not necessarily accepted
2a i2 T. WADDELL.
FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
Andthe Only Specialists in Australia who have
Received Highly Commendable Press Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Bheumatisin, Sciatica, fee., &c.
rortificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment*Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great
Britain and America, open te inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
TT is an acknowledged fact tbe world-wide over that no
JL single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of a rt, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
■ h 're of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
m''sts of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Ldison
g #
Tours truly . . •
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member-
Dr. Harmon’s College , Washington Cor., Cal., TI.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame i= universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
nd modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
■ w edge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work But to have the privilege of being shown through
the buildin<>- by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
t'ee, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity*- Laymen always have a penchant for ei eing
and examining the polished~steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument conies to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gailfe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article Or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
' 1 What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to hfa’th and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace.
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fondo-
'»
institute-vicor MIM institute
Premises" Cor. Elizabeth, and Ba<murst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power. . „ ~
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one ol
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions-that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, offhandedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “ gullibles ” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows. .
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice" as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
'ij- his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
i
m
Fours truly . . .
RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army ; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.
Watch Repairs by Post
SP
3
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d. _ r
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
DC MAID Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
■ lYlniiia 654 George-st. (Brickfield Ilill),
SYDNEY.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADS tliroug'liout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailiny fashion of long waist.
m
V
Thomsons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. NOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them-
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & 00-> Ld-> London-
. . THE WORD . .
is a guarantee of s'undress of
Material and Quali y of Dye of all
Worsts
Coatings,
SergesiJveeis
on whicii it is stamped.
fox’s fare 3ndigo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped e ery two yards on the
back ....
FOX'3 PURE IVDIGO,
and without this st mp a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual'production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth centurjr, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
Q
These celebrated Serges oan be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
O
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only : —
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza
both & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
.. AND ..
422 George St., Sydney.


Missing Friends.
WANTED, present address of GEORGE
VAUGHAN, bricklayer, formerly of
Hobart. Address, D. 0., Post Office, Kelly Basin,
Tasmania.
PATRICK CROSBIE.—PIease communicate
with Executors of the late P. Crosbie,
“Balmattum,” Euroa,
Victoria.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SY D N EY.
LAST NIGHTS at the PALACE THEATRE.
MONDAY, MAY 27, Mr. Snazelle will commence a
Season at QUEEN’S HALL, PITT STREET.
THE GREAT SNAZELLE,
whose re-appearance upon the scene of his old-time
triumphs outshines (if possible) his old-time record as
THE ENTERTAINER PAR EXCELLENCE, with the
Glorious Moving Exposition of WEST and SON’S
“OUR NA V Y.”
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices, 35.. 25., and Is.
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MACMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY OF
MR. FRANK LATONA
and
MR. AUSTIN RUDD.
Re-appearance and Short Farewell Season of THE
LEONARDS, PINE SISTERS, ROSIE AQUINALDO,
ADELINA SARINA, and all our Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
RICKARDS' NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Celina Bobe, Mary Lynne, Irene Franklin, and the
Misses Noni and Madge Rickards in the Coon Ballet.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Harry Riokards.
ALFRED DAM PI ER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Artists.
THE POWER OF WEALTH,
EVERY EVENING, Commencing SATURDAY, MAY 18.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo.Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS OF
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls,. ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Return of the World’s MOST BRILLIANT SOPRANO,
MDLLE.
ANTONIO (TREBELLI) DOLORES
Her appearance achieving a Crescendo of Success.
Mr. ROBERT CLARANCE NEWELL, a young American
Pianist appearing with Mdlle. Dolores,
ACHIEVED A PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
RECITALS will be given on the following dates:
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, MAY 23rd; and
NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 25th.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Reserved Chairs and
Balcony, ss. ; Body of Hall, 3s. and 2s. ; South Gallery,
2s. ; Back Seats, Is.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
JAMES TAIT, Manager.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH
k, ou,~ aithr
m timekeepc > Mm
& IfiLCLN METAL ■
11 io/6 case m
Will rur) for 20years
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from A Saving: of
Strand Arcade. 26 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
Y heatre royal,
Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL TRIUMPH
OF THE RETURN
GRAND OPERA SEASON. GRAND OPERA SEASON.
Students and All Lovers of the Most Divine ArtfMusicl
should Not Fail to Witness the Great Production of
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND OPERA COMPANY
GRAND OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, MAY 23,
Vincent Wallace’s Beautiful English Opera,
MARITANA.
FRIDAY, MAY, 25, FAUST (Change in Cast).
. . SATURDAY, MAY 25,
first Production by the Musgrove Opera Company in
Sydney of Ambroise Thomas’ Masterpiece,
3VE I Gr HV O TV.
Musical Director
Herr SLAPOFFSKI.
_ of ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7/6 ; Reserved
Stalls, 6/; Front Stalls, 5/ ; STALLS, THREE SHILLINGS
Family Circle : 7 to 7.30, 3/ ; 7.30 to 7.45, 2/ : after 7 45’
ONE SHILLING.
Box Office, Theatre D. 0., 10 till 5.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
w Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
2nd WEEK and CONTINUED UNABATED SUCCESS of
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POWERFUL DRAMATIC COMPANY, in the
New and Original Drama,
THE FRENCH SPY.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.56 •
ordinary doors, 7.30, Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY^
MONDAY NEXT, 27th MAY, and EVERY EVENING.
Return Visit of the Celebrated
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
Grand Revival by Special Request,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Prices, D.O. & R.S., 6s. : Stalls,
3s. ; Upper Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is.
E. F. BRADLEY, General Manager.
PmF ,r E THEa T R E, SYDNEY.
“ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
First Appearance in Sydney of FISKO, the Marvel
(Australia’s Cinquevalli), the PHILLIPS SISTERS, direct
from Manilla and the East, SAM GALE, the Young Eng-
lish Descriptive Vocalist, the LESTER BROS. (Kings of
the Air), Miss IVY FULTON, Comedienne and Dancer,
and OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES—2s., Is,, 6d. No Early Doors. Plan at Theatre.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutlie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
SEVENTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
FLORODOR A -
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
2nd WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDOM.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. AVON SAXON.
IMPERIAL CONCERT COMPANY
(of London)
MADAME BELLE COLE, the Famous American Contralto.
Mdlle. Virglnle Cheron, Soprano—the South African
Nightingale.
Mr. Avon Saxon, Bj,.’. Line —late Carl Rosa Company.
Master Raimund Pechotcoh, the Marvellous Boy
Violinist.
Herr Custav Pechotsch, Violinist and Accompanist.
Madame Rudyini, Accompanist.
FIRST CONCERT,— SATURDAY EVG., MAY 25th.
FUTURE DATES—May 27; June 1,4, 6, 8.
Box Plan Paling’s. Day Sale, Glen’s and Nicholson’s.
Prices—ss., 35.,’ 25., Is. Special Kates Students.
FRED. W. NEWMAN, Representative.
Wyld and Friedmans 9
ONLY GENUINE
BRITISH BIOGRAPH
ON TOUR
West Australia.
OPENING, PERTH, TUESDAY, JUNE 11.
Coldfields to follow. >
QPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
GREAT AND GLORIOUS SUCCESS OF
WIRTH BROTHERS’
HUGE COMBINED SHOWS.
A Grand Reception to Australia’s Big Show.
The same Unanimous Verdict enthusiastically Given :
THE BEST AND GRANDEST'SHOW EVER
SEEN IN SYDNEY.
The World’s Champion Artists picked from Five
Continents.
Dens of Wild Tigers, Lions, Leopards, Panthers, Bears,
Jackalls, Baboons, Monkeys, Apes, Elephants, Camels, &c.
TWO SHOWS DAILY
LOCATION—OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
Prices -35., 25., Is. Plan for Reserved Chairs at Glen’s
Music Warehouse, George-street. Evening Performance
commences at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10.45.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE^
■ Sole Lessee and Manager . . .. Bland Holt.
GREAT POPULAR HIT.
The Thrilling Spectacular Melodrama,
WO HAN AMP WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s„ Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
“ The Best Australian Boole of Short Stories
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
By WILL OGILVIE. 4s 6 d.
One Boer war entertainment now progressing through
the Big Scrub is run by someone with a fine eye to the
fitness of things. The lecture is broken up into sections
with appropriate music in between. Thus, after “ The
Siege of Ladysmith,” someone sang “ Break the News to
Mother,” and after a gory tale about bayonet-charges and
disembowelment came the gentle little hymn, “ Lead,
Kindly Light.”
In “Florodora” comedian Lauri burlesques the
miserere scene from “II Trovatore.” It astonished a
number of musical people when they heard him negotiate
one or two still passages with comparative ease, the
Passages that make the average tenor hold his chest with
oth hands. No doubt Lauri doesn’t care a banana
whether he breaks up or down, therefore he doesn’t
break. Fear of mishap rattles most tenors when they are
on the up-grade in a song. Lots of singers say that the
moment before taking a high note their past sins
flash before them, and they live through all the
wickedness of their lives. One famous Australian Don
Caesar admitted that he could never approach G or
A without seeing a pale gray line of creditors rise up
from the audience. Another said that whenever he
attempted a high note he became dizzy with the thought
that his legs were misbehaving themselves—trying to
form the letter V while he was stretching his neck to-
wards the flies. A man’s voice was no good, he said,
unless he owned a pair of cast-iron knees—the man who
didn’t consider the appearance of his knees when singing
soon got shunted among the old men and the thin girls at
the back of the chorus.
What may happen to a new-chum German tenor in
Australia. His story, as told by himself :—“ No, I vas
never mit Villiamson. I went indo de goundry mit an
Engleesh manager. I did sing at Narrabri. Und de Irish
beobles dey shoudt for anoder song. I did sing ‘ Der
dear leedle Shamboch.’und de Oder beobles joomp up und
gall me a planky Boer. Dot vos bad for me. Der Eng-
leesh manager he go vay midout me, Fritz. Und I had
no money because I sent it to my moder, a month pefore,
in Berlin. Und I dravel und dravel along der bush, und
I meet a man mit a bag house. * Meinheer,’ I say, * I
pray you direct me to Sydney ’; und he say, ‘ Oh, hell !
you nevar get dere 1 ’ After dot he would shpeak no
more. Und I dravel und dravel till I koom to Boggabri,
where I meet Peter Schneider, und he gif me three
vhiskies. Den der bolicemen ged me und throw me indo
der logub. Und ven I vas asleeb in mein cell he koom und
vake me up. ‘ You ged up and sing der ‘ Dear Leetle
Shamboeh,’ he say, ‘or I break your planky nose.’ Und
I sit up chatterin’ mit cold und sing, while he sit outside
mein cell mit a beer can. Ven I fall asleep he hit me mit
der can, und make me sing. Und ven it vas almost day
a bulltog koom indo der logub, und der boliceman called
it Joe. He says, ‘Joe, go in der und bite dot blanky
Boer.’ No, I vas nod drunk. Und der bulltog Joe koom
indo mein cell und bite mein leg. Ven de boliceman let
me go I dravel und dravel to Sydney. Und ven I try to
Bing at der concert I did get Joe der bulltog on rnein
mind, und ven I koom to der top nod I shbleet right up.
Und dey hiss und hiss until Igo off der stage. Now der
managers vill not engage Fritz because dey say he haf a
cow in his top nod.”— Alba D.
Melb. theatres and dates of opening:—New Opera
House, last Saturday ; Princess’s, 1886 ; Alexandra, 1885 :
Bijou, 1876 ; Royal, 1872 ; Opera House, 1872 ; Haymarket,
1864 ; Cremorne Pantheon, 1860 ; Prince of Wales (oppo-
site Hospital), 1858 ; Olympic, 1855 ; Old Royal, 1855 :
Queen’s, 1845 ; Pavilion, 1842.
“Melb.”: Ella Russell’s voice is almost exactly like
Madame Boema’s, at St. Patrick’s. But Boema sings in
white hair and broad-brimmed gold specs.
A time-saving circus struck Gladstone (Queensland)
some little time back at 9 o’clock p.m. Got the tent up
by midnight, and opened balf-an-hour later to a packed
house; played till 4 a.m.—prices, 10s. and ss. Then off
again by 9.30 a.m.
Bernard Shaw’s latest, “ The Man of Destiny” (one-act),
represents Napoleon at his Republican General period.
An unblushing beauty beards him in a secluded corner
and dares him to extract important documents from the
bosom of her not-entirely-cut-away dress. The entranced
General looks up at his star. “ Don’t you know what the
English say ? ” she asks—“ that no man’s star is'complete
without a woman’s garter.” “Ah! ” he replies. “ What
would the English say if the French had said that?”
After a pause, Napoleon, referring to a recent hint as to
his wife’s faithlessness, remarks, “ Caesar’s wife is above
suspicion.” Whereupon the lady, drawing nearer, says,
“I wonder whether Caesar’s wife would be above suspicion
if she saw us here together?” “I wonder,” he replies,
gazing adoringly upon her as the curtain falls.
“S.S.”: Criticism of the literary side of the drama is
quite extinct in Australia, if it ever existed, and the critic
only enthuses when the crackling of a few hand-made
epigrams startles him into the conviction that he is in the
presence of literature. According to one or two notice
writers for the Melbourne dailies, Ibsen’s dialogue in
“ Lady Inger ” is “ turgid.” If there is any fault of which
Ibsen’s dialogue has not even a semblance it is turgidness.
Speeches are often long, but their literary quality is
brittle and keen. The story reads beautifully. If length
means turgidness, what of Shakespeare, whose historical
plays when presented to his own countrymen, are shame-
fully cut and bovvdlerised to meet a debauched dramatic
taste?
The names of Williamson’s Grand Opera people are
going to get Australia down and worry her. Signora
Lena di Benedetto, Signora Edwige Faccari, Signori Com-
mendatove Vincenzo Larizza, Fernando Cattadori, Ignazio
Bozzoli, Baldo Travaglini, Evandro Cannonieri, and Olinto
Lombardi. Australia has sampled basso Travaglini before,
but the others are new, and until the popular tongue has
had practice, the co. cannot expect to be anything more
than a mispronounced success.
Mark Twain’s daughter, Miss Clara L. Clemens, has
gone on the concert platform. She has been studying
under Mme. Blanche Marchesi, and, in an interview with
a representative of Leslie’s Weekly, she says that Mar-
chesi mfrre looked upon Amy Castles as by far her most
promising pupil up to the time when the wilful little
Bendigo girl sought a new teacher.
The Commonwealth Concert at Melbourne Exhibition
Building brought tears into the eyes of some of the press-
men present. The committee had thoughtlessly given
them a raised space under the gallery intersected by the
jookal entrance-way, and from one of these press boxes a
desperate reporter might have laid violent hands upon
the Duchess’s diamond crown as she passed to or from
the concert. The sparkling bauble was an awful tempta-
tion. It sat so lightly and invitingly on her bonnie brown
hair. With the aid of a pair of shears or a sharp knife it
might have been lifted from its moorings before the
Duchess could feel the loss.
George Musgrove told his testimonializers at Melbourne
Princess’s, the other night, that the success of his grand
opera season had changed all his plans for the future.
“ I have got a house in London, and I’m going home—to
sell it,” said Mussy. A few weeks ago he talked in a very
different tone about London. That was just after he had
received a cablegram stating that his latest production
at the Shaftesbury Theatre was a success—“ seats booked
for six months in advance,” and all that sort of thing.
G.M.’s new enthusiasm for dear old Australia must be
taken with several grains of salt.
The aid of an intelligent stage-manager was badly
wanted in connection with the public appearances of the
Duke at all Melb. ceremonials. Nobody had sense enough
to take His Highness’s lowness into consideration, and
consequently the plentiful lack of royal inches was made
shockingly apparent. The big, wide, but low chair pro-
vided for him at the opening function was a lamentable
mistake from a show point of view. The writer heard
Bland Holt groan aloud when the Heir sat in it, and was
practically swallowed up and lost. The chair was de-
signed to fit Big John from out of the west. It converted
the Dukelet into a manikin, and served to rob royalty of
much of that respect which it does not deserve. At the
children’s fete the same mistake was made, and the
coming King was planked into a chair that left his head
standing jukt over the balustrade, like that of a
marionette in a box, whilst his wife and other dignitaries
sat bust high above the bar. It is to be hoped for the
sake of “ those bonds ” Sydney personages will learn
from their Melb. experiences, that to stage royalty to
advantage the services of a theatrical expert are abso-
lutely necessary.
Theatrical managers should have a care when making
changes in the cast. The placing of Albert Norman, the
long-standing villain, as heroin “The World” at Melb.
Theatre Royal a few weeks back, led to one of the audi-
ence being agitated into a state of apoplectic indignation.
The spectator was an elderly man of the most pronounced
back-blocks type, and he hung over the railing of the
gallery in a condition of open-mouthed horror as the two
dllains laid their pKt in the opening scene. Then Nor-
arss. o ."' *> *~n
IP^sHSESisi
gp|?ips^la
scoundrel. I ain t mistaken !” he cried wildlv - “ that’s
to“a h d Piok # outer a thousand I sin set fire
Wm “ % Wq T2Jt nd her Hvinit Fknow
B?*,.
standin by the gel but you see it’s on’y some game he’s
him “Cwhim" v d ° W, ’ at . l did >’e’d
but as the acts passed without the duplicity of the hero
for'tL^n^hfth 3^0 / 611 -,, Wben the curtain camedown
Bourke st?cef- th !nH erpleX , ed .. Selector wended his way into
of St ree i'’ and as ,asfc seen standing in the middle
conversYoT' lln6 ’ trylnff fcosolve fc he mystery of Norman’s
CaYanafatTuriA b6ing & Wid ° W > is about to marr > r M-
d 3e n ivh, V Yontn d A Wa f d3 r the Y ilson Forbes co - Paying
Of avounSter wS raha and Broken Hill > has got hold
dram/ wf • t-f ho P romises to do something big in
solicitor 11 th 6 800 ° f a rather well-known N.S.W.
Y’°/ ley Carte and Sul,ivan an d Alice
Ireot tvl 8 a ld all have & one a'most together. D’O.O.
jA'iSd'Era:
twoToh,Xp'S ” nd "“ t r °“ a * ”° t '
_-Jl? o n ? 0a Rb/erbb roundly declares that Wilson Bar-
found fn " ndou , hte d y the best all-round acting co. to be
found in England, either capital or provinces.” If this is
thon’o-h r ff n /T he^ re near it, it ought to make Australians
r’ff - Co ‘. 18 J USt - the Bame aS When here >
J< r ffn ® B 1 Manning and Hodges, Wigney
Percival and Carter-Ed wards, are there as of old. The
to LilUh M‘Oarthy. aertrUde B ° SWOrth > who P la - vs 9U PP orfc
?■ A “ We ’ re a musical people, we Australians. By-
ana-oy we 11 have a music of our own ; and songs that will
TW m n hat The Wearin’ of the Green ’isto an Irishman,
inere Hbe no skirlin of bagpipes in our music. It will
De plaintive as a curlew’s wail, and beautiful as a magpie’s
even-song when it comes. That won’t be for a generation
ye ,t- Not till the sough of the wind through the
sheoaks, the ripples of whispering among the gum-leaves,
and the voiceless sounds of the Never-Never, have sunk
deeper into the national brain, and the taste for them
has become hereditary, will a musician be born to write
the true ‘ Song of Australia.’ ”
Dramatist Jones writes, in the Fortnightly, on the
discontent of London actors and actresses, who are re-
garded as successful. This is because of the gaps between
their engagements, the custom being to engage for a run
??V- / ,f-V£ for ® ! he y are extremely apt to be hard-up.
IC JL S n °,> difficult to supply names, though Jones does not
Mrs. Bernard-Beere, Miss Genevieve Ward, Miss Fanny
Brough, Hermann Vezin, Harry Nicholls and Brookfield.
Nellie Farren’s son, J. Farren Soutar, writes trifles for
the stage, like his father before him. Bob Soutar had
Duiit the books of many provincial pantomimes before he
married the 16-year-old Nellie Farren, whose three
children by her middle-aged husband were all born in her
Springtime of life. Hence the neatness of Nellie’s figure
in her early grand-motherage.
In a waxworks show at a N.S.W. country town the
figures were arranged on shelves around the hall, and
when the lights were turned down to show some cine-
matograph pictures, some wag lifted Deeming down and
placed him on a chair next that of a half-drunken navvy.
During the ensuing applause the figure canted over, and,
when the lights were turned up, was leaning affection-
ately on the navvy’s shoulder. The pick-and-shoveller
turned round with a savage : “ yer ! who the ’ell
are yer muggin ? ” But when he caught sight of the
labet— Deeming, Murderer,” around the figure’s neck,
he uttered a loud “ Hurroo ! ” and gaily proceeded to
bash the figure to utter ruin.
At a rehearsal in Glasgow, Scotland, of “ Savage South
Africa (the show which Frank Fillis, well known in
Australia, is running), one of the lions seized upon a gnu ;
j n , ebance all precedent, got much the worst of
Su ,» nd wou ld have been killed by the antelope had
not the latter been driven off with hot irons.
Coquelin elevates the Gravedigger into the star part,
acting to Bernhardt’s Hamlet, in America. Once we
saw a gravedigger with a wooden leg, in Brighton (Melb.)
cemetery. It blobbed out of the moist clay with a Ker-
Plunk, like Potter kissing Bellew.
r Ashcroft, the music-hall identity from wnom
Johnny Coleman did not crib the Scarecrow Dance, has
been taking a series of farewell benefits in Dublin, Liver-
pool, Glasgow, and Belfast. A notice of the ben. at Bel-
fast, where the veteran ran the Alhambra for more than
20 years, mentions that he was called upon to sing one
verse of his old “ trade-mark ” song—“ The Solid Man.”
The mistaken idea that Coleman took the Scarecrow ”
from Ashcroft had its origin in Johnny’s happening to
borrow a verse of “ The Solid Man ” aforesaid as an intro-
duction to his humorous dance.
Revue de Deux Mondes, in criticising new plays, seldom
mentions any of the actors.
The Paris Communards burnt Sarah Bernhardt’s birth-
register. Handv. She owns to 1844.
On flag-hoisting day a suburban Mayor treated his
municipality to a biograph entertainment. The lions of
the hour were those Fijian police in reserved front seats.
Soon the host noticed that all his male guests were hold-
ing their noses, while ladies passed round salts, or were
helped out with their faces hidden in their handkerchiefs.
Then a steady stream of citizens started to flow towards
his Worship, all bearing the same story. The hall was
warm, and the Fijians, who had apparently honored the
occasion by extra-special top-dressings of grease, seemed
to be stewing in their own juice, and exhaling blended
odors of fats, old and new. The human nosegays were
promptly transplanted, but the atmosphere kept their
memories greeen, and ever since then the scent of stale
suet awakes in many bosoms a passion of biograph
regrets.
“C.C.” : English mail day at the Sydney
Post Office presents an edifying sight, the office
practically stretches into Martin Place, while
fevered persons are endeavoring to lick and stick
on stamps in the middle of the street. There is a
feeling that if the authorities were to enlarge the
post office premises instead of giving the city a
stale bride-cake appearance with its ornamented
white arches and so forth, they would be doing a
good work. The Duke is here only for a short time,
and an arch or two less does not matter, but the
Sydney citizens will have to post letters for a long
while to come. Besides if the number of struggling
citizens stretches much further into space, they
may knock down one of the Duke’s arches, and
that would be a really serious matter.
Willy Pearson, M.L.C., whose estate of
| Kilmany Park, Sale, was chosen for the Jook’s
shooting party, is a very antithesis of his class.
A capitalist of the most aggravated description,
and one of the biggest landholders in Vic., he
lives very quietly, dodges all ostentation, and is
understood to be not over-thankful to Lieut.-Gov.
Madden for breaking in on his repose with an
Heir-Apparent. Pearson is extremely popular
in his own district; still, people long for the old
times when his father ran Commotion and other
monarehs of the turf. The present head .of the
family takes so little interest in sport that he has
abolished the old racing stable and he has so
little desire to kill anything that he didn’t go
out and help the overloaded York to hold up his
gun.
“Mr. A. Saunders, the well known jeweller
of George-street, opposite the Redfern Terminus,
is always to the front where novelty and originality
are in demand. I have had an opportunity of
seeing his latest design in pretty brooches. The
accompanying illustration gives a faint idea of
what he calls his ‘ Federal Brooch.’ In the
precious metal and choice enamel it is one of the
A Pretty anti Clleotitre Broody.
prettiest souvenirs of a great event I have seen
for some time. A scroll inscribed ‘One Land
One People,’ is surmounted by the Federal
shield ; depending from each end of the scroll is a
gold loop chain ; while underneath all is a heart.
What more appropriate gift could be made in the
form of a brooch during the coming festivities
than this ? The price of the brooch in silk-lined
casket is 22s. 6d. post free.”—“ Mab,” in Fkee-
man’s Journal.


Like a Decrepit and Infirm
Old Woman.”
A WONDERFUL RESUSCITATION.
The Case of Mrs. M. H. EDMONDS.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
“Will you kin illy oblige by giving me
some particulars regarding an extraordi-
nary statement which was lately made in
my presence ? ” The above question was
put by our reporter to Mrs. Margaret
Helen Edmonds, of 11 North-street,
Welli gton.
“ Well, said Mrs. Edmonds, “ there are
so many sensational rumours going about
now-a-days that do not concern me at all,
but if you will tell me upon what subject
you are seeking information I will gladly
accede to your request if it lies in my
power.”
* I desire to know the nature of the com-
plaint from which I hear you recently
suffered.”
“ Oh, yes ; but you will tire of standing
if I tell you in detail, so please take a seat.
My terrible sufferings started with an
attack of acute rheumatism, which first
showed itself by terrific pains in the knee
joints. Before this distinct and awful
agony appeared I felt sensations of chilliness
running through my body for a couple of
days, and I knew that something was going
wrong. I also perspired very freely, my
skin being very hot. On the second night
after the 'commencement of these symptoms
I was attacked with frightfully severe pains
in my back. My muscles became so stiff
and ached so much that I was afraid to
■tir, as whenever I moved I experienced the
greatest agony imaginable. Indeed, the
slightest movement increased the severity
of the tortures so greatly that I was
obliged to lie in a perfectly helpless con-
dition for hours. I was frightened to death
at the way my pulse was beating. € The
blood was fairly bounding through my
veins, and I had attained a very high tem-
perature. It was only with great diffi-
culty and at the expense of much suffering
that I sometimes managed to hobble about
the house like a decrepit and infirm old
woman. My hip joints were also affected
by the torture that was daily drawing the
life out of me. 1 felt feverish and thirsty,
and my tongue was quite white. The
rheumatism in time spread all over my
body. There was not a limb or a muscle
which escaped the clutches of my dreadful
disease. I got so helpless that I could not
stand on my feet, and when I tried to do
so my legs gave way beneath me. My
limbs were just as useless as though I were
paralysed.”
“ Of course, you we e under a doctor ? ”
“ Certainly I was ; but his treatment was
without avail. Every day and every week
I sank lower. My doctor at last recom-
mended my removal to the hospital, but I
strongly objected, as I have always looked
upon those institutions with detestation and
horror. Howe er a week or so later my
medical adviser told me that my system
was completely broken down and that if I
did no* them to take me to the
hospital J was sure to die. He gave me to
understand that I was near death’s door, and
that my only chance of pulling through was
to follow his advice. I became greatly
tlarmed, as I really felt more dead than
alive, and I consented to go the hospital,
where I remained fora month. I cannot
speak too highly of the kindness and at-
tention shown to me whilst in the institu-
tion. Nobody could be better treated in re-
gard to the painstaking efforts of the
doctors ; but still they did not succeed in
improving my pitiful condition. I became
impatient, and 1* ft the hospital against the
doctor’s will.”
“ It is a wonder you were able to leave
after so much suffering.”
“ You’re right. It took me all my time.
I was so weak that I frequently fainted
away without doing anything calculated to
produce exhaustion. I was unable to do
anything, yet I was always languid and
fatigued. My nerves were in a shocking
state. A knock at the door, or, in fact,
any unexpected sound, set me trembling
like a leaf, and when darkness came on I
was in a state of nervous terror till daylight
appeared. When I closed my eyes in the
hope of falling asleep I had ugly images
forming themselves before my imaginative
vision. Fearful thoughts of coming troubles
continually haunted me, and as I could
never get to sleep to escape my mental
tortu'es I was almost driven crazy.”
“ What kind of diet were you taking ?”
“ Only the very lightest of invalid’s foods,
and very little of that. You can scarcely
credit the awfnl pains I felt in my stomach
after taking food, and behind my shoulders
a feeling was ever present, resembling the
stabbing of a knife. My chest felt as if it
was loaded with lead, and the oppi essive
sensation was always accompanied with
great difficulty in breathing. Windy
spasms came °n very often, and besides
causing no end of violent pains in my
stomach my heart was set palpitating to
such an extent that I thought the rapid
beating would only cease when my heart
stopped for ever. My weight was reduced
to about one-half what it used to be before
my i lness. Headaches were everlastingly
tormenting me, making me despondent and
miserable to such a degree that 1 yearned
for death to release me from my every-day
afflictions. Every morning, on arising from
bed, I was attacked with fits of retching
and vomiting. The disease had obtained
such a hold upon me that I despaired of
ever getting better, and I sank to the most
dir ful depths of misery. When the
doctors failed to cure me I tried many
advertised remedies, but they made me
worse, if possible, than before taking
them.”
“ But you ultimately regained your
health ? ” „ , „ A T
“Of course I did, thank God ! But lam
sure I would never have got well had it not
been for Clements Tonic. A friend of mine
called to see me one day, little thinking t>>
find me so near my grave. After telling her
all about my long months of suffering she
told me she knew of a medicine which
would certainh cure me. I listened with
a feeling of indifference, as I thought there
waß not a medicine in the world which I had
not given a trial. I did not even trouble to
inquire what the medicine was called, so
my friend, apparently disappointed at my
evident callousness, volunteered the infor-
mation that the physic she had so much
confidence in was called Clements Tonic..
“ Yes, and did you give Clements Tonic a
trial ? ” .
“ I am overjoyed at having done so,
though it took a deal of persuasion, as 1
had given up all hope. I sent for one
bottle of Clements Tonic to start with, and
I derived so much benefit from it that I
purchased more. My appetite returned
after several doses, and I was soon able to
eat solid food with a relish. Ihe pains in
my stomach, back, and head quickly
vanished, and my food was no longer
vomited, but digested instead, and did me
good. My nerves were toned and stimu-
lated by C lements Tonic, which also brought
peaceful sleep. The rh umatic troubles
were daily decreased and finally removed
by Clements Tonic, my lost vigour and
strength meanwhile being restored. In
several weeks I was strong, active, and
happy, for which I am under a life-long
obligation to ClementsT< nic, and my health
has been splendid since. I would not be
without Clements Tonic in my house for
the world.” . . ~ „
“ May I have your statements printed .
“ Decidedly; publish these facts in any
way you deem fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Margaret HkIiRN Edmonds, of 11 North-street,
Wellington, in the colony of New Zealand,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexfed document,
consisting of three folios and consecutively
numbered from one to three, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish in any way my statements
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any pay-
ment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly
of New Zealand, intituled “The Justices Peace
Aot, 1882."
Ufaa^f
Declared at Wellington this 15th day of Novtm
her, one thousand nine hundred before me,
f. mcfarland. j p.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SIX E*JES \rOH=l*o«ted., B <3L.
Business Announcements.
good Tailoripg.
AUTUMN.
Hough Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGB, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
y.
Medical.
Hypnotism
m
Reader, why mot be able to nee the
mosthaysterious and powerful force of
nature? Bv my method you can learn
to H pnotize 111 a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
I that are po sible to the Hypnonist.
'1 hrough Hypnotism yon can cure disease
I c onquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I "ratify your ambitions, and produce
’ amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about It. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
l iypnotism, which f lly explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the" Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate 1
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all -who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in A postal card will bring it. <
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-,
notize. It is a chance of
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs. i
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. '
Prepared by Poinguestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick i
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all *
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists *
in the Australian Colonies. ,
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
i... _ _ _ 4
Sore Eyes! BlightS
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
QRUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DA F for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footstep* of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
- LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 42». 1*
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class c f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £?•
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Riding Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits, <kc.
We supply ready-made. Men's
capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 25*.
I Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits, 50s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19» lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19a. 6dT White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca S.-.cs,
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d.,55. Gd.
Travelling Trunks, Bays and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d..
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. |>d.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors
Hard Hats. 4-. Caps, Is,
M erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
White Shirts to measure,
gs. 9d.. 9s. gd.
We like to write letters ; so don’t be afraid t<
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement form
Write for them.
ask for any
I less “ a»ol
i posted frets
WOODHEADS^
ESC. CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &c.
No. 5, 355; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Ceiling), 26s each.
n
-
la/V'-aP*
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS. E2SS-* Brisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*/? fca* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
tl does not blachen the teeth."
SOI.D BY CHEMIBT9 AI.L THE WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous, persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).


Rev. J. Done, of All Saints 0.E.,
Parramatta, being requested by anti-ritualists to
stop his choir from wearing surplices, replied that
the choir would resign if not allowed to wear sur-
plices. Great is the attraction of millinery.
From king to choir-boy, the desire to flash in fan-
tastic attire is overmastering. Soratoh us, and
we are savag93 still.
Dear Bulletin,— l should like to call the
attention of N.S.W. Public Instruction Depart-
ment to lines 9 and 10, page 40, in the Fourth
Book used in the public schools. I have had a
class of boys and girls come to a dead stop at the
passage referred to. Might not matter so much
with city children, who are not supposed to be
acquainted with these things, but the bush
youngster knows all about them ; and, as teachers
are supposed to explain the lesson in detail, the
passage in question is very embarrassing to ex-
pound to a mixed class of 16 or 17 year-olds
Teacher.
Letter recently received by Sydney liquor-
firm :
Jerez de la Frontira,
_. „ 11th October, 1900.
Sir Messrs. , Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
In attention to the next festivity we beg to address you
the present wishing you a nice Christmas and happy new
year.
At the same time we profit of this oportunity to
acknowledge you that Mister who has been our
representative during seven years in wich time has
renewed the contract twice, having the same recently
vanquished for the thirth time, he has not renewed it
owed perhaps to the considerable augmentetion of his
family and the state of his health broken up with the
climate of that contry.
We invite you to favour us with one of your esteemed
orders, and in attention that having not a traveller our
expenses are not so high, we will ship you best quality
within the conditions of our current prices.
We remain, Dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Kn ,g ht Walter Besant urges that more
titles ought to be given to Literature. He wants
to see such names as Lord Diclrens, Viscount
ac foray, Earl Caine, and Baroness Corelli.
he th “e hi^
st °P’wlSlo the woman!is
Ditv " g bnt d T g Dg Bt ? ara U P- •••It is a great
S'nS 1 - " PP «° S ! the is Nature’s/ "-Gay
old Ouida,” m“ A Rainy June.”
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’
Circular-Pointed Pens.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES of PENS.”
hack pattern being made in four d grees
of flexibility and Points.
4sk your Sr, »e Vesper for en Assorted Sample Box of ei* hr" series.
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
is
is
Works* riomimoham. FWf!i ANn.
"JUlenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing: nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNQ INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys” Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “ Allenburys ” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
The “Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of ape.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
—in ——
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all req-iirlng a light and easily digested diet,
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Eetter Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
earne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS RBMHJ3Y FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs.
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.— Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and 1 immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Covvie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. MCDONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
e
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
9
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
•
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
9
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
•
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
0
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
0
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tri' ’ your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brie; trial.—JOHN c!
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
0
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
0
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOR
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD ia aold in Tina by Ohamiata, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by ft
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
99
“A.F.A.
ELECTRIC
STORAGE
BATTERIES
For LIGHTING, POWER & TRACTION.
Batteries haying a discharge capacity of oyer
4000 HORSEPOWER
Are at present in operation, under
construction, and on order for the
SYDNEY ELECTRIC TRAMWAYS.
Batteries installed and maintained in
Private Houses, Hotels, Factories, Mines,
Launches, etc.
NOYES BROS.
13 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
t>A.P ,nr 'o (L.a.lse
(U M IT HD).
Xllawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
Off
fine silver.
r ~ ■ —
.
. s : .*| * X
'
M
*■- "
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. j or Mahtin Place, SYDNEY.
The Station-Master’s Lie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The station-master at Wurraurra looked at the
clock. “ Well,” he said, with reference to the
train I wanted, “she’s doo now, but she’s stopped
t’ pick up some stock at Reading. Maybe she’ll
be an hour or so late.”
Wurraurra is on the branch to Muekilla, the
line constructed by a thoughtful Minister of Rail-
ways for the benefit of a friend, who otherwise
would have had to drive 40 miles to a station. The
friend has long since given up stock-rearing in
favor of stock-broking in Sydney, and left Muc-
killa to the rabbits, gorse, and briars. Neverthe-
less, the Government continues to run a train
eaoh way once a day. Sometimes there are two
or three passengers; occasionally a truck or so of
goods ; more often neither. In any case, the train
is sent, and when there is a dearth of legitimate
traffic it is opportunely found that empty trucks
require removing.
“Pretty quiet time of it here,” I remarked.
“Yes, in a way,” the station-master agreed.
“’Tisn’t often there’s much doing. Last week a
bullock broke loose.”
“ Any damage ? ”
“No, not to speak of. But he kept the train
two hours, and she missed the connection.”
“ That’s bad,” I suggested.
“Oh ! it don’t matter in the ordinary way,” he
said, reassuringly, “but there happened to be a
passenger that day, and he wrote to the mana-
ger, and then I heard of it. As if I could help it.
They only allow an hour and a half’s margin, and
anybody’s liable to accidents.”
I expressed a hope that none would happen that
day.
‘ ‘ Goodness knows ! ” went on the official, with
cheerful fatalism. “ Our old injin goes off mor’n
she orter, and her driver’s rather peculiar. Any-
way, she won’t be here yet. S’pose you comes
across to the pub ter wait ? ”
The suggestion seemed good. It was not until
I acted upon it that I discovered the dual person-
ality of the landlord and the station-master.
“We’ll have a drop outer my bottle,” he re-
marked, as though conferring a priceless favor.
There is a belief prevalent that a landlord imbues
some otherwise unattainable virtue into whisky
by extending his particular proprietorship over it.
“ That’s whisky, now,” he said, enthusiastically,
scoffing his four-finger measure neat. “Different
from the common stuff, eh ? ”
As a man with a love of the truth amounting to
a positive hobby, I ought to have contradicted
the statement that it was whisky. As it was, I
merely gasped and reached for the water.
“Couldn’t sell that to anybody,” he continued.
I agreed. It seemed to me lie would find diffi-
culty in giving it away.
“As I was saying,” the publican-cum-railway-
official went on, “ the driver of our injin on this
line is a bit peculiar. He’s come down, has Sam.
Once he was driver of the main line express, was
steady, and didn’t lose more time ’n most. I can’t
say it’s any fault of his own either.”
“ How did it happen ? ”
“ Well, I believe I know the rights of the yarn.
Sam, you must understand, has the most wunner-
ful eyesight on earth. Try a drop more, sir ? ”
“ Er—l think I’ll have beer.”
“The most wunnerful eyesight ” —he paused be-
cause of a recalcitrant beer-cork.
“Surely that’s a good thing for an engine-
driver,” 1 remarked.
“Yes, you’d think so. However, Sam’s had a
pretty rough time with that sight of his. Once,
before he joined the railway, he got put in a ’sylum
all ’cause of it. Being able to see all sorts of
things ordinary people couldn’t, they wouldn’t
believe him, which is only natural. Of
course he couldn’t see no further through a pine
plank than anybody else ; but it must have been
a bit awkward for the poor chap seeing all his
tucker and everything through a microscope, as it
were. If you’ve ever seen a drop of water through
a microscope, you can pretty well tell what sort
of time poor Sam had. He wouldn’t go through
a street where there was a store for any money, for
fear there’d be cheese in the window. If he just
set eyes on a piece of cheese he’d be off his feed
for days. He couldn’t even drink beer; it was
like a full-sized aquarium to him. In fact, the
poor chap’s life was a fair burden to him, and al-
though he wore smoked glasses, which nobody else
could see through, it ended in his being put away.
He happened to be a witness in a case in
Melbourne, and he said he had seen the defendant
kissing the girl when he was some miles away.
The old Judge naturally suggested Sam was per-
juring for all he was worth, and that riled Sam, so
he up and told the court he could see the Judge
had a glass eye and seven false teeth. I believe
there was a fair rumpus. Anyway, Sam got
packed-away.”
“How long ago was that?” I asked, the land-
lord having stopped to gaze reflectively at the
flies.
“ Oh, about fifteen year or so. Sam’s getting an
old man now, and he was in the asylum about
seven years. When he came out, they wanted
irijin-drivers, and Sam reckoned he could drive,
and got on. Everything went well for a long
time, and Sam even scored heavily by saving a
smash. It was along the straight run between
Pannoowarrack and Murgulop, and Sam saw a
gum had blown across the track. He was putting
her along at sixty to the hour, and no ordinary
man could have seen that tree in time to pull up.
But Sam did, and they made a big fuss of him, and
put him on to the Government specials.
‘ ‘jHe’s told me since that at this ti me he got used
to eating menageries and drinking aquariums. I
had a week once seeing things crawling about,
and it makes me very sympathetic with Sam.
But, as I was saying, I believe he’d got quite
used to it and was even proud of his extraordinary
sight. Anyway, he’d got on with a girl who lived
on a farm only about a mile from the track, and
anything she wanted to tell Sam she’d write in
chalk on the side of the barn, and Sam’d read it
as he passed.
“You’d think that was harmless enough, but
it brought about Sam’s ruin. Mary Ellen, that
being the girl’s name, got so fond of the game
she’d cover the barn with loving messages, and
Sam had to slow-up in order to give himself time
to read ’em. That made him lose time, which got
him into trouble.
“By-and-by he and Mary Ellen quarrelled.
She turned-out to be a vindictive hussy, and
started in to annoy Sam all she knew by writing
nasty things on the barn. It was hard on Sam to
see insults where he had been accustomed to read
tender yearnings, and it naturally upset him.
Then Mary Ellen froze on to another feller, and
this feller took on the job of annoying Sam. He
must have been good at it. One day Sam read
something particularly riling—the barn had a sort
of fascination for him so that he couldn’t resist
looking.
“‘Bill,’ he remarked to his fireman, ‘I can’t
stand this much longer.’
“ Next day came the climax. Mary Ellen and
her feller waited until the train came in sight.
Then the feller took a big piece of chalk and
wrote ‘ Married To-morrow.’
“‘That settles it,’ said Sam. ‘Brakes, Bill.’
And he shuts-off steam, stops the train, gets
down, and with the coal-hammer on his shoulder
makes for the barn. Of course there was a big
row among the passengers. The guard swore at
the fireman, but he refused to go on without Sam,
and they had to wait until he had smashed the
barn into smithereens and chased the other feller
round the house with the coal-hammer. Presently
he came back and took the train into Buroo.
“He was sacked, of course, because, although
it’s hard to see the girl you’ve come to regard as
vour freehold, jumped before your eyes, he orter
have finished his train, anyway. A month or so
later he was taken on again for this line, because
iniin-drivers were scarcer’n gold then, and here
’ : i been ever since.
No, sir, his eyes seem failing him now. There
was some talk of running him for the Senate, in
the hope he’d be able to see what really would be
best for the country ; but I expect he’ll stay here
until he has a smash-up. He’s what you might
call a broken man. Well, we’ll get across. She’ll
be coming along now soon.”
One cattle-truck, one empty bogie, and a passen-
ger-carriage made up the train.
“Sam,” said the station-master, “here’s a gent
wants to catch the mail. You’d better push her
along.”
“ If I could see anything at the other end,” re-
marked Sam, cautiously, wiping his mouth with a
dab of waste.
I nodded.
“P’raps we might do it,” he conceded.
T. H. BRYANT.
Words About Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Woman is naan’s greatest earthly blessing and the
cause of most of his misery. She is his chief in-
spiration to the achievement of all that is good,
grand, and glorious in this world, and at the same
time a labor-saving device to help him make a fool
of himself. She soothes his tired nerves with the
coo of her gentle voice, but she always has the last
word in every controversy with him—and, inci-
dentally, about 97 per cent, of the preceding con-
versation.
Most of man’s trouble is caused by woman, but
so deftly does she pile the load on him that when-
ever his burden of trouble is lifted he wanders
uneasily about looking for more—otherwise there
would be very few second wives. She will cheer-
fully go to the stake for the truth’s sake, and lie
about her age without even being asked. She
will grow weary of an indulgent husband, but will
cleave unto death to the man who beats her re-
gularly. She will break her heart because a man
does what she doesn’t want him to do, and love
him all the better for so doing.
She scorns all advice in the selection of a hus-
band, but takes two other women to help her to
select a hat. The less actual comfort to be ob-
tained from a thing, the more enjoyment a woman
gets out of its possession.
At 16 she is a young woman; at 25, if still un-
married, she is a girl. She will face the grim
spectre Death without a tremor, and swoon at the
sight of a mouse.
The only time she ever does what you expect
her to do is when you expect her to do just what
you don’t expect her to do. The sole reason why
she does anything is simply because she doesn’t
know why she does it.
She jumps at conclusions, and always lands on
them squarely, for the simple reason that, when
the conclusion slips to one side, thinking to avoid
her, it gets exactly in her way. She is the dearest
thing in all the world, and the most aggravating.
She is as she is, and that’s all there is to do about
it. The only man who ever fully understands a
woman is the man who understands that he
doesn’t understand her, and has sense enough to
let it go at that.
E. D.
“Scotty W. Me Albert Dorrington’
excellent brewery story, I wish to do the brewers
... T r , j t i , i ,
justice. I come of their olass, and I know that
at perhaps the best brewery in Scotland, one
season after heavv rains and a ohano-o of snrmlv
season, alter neavy rams ana a cnange ot supply
pipes, the beer turned bad and of a bright green
color, and was returned from all sides. A scientific
.’. , , ,
mvestigation proved that the water passed through
the cemetery. Gemeteries are numerous in the
~ , . ~ ■ i , .
old country, and it IS very hard to avoid them
while looking for a water supply.
Anglo-Indian to The Bulletin :
r> ~ -.r- .. ■ • . , ~ . T j-
Re the Victorian perjury-cases against natives of India
There is a general agreement among the most experienced
Indian officials-such men as Gen. Sleeman, who had more
actual experience of Indian crime than any man before
or since his time-that the natives of India are, on the
whole, just as truthful as other men Henry Lawrence,
Bartle Frere, and Bichard Temple say the same.
Macaulay, whom you quote, is-apart from his notorious
general recklessness of statement-not a reliable autho-
rity on the subject. His Indian experience as Legal Mem-
her of Council did not bring him much into contact with
natives, and he never had a colloquial knowledge
4. an ?u na^, lve l an £ ua & e * I have reason to know
that the trouble arose from bad interpreting A
really efficient interpreter should know at least
half-a-dozen languages, quite as distinct from each other
as French, Italian, and Spanish. The usual interpreter
rarely knows anything but Urdu, which is no one s ver-
nacular, but only a sort of composite camp-language.
A witness, giving evidence through an interpreter in a
language which neither thoroughly understands, may.
with every desire to tell the truth, seem to tell a tissue of
amazing falsehoods, simply because he and the interpreter
are at cross-purposes, and don’t know it. Even the care-
fully trained polyglot European magistrate often finds it
hard to know what is meant by witnesses speaking
local dialects. It is not necessary to call these men
habitual liars to show that they should not and cannot
mix with white men. The colored-labor question lies in
a nutshell, the kernel of which is the mutual repulsion
between white and not-white. The colored man may be
the most estimable person alive, but he and the white are
official hierarchy of white men which rules the country is
hated by the native masses with an intensity of which few
out of India have an adequate idea.
,nan who advertised in Scotland for a
3b ® e P" d °£ tb^ 3 answer
Gairloch, Ross-shire, Scotland. Honourable Sir,—l
seed in Friday last Inverness Courier a advertisement for
pure-breed sheps Dog, I vrite your honour to telt you,
that 1 ve f xselent one Bred of Pare Blod, 7 monthus of
a g 6 e . Him have bone and rib, more stronger than any i
ever yet did seed ; and He as wise as womans or man,
B Y haf a words of commands he will go of 1000 yards, and
take any number of sheps to my hell ; and him under-
stood anythings I say to him by sins, like Dumy. Him
c °ler Black on the Backe to near end of taile. Him then
whit; Him hind legs at pint whit, one of four fets whit,
other Black ; Him whit under Bely and sume of the same
under muzzlee ; Bit of him’s nose whit like half Moon.
Him coreus color, huts god dog never have bad color ;
him ears black, stand up when he is sound, like ears of
Fox. One of ears have white spotee near head size of
Him white broun see as (ar as Hake or
ft ag j e ’ ; and h f m skin as fine a ’ backe of Lad hands . Him
wa | bread H and did K him from Mothers womb,
and him ( le ’ nt mot hers milk when whelpe. Him
name be fe s f rat /called after the Heringes, be-
cause him b ” ao mad in love of them £ 0 eatee
we smasbed Tatoes; him no shentle will eat onv-
thi plent d shepherds say him is god enough for
Prin “ e Halbert, as him as pure bred as most Gracious our
Queen at babnora i. Him ” rice fee 0 n hoard steamer for
London, in England, 37 shillings, paid through bank of
Caledonia at Dingwall, Rossshire, Scotland, North Brut-
fcon or through Mr. William MacKenzie, Gairlock, Rossis-
shire Scotland, North Brutton. Him will larne ony-
thingj he is B 0 wise, and from what I knowed of your
Honur, and of your friends, i would rather you have it in
your possession than anv other Shentleman alive ; as i as
{ond him ag of my Childers or Wife ; Dog will be time
before he get over the Galick, his Mother and Father’s
tonße> and i arne the Englishers lanage ; but as him act
Dummy, i tell you the sins, and you yourself can put lanoge
c lenK He son he sooled then, and perfect for work mong
s heps—expect answer from your Honur, addressed to us
as above wherl you have t he time. As hims teathes
sharp striug wil j be to wake to put him of we so must
provide chains and colar of lether, so that come to 2
shillings more. Total of hole 39 shilling—with 1 shilling
i uc k-penny for god wish to Dog—so Total 38 shillings.—l
am> yOU r sarvant, Matthew Mackenzie. D. G. F. Mac-
donald Esq Sydenham, England.”


GRAMOPHONES.
Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 15s, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
CATALOGUES
FEEL WITH OF OTJIE& HEAEEST
AGEHT.
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. No
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers, come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramophone
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
m
||o [imit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
very highest talent, and what costs us
originally £2O to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
GRAMOPHONES can be seen,
heard, and purchased at all Music
Shops, Fancy Dealers, Stores,
Ac., all over tne Colonies.
Manufactured
and
Guaranteed
by the
“ HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd., Maid?o Lao?, Straod, Loodoo, W.C.
Wholesale Pcpot for Australasia: 163 PITT STREET, SYPNEY.
Coasting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The first-salooners pause to hear
The rolling cranks a-thudding,
And ask the watching engineer
How fast the old tub’s scudding.
They argue on the latest makes
Of cranks and valves and boilers—
How long a watch a stoker takes,
And how we pay our oilers.
But up aloft there is a chap
(Above their notice plainly)
With braid and flags upon his cap,
Who steers his ship profanely.
A steamer loves to roll and swing,
A-slewing round and veering—
But she is not a living thing,
And takes a lot of steering.
And Fm up here to see it done
{Port —port a bit and meet her !)
Oh, mate, a-coasting isn’t fun ;
The deep-sea work is sweeter.
We travel up, we travel down,
With dirty decks and funnel brown ;
Six ports from here to Auckland town
(Oh, stabbo’d hard and beat her !)
The look-out on the fo’c’s’le-head,
Whose form the sea-lights soften,
Has had a decent spell in bed
And gets it very often.
His chanting cry, “ Eight bells ; all’s well !
Lights burning clear and brightly ! ”
Cheers travelers more than tongue can tell,
And does so wrong or rightly.
But as we thump and lift the spray
I’ll tell you true and clearly
That I have been on deck all day—
Three spells for tucker merely.
So, if you feel secure, sleep on ;
And if you don’t I’m sorry :
By morning we may all be gone
To work a deep-sea quarry.
But I am here to pull you through
And find the reefs by bumping ;
So, if I shake, you blame the screw —
The darned thing’s ahvays jumping.
The granite cliffs are hard, I trow,
And slimy sivirls the kelp below :
Oh, none will miss us if we go
With broken bows a-slumping /
The tally-clerk will soon be quite
The veriest of fables ;
He’ll come and haunt us in the night,
A-rapping on the tables.
The bales swing high ; the winches scream—
From dawn to dawn they’re toiling ;
I’d rather sweat and make the steam,
Or risk my neck-bone oiling,
Than tally on the wharf all day—
(She only pays one purser)—
It’s “Cram her full to make her pay !
And starve her bridge-hands—curse her ! ”
But gold-rimmed cap and buttons mar
The deepness of my sorrow.
(God only knows just where we are—
I’ll work it out to-morrow.)
The deep-sea skipper is a king
(A half a point more easting !)
Who sleeps the sleep good dinners bring —
Oh ! slumber after feasting.
The deep-sea mate has lots of room
In which to swing and roll and boom :
The coast it is the sailor’s tomb
With white wave-plumes a-yeasting.
The coaster’s mate becomes a wreck ;
For, if you ever lose him,
You’ll always find him up on deck
With something to amuse him.
It’s winches and the freight by day;
And in the night the star-light
Seems sweeter to him than the play
Of tongues around the bar-light.
But some dark night his brain will go,
And you’ll go too, careering
Through fog and shoal, and never know
You’ve got a madman steering !
You’re snoring snugly all a-bed ;
He’ll get a snooze on Sunday ;
So—what’s her speed ? and how’s her head ?
And let’s see—this is Monday.
The man-o’-war she takes no freight ;
I guess I’ll join the Navy ,
And have a red marine to wait
Upon me like a slavey.
A draught of wine I’d like to take,
And go to sleep and never wake
Until the hand of Jones I shake —
His Christian name is Davy.
The song the engines roar is clear
And seems to tell of battle,
With horse to horse, and spear to spear,
And harness-greaves a-rattle.
And all night long they’ll slam away,
A-drip with oil and sooty—
Yet they had rest in port to-day,
And I was here—on duty.
So, if you feel secure, all’s well;
If not, I’m full of sorrow ;
The channel’s deep from here to Hell—
We might be there to-morrow.
Yet while she’s coaled by sweaty gnomes,
I’ll do my best to beckon
The hand of Death from landsmen’s homes,
And from my own, I reckon.
For I’m up here to get you there
(Port —port a bit, and meet her !)
And if my singing makes you swear,
The angels sing much sweeter.
Our hooker’s hanging southward slow,
The way the coasters mostly go,
And I keep laughing ’cos I know
Some day the shoals will beat her.
M.L.
QUILP N.
Fair Exchange.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It certainly was a “rummy little cave,” as the
fair occupant soliloquised, with its French-win-
dowlike opening seawards, and ragged skylight
above, through which the soft light spread over
herself, her canvas, and the dry white sand on
which she sat. And it was a pretty scene that
filled the rocky window-frame. With clever
touches the fair artist worked at its trans-
ference. A short slope of sand, a few rocks
jutting seaward, the rollers in ceaseless, unchang-
ing procession, the nearest partly broken already
into dancing foam, partly stretched—carved, as it
were, in translucent greenstone —curved to its
fall. One, two, three, four, five, six of its swelling
brothers lay waiting their turn, and beyond
stretched the troubled surface of the Rip, away to
Point Nepean.
Away to seaward the four o’clock sun picked
out, here the sails of a brig or barque, and there the
low, black hull and smokestack of a coasting
steamer.
All unconscious of the stranger in “ the studio,”
I came to the beach myself. Long ago I had dis-
covered the little recess, but “no caves for me,”
quoth I; “give me Australia’s God, the sun.” So,
stripping on the sand, presently I stood on one of
the wave-washed rocks, arms outstretched, back
hollowed, and every muscle ready for the spring
that would carry me head-foremost into deep
water. Now I swam, now dived, and ever and
anon revelling in the feel of summer air and sun
on my moist skin, mounted the rocky ledge and
posed, looking seaward, ready for a plunge.
Day after day and twice a day for nearly four
long lazy weeks had I gone through the same
performance, and as I loitered homeward I
thought regretfully that three days more would
see my last swim in the pleasant waters off Point
Lonsdale for fully 12 months.
As I ran up the beach for the last time on the
last day I half thought I saw something in “ the
studio.” Just a quick glance I gave, no more;
but in three minutes I was dressed and wriggling
my serpentine way nearer and nearer to the sky-
light.
Before I was quite close enough to see, I heard :
“Ye gods, but he is a man ! and didn’t he make
just a splendid central figure.” One more wriggle,
and I saw and understood. But I had no eyes
for the dripping diver on the canvas. Just one
thought filled my brain, flying backwards and for-
wards through it like a shuttle:
Whose hair has the rich red gold of the sun
When his kisses fall where the leaf lips are.
I’d been waiting for that girl since I read about
her, and here she was at last.
“Now he’s gone, I’ll have a swim.”
I woke to realities and wriggled back again. I
don’t think sharpshooter ever found perfect cover
so quickly as I did.
Many and many a time have I looked on woman
as God made her, but the sight of this careless,
free, fair-skinned ruddy-haired Aphrodite made
me catch my breath.
Of course I tracked her home, and of course I
solaced myself with to-morrow; and equally, of
course, to-morrow brought disappointment. She
did not come to the cave. She must have done
what I should have done that day—gone home.
I inquired at the house for “ the young lady who
was staying there.” If there was none, and never
had been, then I would know she lived there. If
she answered my knock, I would innocently ask
for the residence of some imaginary Smith or
Jones. If she was still there and at home — God
knows what I was going to say or do. I didn’t.
“She only came for a week, sir, and she lives in
Sydney.”
In Sydney—like a good Melbournian, I cursed
Sydney.
Light out of darkness ! I remembered the
Sydney Artists’ Exhibition. Surely she would
exhibit, and as surely would come to listen to the
criticism of the unconscious public.
Luck held, for within three days I entered the
hall to see Aphrodite talking to, or, rather, being
talked-to by, the only man I knew in all Sydney.
Then I knew that the stars in their courses were
fighting for me.
• • • •
I made the pace fast from the start, and in
three weeks my girl-wife and I were Southward
bound. You see, as I told her, I would gladly
have lost my growing practice to gain her, but she
and the praetioe, too, were far and away the best.
So I said that we must be satisfied with a week’s
spell, pointing out that we had already drawn
three weeks of the regulation month.
“Where were we going?” “Oh, I wasn’t
sure ; would Queenscliff do ? ” I thought I un-
derstood her expression, and flattered myself that
my own face was as brass.
She was my kindred spirit. This I had soon
decided. She could return me kiss for kiss, and
more also. I was satisfied. On the third day we
walked towards the point, and there I remarked
casually : “/ bought your picture.”
“ Did you ?” —she smiled ; “I thought so.”
I stole a look at her face.
“ I knew you were there, darling, hidden above
the cave.”
“ The devil!'" . . . And why did you go in
for a swim ?”• She blushed at last. “ I thought a
fair exchange was no robbery.”
ENIX.
Dear Mr. Editor.—
It’s not quite true. I knew he had been above the
cave, but only because he talked in his sleep.
Yours truly, Aphrodite.
Remarkable letter recently received from
a N.S.W. town in Sunday Brunker’s electorate :
Editor Bulletin. —When in Westralia between 1890 and
1900 I often told people that I was a contributor to your
paper, which I now admit to be a lie, and apologise for
same. On another occasion I told men with whom I was
drinking that I was Price Warung, and that you had
sent me to Westralia to find out all about the convicts,
which was a lie, and I now apologise for same.
When in Mullewa in 1892 I told men with whom I was
drinking that I was going to Marble Bar to report on the
gold mines there for your paper, another lie for which I
apologise. And on other occasions I have told people
that I was a contributor to your paper, and that
you went to school with me in the old country, all of
which I now admit to be lies and prompted by my own
egotism. I offer you a humble apology for having
uttered the above lies. I am sorry for having cracked
that I was connected with your paper, and for the future
I intend to mind my ov.n business.—l remain, yours sin-
cerely, .
The Bulletin accepts the above apology with a
confused feeling in the top of its head, though it
hasn’t the least idea what the writer is apologising
for. Plenty of people went to school with the
editor and turned out quite respectable after-
wards.


Bad Blood; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
W!
“ While in West Australia one of us had what is known as ‘ Barcoo Sick-
ness,’ due to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla “Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are'not so strong as
you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S PILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
f Asthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared, by
W.T. OWBRIDSE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold iD bottles, at 2s.9d„ 45.6 d., & 11s.
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
OOPYBIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is li,d, and 2s 9d each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DJBIr’Y COMPETITIOKT.
WINES 37,6 ** my SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
.. -’V: .. . v*..,.. : ; -v - ' > - r > \ / ; • ' v
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tue Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
mnmb
1 ==■ ’M mm
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B*-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
&
o
*
S'
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
S3=mtasansra_. _
Bfasjssscssaxra
iSrs^.r.^^ST K
AGEOaOE"eONNINGTON
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PBRDRIA.U & OCX,
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free) 270 George Street, Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear
PUMPS* both Horizontal & Vertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
WORTHINGTON,
TRADE MARK-
:
plunger and ring pattern
AT THE
SHOW-KOOMS,
«pHS jfeBOT
J. & J. MAX FIELD, PrOPRS.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOOK, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
THE PEIDE OH GOGB-AG.
OTARD--BRANPy.
ESTABLISHED 1795.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
GO C O A
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ALL WHO DESIRE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USINB
&
&
7>
V*
0
V
riey
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d , V- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Grimwade & Co.j
Melbourne ;
Sydney.
Elliott Bros.,
ERASMIC
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating: and refreshing influence.
&
COMPANY LIMITED
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MININC MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IN STOCK
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagle
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular
Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Pans, Morris Dredging Pumps
Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Eeeders, Huntington Quartz Mills, Wood and
Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and Mill Supplies.
San Francisco and London 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
mu
-
- ■?
Mi®
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bounce st,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
so. % A f e„t, J A FAY & CO.’S Woodworking: Machinery.
Largest Stock of It'oodu'ov/cing Machines in Australasia.
iw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning- Machines
Machines
Planing- and Moulding- Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
Supplies and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and Ail Other Woodworking Machinery.
.1,..
miiwm*
?■• : •
