

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WA.TKIIVS «Sfc CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
—FOR—
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXP I OSIVES, BIILDEKS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
*
(SH3Q
RUST JN’S Compound Dredge Engine
S 3
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
w i M !•( d.K’s GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station anrl Cable Trams. I.aiyest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tot
Boarders, as- per Day, or 2 Guineas *,er Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge 5 lush e s &c
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese SteeILISTINGS
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN S STEEL.CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
A POLICY FOE THE“COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
;'v-v Price sx2SS:jE»JESaxrC3JEu , ==; : .
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
dsf
BTOTIA'RT
x-m
adieu’s Orient fioiei
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, is. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring,' 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-eased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
a/&,
CO
X
AM US KM EXT for OLD and XOUN G,
W. •• -ful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker's I<ove Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a Look bound and can be carried invest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Kiondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket arid blown out to life-size, tri the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack- of Cards (can fie changed as you please,
Instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
ƒď
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LODOWiSI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, B'arrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. li. Fysh and
00., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter*Go., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair gtrls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
the ABBOTT FILTER
GIVES Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
. i
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
fdf
ƒd
ď
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TH3H OS-S-A-T T-A-SM-A-ITI-A-IT . • •
CASCADE ALE
IS HIEZR-lE] TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua s BOOMERANG BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendoii-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected-PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
"i"
o
m
12
LDWJ
O 3
RN
SUHBU
FING
f’-l
t/3
HA
d?
DS
&&C
s
H
Y
p *o
pR >ETO
RS
Now Ready ,
By ALBERT DORRXNGTON
Castro’s Last Sacramenl
4s. Gd. post free.
The Bulletin
Vol. 22—No. 1091. J
[Saturday, January 12, 1901.
Parstrracl at tha Cranara! Post Offica, for TransTn’ss ; on hv P n * f ns a T^w^nar.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories .-
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. * * The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. 11. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six :
lales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
direct from The Bulletin Offioe by
return mail m exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, I)l.\lop & Co., Limited,. Sydney and Brisbane.
JJOW gtEADY-^^>
POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Being a reprint or a large number
of articles from “The Bulletin,” in
which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and demo-
cratic policy for Federated Aus-
tralia.
Price 6d.
Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
'or the
:ROAT, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds I
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGE R S
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous driif/ . . . ■
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—,,™,
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ’ P ’ Queensland—post
THE RED PAGE.
Lawson’s Last Book—A Temporary
Adjustment .
THERE was published last month for Henry
Lawson a second collection of verses, en-
titled “Verses Popular and Humorous. 5 ’
Though dated four years later than “ In
the Days When the World was Wide,” it repre-
sents equally with that volume his thirteen years
of literary effort, —being indeed a second
ohoice or second vintage of verses late and
early, for the most part republished from
The Bulletin and other journals. Naturally
the second vintage is inferior to the first ;
and indeed Lawson’s wine here seems running
perilously near its lees. The appeal in the new
volume is less that of a poet, however rough, than
of a racy rhymester, vigorous in vernacular. Many
of the pieces included, though probably earning
their place in ephemeral newspaper columns,
have no claim to be set on permanent record ; and
the perpetuation of inferior work reacts upon
Lawson’s deservedly high reputation.
That reputation, in Australia generally, is per-
haps a little higher than Lawson’s deserts; but he
was so long underrated that the public which
pays a surplus gives only an equivalent. The
growth and decay of Australian literarv reputa-
tion are always interesting. At first an author is
known only to the few who can appreciate him as
highly as his work deserves. Gradually his merit
and their advocacy make a wider way for him,
and more and more adherents are gathered to the
standard. When he is reviewed patronisingly by
an English magazine, the body of Respectable
readers begin to think his work should be read and
praised. Possibly Govt. House sets the seal on his
fame. But all this takes time; and before the
process is ended the writer’s work may
have degenerated, he may have exhausted his
mind’s alluvial and found no reefs beneath. Then
the small body of critics, who watch and value
each piece of work as it is put forward, come to a
halt and look backward. But with" the momen-
tum of advertisement the writer’s reputation may
still be increasing, and it is given to few
to know how far it is ' solid and how far
a hollow shell. Then, in Australia, the mass
of intelligent readers awake to the fact that the
author has ceased to interest them ; and his stock
suddenly falls. In more conservative England
people go on buying and reading inferior work
because it bears the name of an author who has
once written good work. That attitude of ad-
miring the Present for the sake of the Past is
luckily rare in this country. Here, while admir-
ing the we insist that the Present shall jus-
tify itself. So a local writer is compelled to pro-
duce good work as long as is possible to him, by
the knowledge that bad work will gain no credence.
Henry Lawson is still valued, on the merit of
his earlier work, as the most characteristic writer
whom-Australia has produced, and the memory
of Ins good things is imperishable. Perhaps he
cannot yet be said to have commenced his literary
descent. But for the last three years his real
fame has remained at a standstill. With few
exceptions, the best of his verses and sketches
were written in the ten years from 1887 to 1897, and
since then he has barely maintained his standard.
Since then, indeed, many of his compositions
show a decided loss of force, a loss of value. He
seems to have used all his vivid objective impres-
sions without replacing them by subjective ideas
of equal literary significance. And the work
which he has printed in The Argosy and else-
where, since he journeyed to London, is barely
second-rate journal-work, destitute of life or
power. One naturally hopes that he will recover
and improve. In the meantime, we have his
already splendid Australian books to re-read and
treasure.
“Verses Popular and Humorous ” takes its own
place among those books. It is good Lawson,
with all his defects and most of his fine qualities.
It is weak on the democratic side, the revolu-
tionary side, the side of rebellious verses like
“The Army of the Rear” (not yet reprinted);
but that side is not Respectable, and might
offend purchasers. Of strong bush pictures,
of strong human emotion, there is no lack. Law-
son’s vein of grim humour and grimmer satire is
mined again ; there is his old touch of selection
romance; there are some early verses after Ken-
dall, and some later ones after Kipling, Paterson,
and Ogilvie ; there is Lawson’s familiar personal
complaint; and there are his city sketches of
larrikin life, as biting and graphic as any-
thing he has written. But the poetic level
of “The Vagabond,” for example, in the
first volume is nowhere reached; and in all his
other .phases but the larrikin phase the first volume
contains better work than that which he now puts
forward. The workmanship is still crude ; and i'
Lawson had submitted rhymes like “ broad ” anc
“board,” or “soon as” and “Rooneys”— or
anti-climaxes like “With God, or a dog, to watch
they slept ” —or worthless lines like—
And in the next room, with a cold in her head,
Our Mary was sewing on buttons—in bed.
to the “literary friends” he sneers at, he coulc
have been taught how to improve his work all
small cost. But Lawson apparently prefers to
“pose as a martyred god,’’despite two disclaimers
on pp. 106, 119 ; and the martyred rules of prosody
can only shriek desperately in his determined
clutch.
The sneer at the “ literary friend,” by-the-way
(excellently illustrated by Mahony) would seem
ungracious in anyone but Lawson. In Lawson it
seems merely in character. Yet nobody knows
better than Lawson how generously he has been
helped by the brains and time of men much less
talented, but in some ways more talented than
himself;—how the misspelt, ungrammatical, but
forcible copy of his early days was edited into some-
thing like decent form—form for which Lawson
took credit with the matter; —how many crudities
and deformities have been removed from his work
by friendly hints. The original value of the work
was always his own ; but the helpers who strove
to make that value more manifest, whose help
was often necessary to make it manifest, deserve
something better than a sneer for their pains.
These things are of little importance; they are
not the best side of Lawson; and it is the
best side that one wishes to dwell on and
remember. In the new volume, Lawson’s quick
eye, his sympathetic emotion, his sincerity, his
power, his forcible phrasing, are abundantly
manifest. Consider the strength and truth of
this picture of “ How the Land was Won.”
Starvation and toil on the tracks they went,
And death by the lonely way ;
The childbirth under the tilt or tent,
The childbirth under the dray,
The childbirth out in the desolate hut
With a half-wild gin for nurse—
That’s how the first were' born to bear
The brunt of the first man’s curse 1
They toiled and they fought through the shame of It—
Through wilderness, flood, and drought ;
They worked, in the struggles of early days,
Their sons’ salvation out.
The white girl-wife in the hut alone,
The men on the boundless run,
The miseries suffered, unvoiced, unknown—
And that’s how the land was won 1
No arm-chair rest for the old folk then—
But, ruined by blight and drought,
They blazed the tracks to the camps again
In the big scrubs further out.
The worn haft, wet with a father’s sweat,
Gripped hard by the eldest son,
The boy’s back formed to the hump of toil -
And that’s how the land was worn !
This is not high poetry; but the passion, the
gn p of it, make it valuable and in Australia
memorable. And Lawson at his best commands
a stronger pulse-beat than most of his compeers •
he may lack grace and elegance, but when he both
feels and writes the flood of his power sweeps
away cavils and demurrers. He is so very human
that ones humanity cannot but welcome him—as
when he writes “The Jolly Dead March
If I ever be worthy or famous—
Which I’m sadly beginning to doubt—
When the angel whose place ’tis to name us
Shall say to my spirit, “ Pass out 1 ”
I wish for no sniveling about me
(My work was the work of the land),
But I hope that my country will shout me
The price of a decent brass band.
Thump ! thump ! of the drum and Ta-ra-rit /
Thump ! thump ! and the music—it’s grand
If only in dreams, or the spirit,
To ride or march after the band I
And myself and my mourners go straying
And strolling and drifting along,
With a band in the front of us playing
The tune of an old battle-song I
I ask for no “ turn-out ” to bear me ;
I ask not for railings or slabs,
And spare me Imy country—oh, spare me
The hearse and the long string of cabs !
I ask not the baton or “ starts ” of
The bore with the musical ear,
But the music that’s blown from the hearts
The men who work hard and drink beer /
And so on with, the all-so-human doggerel whose
humanity and sincerity give it force that one often
vainly looks for m the verses of more correct bards
to a comma. Such rhymes
™ BI H and, Jim Fall Out,” “ The Green-Hand
Rouseabout, The God-Forgotten Election,”
Constable McCarty’s Investigation,” and three
or four more m the new book, are similarly delight-
ful for the truth, the humour, the humanity, and
the vital ring of them They only represent,
after all, the backblocks bard at his best; but the
back blocks bard at highest is a man worth know-
ing and esteeming.
The new book is largely an expression of Law-
son s personality ; and by reason of his literary
power Lawson’s personality is interesting. In
Ibe Men Who Come Behind ” he denounces the
imitators who “feel their way behind a bolder
spirit s back ”
There are many, far too many, in the world of prose and
rhyme,
Always looking for another’s “ footsteps on the sands of
time.”
Journalistic imitators are the meanest of mankind,
And the grandest themes are hackneyed by the pens that
come behind.
Lawson is quite unconscious that he himself, since
inspiration began to wane, is occasion-
ally in trie ranks of the men who come behind. Yet
his“At the Tug of War ’’versifies an incident of
which the force was first seen, and strongly ex-
pressed, by A. B. Paterson when sketching a'Syd-
ney tng-of-war for The Bulletin; “The Rovers”
—with its verse about the
Unlisted, uncommissioned,
Untaught in ally school,
is influenced by Kipling’s “Legion that Never
Was Listed,”—while the verse that tells how—
Through drought and desolation
They won their way Out Back ;
The commonplace and selfish
Have followed on their track—
is indebted to Ogilvie’s “The Men that Blazed
the Track ; Lawson’s “ Old Stone Chimney ” re-
peats Ogilvie’s “Abandoned Selections” and
“ Deserted a fine idea, but Ogilvie saw it first ;
m “When Ladies Come to the Shearing Shed ”
two lines —
They are girls from the city. (Our hearts rebel
When we squint at their dainty feet—
echo Mowbray Morris’s lines in “A Voice from
the Bush ” (long printed as Gordon’s)—
Booted and bearded and burn’d to a brick
I loaf along the street;
I watch the ladies tripping by
And bless their dainty feet.
Lawson’s " The Lights of Cobb and Co.” takes the
idea of Ogilvie’s previously-printed “Cobb and
Co.”—with the lines
The drovers round their camp-fire hail
The lights of Cobb and Co.
and Lawson’s lines
And throw our top coats open to drink the mountain
air
Pause bird-like on the summit—then breakneck down
the pinch
are plainly inspired by the lines in Paterson’s
“Travelling Post Office”—
A moment on the topmost grade while open fire doors
glare,
She pauses like a living thing to drink the mountain
air-
“ The Travelling Post Office itself dependent for
inspiration on Kipling’s “ Overland Mail.” And
so on.
Since Lawson, then, takes his own where he
finds it, he might be less severe on the others who,
as he conceives, take their own from himself.
Lawson’s best work has always been stimulated by
generous enthusiasm ; his worst by ungenerous sus-
picion. If he could realise that, he would refrain
from the sneer, and hold to the unselfish emotions
which have been his chief inspiration.
Well, there are spots on the sun; and the flaws
in Lawson’s literary work, though they may
sadden and disappoint his friends, will be for-
gotten in the fine, performance which has estab-
lished his credit. To the perpetuation of his
value and fame many pieces in “Verses, Popular
and Humorous” will contribute. It is only to be
regretted that so much has been included which
is neither worthy of Lawson the writer nor of
Lawson the man.
The Trees.
YOU have never listened to the whispering
of the trees ; or, if you did, have you ever
understood ? Go out into the untouched
forest or out to the big hilksciiibs, and
you will hear vague murmurs when the winds
blow from far-off settlements. If you could only
comprehend ! The trees whisper of what is to be.
Down below, to the big forest trees, the crash of
some stricken brother is borne by the quiver-
ing breeze. Then you hear the sighing
and whispering and moaning which makes
the forest so mysterious even at midday.
The big trees among the hill-scrub see the hills
which were oiice scrub-clothed and are now bare
to the sky. The axe-men are coming closer. The
smoke from the funeral pyre of their stricken kin-
dred is blown over and amongst them from time
to time by the same wind that carries the sound
of the woodman’s axe, telling of further destruc-
tion of their brethren. And when the smoke is
blown about amongst the trees you will hear the
moaning eerie noises in the scrub. You will see
the trees, even the proudest and most stately, bow
down their heads in sorrow and sob.
They sorrow not for themselves: ’t is only the
parasites and cumbrous growths give way to sel-
fish grief. The best of the trees are prepared and
resigned ; for have they not seen, and has not the
wind brought the tidings from forest to forest,
from scrub to scrub, the tidings of what is to be ?
You will hear them talk and whisper—whisper the
wish for a good man and a sharp axe when their
time comes.
And, oh, how the trees pity these men who
come to work their destruction ! The agony, the
fatigue of the work! The big sweat-drops fall
from the men’s foreheads in a stream almost as
great as the life-sap which flows from the cut of
the axe. How the trees pity those men who work
among the trees—mere tools of other men ! Well
do they know ; for have not the winds brought
the story from the first forest that was ever
cleared ? and do not the winds tell of laboring
man being robbed of the fruits of his labor every
day? And the big trees listen to the tale of the
wind, and all the forest and scrub are filled with
sorrow for poor lowly man. . .
The big tree waits patiently for the last stroke
of the axe ; and the wind soothes it in its agony.
You will hear no moan from that tree —only a
gentle rustle from its topmost leaves as they give
their last love-kiss to the wind. But at the final
moment the stump cannot bear to part with the
topmost branches, and it holds the trunk up and
calls to the vines to help it. And the vines that
have twisted and played around that tree, since
its growth began, catch it in a close em-
brace and hold it up. But the axe is
falling, and the agony is growing greater.
The top boughs tremble with pain, and the
wind in pity lifts the big tree from its
stump and lays it down upon the hillside.
What you call the big crash is the last good-bye
of a thousand little branches, twigs, and leaves,
to the murmuring wind ; and the groan from the
stump is the last farewell of a lover to his loved
one who is dead.
The big trees are filled with pity for the poor,
struggling axeman, for they know all his sweat-
drops, all his labour, go for nothing. There is no
future for him but work—incessant work. And
so a big tree will tremble on its stump, and wait,
and the man will step back and trip, and the tree
in pity will fall on him and end his days of weari-
ness. His working mates, in their ignorance, will
curse and abuse the tree and all trees ; for they
know no better. And as the dead man’s spirit,
freed from all care, floats upwards through the
treetops, you will hear the trees whisper a prayer
—not for the man who is dead and at rest, but
for those who are doomed to work throughout life,
robbed of their legitimate leisure and its enjoy-
ment. All this you will hear at any time out in
the big scrubs or the untouched forests.
But, to understand, you must have the sym-
pathy of. the trees.
Q.
MITTY.
That useful and pertinacious writer, “E. W.D.,”
who takes tithe of our mint, and anise, and cum-
min, suggests that Dorrington’s “paque”
(24/11/’0) should have been “pyx.” And it
should. And he complains that he was included,
among possible shrine-desecrators (15/12/’0) when
he did not compete in the search for time, place,
etc., but merely quoted one of Rossetti’s sonnets.
That also is true.
A countryman’s impression of holiday Sydney—
“ Ohapge is good,” said I; “ I will leave the bush and
go to town.” (It is sometimes easier to follow a prompt-
ing than to analyse its value in terms of truth.) Sydney’s
salutation is at Uedfern you meet the stink, the odour
of a great city, the acrid perfume of congested humanity.
We hustle ; the train is stationary, the trams endless. No
matter. The fever of the city grips—the nervous ten-
sion, the madness of perpetual motion. Break open a
termites’ nest and you shall see a multitude of galleries
along which, in endless streams, the blind white-ants
pass in ceaseless running to the making of excrement.
Nature, God’s trees, man’s house and barn, are all
potential excrement to the termite.
The knee is a bending joint, so I pass to the modern
Joss-house, the office of a paper, to see the priests of the
God up-to-date. I find them sitting in their cells digest,
ing the paper offerings of the faithful as they secrete
mental pepsine. They are preparing the weekly sacri-
fice. You fear to speak, to interrupt, even for a moment,
the gastric process. Goaded by wild prompting you bid
them shut their cells, let their Joss go hang, and come
out and have a drink and a stroll under God’s clear sky.
No ! —Joss’s appetite is insatiable ; his worshippers are
bound to the machine; their nerves, livers, eyes and
brains have long been laid on the altar ; besides, they' all
run to catch trams twice a day, and the man who runs
;wice a day to catch anything is damned eternally.
In George-street the termites hurry without rest. Feet
are not fast enough ; horse, steam, electricity, add to the
momentum. A strange likeness in the mass, each one
willing to dress like another, like every other. This is
the unconscious aim; to sink personality, to lose
edge and point by friction in the mass. Yet beach
stones are useless in a wall; they make no bond.
The crowd does not laugh, play, rejoice or sing together;
its one content is contiguity. Saturday night might see
it home ; but no, on shop-closed block it moves in denser
mass, yet caring nothing for the fellows it mutely
assimilates. On Sunday, perforce, it is thrown on what
is left of itself ; it sickens at the prospect. “ Oh, let us
to the tram, or train, or boat again, and be nobodies with
everybody. Let us move without aim, talk without
thought on the pancreating throng ! for this is life and
living—my grinding to extinction.”
In the stewing crowd the larrikin is the garlic : he per-
meates. The bygone slum, hulks and chain-gang have
banished his nerves and rounded his angles ; he is less a
character than a type, fixed now so that he grinds with-
out being ground. See how he ear-marks every assembly,
nor can one Sydneyite know himself free of taint.
So do spectral gibbets on Gallows Hill chortle re-
trospective glee, as past infamies, like all infamies
whatsoever, are being paid for. Consider the
Chinese ; he never becomes European; but many Euro-
peans become Chinese. Ten thousand years of city
grinding has so fixed the type that China could digest a
tribe of Israel in its ostrich maw. The larrikin can con-
template the future with confidence and oaths. Sydney
is his, the City Council and the Parliament; and of a
surety he will expectorate on the Federal Senate through
the boots he has placed in the Federal forum.
H.F.


m
o n
m
PLEASE WRITE FOR
FREE ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
W. JNO. BAKER’S Patent BOUNDARY RIDER’S KIT, Sheath, Knife, and Steel (loin, overall) complete, with
Plain Leather Sheath, 5/- ; Brass-capped, 7/6 ; Oriental (as sketch), 10/6. All Post Free.
w. JNO. BAKER, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PRICES
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING- TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Seif-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
jaS' THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE i
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
s
NOM€ OUTFIT
1 Gramophone,
24 Selected Records,
200 Needles
FOR
£lO.
Carriage Free to any Rail Station or Port.
All Talking- Machines, Records, &c., on Sale.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
dT, N. Oldershaw, JManayer,
Publications.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
fd
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Books. Books. Books.
pOPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranginn-
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent-post free. Mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sydney.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by tills book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 28. fid. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bntv,' you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you love. Anglo-Amkrican Publishing Co..
Waterloo Cluunbers, 4r>B George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tins paper when writing.
TRICOCOGy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES an^^Jf nt -
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
: Christmas tailoring
i •
I "IWTOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
I JIJL at their best during the Christmas
I season. Handsome, well-fitting
[ clothes are essential to that end. C. G.
[ Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
[ tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
[ ment, which has obtained a reputation
[ the envy of competitors. He can supply
[ you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
[ dye, for 555. ; a first-class suit in Serge
[ Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
[ of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
[ of England Serge for 755. His Two
[ Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
[ of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
; still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will be satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. 11d. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11d. Men’s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and
pockets, 2s. Hid. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for every thing you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
WOOL SEASON, 1900-1.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYI3KrBY.
REDUCED CHARGES:
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILES sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ol
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WOOL. WOOL WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents only
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O'CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole 3 H=*er Cent, to the throwers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
TFe are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
GOOD
KA.IR FOR AT.T. f
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
and all parasitical
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTOmNG. GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
oOiwud'^^tccd.
Regd .
ifi
L.AWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.*
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents lor the
Wholesale Trade only:
o(cumS
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
£JO£DALE_&JDUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, Ceorge St., Sydney.
$ bo
\!<
m
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aUa ahments 8 8 0
Jjadies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 S 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S
Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart
Address:
Anniversary H. Jan. 28, 1901.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in above.
Name.
Address.
* s •
Jan. 30.
Hobart C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name -
£,
Address
Launceston 0.
Feb. 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
jshares in the above.
Name.
Address
t
Newmarket H. March 2,1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
s
Australian C. March 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in above.
Name
Address
£. * *
Rosehill C. March 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address Tsitors%il, ,} ca»r© 000. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
\
RAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULARS AW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter Sj stem,
faw Mill Engines. Automatic Out-off I'lourMinEuj'ines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
i rid Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
.o*
<-v
*
<>
*
&
I
ďsf
If you stop eating you
will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Maes., U. S. A.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
HflamaMUM
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS :
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680-682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
“DCVWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Oat-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioation
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'laid
Australia!) Mdtiial Provident Society
MONEY TO LEND
On security
rity of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
.nore than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ƒsd
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109 r
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
sdf
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIETt, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours : —Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
# Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Sublaco,Perth,W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900 British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest yfvard
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 178 Q.)
v/icr
BRITT REC F D
BP
Appointment
to
Uifnf \
fr
Rer lftajestp Che Queen and r.r.r. cbe Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
i’J.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
«8e Saddlery ZMa.n f-
-193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our i’rice List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, *5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buekboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
sfdsd
n«llT«red at any Wharf «r
>.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
The Return of Rip Van Winkle
O’Sullivan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The O’Sullivan, speaking at the opening of the tramway
to the Spit on Nov. 3, said, wistfully, that “he would likt
to be able to return in a hundred years’ time, for he had
no doubt that he would then see a nation of which the
whole world might well be proud.”
A hundred fateful years
Had passed away, and gone
With laughter, or with tears,
Into Oblivion,
When, with a heart elate—
A resurrected man !
To where he once was great
Came The O’Sullivan.
With wonder, and with awe,
He did the city view :
The Sydney that he saw
Was not the town he knew.
The Sydney of the past,
In brick-and-mortar dress,
Was fine; This was a vast
Stone-mantled Titaness.
Yea, she was great and fair
And unconfined and free ;
One hand’s white fingers were
Dipped in the Hawkesbury
One hand laved in the rills
Beside the Sisters Three :
Her head lay on the hills,
Her feet were in the sea.
And statesmen, firm and brave,
And legislators wise,
Sat in her halls, -with grave,
Far-seeing, sovran eyes.
For long to Ichabod
Had gone, with sick’ning slump,
The Footbridge-Period,
The Era of the Pump.
Was the O’Sullivan
By all these wonders dazed ?
Not he : the ancient man
On all serenely gazed.
And, to a gaping crowd,
Who stared with awe profound,
He spoke in accents proud,
With sweep of arm around.
“ Of all this splendour vast,
Which I with pleasure see—
Who laid the firm and fast
Foundations? It was Me!
“In Me behold the Man
Equal to any circs.—
I’m The O’Sullivan,
Once Minister for Works.
“ I oped the Tramway famed,
The tramway to the Spit ”
x’hey laughed at what they named
His coarse, old-fashioned wit.
They would not hear him more ;
His voice with groans they drowned ;
They said he was a Bore
Who should be underground.
In vain he tried to point
Out works that he did plan :
The times were out of joint
With The o‘Sullivan.
Of fame he was bereft :
There was no trace —not one—
No faintest record left,
Of all that he had done.
And then some persons rude—
For such will always be—
In grimly playful mood
Made with his person free.
They danced his coat-tails on;
They bashed his hat effete,
With energy upon
His “cobbra” obsolete.
Then, in the nick of time,
A showman passed who cowed
The authors of the crime,
And shouted for the crowd.
That showman knew his trade,
And lectured up and down,
Upon the Find he’d made.
And so from town to town
There passed, in painted van,
And painful public circs.,
“The strange Primeval Man—
Once Minister for Works.”
Does he still travel round,
An Exhibition weird ?
I know not; I have found
Out only what’s appeared.
But were I the O’S.
I’d not re-view, I vow,
The scene of my success —
A hundred years from now.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
A man got a telegram, saying: “Your
mother-in-law dead. Shall we embalm, bury, or
cremate ? ” He replied by wire : “Ho all three ;
take no chances.’’


The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
T H whSSSlfcSS l ‘polic^rranHng- 8,11 USUaI f ° rmS esnmnce ’ ia the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
n. R A ° f a pre T ium in the event Of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
•raid up rolicy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors:
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.Q.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,380,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/e.
fd
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENCLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d.—Post Free.
(aood Tailoring.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUIT.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts ‘Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In. Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMIP'ETITIOIM.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
s\?3^Mc
m
m
L.B
Wk
v *
Registered under the "Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
-INDEPENDENT ORDER* FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 53 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
Age ... 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for .£lOO, .£2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, Ac., on Application.
Create
Cameo Ci£m*eite;
Because the Best
MUCH CHEAPER
RUBEROID
Than Galvanised Iron
mm
AND COOLER
ROOFING
Laid Over Wire Netting.
THIS ILLUSTRATION is from a Photo-
graph of the Annex Building just
erected on the Grounds of Govern-
ment House, designed by the
Government Architect as special
accommodation for Vice-regal re-
tinue. The method of construction
being somewhat novel justifies the
following description.
THE FRAMING TIMBERS are of small
dimensions, the Studding and Raf-
ters being only 2in. x 3in. The
Braces are made of l£in. flat Galv.
Iron, strongly nailed to each piece
of timber.
THE SHEATHING is made of Galv.
Wire Netting 36in. x3in. x 16 gauge
secured after the method described
on page 88 of our New Price List.
THE COVERING.—This is done by use
of P. and B. Ruberoid Roofing fixed
after the method described on page
88 *of our New Price List, with
the additional feature of being
cemented as well as nailed to the
studs, thus giving uniform and
maximum strength.
THE SEAMS are cemented with the P.
and B. Ruberine (or liquid Cement)
and are covered with narrow strips
of wood. The wooden strips are
not necessary, but add to the
appearance.
THE CEILINGS and interior walls are
covered in the same manner, and
with the same material.
m
< -
/
wm
: <
fiSPJi
■
"»y*«sr
m
££*3*^
THE FLOORS are all covered with
2-ply P. and B. Ruberoid Roofing-,
the balcony and bathroom floors
included.
THE PAINTING includes a priming
coat of P. and B. Red Ideal Paint,
over which white and 6cru oil
colors are spread.
THE WHOLE presents a very neat
appearance, though no attempt
has been made at ornamentation.
THE ACCOMODATION.—This Build-
ing contains 12 private and 4 pub-
lic rooms. It is electrically lighted,
and the plumbing is from the best
sanitary system.
THE COST is considerably less than
the same building would have cost
if built of other Material.
QUANTITY. —Fully an acre of P. and
B. Ruberoid was used in the con-
struction of this building. The
recent storms—though very heavy
—have made absolutely no impres-
sion upon the building, which is
found to be perfectly watertight,
substantial, and comfortable.
IMPORTANT.—There being a substan-
tial saving in the 'Sydney cost of
this exceptionally light building,
what would the additional saving
in carriage charges, &c., amount
to if erected on your own pre-
mises? This is a question worthy
of your serious consideration.
A<S€NTS:
60VCRNMCNT HOOSC BUILDINGS. Bftilt of P & B ROberoid RoofiQg.
. RICH & CO. LTP. SYDNEY^
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1091.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 1901.
Pricb 6d.
THE LATEST TERROR.
BROWN’S PALACE HAIRDRESSING SALOON. -Bugler John Smith (Ist Tasmanian Contingent) engaged.
Three chairs. Best attention. Also everything smokers require. 99 Gallows-street.— Tasmanian advt.
GORY BARBER: "Just as the blessed Boer put up his hands I makes a slash at 'im like this CUSTOMER: "Sh-e-ol!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia, for the, A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... f
Quarterly ... ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week, for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable.), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS: to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and, White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current even ',
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Entice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Ulaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
t,-~*(.ng to the imposition of 1 %d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
ff^^zzlZeZZTi.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 1901.
How N.S.W. Got Left.
A few years ago New South Wales held a
tolerably commanding position among the
manufacturing States of Australia. It wasn’t
ahead of the other States in proportion to
population, but it had kept level with them.
That was before it made its first real
approach to Freetrade, and Got Left as the
natural consequence. Up to the date of the
abolition of the Dibbs tariff N.S. Wales was
a Protectionist State of a more or less
hidden and apologetic kind. Parkes,
M'Miixan, Bruce Smith and Co. were
enthusiastic Freetraders who protected
almost everything in a small way. They
levied heavy protective duties on beer, wine,
tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, bacon, biscuits,
butter, fruits, candles, cement, cheese, con-
fectionery, cornflour, “ soft ” drinks, timber
of all kiuds, doors, window-sashes, railway
sleepers, posts and rails, all kinds of gal-
vanised-iron goods, hams, tongues, jams,
jellies, sugar, molasses, treacle, red and
wiiite lead, oils, paints, salt, varnish, news-
papers, and many other things. They sacri-
ficed much revenue in doing it—revenue
that would have been gained if they had
made the excise on the local article equal to
the customs tax on the foreign one and not
protected anything. They .stood up on many
platforms and scouted the very name of the
dreadful thing called Protection, but in prac-
tice they were pretty good Protectionists of
a kind. The two survivors of them still
scout Protection in theory and shudder at
the name of that allegedly hated policy, but
if they got into office they would probably
again be found in practice pretty good Pro-
tectionists of a kind. The absence of these
two good practical Protectionists, Bruce
Smith and M‘Millan, from the Federal
Cabinet would be almost regrettable, but for
the fact that the politician who looks one
way and pulls another, even if he pulls the
right way, isn’t a desirable individual.
Dibbs expanded the Protectionist policy of
Parkes, M'Millan and B. Smith. And
Reid, who followed him, preached absolute
Freetrade, and got so near to it that he only
protected beer, wine, sugar, treacle, molasses,
cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, biscuits, confec-
tionery, jams, jellies and newspapers.
* * * *
Up to the time when the Reid very-
slightly-Protectionist Freetrade tariff got into
working order, N.S. Wales, as already men-
tioned, kept its place reasonably well as a
manufacturing State. In its struggle with
Victoria and S.A. it had the advantage of a
splendid coal supply, which they both lacked,
many years' start, and a vastly larger area of
good country, and, aided by the reasonably
liberal Protection kindly granted by these
enthusiastic Freetraders, M‘Millan, Bruce
Smith and Co., it kept about level with its
younger, less-favored, but more-protected
rivals. It was with the advent of George
Reid and a very much reduced measure of
Protection that N.S. W. began to get really
left. In 1894 N.S.W. had 42,751 hands
employed in its factories against Victoria’s
41,000 (the figures are published by N.S.W.
Statistician Coghlan on pages 598 and 599
of his latest issue of the “ Seven Colonies ”),
and had thus a solid advantage of 1751 em-
ployes. And then, under the blessings of
the Reid policy, its neighbors moved ahead
of it, and the proceedings degenerated into
a procession with N.S.W. in the dust-cloud
at the rear.
* * * *
If a beginning is made from the year 1896,
when the advantages of Freetrade (or the
nearest approach to it N.S.W. has yet
possessed) had begun to soak in, the indus-
trial progress of the five leading Australian
States has been something as under. The
figures are all taken from Coghlan’s “ Seven
Colonies ” for 1900, pages 598 to 601 :
Hands Employed in Factories.
1896. 1899. Increase.
Victoria .. 50,448 .. 60,070 .. 9,622
Queensland.. 19,733 .. 27,200 .. 7,467
N.S.W. .. 49,840 .. 55,646 .. 6,806
S.A 12,785 .. 15,155 .. 2,370
1895. 1898.
Tasmania .. 1,754 .. 3,629 .. 1,875
The Tasmanian figures are only available up
to 1898, but in each case the comparison
covers a period of four years. There are no
statistics covering a period of four years
available from either Westralia or Maoriland,
therefore it is impossible to include the
whole seven States. But, so far as the
information goes, it isn’t quite the best
advertisement that a Freetrade system (even
a partially-Protective Freetrade system like
Reid’s) could have. N.S. Wales has com-
pletely lost the industrial advantage it had
over Victoria in the last days of the
Mother State’s avowed Protectionism. There
isn’t even the hollow satisfaction of saying
that the increase in Victoria’s factory em-
ployes is an increase in the employment of
women. N.S. Wales, before it took to
something approaching real Freetrade, was
distinctly ahead of Victoria in the number of
its male factory-workers ; now, as regards
both male and female workers, it is falling
further and further back. During the four
years of Reid’s tariff the progress has been
as follows (N.S.W. figures from page 569 of
Coghlan’s “ Statistical Register” for 1899 ;
Victorian figures from page 47 of Fenton’s
“ Abstract of the Statistics of Victoria” for
1899): —
Four years’ in- Four years’ in-
crease in crease in Total
male female increase,
employes. employes.
Victoria .. 6,262 .. 3,360 .. 9,622
N.S. Wales.. 4,155 .. 1,651 .. 5,806
Vic. majority. 2,107 1,709 3,816
Victoria is leaving N.S. Wales even faster
in the matter of male industrial workers than
in the matter of female operatives.
* * * *
And the unkindest cut of all is that Pro-
tected Queensland, with little more than
one-third of N.S. Wales’s population, had,
in four years, an increase of 7467 factory
employes against Freetrade N.S.W.’s in-
crease of only 5806. Its industries are not
only growing faster in proportion to popula-
tion, but faster in the aggregate. In pro-
portion to population N.S. W.’s manufactur-
ing industries have been, during the last
four years, the most stagnant in the five
States for which returns are available. The
blight of George Reid fell upon the Corn-
stalk land, and, as hereinbefore alluded to,
it Got Left.
* * * *
Going by population, indeed, N.S.W. has,
within the last four years, Got Left very
badly. The following is the rate of progress
of the five States :
New factory employes
for whom work was
found in four Proportion to
years, 1896-99. population.
Queensland .. .. 7467 .. 1.55 per cent.
Tasmania .. .. 1875 .. 1.03 „
Victoria .. .. 9622 .. 0.83 „
South Australia .. 2370 .. 0.64 ~
New South Wales .. 5806 .. 0.43 ~
All the four Protectionist States are finding
new industrial employment for their new
population at a faster rate than N.S.W. If
the Reid tariff could have remained in force
for another 20 years, N.S.W., on the above
record, promised to occupy a very lone-
some position indeed at the industrial
tail of Australia. In 1896 (according
to Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies,” page
597) the factory employes of all Australasia
numbered 164,840. N.S.W., with 49,840
of them, then represented 30 per cent, of
the lot. It had also exactly 30 per cent, of
the population; while the Protectionist
States had 70 per cent, of the population
and 70 per cent, of the manufacturing
classes; so N.S.W., up to the end
of its Protectionist or semi-Protectionist
era, just held its own industrially with its
Protectionist neighbours. In 1899 N.S. W.
still represented almost exactly 30 per cent,
of the population, but with 55,646 factory
employes out of an Australasian total of
201,100, it only represented 27$ per cent, of
the industrial workers. The Protectionist
States had 70 per cent, of the people
and 72J -per cent, of the manufactur-
ing population. Merely to keep its
place according to population—the place it
held before the Reid tariff came into exist-
ence—and to prove that Reid’s variety of
Freetrade was as good as Protection—
not better than Protection but only
as good—N.S.W. should have 63,330 fac-
tory employes instead of 55,646.
The fall isn’t a very large one in the aggre-
gate, but it is very large when it is remem-
bered that it has all taken place in the short
space of four years. And it is a very bad
advertisement for Freetrade when it is re-
membered that it all took place within the
only four years when N.S. W. could be called,
even with some reservations, a Freetrade
State, and during the period when the Free-
trade party’s air of superiority was, if
possible, a little more insufferably pompous
than usual.
* * * *
If there were any compensating advan-
tages in Freetrade, then the painful process
of Getting Left might not matter so much,
but it has never been shown that there are
any. The only two States w r here statistics
have been reduced to a science are N.S.W.
and Victoria, and their statistics prove that
the protected Victorian workman is a trifle
better paid than the Freetrade one to the
north of him ; that he is fed and sup-
plied with the various necessaries of life
at as cheap a rate ; that he has more
money per head laid up in the Savings
Bank or some other bank against a day
of misfortune, and that he has more
insurance on his life. And, in addition to
that, he gets more employment, and Protec-
tion can afford to give him a legal minimum
wage as a guarantee against sweating, which
Freetrade has never dared to attempt. In
fact, Freetrade gives nothing special by way
of compensation for the grief of Being Left
save the devastating glare of George Reid’s
glass-eye, and the assurances of parrot
philosophers that Henry George, oi some-
body, has alleged something, and it must be
true because Henry George, or somebody,
has alleged it.
The Disease Called Commerce.
Theke are two kinds of commerce, and one of
them is a Disease. Australia has got the disease
kind badly, and the Freetrade party in Australia
worships the disease. Commerce, in the cant
meaning of the term, is the profitable or unpro-
fitable shifting of goods over the imaginary streak
on a map which marks a political division. Send-
ing goods, even at a profit to all parties concerned,
450 miles from Newcastle to Albury, both in
N.S.W., is not commerce in the Freetrade accep-
tation of the term, and doesn’t amount to much.
Sending goods, even at a dead loss, three miles
from Albury in N.S. W. to Wodonga in Victoria
is commerce, and therefore it is the source of all
earthly goodness and greatness, the only true test
of prosperity, the fulfilment of man’s noblest
destiny, the root of all progress, and the begin-
ing, middle, and end of things in general. The
Cornstalk Freetrade party says : ‘ ‘ Look at our
commerce as compared with that of Victoria,”
and holds that the fiscal problem is settled
for good and all. For the one purpose of Pro
gress and Civilisation is to tear much raw material
out of the ground and drag it up a plank on to a
ship, and to drag much manufactured goods down
a plank off a ship. And the country which drags
much foreign goods down a plank is Saved, and
the one which drags comparatively little raw
material up a plank is Lost, and the country
which doesn’t see that its one ambition should be
to drag exports up a plank and to drag imports
down a plank is Damned—politically, that is.
* * * *
And this faith leads to curious results. The
Freetrader measures things almost wholly by
exports and imports, and regards local industry as
nothing in particular by comparison with his
fetish—Commerce. If a country hauls out of the
ground an extra £1,000,000 worth of raw material,
and puts it on board a ship, and pays an enormous
price to have it carried by some foreigner to
the farthest ends of the earth, that is com-
merce. And if it pays £3,000,000 for the
same material, on an equal amount of similar
material, brought back in a manufactured state
from the farthest ends of the earth, and also pays
a great deal to some foreign shipowner to carry it
back, that is also commerce. The people at the
other end of the earth may have got the great
bulk of the profits, but the items appear in the
trade returns as £4,000,000 worth of commerce,
and there is great drinking at Freetrade, banquets
about the obvious increase in the country’s pro-
sperity under a civilised and enlightened fiscal
policy. And if a Protectionist country also digs
up £1,000,000 worth of raw material out of its own
soil, and manufactures it on the spot into
£3,000,000 worth of goods for the use of its own
people, and keeps the £2,000,000 worth of employ-
ment involved in the manufacturing process for
its own people, then it has no £4,000,000 worth of
extra commerce to show, and the dreadful results
of Protection are therein manifested. Yet
so far as commerce consists in this kind
of exchange—and a vast amount of Aus-
tralia’s commerce does so consist—it is a curse
and a disgrace, and an evidence of the nation’s
lack of enterprise and lack of capacity, and a
proof that it is largely confined to the poorest,
least intelligent, and most animal of occupations—
that of scratching raw material out of the soil and
shipping it away to be manufactured by more
intelligent communities. If Australia, with its
existing population, was more advanced in the
industrial sense, it would have less commerce.
It would send away less raw material, for it would
use more in its own industries, and it would bring
in less manufactured goods, because it would
make more for its own use. And so far as its
exports represent the sending away of its raw
material to be made up by other people into
goods for its own use, and so far as its imports
represent the return of its own or similar raw ma-
terial manufactured for it by more enterprising
races, Australia’s commerce is a misfortune and a
curse, and the Freetrade policy which seeks to
foster it is a curse also.
• * « *
As already mentioned there are two kinds of
commerce—of external commerce that is—and
one of them is a Disease. Although the Austra-
lian Freetrade party habitually speaks of this
country’s commerce and that of Britain as if they
were the same thing, there is really very little
resemblance. Britain, by successful war, con-
quest, fortunate adventure, enterprise and Protec-
tection, became, early in this century, the carrier
of the world. It still holds the position to a
great extent, though not in the same proportion
as it once did, and it still holds a prominent
position as a manufacturing State, though not by
any means the position it once held. Britain’s
commerce consists in loading its own and other
people’s- mostly other people’s—goods, mostly
manufactured goods, on its own ships, and carrying
them all over the earth. The carriage of these
goods is one of Britain’s important sources of
revenue. Australia’s commerce consists mostly in
loading its own raw material on other people’s
ships, and paying other people at great expense
to carry them, The one is driving a cart and
being paid handsomely for it. The other is sitting
in a cart and paying heavily for it. “ Tattersall”
and his clients may both be classed as gamblers be-
cause they are both in the same gamble, but “Tat-
tersall ” gets 10 per cent, of all the money that
goes through and his clients lose 10 per cent.
Commerce, as it is understood in Britain, France,
and Germany, and commerce as it is understood
and bragged about by the Australian Freetrader,
are both commerce in a way, only with much the
same difference as in Tattersall’s case.
* * * *
The producer of raw material is, on the whole,
the worst-paid of the industrial workers. Yet
Australia must remain in a great measure this
Gibeonite among toilers —or else it must damage
that beautiful commerce which is the Freetrader’s
Ark of the Covenant. To the Freetrader there is
a great and sacred joy in the fact that New South
Wales, in proportion to population, exports and
imports more than Victoria. He is glad to his
very heart because New South Wales makes less
of its own clothes and boots and hats, and under-
wear and ironware and leatherware, and other
things, and therefore uses less of its own raw
material in its own industries, and so has more of
them to haul up a plank on to a foreign-owned
ship at a wharf—which is commerce. An'd he is
overjoyed to the bottom of his soul because, for the
same reason, it has to drag more clothes, boots,
hats, shirts, ironmongery, leather goods, &e.,
down a plank off a foreign-owned ship at a wharf
—which is also commerce. His great ambition is
to be, in proportion to population, the greatest
wharf-lumper on earth—a tremendous national
wharf-lumper for other nations’ ships. It is his
ideal to be an ox-like beast of burden on a quay
—not his own ox, even, but the ox of the British
and French and German shipowner, on the quay
that was built with money borrowed in England.
He wants to spread the wharf-lumping complaint
all over Australia, and he is moved to profound
pity for other communities which don’t wharf-
lump quite so much as he does.
• * » •
As already mentioned, -there are two kinds of
commerce, and one of them is a Disease. A nation
which buys raw material, of the kind which it
can’t produce sufficiently itself, from less enter-
prising and intelligent races, and makes it into
finished goods, and sells them to backward
communities which don’t manufacture much for
themselves, has one kind of commerce. A nation
which sells raw material only because it
is only far enough advanced to be a digger and
delver, or a ploughman, or a person who pursues
cattle and sheep, and which buys its finished
materials from more intelligent communities —it
has the other kind of commerce. To the Free-
trader, all kinds of commerce are alike, because
they all consist of dragging something heavy off
or on a ship ; but in reality a good deal of the
honor and profit and the evidence of progress de-
pend on the nature of the goods dragged and the
ownership of the vessels they are dragged from or
to. Even the question whether the wharf they are
dragged off or on has been paid for or not enters, to
some extent, into the question. If Australia ever
becomes a self-dependent nation, and supplies its
own requirements in the way of manufactured
goods, and furnishes work and wages for its own
people in the manufacturing process, and keeps
the profits of manufacture for itself, and ceases to
waste money needlessly in paying other- nations
for carryiiig its goods to and fro, the first sign of
the great improvement setting in will be a large
diminution in the amount of its commerce in pro-
portion to population. There will be less wool and
hides humped on to ships and less clothes and boots
and saddlery humped off before that portion of Aus-
tralia’s trade which is only a Disease will abate; and
some ships which formerly came in at our ports to
carry the Disease will cease to call here; and some
wharves which they formerly occupied in the
process of the Disease will be deserted. And then
the Freetrader will wail bitterly because this
country isn’t so vast a wharf-lumper as it used to
be, and will point out for the billionth time that
the only true test of a country’s prosperity is the
amount of wharf-lumping that it accomplishes,
and the country that doesn’t lump is Lost.
The Menace of Militarism.
The State banquet at Sydney Town Hall, on the
evening of Commonwealth Day, was a significant
function. “Never before in the history of Aus-
tralia,” said the daily press, “has there been such
a brilliant assemblage under one roof. Nearly all
the prominent politicians, lawyers, and officials of
the six federating States were present.” The
object of the banquet was to commemorate, by the
time-honored fashion of feasting and toasting, the
foundation of the Commonwealth. Naturally and
properly, then, the Commonwealth should have
come first on the toast-list. To an assemblage of re-
presentative Australians there can be nothing on
earth more interesting or more important than Aus-
tralia. But representative Australians nowadays are
of a servile breed. First they toasted Queen Vic-
toria, the representative of that monarchy whose
very existence is a stultification of the claim to
national freedom. Then they toasted the Prince
of Wares and the Boval Family, so engrained is
the habit of crawling before individuals whose
characters and lives have only the accident of birth
to make them notorious. Then, at least, one
would have thought that the fetish of punctilio
had been sated, and the new-born Nation would
receive due honor. But no; Premier I.yne
grovelled before Governor-General Hopetoun.


Then Premier Lewis proposed the British
navy. Then George Reid proposed the
Lieutenant-Governors. Then John See pro-
posed the Army and Volunteers. And only then,
after the useless appanages of Government and
the British navy and army had been toasted, was
Chief-Justice Griffith permitted to propose, and
Edmund Barton to reply to, the toast of the
Commonwealth !
» • * *
That order of toasts supplies an accurate
estimate of the opinions of Australia’s temporary
leaders, and of the real worth at which they
appraise the Australian Nation as compared
with the British connection to which they toady.
But The Bulletin hopes to live to see
the day when, for every Australian, Australia
will come always first ; and when monarchs and
the military will be relegated, in public and private,
to their proper place as mere adjuncts of the
national scheme in which the first place, the first
honor, belongs naturally and inevitably to the
Australian Nation. That day will come whenever
Australians choose ; and if there is in them any
love of country, any pride of patriotism, they will
choose quickly.
• • * *
When Lieut.-Col. Wyndham, commanding the
contingent of British troops sent to N.S.W.
Commonwealth celebration, rose to reply to the
toast of the army, the cloven hoof of militarism,
seen throughout the celebration, rose boldly and
marched across the dinner-table. The British
army, said Col. Wyndham,
Thought that in the next campaign Australia would
claim the right to fight side by side with her English
comrades—(cheers) —and they hoped to see in England
detachments from
The Australian Army
attending their camps and manoeuvres to learn the latest
ideas in drill, tactics, and staff duties, so that in the
future they might hope to find a regiment, brigade, or
even an army corps, commanded by Australian officers,
and with such an army the Empire would be able to say
checkmate to any power which came across its path to
block the way to freedom and prosperity. (Cheers.)
That was the message they had come half across the
world to deliver.
And that is the prospect before Australia ! How
do Australian workers like it ?
* # * •
Is this country to be a land of peace or a land
of war ? Are we to be a self-centred community,
developing industry, promoting prosperity ? — a
community which believes with Burns that
To make a happy fireside clime
For weans and wife :
That’s the true pathos and sublime
Of human life.
Or are we to be a military dependency of Britain,
with the flower of our youth trailed at Britain’s
skirts round the world wherever there is a British
war ? That is the question which the sending of
Australians to Africa has emboldened Britain to
ask. Are we to have in Australia an Australian
army, fed from the life-blood of Australian
industry, kept at the beck and call of Britain ?
Are we to have in Australia an idle military caste,
entrenched in privilege, supported by the sweat
of the farmer, the miner, and the stock-raiser?
Yes, says Britain. Yes, say the tuft-hunters
whom Australians have placed at the head of
their affairs. And that is the message which
Lieut.-Col. Wyndham, on behalf of the British
army, has come half-across the world to deliver.
* * * •
Luckily the ultimate answer does not rest with
Australian tuft-hunters or British politicians or
the British army. It rests with the Australian
People. Only themselves can bow their
necks to the military yoke. They know
that every professional soldier, unless necessary
for the defence of Australia, is a drone and worse
than a drone, since every soldier is carried on the
back of a worker who toils doubly—once to sup-
port himself and his family, once to support the
professional soldier. They know the evils that
spring from the creation of an idle military caste,
however useful it may be to provide a living and
a social standing for the sons of rich and ob-
sequious titled politicians. They know that the
people which bows its back to the burden of a
standing army saps industry at its foundation,
and elects a master who will sooner or later
make it a slave. Why should we spend
blood and treasure in Britain’s foreign wars ? We
have a task for hundreds of years to come in
developing our country, and establishing the
happiness of our children and our children’s chil-
dren. Let us adopt the watchword once and for
all: Australia for Australians, and Aus-
tralians for Australia !
* * * *
This thing is in the hands of the people. There
is manhood suffrage over all Australia. Let this
question of militarism be made a crucial ques-
tion at the Federal elections. Let no candi-
date be approved —be it Barton himself
who will not pledge himself not only not
to support, but to actively oppose, the creation
of an Australian army to fight beyond the limits
of Australia. We cannot spare one man for
export to foreign wars. We cannot spare one
penny which is not clearly paid for national
defence. Recognition of that truth is the essen-
tial factor of Australian policy at the present
time. We want neither to be pro-Boer or pro-
English :we want to be pro-Australia. And the
only Australian army compatible with the ideal
of the Australian nation is a citizen army, trained
as the Boers train their citizens, electing its own
officers as the Boers elect their officers, forming no
happy-liunting-ground for wealthy snobs or social
parasites, and maintained rigorously for Aus-
tralian defence. But from the menace of the
Black Shadow of Militarism may Australian
voters deliver us !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne’s Board of Fitzgibbon.
Melbourne Board of Works Inquiry Commission
was last week safely delivered of its report. The
job might have been done much more cheaply and
expeditiously, though not more thoroughly, by a
handy man with a bucket of whitewash and a large
brush. Eighteen months ago most of the local
municipal councils met in conference and formu-
lated 25 distinct charges against the fatuous and
cumbersome Board, and more recently the Age
reiterated them. These charges included such as
engineering blunders whereby sundry main sewers
have sunk from 4 to sft. ; favoritism in dealing
with contractors whereby, in one case, a contractor
was relieved of portion of his contract and paid in
full, the balance being afterwards re-let at a cost
of £9OOO ; disorganisation among the Board’s
officers and a reckless system of management
whereby, in expending £1,197,000 in sewer construc-
tion, the Board spent £1,000,000 in supervision,
salaries, etc. ; financial incapacity whereby in ’92
the Board only got £9l 17s. 9d. for a 4 per cent.
loan against Sydney city’s £99 4s, 4d. at the same
interest rate ; whereby also the excessive price of
£l7 10s. per acre was paid for Wernbee sewage
farm, being in excess of the highest valuation
made by experts; whereby also the stupendous
sum of £90,000, against an estimated £23,000, was
paid for preliminary surveys, &c., and so forth.
The charges were strong enough to have shifted any
self-respecting Board off its collective seat, with a
loud demand for complete investigation in de-
fence of its own miserable character. But while
the public and the press were clamouring for full
inquiry the stinkful Board pulled the wires so
vigorously and successfully that the Commission
of Inquiry, when at length appointed, was limited
to “investigating the manner of effecting house
connections with the sewers” and “considering
the constitution of the Board.” On both these
points the Commission cordially whitewashes the
subject of inquiry, and remarks that noth-
ing could be sweeter, cleaner, or more
desirable than the said body. And this awful
anomaly, being thus exculpated, will now take a
firmer grip of its seat than ever, complacently
fold its hands over its collective bingey, and con-
tinue to cable loyal messages and fritter away the
ratepayers’ money. It will go on doing this until
those patient ratepayers—being suddenly struck
by a 25 or 30 per cent, increase in their rates —get
really annoyed and suddenly abolish the whole
concern with its nominee delegates, and start the
Greater Melbourne Council as a going concern.
And the sooner that happens the better.
G-. 8,. on the Stump.
Seeing that ex-Premier Reid of N.S.W. is shortly
going to stump Tasmania, Victoria and Queens-
land in the Freetrade interest this paper thinks
the time ripe to offer that gentleman a suggestion.
It proposes that in this campaign Mr Reid, when
he takes to delivering statistics in support of the
fiscal faith that he didn’t practise, should stick to
the solid truth for a change. When The Bulletin
deals in statistics in defence of its fiscal faith it
quotes its authority, and generally even the page
of its authority, so that anybody and everybody
who cares can, on the shortest possible notice,
refer thereto and find out whether the facts are
real or not. Mr. Reid doesn’t follow this
accurate though possibly rather dreary practice,
for the sufficient reason that his figures and
evidences of the advantages of Freetrade can’t be
found on any page in any authority whatever.
The man who invents his “facts” as he, goes
along, or takes the “ facts” that someone else has
invented for him, naturally can’t give authorities.
But, all the same, it spoils the effect of his
addresses, so far as thoughtful people are con-
cerned. If Mr. Reid would for once depart from
his usual methods, and tell where his wild
inaccuracies can be verified, it would help to pre-
vent him looking like the chartered prevaricator
he looks now. In his last Freetrade campaign he
stated that the population of S.A. for the six
years after S.A. took to Protection (he had pre-
viously-fixed the date of that event at the end of
1886) only increased 19,000, which wasn’t a. fact;
anybody who cares to look at the published S.A.
“ Statistical Register ” can see that the increase
was about 32,000. He said that the protected
barbed-wire industry of Victoria employed three
hands, which wasn’t a fact, the real figures
being 38. He said that starch (one of Vic-
toria’s protected products) sold for l|d. per lb.
less in Sydney than in Melbourne, and anyone
who cares to look at the price-lists of two such
firms as Moran and Cato (of Melbourne) and
Anthony Hordern (of Sydney) will find it quoted
at exactly the same price in each city, so that
wasn’t a fact either. He said that, in the United
States, 78 per cent, of the earnings of the work-
ing-classes over and above what they required for
actual sustenance, or 1365 million dols. a year,
went in paying taxes and, as the whole
national and State taxation of the U.S., as shown
in the latest “ Statesman’s Year-Book,” is less
than 1000 million dols. a year, and about half of
it consists of taxes on land and property, that
was obviously not a fact either, any more than
the rest. He told how, in Protectionist times,
almost every woman in England toiled in a factory
or mine, and implied that Freetrade had changed
all this, and as the two articles on “Occupa-
tions” in Mulhall’s “ Dictionary of Statistics ”
show that the number of female employes in-
British factories has increased from 1.314,000 in 1841
(at the close of the Protectionist period), t 02,380,000
in 1891, that was another fact which wasn’t thei - e.
He told one of his audiences that the number of
male employes in Victorian factories had decreased
during the last five years or so, and anyone who
cares to refer to page 47 of Fenton’s “ Abstract of
Victorian Statistics” can discover that they have
very largely increased, so that that is the same
kind of fact as the rest. In short, there was hardly
an assertion of any kind which Mr. Reid made
in his Freetrade campaign of a few weeks ago
that was a fact. Wherefore The Bulletin pro-
poses that he should this time adopt its practice
of giving his authority every time, so that the
public can know how often lie is his own authority
and how often his authority is some other person
of as little value as himself. Last time, after
being harried over and over again with demands
for his authority as regards the famous starch
Ananias, he reluctantly admitted that he knew
nothing about it personally, but a man named
HIRSCH had told him about it. A statesman
should know things for himself, and not be a mere
trustful repetition of anybody named Hirsch or
Slush or anything like that.
—
Six Deep.
Whenever it is proposed to do anything for any
Australian city, the fact that it is invariably
divided into 10 to 43 municipalities, whose 10 or
43 mayors and councils can never, by any chance,
agree about anything, rises like a great cat-fight
and blocks all progress. Adelaide can’t construct
new electric trams because of this division, and
the old weary horse drags the superannuated hat-
box structure round the city as of old pending the
agreement that never comes. Sydney can’t get
a municipal gas or electric-light system for
the same reason ; in faot it gets nothing
except in cases like that of the infected
area, where the Government firmly but kindly
boots the whole crowd and takes charge
itself. Melbourne has been paralysed for years
over the question of cemetery accommodation,
and, as usual, its many mayors and councils and
dog-inspectors are the cause. In the old Melbourne
cemeteries the dead are piled about six deep,
so that the bottommost corpse can’t breathe. An
unwholesome flavor of very old tombstone hangs
about them, and the last-buried departed is too
near the surface for sanitary science. Each of
Melbourne’s many municipalities is agreeable that
there shall be a new cemetery right against its
own door, and if it was proposed to establish
about 16 new cemeteries all at once, the matter
would be easily arranged. As it is not proposed
to establish more than three cemeteries, and as
every mayor wants a tombstone right before his
drawing-room window, no progress worth men-
tioning is being made. It is the garbage destruc-
tor business over again, with variations. That
idea is at a standstill because each municipality
wants to put its destructor in the next muni-
cipality, and the next municipality doesn’t see it,
and there is no strong central authority that can
put a large general destructor in the best place,
and drop all the 10 or 16 or 21 mayors into it if
they don’t keep the peace.
♦
When the present Queensland Government
attempts to do a good thing—which is seldom—it
generally spoils it for want of the necessary spine.
Its Factories and Shops Bill is a remarkably
liberal measure to emanate from such a source,
and the clauses dealing with sweating and the
hours of labor are especially promising. But just
as the Bill had got through the Assembly
tbe wholesale merchants of Brisbane woke
up and indignantly demanded that they
should be excluded from its provisions, and
should still preserve the blessed right to
work their employes any hours and under
any conditions they darned well pleased. The
Government had already decided that overwork
was as bad and unjust in wholesale houses as else-
where, but when it found that the wholesalers
wanted to retain the privilege of doing this injus-
tice it climbed down suddenly. By the votes and
support of ex-democrat Drake and the Govern-
ment party generally, the Leg. Council decided
that the wholesale man should be allowed to do as
he darned well pleased, and he is now doing it
with all his might.
Sydney Telegraph is in a sad plight—it doesn’t
know which way to wobble. The journal which
did its utmost to prevent the accomplishment of
Federation stuck as long as it could to the poli-
tician who did his utmost to prevent the accom-
plishment of Federation, because Lyne is
“amenable” —a weak tool in the Telegraph’s
hands ; and Barton won’t be bossed. Chamber-
lain and Hopetoun wanted Lyne to lead the
Commonwealth —and for the same reason;
because Lyne is dead sure to crawl on the steps
of the throne every chance he gets, and export
African contingents galore in payment for his
beknigbthood. There’s no knowing how much
Barton’s crawl is mere lip-service; and, anyway,
it’s certain he won’t be bossed by the Daily
Careygraph. So the Telegraph did its utmost
to ram Lyne down Australian throats ; and when
it was clear (thanks be to Australia !) that
Australia wouldn’t swallow him—not even with
the suggested renegade-GLASSEY for his col-
league—the Telegraph could only bite its
thumbs with Chamberlain, and glumly watch the
success of Barton. There was a day or two’s
advocacy of Parkes (as the Father of Federa-
tion) in order to belittle Barton’s credit; but
people didn’t take much interest in Parkes—
Parkes is too dead. So now the Telegraph is
booming Freetrade, and its arms are gradually
opening to receive George Reid. And still
Boss Carey isn’t knighted. This is really ter-
rible. The Bulletin implores Governor-
General Hopetoun, it implores Joe Chamber-
lain, it implores Queen V ictoria, for Heaven’s
sake, to give Boss Carey a title. Any little
old rag of a title will do, but please give him a
title. Truly he has earned it; and he won’t be
happy till he gets it. The circumstances are so
frightful that if Queen Victoria doesn’t call upon
Sir Major J. R. Randal Carey to arise next
Birthday, The Bulletin will arise him itself.
Anything rather than This Awful Crisis.
From a Bulletin correspondent:—
The joys of living in a Kanaka town. On Xmas five
1000 Katiakas, inspired by whisky, gin, and opium,
started to raise Cain in the town of Bundaberg. A
posse of police, assisted by sundry civilians, managed to
arrest the ringleaders and eventually put down the riot.
Some of these days some of the Kanaka towns of Queens-
land will be laid in ruins by the drunken orgies of their
semi-cannibal population. Nominally, grog is forbidden
and withheld from the Polynesian ; in reality, he gets as
much as ever he wants when a spree is contemplated.
Just think of it 1 A thousand semi-intoxicated heathen
raising Hades round the residences of decent citizens;
women and children unable to stir out without peril of
outrage ; business paralysed for hours in the neighbor-
hood and everyone filled with apprehension. And we are
gravely informed by leading Q. politicians that these fel-
lows “ made the country and created the sugar industry.”
If aforesaid legislators don’t mind, these same howling
savages will yet lay some of the cane-fields in ashes and
rouse such a'feeling in the sugar districts that deporta-
tion may become a necessity. Surely the alien exodus
from Normanton of some few years ago has not been for-
gotten 1
A- :
Launceston Examiner, in its issue of 28/12/’OO,
had another bang at its old fetish of commerce,
when it proved to its own entire satisfaction that
.Freetrade was the only enduring truth, by pub-
lishing a table showing the trade per head of
Britain before 1840 (when the Protectionist period
may be said to have ended) and since :
1820 .. .. .. £3 10s per head per annum.
1830 3 14s „ „
1840 ... .. .. 4 4s „ „
1850 6 4s „ „
1860 12 17s „ „
1870 17 17s „ „
1880 20 5s „ „
It wisely stopped there: if it had gone on to
1896 it would have shown British trade down to
£lB 14s. per head. But the really interesting
point is that the Examiner seems to know such
a lot about Britain and so very little about
its own country. If commerce is what it wants
there isn’t a Protectionist State in Australia that
can’t wipe the floor with Great Britain in the
matter of trade per head. This perpetual wail of
the Examiner’s that Australia should go in for
Freetrade so as to get as much trade per inhabi-
tant as Britain has, when the poorest of its States
has already got more, is growing to be very
weary as well as very silly.
: 7—♦
The first Federal Ministry of Australia: Edmund
Barton (N.S.W.), Premier and Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs ; William Lyne (N.S.W.), Minis-
ter for Home Affairs ; R. E. O’Connor (N.S.W.),
Honorary Minister for Nothing in Particular;
Neil Lewis (Tasmania), Honorary Minister for
the Same Thing as Mr. O’Connor ; George
Turner (Victoria), Treasurer; Alfred Deakin
(Victoria), Attorney-General and Minister for
Justice; C. C. Kingston (S.A.), Minister for
Trade and Customs; James Dickson (Queens-
land), Minister for Defence ; John Forrest
(Westralia), Postmaster-General.
N.S.W. gets three Federal Ministers, Victoria
two, Queensland, S.A., Westralia, and Tasmania
one each—the Tasmanian and one of the N.S.W.
Ministers being unpaid men without portfolio. The
results pan out as follows: Westralia gets one
Federal Minister to 171,030 people ; Tasmania,
one to 182,300 ; South Australia, one to 370,700 ;
N.S.W., one to 452,217 ; Queensland, one to
482,400; Victoria, which comes off worst of all,
one Federal Minister to 581,700 people. Forrest,
of W.A., the man from the least-populous State
and the one who stuck to provincialism longest,
thus comes in for the loaf and the fish, while Tas-
mania, which did much good work in the cause,
gets only an honorary portfolio. As Postmaster-
General, Bigjohn —who didn’t even know, till he
made his visit to the East when the Federal Bill
was under consideration, that it was possible to
sort letters in a moving train —promises to be the
joke of the Federal Cabinet.
—•%
That great logician, G. Reid, actually uses it as
an argument against Protection that Victoria has
a good anti-sweating law and a legal minimum
wage—neither of which exists in N.S.W. He
says that this shows that Protection makes these
things necessary. And if they didn’t exist he
would probably say that proved that a Proteo-
tionist State couldn’t afford to abolish sweating or
to raise wages. In like manner George should
be against N.S.W. Old Age Pension law on the
ground that it shows that Preetrade makes that
form of relief necessary. Also against early-
closing and the shortening of hours in coal-mines,
lest they should imply that under Freetrade there
had been late closing and unduly long hours in
coal-mines. Reid’s logio can be boiled down to
two sentences: —
(1) Every social reform that is brought about in a Pro-
tectionist State is bad. It proves that Protection created
the necessity for that, reform.
(2) And every social reform that is not brought about
in a Protectionist State is bad. It proves that Protection
is naturally antagonistic to reform, and that under Pro-
tection it is impossible to reform abuses because Protec-
tion lives on them, and would fall down if they were re-
moved.
♦
Day after day, as they preside -over inquests on
boarded-out children, Melbourne Coroners Cand-
ler and Morrison and post-rnor-temist-in-chief,
Dr. Neild, dilate on the terrible infant mortality.
The present Victorian system of having all such
infants under the alleged care of registered nurses
is, no doubt, better than the old happy-go-lucky
no-system-at-all, but, as Dr. Neild says, the post-
mortems nearly always show the infant’s death to
be due mainly to improper feeding. And though
the inspecting constable usually gives the nurse a
good character as a respectable person who
keeps her house clean—according to his
notions —the early destination of the undesir-
able- infant still appears to be, as of old,
the grave. Also the fact that the said infant
has so often to be inquested proves that
that small entity ordinarily gets little or
no medical attention until two late. The appoint-
ment of married mothers as inspectresses has been
urged, and doubtless the ordinary married mother
of half-a-dozen youngsters knows more than a
large, heavy policeman about the requirements of
the nursery, but the only institution that can
afford any sort of a real remedy to the staggering
infant-mortality of to-day is a foundling hospital.
Society, by the stigma it places on the unmarried
mother, affords a direct incentive to the infant’s
speedy “removal”; as a State youngster —the
child of a country whose posterity is, so to speak,
becoming scarce by degrees and beautifully less—
it would be supplied with properly-instructed
nurses, qualified doctors, the best obtainable food,
and every other inducement to prolong its much-
needed existence.
♦
B. R. Wise (in a cocked hat and sword) at Sydney
military banquet:
He trusted the visitors from England would return
with a feeling of being able to truthfully say that what
Australia had done during the last 12 months had not
exhausted its resources—(cheers)—and that Australians
were ever ready to bear their part in any just quarrel of
the Empire. (Cheers).
Mark the foxy Wise’s reservation “just quarrel”—
as if every Imperial quarrel (including the war to
force Indian opium upon the Chinese) wasn’t a
just quarrel. This is the B. R. Wise who, in
print, 12 years ago, characterised the Soudan
expedition as “ a lamentable eccentricity.” Same
B. R. Wise considered in ’BB that
The full development of civic life can never be attained
in a state of dependency; that subjection to a distant
country, however seldom that subjection may be mani,
fested, exercises a depressing influence upon the national
character, by creating a false standard of public virtue
and private taste.
Same B. R. Wise wrote in 1888 that—
Union with England we qladly believe will come ; but
it must be the union of an equal with an equal, and not
the union of a superior with a subordinate ; so that it is
no paradox to say that the first step towards union must
be Separation.-
And same B. R. Wise (in cocked hat and sword),
now trimming his sails the other way, doesn’t
think African contingents are “a lamentable
eccentricity”; has nothing to say on behalf of
Australian independence; has forgotten that the
first step to union with Britain is Separation from
Britain. Bulletin thinks it about time we bred
a new race of straight-going politicians. At pre-
sent we seem to have chiefly straight-going-for-
billets politicians.
The Queensland Factories and Shops Act, which
came into force on Ist January, is a good measure
with too many exceptions and apologies in it. For
instance, the Minister may forbid the taking of
meals in factories—or again he may not, and he
probably won’t. Yet a factory is not a very
healthy or desirable place for meals. No pre-
mium can be charged to apprentices in clothing
or boot factories unless the inspector consents—
which he probably will. No female under 18 and
no boy is to be employed in any factory after six at
night or before six in the morning unless the
inspector is agreeable. The inspector probably
will be agreeable. In fact, he is quite certain to
be agreeable. Boilers have to be inspected, and
the penalty for increasing pressure beyond what
the inspector certifies the boiler can bear, and
thereby running serious risk of explosion and
general slaughter, is not more than £lOO fine
or six months’ gaol. But apparently it may
be as little as Is. or the “rising of the court”
if the J.P. has a sympathy for unsafe boilers.
No person under 21 is to receive less wages than
2s. 6d. a week after the first month ; why the em-
ployer should be allowed to swindle any person
under 21 out of even the first month’s wage is a
mystery. There is no minimum wage fixed for
persons over 21 —another serious omission. All the
same, the Queensland Factories and Shops Act
has many good points. It provides for the fencing
of dangerous machinery, prohibits the employ-
ment of children under 13 in factories, limits
hours of labor to 48 per week with certain excep-
tions, provides for the inspection of boilers, for
providing seats for female employes, and in various
other ways gives the Bananaland employe a lift
in the social scale.
In the distributing of State railway extensions,
the Philp Govt, showed itself possessed of a fine
sense of justice —and discrimination. The
Northern line is to be extended to Richmond—
whereby the Townsville people, who thrive on
the trade of the Northern line, are to be placated.
The Brisbane lion, again, is to be tickled by a
line to Goondiwindi, and also by a small branch
from Nerang to Coolangatta, both of which
localities are already well supplied with means of
communication to adjacent markets. The desire
of saving them from the hateful influence of
N.S.W., and subjecting them to the sway of
Brisbane, is the root of this outburst of Govt,
generosity. On the other hand, the Central line,


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In oi'der to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IR VINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL and B; H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and. Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
O. CARLISLE TAYLOR," General Manager for Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER]
A NATURAL
■ ;
8
*
m
THE
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to th,e Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matt© Bought-^-
. . . ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Teems quoted for Larr/e Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E._ SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Austr„|f
about the beat-paying State line of great length
in Queensland, is not to be pushed out at all,
although its extension would probably be
the most profitable work (in the long run) that the
State could undertake. But the Central district
is the great stronghold of the Queensland Opposi-
tion, and must bo punished duly for its past recal-
citrance. No wonder North and Centre wanted
to haul Brisbane into the Federation! By the
time the Commonwealth manages to control the
railways, scores of millions’ sterling damage will
have been done to the Federal assets by the
Private Interest brigade.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Monte Christo.”
Theatre Royal Grand Opera Season.
Tivoli “ Puss in Boots.”
Lyceum “ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Palace “A Message from Mars.”
Her Majesty’s “ Australis, or the City of Zero.”
Redfern Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOVVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ With Flying Colours."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athknasum Hall. Bio-Tableau.
The most terrible show of Commonwealth
week was the “Landing of Captain Cook” at
Kurnell. The idea first struck the capacious
brain of Daoey, M.L.A. (“Banjo” Paterson once
wrote some verses about one Dacey riding on a
mule), and the Lyne Government, which probably
wants his vote, fooled him to the top of his bent.
On the glaring sands and under the glaring sun,
several thousand people, more or less tight,
gathered and hiccuped to see Captain Cook land
once more on the almost uninhabited shores of
Australia. An old, battered vessel was borrowed
to represent the Endeavour. A few obscure
actors were engaged to be Captain Cook and
his companions. iSome of Meston’s tame niggers
were brought down from Queensland to be
the ferocious aborigines. The police (some of
them in a state of hie) chased the crowd
of politicians and others off the beach all they
knew, and explained that the shore was sup-
posed to be practically deserted, and it couldn’t
be practically deserted if 3000 people were there
shrieking with laughter under big umbrellas. It
was a gruesome make-believe, and it would have
saved a lot of trouble if Captain Cook had arrived
at Mark Foy’s shop in the Paddington omnibus,
it being agreed to carry the deception a little
further, and regard the Paddington omnibus as a
ship, and the big drapery shop as a lonely shore,
and Mark Foy as an aboriginal resisting the white
man’s landing.
** * *
The Sydney free theatrical matinees on
Jan. 4 were a complete success, and the theatre
lessees, actors and actresses must have felt
rewarded for their generosity. 8058 tickets were
issued and not many were unused or misused.
Comments were made by all the managers at the
prosperous-looking dress circles.; but the well-
dressed women who received tbhse tickets were
the guardians of children boarded out by the State
dept. A high standard is required by the Board
for these homes, and the guardians had evidently
vied with one another in turning out their little
charges creditably.
*» * *
The “ Bohemian Girl ” is the latest addi-
tion to Musgrove’s operatic list at Sydney Royal,
and it is certainly difficult to remember when
Sydney saw that war-worn old opera under such
expensive conditions. The distracted Austrian
empire is a blaze of color, and is clothed regard-
less of the exhausted state of the Austrian
exchequer. As for the principals, they are at
least highly respectable. There has probably
never been another such Devilshoof as Farley, but
Gilbert King is a good representative of the
character all the same, and a most picturesque
vagabond to boot. He is a smaller and more
frivolous and, judging by his stage complexion, a
harder-drinking Devilshoof than Farley was. As
the opera wears on the slow tenor of its way,
and the years go by in the tattered tents
of Bohemia, Devilshoof grows more flushed
and beery of aspect and more frivolous.
Between acts I. and 11. he has appar-
ently been out to see a dog thirteen years
long, and examined the animal thoroughly; In a
company where the men run so much to stoutness
this active and dissipated backslider is a person
that one is glad to meet. Umberto Salvi sings his
p irt moderately well, and talks it in a strange
accent, and his Thaddeus carries a dead weight of
corporation which must have grievously en-
cumbered any flying Pole. In the first act the
uniform of Thaddeus is a dream of loveliness, not
at all like the uniform of a battered and defeated
campaigner who has been sleeping out with the
Carpathian bear for a pillow. Lawrence Mooney
is a stout, comfortable father, a good actor, with a
fine, clear voice, and his ridiculous conduct in
praying for the restoration of his stolen daughter
instead of lighting out in pursuit of Devilshoof is
excusable, inasmuch as his chance of overtaking
that spry marauder over a rough country isn’t worth
mentioning. All the same, the absolute assur-
ance of the stout father that Providence is a thin,
long-legged institution which will promptly run
down the flying kidnapper is almost pathetic.
Providence leaves the matter alone for 13 long
years, and even then Arline is only restored
through the wickedness of an angry brown woman
who sees her fat Pole being snatched away, from
her, and through the meanness of a nephew who
gets drunk. Yet the “ Bohemian Girl ” lias never
been held up to the scorn it deserves as an irre-
ligious play which teaches that a long gun is
better than a short prayer, and that faith isn’t in
it with a stout heart and a swift pair of legs.
Probably Miss Agnes Janson, in the
rather thankless part of the Gipsy Queen, is
the gem of the present production. Miss Jan-
son is an artist in every respect, and her brown
woman makes the very best of her opportunities.
Miss Lilian Coomber is a pretty Arline and is very
finely dressed when she is restored to the marble
halls of the father who failed to run after her in
her childhood. She does her love-scenes with
some spirit, and her voice, though not very strong,
is mostly on hand when it is wanted. Also
Clarence Leumane’s Florestein is a very passable
idiot, and holds up an expensive uniform which
would otherwise fall on the floor. “ Bohemian
Girl ” isn’t on the Royal stage as a regular thing’
but after “Faust,” “Carmen,” “ Lohengrin”and
“II Trovatore ” have suffered casual resurrections
it makes a further reappearance on Satur-
day. After that its tired feet will probably come
up out of Bohemia at irregular intervals for the
rest of the season.
** * *
The great, dull pantomime at Her
Majesty’s. Sydney, has done well during the
holiday week, but then the holiday week was a
time when even a tombstone would draw an
audience. For the future it has to face the blast
of criticism with its own dreariness and its own
Dan O’Connor as its chief supports. The people
of 2001 A.D., while wandering in strange clothes
on Circular Quay, Sydney, meet an ancient with
white hair that hangs down to his waist and gets
into Gulliver’s ears, and this person, as he publicly
gives way at the knees, says he is Daniel
O’Connor. He also states that Parkes was the
Father of Federation, and asks people to come
for a row in his boat. Daniel, with his hair and
his boat and his collapsible knees, takes up a
great deal of time, and his nearest approach to
being funny is when he comes behind people and
lets his beard drift into their ears, And the rest
of the panto is much on a par with Daniel.
** * *
Sydney has accepted the “ Message from
Mars ” in a, friendly spirit, though that quaint
production is so completely out of the ordinary
dramatic run that it is difficult to place it, and
the public has an uneasy feeling that an attempt
is being made to improve its morals. The public
hates to have its morals improved. By way of a
timely advt. it was cabled last week that Tesla,
the great electrician, was firmly convinced that
certain electric signals recorded by his instruments
were received from Mars, and that the inhabitants
of that planet were trying to call to us across the
barren and unploughed wastes of space. There
was no special relevance about this cablegram, yet
the writer knows one man who, on reading it,
straightway booked a seat for the Palace show
in order to pursue the subject further. He was a
man who took little interest in theatres, too, in a
general way, but he felt that Mars was becoming
a live subject and wanted to keep his eye on it.
** * *
The days of the “New Barmaid” were
few and troubled at the beer-pump, as this paper
prophesied last week. That stout young lady
with the great bush of golden hair will dance
irrelevantly in the public-house for the last time
on Friday night, and “When the Lamps are
Lighted ” is to be staged at Sydney Lyceum on
Saturday. Judging by some faint remembrances
of the drama in question, it seems safe to pro-
phesy that its days will be short and troubled
also; in fact, the management has apparently
foreseen this, and the “ Lamps ” are announced for
six nights only. The writer has some vague recol-
lection to the effect that a certain eccentric slavey
did a great deal to brighten this play on its pre-
vious visit, and trusts to see that girl again on
Saturday.
“Monte Christo” is fixed for at least
another week at Sydney Criterion. Dampier, as
the holy-looking person who tells people to wait
and hope, and trust in Providence to give them a
chance of getting their knife into their enemy, is
as good as ever. In the play there does not seem
much reason for the elaborate scheme of vengeance
which Dampier concocts, nor does it appear why
his hair should vary, or why he should pretend to
be his own brother. Also there is an irrelevant
attempt to murder him which seems to have been
put in merely to fill up time. The play has been
painfully Englished so as to keep Mercedes faith-
ful to the memory of the lost Dantes instead of
married to the other fellow. English sentiment
exacts that the heroine must always keep faithful
to the first man’s memory through the tear-stained
years that intervene between her and the tomb.
All the same it is taking a sinful liberty with a
great story, and some night a short stout ghost
will call on Dampier and ask him in French what
he means by it, and say “ cochon ” and other like
epithets.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus goes on as brightly as
before ; the three Dunbars cleave the air as reck-
lessly as usual, and Rhodesia, the lady juggler,
juggles in her blameless top-hat, after the manner
of one who has overcome the laws of gravity and
is on speaking terms with the Fourth Dimension
of Space. There is very little dullness in Fitz-
gerald’s Circus, which cannot be said of all the
Christmas shows, and the lady who stands on her
teeth and revolves gracefully thereon is, perhaps,
the least dull of them all.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli pantomime still rushes
along, and as it rushes one becomes more and
more impressed by the riskiness of Billie Barlow’s
first costume. It is a costume that doesn’t simply
suggest the “nood” in an ordinary sense; it
rather suggests that Miss Bill has taken off her
flesh and is wandering about clothed in her naked
soul. Noni Rickards is improving, and Mephisto
Diver’s idea of wearing red and green lights
over his nobility seems in keeping with
this time of illumination. The ballet which
dances in the Marble and Floral Hall
of Carrabas’ castle is a great effect ; . there
are two acrobats who do somewhat unusual
things; and a man on a bike ties himself and his
machine in a very large knot in a very small space..
These latter, however, are only clever. The
ballet in the marble hall contrives to look as if it
was a trifle sinful as well, and the public likes sin.
The man who can invent a perfectly new sin will
make a fortune.
*# * *
“Cast Adrift” has been given at the
small lost Sydney theatre where people fall down
habitually with a great noise in the gallery, and
where there is no dress circle. The cast is stated
on the programme to be “powerful,” and the
people who eat peanuts in the front seats are noti-
fied in the same document that carriages should be
ready atJlO.4O. “Cast Adrift,” wherein no one
is cast adrift at all, has a brilliant spot or two of
originality, as the funny man does not listen to
the murderous plot behind a door but beneath the
floor. There is also a girl who is tempted in an
incidental way to be the villain’s unmarried wife,
and who forthwith reels off so much about
her early days, and the innocent rosebush beneath
her infant window, and the father who taught
her to be virtuous, and various other facts, and
altogether makes herself so deadly dull, that she
never gets tempted any more. A good many
people are decoyed co deaths that don’t come off,
and a girl is tied to a rock to wait the rising tide,
which doesn’t rise because it is painted. There is
also a trial scene where a judge addresses an in-
visible jury, and one voice answers from behind
the scenes because the co. does not run to 12 good
men and true. Some wintry storms are also adver-
tised, but they take place behind the scenes, and
do not even howl at the windows. The Standard,
taking one consideration with another, is the best
comedy theatre in Sydney just now.
“ With Flying Colors ” will hold the ex-
pansive floor at Melb. Royal until further notice,
sanctified by the approval of the present historian.
A melodrama that aspires to sanity, but permits
bloodshed, and compels applause for the capital
offence of a felon named Lotan, is not a work to
be passed with a haughty stare. Bland Holt’s
latest is his best offering since “ White Heather.”
It appeals to human sympathies. The harmless,
brainless mariner who goes over to the spectral
majority in the first act gets shot through the
temple whilst singing and pounding away
at a piano, a time when many a fellow
creature might be potted off this mortal
coil with advantage to the Commonwealth.
The report of the pistol having been ap-
propriately drowned in the victim’s roar
of melody, Albert Norman spreads the corpse
neatly upon the carpet, with the pistol in its own
dead hand —the hand that had been smiting the
treble end of the key-board only a minute before.
So the police work up a brilliant case of suicide
against deceased, and the world proceeds as usual,
for one comic songster less, or more, makes no
difference to Society at large. The son of the sea
who fell suddenly from the summit of his
top-note is a warning to the audience, never-
theless. Lotan Hackett likewise points a
moral or two. Judging from his front name one
would expect the blackest wickedness of
Lotan, yet he proves that a man can be kinder
than his god-parents. Lotan rises superior to his
“ bloomin’moniker ”in many respects. He per-
sistently asks his wife if she loves him, and she
replies tiredly that of course she does, and he
believes her every time. Lotan’s astonishment
when Florence breaks in upon his penal servitude
to confess her sins is very pathetic. Other people,
including a giddy old admiral, had regarded the
lady with affectionate suspicion, whereas Lotan
went on believing like a Harmy convert. The
confession makes things quick and lively in
the closing scene. As a first aid to venge-
ance the escaped Lotan hurls an oil lamp
at his betrayer, who wards off the missile
with a chair, after which Lotan bangs his head
through a window, breaks the table across his
back and chokes him. The destruction of Mrs.
Lotan’s lodger by her infuriated old man is more
heard than seen, but the smashes speak for them-
selves, and the arrival of reinforcements with a
new lamp settles any doubts on the subject.
Albert Norman is discovered dead in two places,
with Lotan gloating over the ruin he has wrought.
A few remarks about Bland Holt’s honeymoon
residence are crowded out of this issue.
** * *
“ Floradora,” the place where the perfume
comes from, stands where it did, serene and
beautiful. The same overwhelming crop of pink
and blue vegetation that flourished on the hill
slopes a month ago is still waiting to be cut down
and cast into Cyrus’s distillery. No work has
been accomplished on the island since Rat
Bathurst first told the girls to start out with their
baskets and the dear creatures puffed cigarette-
smoke at him. A right-thinking overseer
wouldn’t expect them to toil. If they merely
go for a swim in the silent sea before
breakfast, and take a stroll among the flowers
to dry themselves, it should suffice to keep
them in perfect health. Carrie Moore declares
emphatically that she hates work. In fact, at
one time or other, Carrie hates everything and
everybody bar Brownlow, and the chances are
that the favoured baritone will be sorry he ever
made a countess of her. Nine marriages are im-
minent when the curtain drops on “Floradora,”
and they all look rather dangerous, but the riskiest
of the lot is the alliance between Irish peer
Brownlow and the dusky little scorcher with the
rolling eyes. If ever he should stop out very late
to record his hereditary vote Countess Carrie will
invade the House of Lords, and drag her particu-
lar legislator home bv the ear.
Last week’s bill at Rickards’s has been
renewed. Lottie Collins is alternately a ran-datl
spinster, a coachman’s wife, and a widow wno
hides her red intentions under an outward sem-
blance of black despair. The Leonards improve
on acquaintance, especially in their old-fashioned
family disturbance re the goodness and otherwise
of their respective mothers. And the fresh young
Sisters Pine also give a new flavor to a form or
duet which was ancient long before they had
parents.
# & *£ *
The Biograph at the Athenaeum Hall
seems likely to supply a want for another
fortnight or so. Some of the pictures are very
good, and some that look rather the worse for
wear wouldn’t be so worn if they were less
interesting. The Bull Fight is patchy but
educational. Although it does not come up to the
fight of fiction it gives a fair idea of how a
matador can scoot when the male cow with the
crumpled horn makes a move in the direction of
business.
** * *
The various pomps and vanities of Mus-
grove’s pantomime continue to pomp as before at
Melbourne Princess’s. Five hundred costumes
during the evening give a sense of satisfaction to
the girls who wear them and the people who have’
paid to gaze on the general result. Also, 1600
electric-lighted particles in Cinderella’s fairy car-
riage form a constellation devoutly to be admired,
and the tiny ponies attached to the transcendental
buggy look like near relations of the rats that
brought the bubonic to Sydney. Likewise,
the scene - paintings are worthy of the gar-
ments in the foreground, and the Darto
dances have an absinthian fascination which
is very acceptable for a change. All the same,
the few sips of Darto one gets at each performance
are quite as much as one really wants. As for the
new British comedians, they don’t yet show any
reason for having come such a long way to do so
little. Two of them impersonate Ugly Sisters in
the saddest styles of pantomome humor, another
is a painful boy-in-buttons, whilst the supposed
principal comedian of the crowd figures as a foggy -
voiced parent who gets considerably lost when
left to himself. In comparison with these com-
monplace strangers, the two local men, Cass and
Berkeley, as a pair of dilapidated bailiffs, seem
about good enough to have been imported from
the Moon. Not that they are very droll.
* * * *
Hard to say whether the “ book ” is
responsible for the depressions that set in between
the bursts of splendour. The fooling that fetches
laughs in a pantomime is worked along the lines
as a rule. A mummer who puts in no capital —bor-
rowed or original—isn’t worth worrying about,
and that’s what appears to be the matter with
Musgrove’s mummers from the northern hemis-
phere. If they have any private resources to
draw upon, let ’em draw and defend themselves
against the imputation. It is an awful thing for a
man to get suspected of prowling about a
pantomime without visible means of support.
The solemn duty of being funny is imposed upon,
every male person named on the bill, and if he
can’t provoke a smile any other way, lie should
roll violently down a steep place, as though he
were getting hurt. Nellie Stewart and her atten-
dant lady-boy go a little more briskly than at first.
The first duet of Nellie and Cinderella also im-
proves with age, and the demure heroine aforesaid
(Miss Elise Cooke) is adding a little new anima-
tion to her other charms.
#* * »
Up to now this has been an unusually dull
Xmas season for Melb. shows owing to the exodus
of festive people to Sydney and the gloominess of
the local commercial outlook. But it happens to
be a season of exceptional attractions at the
theatres. “ Florodora,” a big spectacle as well as
a charming musical comedy, was bound to do
satisfactory business. Musgrove’s panto, is a
record expenditure on dresses and fittings. Bland
Holt has put up a melodrama of the best quality
obtainable nowadays, and the programme at
Rickards’s includes the actually costliest “ turn ”
he has ever imported. Newspaper pars, speak
with awe of the £lOO a we 'k salary which Mus-
grove parts to the Dartos, but nobody has men-
tioned that Lottie Collins on her own gets 25 per-
cent, more than the Dartos’ “century.” Which
seems astonishing only to those who can’t appre-
ciate the difference between a gilt bevelled-edged
artist and a smart stereotyped serio-comic.
“ Smiler ” Hales has been spreading him-
self in London about the alleged adventures of
his past. He related how, when he was mining
reporter on a gold-field journal, and wanted te
find out what was the real state of the case in a
certain mine which had barred visitors,, he went
by night to. the unguarded prospecting-shaft, de-
scended nearly 300 ft. feet of ladders, and then fell
20ft. to the bottom—the last ladder having been
displaced. “I was soon in the workings, and
found the stuff as rich as could be. I went back
the same way as I came in, and the next day our
paper had such a report on the Golden Nugget
Mine as sent the shares up with a jump.
They’d been bearing .their own shares to
buy them in at nothing almost.” The ingenuous
Hales, however, forgot to explain how he fell up
that ladderless 20ft. of shaft! A recent Daily
News review of Hales’s “ Campaign Pictures,”
by the way, calls the author “a new type—a
living symbol of the great Imperialistic move-
ment —”, and says “he learnt self-help, and earned
his 1 tucker ’ under the free air of Heaven in the
back-blocks and the goldfields.” On the whole,
“ A.G.” must want a pretty big hat, now !


vp
3
IC3
S 3
UZ
~*4ZD M
=^&.
TJRINKIT
Jor HEALTH
And you Derive
tog?
DRINKIT
for Pleasure
Akd You Acquire
Health
fsdf
ZET2 SPA Proprietary Limited
SYimEY>
“EN<SLANP’S FAVORITE.”
player’s Davy Cut
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
ww
<5
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
have been successful with their tender for the two new
pump ends for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, Spottiswood Pumping Station. These pump ends
have been designed by the Board Engineer, and are a
departure from the existing ones and weigh about 65
tons each.*
• * « *
The City Leader of 28th July, 1900, writes
regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited. “ The security of this office is unchallengeable,
for its funds are ever increasing and now stand at
£2,385,266 including the sum of £123,609 which has been
added during the year.”
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
» * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
streetj Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* » * »
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
London Goldfields, Ltd., Yic. : Five weeks ago
the London and Globe Finance Corporation attempted
this issue. Capital, 1750,000 in 150,000 £5 shares. It is
an off-shoot of the Victorian Gold Estates, and it was
claimed that £lOO,OOO had already been expended in de-
velopment and equipment on this part of the property,
and £50,000 additional working capital was provided by
the issue. The British Australasian said of it : “The
public are strongly fortified by the report of Murray, Vic.
Govt. Geologist, and Mr. Gore, both of whom affirm that
the ground contains gold in highly payable quantities,
averaging at least loz. per square fathom. The net
annual leturn of gold is expected to reach £280,980, and
with expenses at £75,477 there would be annual net profit
of £205,503. The purchase price is a big one (£700,000),
but then the property is a big one, comprising some
4500 acres.” The idea of estimating the value of a gold
mine from its superficial area !
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-nt., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington , and
A uckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne,
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching: Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUNM
The Bulletin has before it a document issued
by the National Mutual Life Association re a loan to one
of its clients on the security of the surrender value of his
policy. It sets forth that the interest on the loan is to
be 8 per cent., if said interest is paid each half-year not
more than 10 days after the due date. If it runs more
than 10 days in arrear the interest is to be 10 per cent.
The National Mutual lends out its total funds at an
average rate of less than 5 per cent. If a person who is
not a client wants to borrow on mortgage of his house it
will let him have the money at 6 per cent. ; yet there is
no absolute security about the mortgage business—in
fact, it is the business on which the life-offices have made
their largest losses. And when one of its own members,
to whom it surety owes more consideration than to an
outsider, asks for a loan on much better security—on
security which is absolutely beyond question, unless the
National Mutual’s policies are not worth their face value
—it charges him 8 or 10 per cent. And the National
Mutual would probably be quite hurt if this was called
extortion and usury.
* • * *
Revenue returns for December, 1900 :
„ . Increase as com-
Revenue for pared with
December, 1900. De F ce mber, 1899.
New South Wales .. £970,338 .. £98,643
Victoria .. .. 717,964 .. 38,206
Westralia .. 269,348 .. 22,408
Tasmania .. 97,422 .. 4,561
Decrease as com-
pared with
December, 1899.
Queensland .. .. 388,367 .. 41,729 _
The results for the half-year to 31st December, 1900, in
the case of the six Continental States, and for the year
to 31st December, 1900, in the case of Tasmania, are as
follows :
Revenue to Increase as com-
31st Dec., pared with
1900. 31st Dec., 1899.
N.S.W. (6 months) .. £5,104,926 .. £341,218
(Rents of resumed area included)
N.S.W. (6 months) .. 5,045,175 .. 281,467
(Rents of resumed area not included)
Victoria (6 months) . . 3,729,105 .. 193,373
Westralia (6 months) .. 1,489,550 .. 134,608
Tasmania (12 months) .. 1,054,190 .. 110,220
S. Australia (6 months) .. 1,305,009 .. 43,669
Decrease as com-
pared with
31st Dec., 1899.
Queensland (6 months) .. 2,235,450 .. 167,883
Reduced to a common denominator of so much increase
of revenue per head per annum the best showing is made
by Westralia, and the States thereafter taper down in the
following order till drought-stricken, tick-stricken Queens-
land brings up the rear. Coghlan’s last-published
population estimates are the basis of comparison :
Increase of revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia £1 11 5
Tasmania .. .. .. 0 12 1
New South Wales .. .. 0 8 4
Victoria 0 6 8
South Australia .. .. 0 4 9
Decrease of revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Queensland 0 13 11
* * * *
The prospects for Queensland are very gloomy.
The war-bill and the steadily-growing interest on the
public debt have greatly swelled the expenditure, which
is £251,159 larger than for the corresponding half-year of
1899. The natural result of £251,159 increase in expendi-
ture and £167,883 diminution in revenue is that things
are £419,042 worse than they were at this time last year.
If things go downhill at this rate till 30th June, 1901, it is
a fair inference that they will then be £838,000 worse
than at June, 1900, in which case Queensland will close
the year with a record deficit of nearly £BOO,OOO. Also,
the half-year’s loan expenditure (£585,708) is £35,187 more
than for the corresponding half of ’99. With less in-
come, more ordinary expenditure, more loan expenditure
and more interest to pay, things look bad for Queensland.
» * *
They also look bad in New South Wales. The
Lyne Government still persists in regarding the rents
from the resumed area as ordinary revenue, regardless
of the fact that when the price of the resumed property
is fixed the award will carry with it interest from the date
of resumption, which will probably absorb these rents
to the last penny. Therefore, they are merely trust
moneys. The remarkable delay in getting to work to
decide the price to be paid for the resumed area, and to
settle up the payment and the back interest, suggests
that the Lyne Government wants to keep these trust
moneys in hand as long as possible to make its accounts
look good, when in reality they are very bad.
And even reckoning these trust funds as
revenue, things look bad. The revenue is £341,218
more than for the corresponding half of 1899, and the ex-
penditure has increased by £381,324 —therefore things
are £40,106 worse than at 31st December, ’99. If affairs
go on at this rate it may be fairly assumed that the
deficit next June will be larger even than the shortage of
last June, and it was large enough. If the trouble arose
through a diminution of loan expenditure, which cast an
increased burden on revenue, it would be a thing to be
proud of; but it doesn’t. Instead, loan expenditure
(£1,310,302) is £356,455 more than the loan expenditure at
December, 1899. At the present rate of progress it looks
as if the year’s loan expenditure was going to be well on
towards £3,000,000. The O’Sullivan Ministry is having a
great time, and with only half the year gone its visible
shortage is £360,013.
Victoria and Tasmania publish no expenditure
accounts as yet, but with the war-bill still going on, Old
Age Pensions to pay this financial year (N.S.W. doesn’t
pay any until next financial year), its share of the Federal
Government expenses, and £35,000 extra interest through
the M’Lean Government’s borrowings, there is a suspicion
that Victoria is in a pretty tight place. S. A.’s half-yearly
expenditure account hasn’t appeared yet.
Westralia’s expenditure is only known up to the
end of November. Its situation then was : Revenue (5
months) showed an increase of £112,200 as compared with
five months to 30th November, 1899. Expenditure
showed an increase of £230,904, owing chiefly war-bills
and interest on new loans, so things were £118,704 worse
at 30th November, 1900, than at 30th November, 1899. For
the first five months of present financial year, Westralia’s
income just managed to keep £9305 ahead of outgoings.
Apparently Westralia isn’t going to have any surplus this
year. In fact, the only State which promises to have a
surplus on present appearances is Tasmania.
« * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland, which com-
pleted its 30th half-year on 31st December, 1900, shows
up as follows for the last 10 half-years:—
Dividends, Total
Profits. Dividend Reserves at
Duty, &c. each date.
December, 1895 £37,155
June, 1896 •• £6,445 {^^.=£4,922J M|67B
December, 1896 6,515 2£- per cent. = 4,922 36,271
June, 1897 .. 7,463 2J „ = 5,414 38,320
(£19,483 capital forfeited and written off)
December, 1897 7,440 2£ per cent. = 5,075 40,685
June, 1898 .. 7.460{i ritt ” n off = 40,070
December, 1898 7,579 2£ per cent. = 5,075 42,574
June, 1899 .. 7,830 2£ „ = 5,075 45,329
(£1,097 capital forfeited and written off)
December, 1899 8,322 2£ per cent. = 5,056 48,595
June. 1900 .. 8,383 {s ritfc » n off = |g} 48,423
December, 1900 8,433 per cent. = 5,055 51,801
The profits are equal to £3 17s. 9d. per cent, on capital
and total reserves, whereas profits for half-year to June,
1900, were £3 17s. 3d. per cent., so there is a slight
improvement. The reserves consist of £50,000 reserve
fund invested in State securities, and £lBOl undivided
profit. During the last five years the Royal Bank has
■written off £3OOO to cover losses by fraud and £28,080 of
forfeited capital and earnings to cover ordinary losses and
depreciation. This seems a good deal for a small institu-
tion to write off in so short a time in addition to the
ordinary provision for bad debts, but, considering the
present very gloomy outlook in drought-stricken Queens-
land, the wisdom of making every possible provision for
losses is unquestionable. In fact, the only fear with
regard to all Queensland institutions just now is that the
provision may not be large enough. If the present disas-
ters of drought, tick, huge borrowing and Philp mis-
government continue, something heavy is dead sure to
strike Queensland ere long, and make trouble for its
banks and financial establishments generally. At the
same time the Royal is a strong institution and can
stand a lot of hard times.
v * * *
That very thrilling American institution, the
Independent Order of Foresters, came out strong last
week with a huge advt. about its alleged cheap rates of
life assurance. This was how it stated its case :
“ Compare the Total Cost of Membership, and Assurance
Policy for £lOOO at Age 35.
Assurance Companies’ average
premium per quarter is £7 7s.
6d.—-per year £29 10 0
1.0. F. Premium per quarter is
£4 6s. 3d. —per year .. .-. £l7 5 0
Entrance Fees 1 10 0
Medical Examination Fee .. 10 0
And for Court Dues, per annum,
say 15 0
2l 0 0
Saving in the 1.0. F. for the first year .. £8 10 0
This shows a gain of £8 10s. for the first year ; but in
years following the saving is still greater, the annual
cost of assurance and membership in The Independent
1 rder of Foresters being Premium, £l7 55., and Court
Dues, £1 ss.—total, £lB 10s., against £29 10s. in an
Ordinary Assurance Company, making the saving in the
1.0. F. £ll every year.”
This looks very well until it is inspected. Then
it doesn’t look at all well. In the first place the average
rate charged by Australasian offices for a with-profit
policy for £lOOO at age 35 is not £29 10s. per annum —
that statement is pure fake and impudence. The real
rates charged by offices doing business in Australasia are:
Annual Premium for With-Profit Policy of £lOOO,
Age 35 Last Birthday.
Citizens .. ..£2B 17 6 Mutual of New
A.M.P 28 10 10 York .. .. £27 1 8
L.L. &G. .. 28 10 10 Equitable .. 27 1 8
Colonial Mutual 28 4 2 National Mutual 26 12 6
Aust. Widows’ Temperance and
Fund .. .. 28 0 0 General .. 26 4 2
Mutual Life Asso- City Mutual .. 25 15 0
ciation.. .. 28 0 0 M.L. Government 25 6 8
New York Life .. 27 2 0
Instead of the average rate charged by offices doing busi-
ness in Australasia for a £lOOO with-profit policy at age
35 being £29 10s., the most expensive office doing busi-
ness here doesn’t charge that sum, and the cheaper ones
charge down to £4 3s. 4d. less. If there is no law to pre-
vent an assurance office getting business by thus mis-
representing its rivals there certainly should be.
* * * *
Another beautiful element of fake is that the
1.0. F. compares its own without- bonus rates with the
wifA-bonus rates of other offices. The without-bonus
rates of some offices doing business in Australasia are :
Annual Premium, Without Profit Policy for £lOOO,
Age 34 Last Birthday.
A.M.P. .. £22 15 0 National Mutual £2llB 4
City Mutual 22 15 0 Mutual of N. York 21 14 2
When the without-bonus policies of Australasian offices
are thus placed alongside the without-bonus policies of
the 1.0. F. a good deal of the glory is knocked out of the
latter blatant institution.
. Another curious wile lies in the 1.0. F. taking a
£lOOO policy as the basis of comparison. Assurance
offices issue probably 20 policies of £lOO for one of £lOOO.
The average size of all the policies in force in Australasia
last year was only £272. And though the 1.0. F. charges
less premium for a £lOOO policy (without bonus) than the
Australasian offices do, it charges a lot more on a policy
of £loo—which is a great deal more important. The
figures are about as follows, it being assumed that the
average policy lasts ten years, and dividing the entrance
fee accordingly.
* * * *
Annual Cost of a £lOO Policy (Without
Bonus) at Age 35.
1.0. F. A.M.P.
Premium .. .. £1 15 0 Premium .. ..£256
Court dues .. .. 12 6
Entrance fee, &e., 1 8 Total - - £2 5 6
— National Mutual.
Total - - £2 9 2 Premium .. .. £2 310
Total - - £2 3 10
Yet the 1.0. F spends so much more out of its £2 9s. 2d.
in expenses and miscellaneous charges than the two Aus-
tralian offices do that, despite its higher charge, it has
much less left to accumulate towards paying the policy at
maturity than the local institutions have, and it is a fair
inference that its policies are so much the less secure.
Its huge visible deficit backs up this inference.
The Bulletin lays these facts before the public as a
further evidence of the urgent need for a State audit and
valuation of life offices and a rigid State standard of
solvency. If Australia was blessed with such a thing
such a truly remarkable institution as the 1.0. F. would
be practically impossible here.
The Universal Permanent Building and Invest*
ment Society, Melbourne :
Depreciation Total Re-
and Loss on Sale serves at
Profit on business. of Properties, each date.
1893 .. £3276 .. £20,398
Loss on business.
1894 .. 2968 £17,430 Nil
■ (Deposit and Debenture Interest reduced to 2i %)
Total Deficit.
1895 .. 3220 337 3,557
. 1896 .. 2042 689 6,188
Profit on business.
1897 .. 15 7752 13,925
Loss on business.
1898 .. 557 7503 21,985
Profit on business.
1899 .. 407 1335 22,943
Loss on business.
1900 .. 233 694 23,870
A second re-arrangement was made in 1899, whereby the
debentures were equally divided into A debentures bearing
6 per cent, fixed interest and B debentures bearing 4
per cent, interest, payable out of profits only. As the B
debentures received no interest this year, the average
rate paid wa3 2j per cent., as before. But for the ex-
penses of this second reconstruction there would have
been a profit of £358 on the ordinary business of the co.
The Universal has a nominal paid-up capital of £129,143,
and, deducting accumulated losses, £105,273 of this is
still intact—on paper. The investments (not reckoning
arrears of interest as assets) are worth on paper £199,965,
and they produced last j’ear £3956 net, equal to almost
exactly 2 per cent. At this rate it is difficult to suppose
that they are worth over £lOO,OOO for immediate selling
purposes, and on present values it would seem that the
paid-up capital is all lost.
The worst feature of the new arrangement is
that future losses on sale of properties are to be charged
directly to capital, while any profits made on the ordinary
business are to go towards paying the 4 per cent, interest
to B debenture-holders. In other words, instead of the
B debenture-holders getting their interest out of any
profits that remain after paying expenses and loss on pro-
perty sales, they are to get it out of any profits that re-
main after paying expenses only, and the shareholders
have to stand the loss on property sales separately. The
best features are that the co. is now able to pay off Is. in
the £ on its A debentures, which will somewhat reduce
the interest burden, and that it is allowed to buy up its B
debentures at their reduced market price, and extinguish
them. It now proposes to call for tenders for the repur-
chase of some B debentures, and if it can find the money
to repurchase these on a large scale it may thereby do a
little towards replacing lost capital. One of the worst
troubles appears to be the £20,000 mortgage on the co.’s
office property, and though this has been reduced by
£5OOO during the past year, the outlook is not especially
cheering. About £llB,OOO of the paper value of the assets
consists of mortgaged properties abandoned to the society,
and this is a huge load of property to carry.
* * * *
Girilambone : “ Last week 28 tons were raised
averaging by assay 6J per cent, copper.” Then follows
the usual long report showing where this 28 tons came
from—three tons from one spot and five from another,
etc. Altogether, more space is devoted every week by
Sydney papers to the Girilambone mine than is given to
the half-yearly report of the gigantic Mt. Morgan, largely
owned in Sydney. Writer is sick of reading Girilambone
reports, which only show how newspapers can be used as
a means of disseminating mining rubbish.
« * • *
Mt. Boppy, N.S.W.: “The assays from the
lode average 36dwt. gold per ton : width 12ft.” An off-
shoot of the Anglo-Australian Co., which floated the
Gibraltar and Gallymont, and lost a lot of money mining
in N.S.W. The assays on a big scale should, of course, be
taken with a great deal of salt. This co. deserves to find
a mine for its enterprise in different parts of N.S.W., and
writer is inclined to think it has at last found one at
Mt. Boppy—some 20 miles from Cobar.
* * * *
It does not seem that the mid-December set-
back in the lead market was serious ; anyhow, there has
been a partial recovery. One explanation is that tenders
were just then being called for the purchase of Block 10’s
lead output, and it was worth operators’ while to bear
the market. All the same, the tendency for some time
will be downward.
♦ * * *
Of all the Australian States Queensland alone
produced as much gold in 1900 as in ’99. Westralia’s
slump was from 1,643,8750 z. to about 1,577,3000 z. But
that is not half so bad as the slump in prices of stocks.
Taking the quotations just before Christmas in each year
(the last time in the year when markets are steady), here
are some comparisons :
1899. .. 1900.
Associated ..£8 7 6 .. £376
L.V. Consols .. 15 11 3 .. 15 0 0
Brown Hill ..9 7 6 .. 4 15 0
Horseshoe .. 16 0 0 .. 11 2 6
Ivanhoe .. .. 15 15 0 .. 9 15 0
Great Boulder .. 1 16 3 .. 16 3
The knock-out has been not the slump in output so much
as the slump in expectations. What did the damage was
the boom-rise in production from 110,000 oz. in January,
’99, to 205,1860 z. in Oct., same year ; they didn’t reckon
on the basis even of a 200,0000 z. monthly output—they
reckoned on a continuous increase. Hence the tribula-
tion in the Westralian market.
» * • *
The Collie (coal) Proprietary, lately put on the
London market for £200,000, is in the hands of Zeb.
Lane’s British-Westralia Syndicate. Latter takes £25,000
in cash and £75,000 in shares ; £50,000 is to be the available
working capital, and the rest of the shares are reserved. The
mine turns out now only 100 tons a day ; the explanation
is that trucks are not available to handle more. If the
deal comes off—well, the Collie mine is pretty nearly the
only thing in Westralia that doesn’t belong to Eng-
land, and it will then belong to England also. And the
sellers will probably go to England with the purchase
money, in which case W.A. makes just the same loss as if
it gave the mine away.
• • • *
Westralia ; According to Sir Jerry Smith—who
read a paper before the Royal Colonial Institute in the
middle of Nov.—“ The scarcity of water was the great
difficulty, but the completion of the Coolgardie water-
scheme would give a beneficial impetus to mining in that
district which, like many others, has not fulfilled its
early promise, chiefly from a lack of that indispensable
commodity.” Well, any mining man who knew Gov.
Jerry Smith could hardly expect him to know any better,
and his cheek in reading a paper on such a subject is
only endurable in London. Smith, however, took good
care not to name one Coolgardie mine shut down for
want of water ; he might have named a hundred shut
dow r n for want of gold.
* * * •
Ironsides North : “ The winze in the Eastern
crosscut at the 300 ft. level is now down 25ft. in fairly
good ore.” This sort of thing has been heard so often
about the mine that if it ever does strike a good ore body,
there will have to be a big crushing before the news is
believed. Once owned by Hannan’s Proprietary Develop-
ment Co., who most reluctantly sold it for shares. Located
outside the Golden Mile, partly worked by tributors and
surrounded by proved duffers —Hannan’s Central Ex-
tended, Boulder Central Extended, Kalgoorlie United,
Lake View and Boulder Junction, and other mines not
worth a rap.
* * * *
Orossus Proprietary: “Work on the Eclipse
lode will be commenced without delay.” The public has
had much good paper news of this alleged mine for five
years past. The shareholders have passed through one
or two reconstructions, paid many calls, never had a div.
or a crushing, and there is not the slightest prospect of
either. Adjoins the Eclipse lease on the north, and is
supposed to have a payable lode, but it is a long time
crushing. All the other blocks surrounding the Craasus
Proprietary are cats, and in any other mining community
the mine itself would have been abandoned a year ago as
a duffer.
* * • *
Hainault: “The surface is now a scene of great
activity, and the old battery, which was never known to
crush a pound of stone, and which stood so long as a
monument of somebody’s mismanagement in the early
days, has disappeared, and it is anticipated that the new
stampers will be dropping on March Ist.” The man res-
ponsible for the old battery either intended that it should
never crush, or if it did water from it should run uphill.
He gave the plates a slight elevation instead of a fall.
Anyhow, being by the roadside it has served the purpose
of many a joke. The mine has about 2000 tons of pay ore
at grass, but it has taken several years to get it.
* * * *
Hannan’s Star : “The extension of lease of the
plant by the Brownhill Co. has been refused, and in a few
days the mine will start treating its own sulphide ore
bodies per Diehl process. It is lucky to have any to
treat. It could not have had very much six months ago
or it would never have allowed its plant to be used by
other mines. This Co. has been reconstructed several
times, has spent over £lOO,OOO in development and
machinery, had many a crushing, but never a div. Veins
small, ore-shoots short and erratic. Located just south
of Boulder Main Reef and Chaffer’s, but too far away
from the golden zone to have any great or permanent
value. And enough work has been done on the mine to
establish that deplorable fact.
• • • «
Golden Ridge : Ten miles east of Hannan’s.
Floated in London some years ago, and after an attempted
reconstruction had failed, and many thousands been spent
in plant and mining, it was sold, lock, stock and barrel,
last year, for £7OO to a number of miners who have put
through 377 tons of stone lying at grass for 4500z5. And
the miners now begin to think they have really got a
mine.
* * * •
Bank of England cyanide plant treated 1300
tons tailings for 1091ozs. There are several other mines
at Hannan’s where the only available asset is the tailings-
heap.
* * • •
( Continued on page %5.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT
16 6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE . .
“Jjrient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVIP JON€S & COMPANY
<S«org« & Barrack Sts., Sydney
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
N.S.W. has probably decided by this
time that a whole week of celebration was too much.
It was joyful the first day. It was moderately
joyful the second day. The third day it was de-
termined to be joyful, and was prepared to knock
down anyone who hinted that it wasn’t having a
good time. Fourth day it humped its load of
happiness around like an ancient Israelite carry-
ing bricks to a pyramid on Pharaoh’s birthday.
And after that it toiled in a sour and fagged-out
spirit from one public-house to another, and
wished it was dead.
* * * *
Kitchener’s request for the prompt return
to the Transvaal of those Australasian invalid sol-
diers who are now convalescent, and for sufficient
new men to raise the Australasian contingents to
their original strength, is a sign that the war-bill
is going to dwell on the Treasury doorstep a while
longer. All the same, the position is quite logi-
cal. War isn’t a contract where the soldier can
hand in his resignation when he grows tired. It
is a thing that has to be seen through to the end
if it takes 10 years, and when a country goes
light-heartedly into war then it is its business to
stay in it to the finish. The spectacle of Colonel
Tom Price, for example, stalking gloriously home
from the unfinished campaign is a lamentable
proof that this country hasn’t yet learned to take
its campaign seriously; and the withdrawal
of our soldiers from active service that they
might help to make a Commonwealth pageant
isn’t business. This country may be tired to
death of the war and the accompanying bill, but
unless its Jingoism is all a fraud it has got to
chase De Wet at ss. a day till it'overtakes him, or
drops on the road.
* * * *
After all the fuss it is significant that not
a single London paper is known to have sent a
special artist or descriptive writer to Australia in
connection with the inauguration of the Common-
wealth. There is evidently not much money in
Australia from a London newspaper point of view.
Had the locale of the celebrations been India,
what a rush there would have been !
* #• * *
At last S.M. Herald has unbent so far as
to publish illustrations —of the Commonwealth
street arches, &c. The experiment was not a
success, for unless illustrations intended to be
printed on a rotary machine are drawn by men
very skilful and well-used to the work, they do
not decorate a paper. Up to now, America is the
only place where daily-paper illustrations are
handled effectively.
* ¥ * *
Ye gods ! the Australian poet too finds
glory for the starry-eyed Commonwealth in the
gore of slaughtered Boers that smirches her white
THE LEADING FEMALE.
NEWSBOY (to another): “I thought yer sed yer
sister Kate ’ad a leadin’ part in the panto-
mime!”
TTHE OTHER: “So she has ; she leads the donkey
round the stage every ni hi.”
robe. Brunton Stephens’ first apostrophe is
addressed :
And ye, our dead, who at the call
Fared forth to fall as heroes fall.
He_ talks too of “the record-scroll whose bloody
script attests a nation’s soul.” So that the chiefest
pride of this voung nation is that she is fresh
from choking the life out of another young nation
weaker than herself. Take a map of the world,
mark thin red lines of kinship from Britain to
the Transvaal, and from all the countries that
sent their armies to Britain’s assistance to the
same centre. Then contemplate your “bloody
script,” and rejoice in your heroism in making
one of the thirteen nations that swarmed to the
destruction of the brave little republics. God
help Australia if she have only the chivalry of her
dingoes!
» * » *
Essex Evans has written a “ Masque ” in
honor of the Commonwealth celebrations. The
various portions of the Empire salute Australia in
rhythmical language, and South Africa proceeds
in this fashion
My veldt still reeks with blood and bitterness,
Yet am I come to speak the heart-felt word
Of ]3raise for her who heard my deep-felt distress,
And graspt the sword.”
Any Boer to any swaddy ! Just think of it !
* * m *
The . Commonwealth Review was a fine
show, though the 9600 troops on parade did not 1
come near Premier Lyne’s extravagant estimate.
It was short of the strength of one army
corps, and was not one-twentieth of the force
collected to subdue the little Boer Republics.
Yet, as a spectacle, the review was about the
most striking of the celebrations.
People who marvel over the Australian
outburst of militarism should not forget that the
original English who landed in this country were
attired in kharki (or “canary,” as it was known
in those days). Devotion to this color is only in
the natural order of things. Australia’s historic
birthstain was of the yellowish-brown which is
now so popular.
* • * *
The preparation of a Maori contingent for
S’Africa (after the assurance that the struggle
was to be a white man’s war) recalls that the
Taranaki Maoris are, or were, strong Boer sym-
pathisers. This is due to the fact that they have
had land squabbles with the M.L. Govt, at com-
paratively recent date, so at the outbreak of hos-
tilities they summoned the tribe together and
decided to support the Boers, if not by actual
drafts of men, at least by consignments of food
and fodder. But evidently the matter never went
beyond talk.
* » * *
A petty act of meanness was done to the
returning Victorians by the British military
authorities at Capetown, where they were re-
turned their old Martini-Henry rifles in place of
the Lee-Metfords they had been fighting with.
However, a good many of the men got even with
the British Govt., for the number of horses that
were mysteriously stolen by De Wet during the
few days preceding their arrival in Capetown was
appalling. The contingent also grew suddenly
rich about the same time, and sundry residents of
the locality became possessed of sturdy little cobs.
* * * *
The Commonwealth - celebration official
expenses were originally fixed by N.S.W. Premier
Lyne at £20,000. £200,000 will be nearer the
mark.
* * *
Not the least feature of the Common-
wealth celebrations was the small casualty list.
Though good and careful management may get
the credit of this, Sydney had more than a fair
share of luck. No madder idea was ever
originated than the letting-off of fireworks from
the Town Hall on Thursday night of the “ week;”
yet it was managed without accident. The dis-
play suddenly began with a tremendous rocket,
which started all the horses within earshot plung-
ing amongst the dense crowds in George-st. The
second rocket struck the parapet a few yards off
and spent its energy in the enclosure. Another
missed the tower on the markets by a few feet
and fell into York-st. A better-directed one
landed right on the market building itself, and
another burst on the roof of a George-st. shop.
Showers of sparks from the set-pieces fell amongst
the sheaves of wheat with which the portico was
decorated, and the Roman candles danced amongst
the bunting, but beyond singeing a flag or two and
scorching a few boys sitting almost on the fire-
works, everything escaped.
* * » *
That it is a truly awful insult to confer an
Imperial title upon a brainy man even the most
“ loyal ’’could not deny if they took the trouble
to consider the question in all its aspects. Dr.
Quick, one of the Australians of the present day
who stand high above their fellows, is practically
shorn of the academical title earned by his own
intellect and perseverance, and is given instead a
knighthood, a thing flung to all the pot-bellied,
tinpot mayors and H-less aldermen of English
provincial towns. By a stroke of the pen, Quick
is placed on a level with Matt. Davies and Bingie
Benjamin—indeed, the fact of his title coming
along some ten years after theirs brands him as
their inferior. Young R. R. Garran is not even
accorded the dignity of this indignity. To him is
AN EASY ONE.
“ I’m surprised that Miss Snapshot isn’t
married.”
“ Oh, that’s easy. By the time she has a man
sufficiently paralysed he usually dies.”
chucked a tawdry order, inferior even to that
held by the unspeakable Victorians mentioned.
He is bracketed with the awful sewer-bard Fitz-
Gibbon, and the well-named Jenkins, clerk of the
Vic. Leg. Council. The tardiness of the titles
where men of brain are concerned is one of their
most striking points. Little Surgeon Fitzgerald,
of Melbourne, was knighted but a year or two
ago, after almost a lifetime of distinction, while
the gilded Mayor M‘Eacharn, with three years of
plausible speechifying and the spending of much
money in champagne, gets his handle by return
post. Not only is the principle of titles vicious
and contemptible—their distribution is crooked,
illogical, and unfair, even judged by Jingo
standards.
* * * *
A year ago The Bulletin had something
to say about the untruthfulness of the Jingo press
re the reception given to Australian contingents
by the populace of Capetown. Cabled accounts
of the alleged “enthusiastic welcome” were
utterly at variance with statements to hand from
contingenters, who had noticed scores of scowling
faces, but no enthusiasm to speak of. There
seems to have been a similar conflict of assertion
among Melbourne newspapers as to the reception
given to Vic. troops in Sydney on Commonwealth
Day. The Argus said :
The people of Victoria will be gratified to learn that, of
all the troops which marched to the Centennial Park,
none were more enthusiastically received, and none gained
greater praise, than did the Victorians. As each succeed-
ing section was reached in the line of route, cheers for
the Victorians were raised on all sides.
Whereas the Herald-Standard said :
The display made by the British and Indian troops was
the finest military pageant that has ever been seen in
Australia, yet the applause was not general, the local
people cheering the local troops the loudest. The Vic-
torian troops passed almost unnoticed, save by their own
countrymen, though they marched better than any of the
State forces.
* * * *
A remarkable circumstance in connection
with the killing of Police-Inspector Bremner
(knocked down by a bolting-horse during the
swearing-in ceremony at Sydney on New Year’s
Day) was that he had virtually retired on a pen-
sion after 38 years’ service, and was, on the occa-
sion of his death, doing merely provisional duty
for that day only. But that day was the day !
The present warlike craze extended to Breinner’s
funeral, which was quite a military function.
Policemen, by the way, have always laboured
under the delusion that they are a kind of soldiery.
The Royal Irish constabulary are armed and
organised military fashion, yet the present writer
once heard Dowse, Q.C. (afterwards Judge), say
in court to a member of this body who happened
to refer to “civilians.” “Civilians, sir? Let
me remind you that you are a civilian, and that a
policeman is, if possible, more a civilian than
anybody else ! ”
» * * •
Melbourne Herald of Dec. 31, having
called attention in detail to the local programme
of entertainments provided for Commonwealth
Day, fell into a serious mood and said : “ The re-
ligious services of the day must not be lost sight
of.” Are the churches listening? Here was an
occasion when, by their own showing, they had
arranged to ensure the blessing of Providence on
the birth of a nation. There never had been a more
brilliant chance for the prayer of the Righteous
to operate for the public good. A People’s
Destiny was waiting to be made beautiful by the
combined effort of the parsons, and yet the
Herald didn’t trouble to give them a stronger
advance notice than “The religious services must
not be lost sight of.” What a lovely satire on the
pretensions of the isms !
Rockhampton (Q.) Council recently voted
£lOO to let the Mayor enjoy himself at the Com-
monwealth shivoo—although at the meeting
immediately preceding it was stated that no money
was available for ordinary municipal purposes.
* * * »
On 4th October the Beacon Rock, a large
sailing vessel of 1789 tons, left Port Pirie (S.A.)
bound for Wellington (M.L.). Then her history
came to a sudden end, and it was long ago decided
that the Beacon Rock had gone down to be with
the prophet’s whale at the sea-bottom. Now
comes the amazing news that she has staggered,
much damaged, into the port of Concepcion
(Chili), only a few thousand miles off her track,
which seems about as remarkable a case of losing
the road as could be imagined. Even the usual
Rechabitish explanation, that it was all owing to
drink, fails here. A cargo tramp doesn’t carry
enough rum to keep her officers drunk for three
months.
Hospital libraries get some queer
legacies in the shape of books
left behind by patients. At the
Coast (N.S.W.) Hospital re-
cently the honorary librarian
discovered on the shelves two
of Zola’s raciest, and a verbatim
report of the Bradlaugh-
Besant trial for publishing
Knowlton’s “ Law of
Population.” The re-
ligious donations were
limited to two of Sheldon’s
books, but there was no
demand for them, while
the others |were in con-
tinuous • use. If all the
libraries are treated as that
one is by Govt, there is
room for reform, for it has
had no official additions since
1892.
* * *
They are a practical
people in S. Australia; the
long grind between drought and
dust has worn off all the sentiment. So
when lately the boys at Adelaide agricultural
school decided to give the headmaster a
present, the usual assortment of toast-racks,
British poets padded, fish-slices, and so on,
was discarded in favor of a lemon-squash
machine, which, it was suggested, might
with advantage be left on the premises.
And there was even less poetry about
the sausage-mincing machine pre-
sented awhile back to the teacher of a
dancing class.
There is talk of a new door-lock that
will abolish keyholes. Judging by recent
Melbourne cases, it will also go far towards
abolishing divoice.
* • m •
A lady views things from a bus-roof :
On the top of a ’bus one saw the illuminations well for
two shillings. The transparencies were curious. Above
an hotel in old Sydney was a picture of a girl holding
hard to a kangaroo’s tail, while an old man with hands up-
lifted gazed at the strides the kangaroo was making with
its enormous paws of four different sizes. The girl looked
larrikiny, and probably typified the Wexford-st. donah
who will keep Australia back in the march of progress.
Another atrocity showed the emu and the kangaroo
backed up on one side by a well-polished unclothed black,
and on the other by a gentleman in white knee-breeches
and blue coat eating a sandwich and holding a long beer
in his hand. Underneath was the admirable advice
“ Advance Australia,” with the date 1788 under-
neath the first figure, and 1901 under his
bell-toppered brother. Evidently the advance has
hitherto been in tbe. direction of drapery, sandwiches,
and long beers. Another place had hard, metallic waves
with a ship pitching uncomfortably thereon, and the
motto, “The Sea is Our Empire.” But most of these
transparencies were too symbolical for easy understand-
ing in a crowd where one was trampling over other per-
sons or being trampled upon oneself every second
minute. A large number of people, however, drove.
Anything that had wheels and would move behind a
horse was considered a suitable vehicle for the illumina-
tions. An enormous trolly decorated with Union
Jacks held some 45 adults and almost an equal
number of children. A furniture-removal van had
its square house - like roof plentifully strewn with
grown-ups and children, while in an obtuse sort of way it
essayed to turn itself into all the narrowest passages an
route. Fisli-carts and fruit-carts had boards placed across
for seats, with the inevitable flag to drape them, and
gentlemen carrying inverted bottles with candles in
them acted as cornermen. Spider-like gigs used for
breaking-in horses, and calculated only to hold one, were
stretched out to take in papa, mamma, and the twins. A
Commonwealth illumination procession is no respecter
of persons, and the coal-cart moved side by side
with Lord Hopetoun’s carriage. Some people lived
SOCIAL LIFE UP TO DATE.
BARMAN : “ Well, Jimrny, what’s cronk this
morning? ”
JIMMT: “Oh, nothink ; only me wife’s ’usband
come ’ome last night an’ kicked up awful.”


VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid,
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure of diseases of
Horses, Sheep, Cattle, Dogs, &c.
Condy’s Fluid is non-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on haying CoNDY’S FLUID.’
Beware of Australian Substitutes.
The name Oondv s. Mitchell, of London, Engl ml
should be at foot of Label. ’
j.o.k.z. m.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Pace, Sydney.
We Sell Boots g£§T
J ust as much with the object of giving the
greatest ease to your feet in the hot
weather, as for the purpose of giving
honest wear for the money they cost you.
fds
Ladies' Chrome Tanned Vici-Kid Boots.
15/6,19/6, 25/- (add 9d. postage).
Gent’s Tan Willow Calf Boots.
22/6 (add 1/- postage).
CALLAGHAN and SON,
395 George-streeb, Sydney.
in the electric-trams, taking supper-baskets with
them, and spent the whole night in many
trips gazing up at one street of illuminations.
M.sP. drove pompously among their constituents in
carriages usually devoted “to the memory of.” A vege-
table-John took his missus along to see the harbour fire-
works in his manure-cart, but, with a view to extra style,
he placed in the vehicle a wicker armchair for the lady.
Everyone was patient. Even the horses breathed
earnestly into your face before trampling you down.
The Domain and round Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair formed
one large amphitheatre where people sat solemnly in rows
in the dust and ejaculated “Here she goes” when
fireworks ascended. “ You wouldn’t see fireworks like
these in Wagga,” said a voice out of the crowd. “No,
nor in Murrurundi,” was the reply. A mild gamble was
being carried on between the flights of rockets by a man
who had envelopes with numbers, which he sold to the
crowd for sixpence. It was alleged that there was a
remote chance of someone getting a pound. A flaring
grease lamp illuminated the proceedings. Many people
were enquiring where the advertised “ continental ” was.
At last it was discovered in one corner of the Domain,
where it had disentangled itself from other bands, and
had secured a raised platform with, for a background,
something that looked like the inside of a gigantic walnut
shell. There were no tables, no beer, no lights, no soft
drinks, and no seats—but everyone lay down in the dust
among- the dogs and listened to the music.
* * * »
The decorations at Sydney Mint were not
a success. Outside in the street glowed great
pearls, and the people went underneath with their
mouths open as though they wished some would
fall down. Inside the Mint fence a man with
patched pants went about with a match tied to
the end of a window-hook trying to light up cer-
tain emblematic gas-jets. Gradually he got one
lit, and it turned out to be St. George riding a
steed which had cast its hind-quarters and had a
strangely-unfinished appearance about it. Also,
he seemed to be lunging with an unfinished fist at
nothing in general. On the other side it was even
worse —for there Queen Vic. blazed away merrily
without her back hair. The loyal man with
the match on the window-hook perspired and
struggled, but the back hair of the Queen of
Britain and Empress of India resolutely refused
to flame for more than ssec. continuously. It
looked as though the stars and the breezes in their
courses fought to proclaim to a disgusted city that
their sovereign had no back hair of her own.
N.S.W. coal-owners and exploiters erected
a coal arch just inside the Domain entrance and
yelped wildiy for £2OO from Govt, for doing so.
When the arch had been up about two whole days
it showed signs of bulging, and fissures appeared.
People made bets as to when it would come down,
and two big policemen were put on to keep the
people back, also barricades were erected bearing
the warning remark “dangerous!” But they
wouldn’t keep away. People swarmed up and
asked the “ cop ” if the arch was really dangerous.
Being told it was dangerous they usually
walked underneath it, and looked up at it,
and said they thought it was dangerous and
would probably kill someone yet, and generally
maundered on till the police managed, at the risk
of their own lives, to drag them out. On Sunday-
night the arch came down with a run, and seri-
ously smashed up several people. Whether the
injured persons had read the notice “ Dangerous,”
and then rushed in at the wrong moment to see
how dangerous it was, or in what other way they
got on the spot, doesn’t appear.
* » * *
Cardinal Moran was not so successful in
his precedence campaign as was his uncle, Car-
dinal Cullen, in Dublin, when the Prince and
Princess of Wales visited Dublin Castle. A
State banquet was given and the precedence
question arose between the Cardinal and the Pro-
testant Archbishop. The decision was against
the Cardinal, and he notified that he would not
attend. But it was principally to placate the
R.C. Irish the Prince had visited Ireland, and in
the end the Cardinal’s claim was admitted.
Amongst many other good things done by
Kingston during his long reign in South Australia
was the squelching of public disputes re ecclesias-
tical precedence. Weary of the clergy’s constant
squawk, the Premier altogether struck the clerics
out of the official list—remarked that their
kingdom was not of this world ; and out
they all went. Gov. Kintore, who was quite sick
of the wrangling of the holy men, entered heartily
into the spirit of the coup, which was effected by
authority of a statute giving the Executive power
to settle such questions subject to the approval of
the Queen in Council.
Failing the consent of the N.S. W. clergy to
rank according to seniority, the present trouble at
Sydney should be settled by some such cutting of
the Gordian knot as that adopted at Adelaide.
As matters stand, the independent public must
sympathise with Cardinal Moran inasmuch as
the official recognition of the precedence of the
Anglican Primate and his prayers at the Common-
wealth ceremonies amounts to a colorable attempt
to set up a State Church in a country which,
to use the vernacular, has given the Church
“brusher.” Bishop Smith should have no more
pull in the secular state than Cardinal Moran or
Pastor Howlman of the Little Ebenezer. The
State shouldn’t know any one of them from a
crow.
» * * *
Victoria practically started paying her
old-age pensions on Ist Jan., yet the very day
after three old women—two in very poor health—
were gaoled for fr.om three to twelve months for
begging. If the Pensions Act isn’t to be a mere
farce it must be applied honestly and thoroughly
to all aged poor whether previously convicted or
not. Moreover, gaoling such is a most extra-
vagant way of keeping them while they can main-
tain themselves easily on 10s. a week and enjoy
their liberty too.
* * * *
How history is made. Extract from
cable-cram, dated London, Jan. 1:
The soldiers fought until they expended all their
ammunition. They were then captured,
and—
The Boers stripped the men of their arms and ammuni-
tion, and then released them.
Primate Smith enthusiastically supports a
public appeal for funds
to build a church in
Mafeking commemora-
tive of Boer-slaying in
general and the bagman
virtues of Baden-Powell
in particular. The sub-
jugated Boers will, of
course, be invjted to
practice brotherly
love in the edi-
fice founded
on blood and
bluff.
FENCED IN.
STRANGERr (to Johnny): “Excuse me, sir, do you feel cold?”
Johnny: “ Cold; no, sir, certainly not; what an extraordinary question!”
Stranger: “I was only judging by your neck-protector .”
“ Gunner ” on the recent artillery accident
at Sydney, whereby one Imperial soldier had an
arm blown off and others were badly hurt: —
Ed. Bulletin.—ln dealing with the occurrence S.M.
Hebald says that “the breech of the gun became
heated.” Which is absurd—seeing that the thing is
expected to fire five shots a minute, and keep up that
for an indefinite time. Then the Eveninu News talks
about a hypothetical spark in the breech ; hut doesn’t
explain how any such spark could have fired the charge
through its case of rolled brass. (The cartridges of these
quick-firing cannon are enlarged copies of the ordinary
breech-loading rifle cartridges.) Pending the promised
enquiry, however, comment is undesirable ; though it
may fairly be asked why there was a breach of the im-
perative service rule that no firing shall take place unless
a commissioned officer is in charge, and a surgeon pre-
sent? Whether said 0.0. was on hand does not appear ;
but it is certain that the surgeon who ought to have been
on the spot had to he ’phoned for when the accident
happened.
* V * *
A Melbourne tradesman, on almost the
last day of the year, shot his wife with a gun,
killing her instantly. The slayer, who suffered
severely from sunstroke several years ago, and
appears never to have thoroughly recovered,
seems to be a product of too much iron roof. The
family, which included four small children, lived
in a three-roomed iron-roofed hot-house in a small
street in Richmond, and the tiny, stuffy rooms
and the tiny roof, and the squalid backyard, com-
bined with the effects of a sun-heat of lOGdeg.,
seem to have been too much for the weak brain.
Verily, the Municipal Councils and Boards of
Health that allow people to build alleged dwel-
ling-houses on pocket-handkerchief allotments in
10ft. lanes, and roof them with galvanised iron in
a,climate as hot, and in a country as wide as this,
deserve to be grilled for all eternity.
**. * m
Many prominent Adelaide firms which at
first kicked against Saturday closing (under the
recently-passed Act_ the day is optional) have now
given way, and within a month or two nearly
every retailer in the pious city will close at one on
Saturday.
* * • •
In view of the thousands of pounds spent
by the N.S.W. authorities over the Common-
wealth gorging.? and guzzlings of distinguished
deadheads, it is rather mangy that poor British
Atkins has to ask “How can we pay 3d. for a
small glass of beer out of our pay of about a bob a
day?” Some of the N.S.W. Government’s big
champagne-allotment would have been better
spent on free tanglefoot for Tommy during his
sojourn amongst us, as we happen to have invited
him to be our guest, and the withholding from him
of the free tram-transit accorded to the visiting
Australian swaddies is another piece of unaccount-
able Government meanness.
* * * •
Judge Boucaut, who presided over the
State swearing-in ceremony at Adelaide, is a
silent personage who detests such functions. Way
would have spread himself in a buttery speech
had anything like opportunity offered, but the
only words uttered by Boucaut were, after cheers
for Queen and Commonwealth had been given at
the instance of Lord Tennyson, “And now three
cheers for his Excellency the Governor ! ”
“ S.S.” :Be “ Phormi ” and jams. Have
seen loads and loads of turnips delivered openly
at one big Melbourne jam-factory. Un-
derstand they
are horse-diet,
and could only
wonder at the
amazing voracity
of the firm’s mokes,
were it not that the lat-
ter are stabled in an-
other suburb. As it is,
I wonder which makes
the better raspberry
jam—turnips or toma-
toes ?
The latest development up north is the
Kanaka “spieler.” Tommy Tanna travels with
marked cards, loaded dice, and all the tricks of
the trade, and “ lays for ” his dusky prey with all
the cunning of a white sharper.
* * » •
Macquarie-street, Sydney, which was one
of the best-decorated thoroughfares, displayed
almost from end to end, the Dutch flag. Among
other bits of conscious or unconscious humor,
were the orange and green poles at St. Mary’s
R.O. Cathedral.
* • * *
The Q. Government's recent
success in the Tyson-estate busi-
ness draws attention to the British
Government’s successful onslaught
on the estate of the late Baron
Hirsch. Hirsch, as is well known,
tried, without much success, to
establish Jewish colonies in South
America. At his death he left 12£
millions allocated in England, for
the purpose of carrying out his
schemes for the benefit of his co-
religionists. On this enormous
sum the British Govt, has just
succeeded in making good its claim
for the sum of 1£ millions. How-
ever, they want it all just now.
A Melbourne
suburban paper
observes, with
grim sarcasm,
that, considering
how frequently
Flemington
police-court has
to deal with cases
concerning games
of chance, it is
strange so few maintenance cases
are heard there.”
• * *
At a Melb. Cathedral. Verger
(to worshipper who has forgotten
his umbrella and come back for
it): “Gawd bless yer, sir, you ain’t
a-got Buckley’s chance of ever
seein’ it agen. This is the worst
place in the world to put anythin’
down—yer can’t turn yer back
but what someone’s nicked it from
ye. Take it from me, if you’re in
the habit of cornin’ here, don’t
you ever let go o’ anythin’ yer got
all the time yer sittin’ here.”
• * *
■ “ Via ” : Consider the pub-
lic telephone, how it reeks. Writer
went to use one lately and found
it occupied by someone obviously
far advanced in phthisis, and at
that moment clearing his throat
within half-an-inch of the trans-
mitter.
The Sydney statue of Australia’s alleged
idol, Capt. Cook, was treated with great disre-
spect, and not decorated with a single light during
the celebrations. Governor Phillip’s effigy, on the
other hand, had fountains playing over it, with
limelight effects. It is not quite clear whether
this was meant t o symbolise Australia washed of
her past, or whet her Phillip was personally in
need of a bath, or a cool shower was expected to
please his ghost when the latter found the heat
and glare a cruel superfluity.
m * * •
South Australia celebrated the Common-
tvealth by knocking one-sixth off the sentences of
prisoners in gaol for a first offence, and making
smaller remissions in the case of old offenders.
Yet, as the Government can’t knock off one-sixth
of the black eye or the broken head which the
first offender had given to some harmless citizen,
and which led to that first offender being in gaol,
it isn’t quite so fair a deal as it looks. The public
has some right to be considered as well as the
criminal class I—as 1 —as there is more of it, it has more
right to be considered. Personal safety is miser-
ably insecure already in Australia —largely by
reason of the inadequate sentences dealt out to
assault-and-battery men ; and it doesn’t need to
be made any more insecure by hastening the
release of the few assaulters and batterers that
have got to the place they so well deserve. If
the Commonwealth had been celebrated all over
Australia by adding five-sixths on to the
sentences of all persons in gaol for crimes of
violence it would have been a much more kindly
act to the great, peaceful majority. Said majority
will be assaulted again with comparative im-
punity as soon as the push gets out of gaol, and
to hasten its release, so that it can batter the
public all the earlier, is calculated to bring the
Commonwealth into disrepute. If this famous
Ist of January could be remembered hereafter as
a time when life and limb were made more secure
by a special discouragement of the brick-throwing
industry many decent people would look back on
it with gratitude.
* * * *
The ghastliest thing done in the name of
the Commonwealth was a gigantic daub hung on
the outer wall at Govt. House, Melbourne. Who
perpetrated the evil thing heaven knows, and no
doubt his name is entered in the book of deadly
sins; but it was supposed to be a _ cartoon repre-
sentative of the Young Queen, as invented by R.
Kipling, being blessed by the old Queen, as
adopted by the same R.K. Australia (the Y.Q.)
was pictured coming up out of nothing with in-
flated nostrils and a glare of wild surprise in her
eye. In her hand was a naked and horrid sword,, and
she looked like a female pig-sticker touting for
business. In the background were swarming
swaddies shaking their fore-paws in the air. That
was all. Politicians, poets and parsons gush about
the peaceful aspirations of the Commonwealth,
and the Government of a leading State can findno
better emblem for her than a boozy-looking
amazon burning to disembowel something, cheered
on to her fell purpose by professional slaughterers.
* * * *
One democratic point about last week’s
Sydney festivity ; it broke down the railway clas-
sifications. “Second-class ” swarmed over “ first-
class ” carriages; and “ first-class, ” when it came
late, hung on the platforms like anybody else, and
was glad to hang.
Time was when closely to his side
Man wisely chained his chosen bride.
And if he wearied in due course
Death granted him a sure divorce.
To-day the chain is with us still,
But drawn so long wives roam at will ,
And love their bondage for the sake
Of little liberties they take.
S.S.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.’
For the fun of the thing!
- lr " l,eu MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Lightest Wines in Australi
The Commonwealth celebrations were
marked, as .matter of course, by a great gather-
ing of feminine beauty, emphasised in its most
charming aspect by the P.D. corset. Common-
wealth Day was not made for the P.D. any more
than man was made for the Sabbath, but it cer-
tainly afforded a glorious P.D. opportunity, which
was fully availed of by the ladies of this new
nation. P.D. i- itself a Commonwealth of delight
for all time.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
TICHT^^
Wnninc
)* MACHINES!
Write for our Illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
fsd
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St. ( Brisbane.
GLOIB TEAS havc wo
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ ~ Sydney, January 8, 1901.
My Dear Myek.-
Every night for a week Sydney has been an
enchanted city. Steeples, domes, parapets, all
were rimmed with fire. The Post-office tower
was a contour of light drawn with a pencil of
name against the sky. The Domain was a sea of
glitter, beyond which the moon looked sickly and
dim. From the Palace Garden fence, across the
irregular line that marked a regular sea of heads,
was to be seen a concave stage, a tiny affair fresh
from a toy-shop, upon which gyrated and danced
timer puppets. Sometimes one puppet waved its
arms in the stifling air, and sounds of music arose
from l lie other puppets below. In the fierce,
steely glare from the great are lamps every move-
ment was visible. Then, too, the Milky Way had
fallen into Hyde Park avenue, and lay there,
glittering with all the colors of the rainbow.
Down Macquarie-street North, draped and draped
with the Dutch flag, opalescent lights glowed like
pearls set amidst red and blue sparks till
the fairy street culminated in the arch at
Govt.-House gates, glowing with soft golden
lights. All was beautiful.
But the picture of pictures was in Palace
Ga djn. There the flower-beds were outlined
with colo e ! lights. Away beyond, on glit-
tering waters, rode ships of fire. Governor
Phihips statue towered up, and streamed
with sprav. The figures were mere shadows
m the lu uinous darkness, but the spray was
real, and it swayed, and drifted, and turned
miny hues and fell with a murmuring sound on
the recumbent figures beneath. Up in the sky
blazed a c-own of silver light, sprinkled with ruby
sparks. Its beams lit up the outline of the dome
of the Colonial Secretary’s office, and across it all
ever and again drifted thin, shadowy clouds of
smoke from the electric-light engines. These
high, pale drifts lent a suggestion of immense
height and grandeur to the picture—a picture
from the Austral Nights which far outshone any-
thing in the Arabian tales. There are a few
things in life worth remembering, and the memory
of the fountain, the iridescent spray, the dome
and the crown of light with the dim, beautiful
landscape beneath, as seen from Palace Garden, is
calculated to light up Eternity—if, as we pray,
there’s any scarcity of illumination there.
The Hotel Australia claims to house the Most
Distinguished. The large expanse of John Forrest
and his blonde-haired wife are put up there. Also
Chief Justice Way from Adelaide, Miss Blue (his
stepdaughter), and his wife, the tallest of all the
official women, and, many people say, the most
charming.
A curious thing happened to one lady’s linen-
box. Its label was, in some mysterious fashion,
rubbed off, and another affixed bearing the name
of a bald-headed legislator. It went to his rooms,
wa3 found by his pretty young wife, and—
tableau ! The things were sheeted home to the
right owner after tremendous explanations on
both sides.
At the great State Banquet on Federation
night the galleries glittered with decollete women,
mostly in black brightened with jet or silver
sequins, and looking impossibly important as their
menkind unrolled the Federal napkins. Mrs.
John See and Mrs. Sam Hordern foregathered
with a train of pretty young See and Hordern
girls. The new Mayoress, Mrs. Graham, was in
black and specs. We have never had a Mayoress
in specs before, and, considering whom a mayoress
has to look at, hardly know whether to envy her
or not. The past Mayoress, in black and turquoise,
sxt with her daughter, Mrs. Carty Salmon, in a
low-necked blouse. Mrs. Toby Barton wore
b ack with a big pink chou on her shoulder, and
continued to hold up her reputation for being the
smartest local political woman. The wife of M.L.
Chief-Justice Stout and Mrs. Besant-Scott, Annie
Bssant’s daughter, were also in the galleries.
The Govt, nobly laid on tea, coffee, and the
fumes of fizz for the galleries. The result was
that the gallery thought the roses on the table
much too thickly arranged, and reckoned that the
decorations generally lacked brilliancy.
By the way, the menus of that Banquet have
already become objects of value. People are
offering a guinea apiece for them. The card is
rather good to look at, with wreaths of delicately-
drawn native flowers round the Tortue Claire, the
"Vol Vent ala loulouse, the Dinde Farcie ala
Perigord, and the other French language. The
outer cover is a blaze of crimson and pale blue,
and is effective, if not novel.
The ladies’ gallery had its enjoyment in watch-
ing how much a certain distinguished personage
ate. They sav he refused nothing. Poor 1
I hear it loudly stated he even chewed crumbs
between courses, but if women have really dis-
covered that, they have discovered that he isn’t
the gourmand his country painted him.
The man who eats bread between acts is as the
man who would eat an apple half-an-hour before
dinner, and that’s the final test of a good man, you
know. The man who does either is no gourmand,
be.ieve men.
William Zeal added a pictorial note to the ban-
quet by going out in a blaze of rage and regi-
mentals. They didn’t put him at the top table,
so he left; but it is an open secret that he now
regrets his zealous action, and would like it hushed
up and forgotten as quickly as possible.
Bananalander Griffith made a wonderful, mean-
dering, interminable speech. In spite of the ban-
quet s forked interruptions, he went steadily
through seventeen years of history. In looks he
resembles George Bibbs, with a beard. He rolled,
waved hopped bowed, jumped till the gallery
thought—well, 111 stop short here. Little Samuel
YVay sat beside him, and looked like crying several
times when his companion bumped his chair.
George Reid made “an entrance.” He came
iate, and had a reception. He is clever
at that kind of thing, but, even if he had
been early, no one could have overlooked
him his Froggy Would a Wooing Go” in
white tight trousers and a tight cut-away orna-
mented coat. Lyne and Barton sat side by side,
solemn as owls, with their big heads slowly
moving a little from side to side as the brilliancies
they would let off presently agitated their con-
sciousnesses. Attorney-General Wise looked like
a beautiful policeman in fancy dress, and went
away early. The banquet opened dully. Every-
one looked boiled-eyed and bored. But the scene
changed pretty quickly. I watched the editor of
a high-souled daily sitting silently beside a comic
artist. But, next time I looked, they loved each
other like brothers. It was wonderful how soon
that whole banquet loved each other like brothers.
Yet all the brotherly love and what led to it
(federation I mean) didn’t evoke one single bril-
liant speech. Premier Lewis, from Tasmania,
was the feeblest spokesman of the lot; Samuel
Griffith the longest; the Admiral the dullest;
Lyne or Barton the heaviest; Colonel Wyndham
the best pronounced; Chief Justice Darley the
tamest; and Reid the only one who made himself
heard; and having said the last, I might have
left the other unsaid, perhaps.
The exhausted Excellency was in rare fettle at
the choice and select banquet at Government
House last Wednesday. When complimented on
his improvement the pale little Gov.-Gen. re-
marked dryly that he guessed he was growing
something like his photo, again.
Hie great thing on Thursday hight was to get
a Government invitation to “A Slessage from
Mars.” All the d.c.’s were taken by the Govt.,
and the theatre tickets distributed without pre-
meditation, so they say. However—without pre-
meditation, of course—the Palace held the fashion-
able audience; though, I believe, “Monte
Christo” and “The Hew Barmaid,” and the
Panto., and the Opera all had a title or so allotted
to them.
In the Palace d.c. was the Madden party. The
Westralian Forrests sat in the front row, and be-
hind them were John Downer, his Sydney wife in
white satin and turquoise blue, and her papa,
Mr. H. E. Russell. A pretty woman in black
supported a superb diamond necklace in the lower
box. Her long opera jacket of rich white silk,
brocaded in big bunches of violets, hung on a nail
in the box, and was much admired. Sydney
society turned up in large crowds ; also it wore a
sulky expression. The stalls were a brilliant mass
of our own Extinguished Guests, cut out by the
Melbourne and other visitors. Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Dobson from Van Dobsonland were in the
stalls. It was a brilliant house but abnormally
quiet. But by> that time the week was at Thurs-
day, and a little pensiveness was inevitable.
You will be glad to hear that the bright, sweet,
wholesome play—does that sound dull, the play is
never dull—is catching on. It went slowly at
first, just as in London, where it afterwards
settled down to a two years’ run.
Sydney en feting leaves many people “off.”
For instance, the Union Club’s spree on Common-
wealth night. Heaps of women have mentioned
to me that they were there; but, when asked
what happened, they all alike reply vaguely—
“ Champagne.” That’s all that’s to be got from
anyone—in a speaking sense, that is.
Melbourne visitors are narrowly watching the
brightest gem of their Sassiety, basking day after
day in the boyish smiles of the Sydney beau who
made the running in Melbourne during the Cup
junkets.
Apropos of nothing, everybody is observing the
altered looks of a high ecclesiastic, whose round
red face has gone haggard to a pitiful degree ail
of a sudden.
Talking of looks, this Ad. from the S.M.H. will
not be the most run-after thing of the week I
imagine:—
E N'TLEMAN would like to meet refined, educated
V young lady, not good looking, talented and lady-
like. Advertiser in good position, and has some
capital, and only genuine noticed. X. A. M., G.P.O.
The sudden demise of fine old Edward Knox
has been a shock to a large section of local society.
Though he had long been in feeble health his
death was unexpected, the day before seeing him
at the Cathedral service, apparently in good
spirits. The Union Club is postponing its ball
indefinitely out of compliment to its highly-
esteemed President, whose charming Presidential
manners will not be easily replaced.
The Society of Artists’ Commonwealth Show
lacks but one thing to its brilliant success—big
crowds to fill its rooms and buy its pictures. All
the States have sent in. Result: one of the best
shows ever seen here. Entering, Blamire Young’s
“ Music Master” captivates and keeps the eye, so
droll, so brainy. Two youngsters kneading a
duet, and the Music Master listening. But, ay di
mi, the Music Master is musician all over his big,
loose feet, his young, blue eye, his tired, flabby
old chin, and his lank, black hair. If you can
digest your humor and pathos mixed, this
clever poster will meet the demand refresh-
ingly- Near by, Norman Lindsay hangs two
of his marvellous pen-work illustrations for
Bocaccio, but as they are shown thus publicly you
will understand they are not quite typical of
those sensational Boccacio Pictures that art
people rave over, and which will, no doubt, ulti-
mately be published for “private circulation.”
Turning to big works, Julian Ashton covers more
than lots of wall-space with his “ Jewelled Margin
of the Sea,” a tenderly-painted seascape, the sort
of picture one yearns to dip into this hot weather.
It has been bought (for, I am told, £230)
for the Queensland National Gallery. His
“Sacristan,” a very strong watercolour head,
has a double interest—or would have had a few
weeks ago—for the man in the cowl does so look as if
he knows something. Can it be about a cause
celebre? Sir Julian Salomons bought that Julian
Ashton study with the pink rose in her hair, and
a tumor on her left chest. The head and face
are affectionately handled, but the tumor —!
And the perky Q.C. ordinarily buys the
chocolate-box sort of picture—some stout
ladv in black satin and cream roses.
If he is now forming a museum of anatomical
deformities you will admire his start. Howard
Ashton seems to have been lying on the sands of
time somewhat long, and somewhat often. Three
of his exhibits, “The Hunter,” “The Beach,”
and “The Sands at Bondi,” all clever, but weak-
ened with their sameness, warn the rising young
artist to get off the sand pretty soon. His charm-
ing little “Aurora” shows a woman’s head, with
floating hair and a background of young rose-
clouds.
Anyone who knows Henry Lawson may be
forgiven much raving over Longstaff’s portrait of
him—in my opinion the best' portrait in the
exhibition. You will be glad to hear N.S.W.
National Gallery has bought it.
Apropos, when Henry Lawson sat for this he
came along in smart johnnyfied white shirt, with
great, white, starched cuffs, pulled right down
over his skinny knuckles. He looked so com-
placently at those cuffs that the artist
hadn’t the heart to utter an objection. He
painted the portrait, and painted the cuffs, faith-
fully, if in pain. But as soon as the long, bony
poet had departed, out came the big, white
patches so foreign to Lawson’s nature, and in
went the pathos of those bony, angular wrists that
are as much Lawson as his face, and his poetry,
and his doggy eyes that follow you all over the
show.
Longstaff’s portrait of Mr. F. B. Suttor only
wants hoofs and a tail to accentuate the pleasing
likeness to a universal gentleman friend. I was
going to spell friend without an “ r,” but that
might cast a cloud on my genuinely pellucid com-
pliment. Next it are the red robes around the
sweet old Chief Justice. In the cause of Justice,
why is one hand half as large as the other? Sid.
Long comes out with two portraits of two good-
looking women who are evidently friends of the
artist, or they might have objected. His treat-
ment lacks graciousness. However, the public
will like Sid. Long better this year, for he knows
what he means, and so will they, and he makes a
big success with his pool-and-gum-tree picture,
livened with comprehensible sheep instead of
Pans. The little president’s “Frosty Sunrise”
shows big river banks and a rather tired, rather
hard, stream. That might be one of the weariest
rivers that flow somewhere safe to sea. If this
picture is cold, so much the truer.
The Misses Hambidge, Adelaide artists, send
some charming miniatures, full of life, even of
diablerie, not a usual quality in this sleek, smooth
kind of work. Mrs. Muntz-Adams, from Queens-
land, erstwhile a Melbourne girl, shows a faithful
portrait of a young French doctor, and a full-
length girl who might have been better named
than “Portrait of a Lady.” Another strangely-
named canvas is called Madlle. Blank, by Violet
Teague, where you would expect it to answer to
the name of ’Arriet. Alice Muskett has a clever
symphony in green in her “ Day at the Morn,” a
long, thin girl in green gown and a sash, with an
illumined and artless smile against green tree
leafage. And speaking of women’s work, artists
find much to admire in Lilia Reidy’s “ After the
Bath,” but the uninitiated may reckon that,
despite all the nudeness, one calf badly wants
re-vealing—to borrow Brunton Stephen’s sparklet.
Further down the street the Art Society has
opened its Commonwealth Show. Many of the pic-
tures here are well-known old favorites, but, from a
crowded wall, Englishman Wainwright’s portrait
of Dr. Riches stands out with a compelling vigor
and force, full of psychology as well as art. Mrs.
Edmund Barton opened the show on Monday.
Both Shows have been disappointed at Lord Hope-
toun’s refusal to perform their opening ceremonies.
He has promised to attend during the Exhibitions,
but that’s all. The first taste of Governor-
General.
The Art Society’s walls abound in ten-acre pic-
tures, something noticeably large being Lister-
Lister’s “ Crossing Hunter River.” The trustees
wanted to buy this, but couldn’t, because Lister is
a trustee and couldn’t buy his own work, but it
gets there all the same ; the artist has presented
it to the trust. Bernard Hall’s clever “Andante”
might be added to the Museum of Anatomical
Curios above-mentioned. The nude woman,
with yellow and green flesh, lying on delicious
grass, presents a hip that might be anything from
stuffed turkey to a Xmas ham. Walter Withers’
gallery oil, “Nearing the Township,” is sombre,
tender and shadowy, with a strong, strange list
to starboard, the road, gum-trees, the telegraph-
poles and the paddock-fences all sloping leftwards.
“A Street in Spain ” is a Maorilander’s work, a
water-color by Ohas. Worsley, clean and animated
enough, but “we know it of yore.” Frank
Mahony’s magnificent chestnut-horse picture has
been lent by Mr. F. B. Suttor.
But see what comes of asking other States to
hang with you !
Sydney Art Gallery has made five Melbourne
purchases, but none from Sydney. Phillips Fox’s
“Lady in Black” and “Autumn Showers”;
Longstaff’s “Lawson”; Walter Withers’ “Land-
scape (Art Society’s Show); Helen Peter’s
“ Fireside Scene,” and Florence Fuller’s “ French
Village.” It was left to the Brisbane Gallery to
buy^Julian Ashton’s “Jewelled Margin of the
Sea. ’ - Samuel Griffith lost no time in snapping it
up as soon as he saw it.
After all these pictures, one thinks of others.
Honestly, and taking a high standard, there’s not
one picture in either show that comes near Great-
ness. What is lacking ? Is it brains, is it force;
or is it a lack of sympathy with the primal force
of greatness “Simplicity ? Out of many of our
canvases a giant would clear screens, mantel-
drapes, figures, side-issues, superfluous frills—all
unnecessary.
With simplicity goes what George Moore calls
the inevitable. I wonder have I missed the one
picture among all these hundreds from beloved
fellow-countrymen—the one picture that had to be
painted, and could never have been painted any
other way—the one picture that hides The Inevit-
able like a jewel in its breast !
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ This year the arrival of a. new baby is quite a
fashionable form of Xmas entertainment. Foung
Mrs. Stephen Rowan, formerly Miss Eileen
O’Hara, has just welcomed her first-born—a
daughter. Nowadays, Mrs. Rowan’s home is
‘Talleyrand,’ a station near Longreach (Q.), but
she has been for the last few months in Melbourne,
where, before her marriage, she had as gay a time
as might be expected of the dashing daughter of a
fashionable surgeon, more or less closely con-
nected with many notables. Mrs. Frank Travers’
Noel baby adds another great - grandchild to
the quiver of old Mrs. Stephen, mother of
the Lieutenant-Governor’s wife. Mrs. Percy
Chirnside’s little stranger is a second son. Baby’s
pa revels in the role of Lord of the Manor, and a
year or two back, when the first-born arrived,
great rejoicings were set on foot among the Werri-
bee tenantry and vassals. ‘Mrs. Percy,’ nee
Fenner, a pretty little fair woman, has enough to
do to hold her own socially against some of the
more assertive matrons of hubby’s clan. Not
that the Fenners count themselves less distinctly
hall-marked than surrounding metal. Quite the
contrary. The Percy-Chimside heir is weighed
down by his string of aristocratic names derived
from Ma’s ‘ Cavalier ancestry.’
“ Rumour hath it that blustering Colonel Tom
Price is going to marry again. His first wife died
some _ months before he went to kill Boers in
S’Africa, and his daughter (who was under the
matronly eye of Mrs. Baronet Clarke during her
pa’s absence) is likewise engaged.
“On Saturday (Dec. 29) all the ‘Florodora’
stars glittered in a garden by the sea—the soene
of a fair for St. Agnes Church (Blackrock). Pro-
moters boast a fair amount of ‘neck,’ don’t you
think, dragging stage entertainers all that dis-
tance, especially as the Church would probably
not see its way to respond if asked to contribute
a dozen crack clergy to plead the cause of some
needy theatre or underpaid actor. (
“The belle of the Williamson bunch, which
arrived in a gleeful four-in-hand, was Grace
Palotta. Her eyes look bigger and bluer, her
complexion fresher and her cheeks more dimpled
than they do on the stage. She wore dainty
white muslin flowered with black, grey suede
purse-bag fastened to her belt, and cream feathers
in her hat. She sang a pretty coquettish
little thing called ‘A Lesson with a Fan,’ and
when encored gave ‘lf you can’t afford a
Hansom, take a ’Bus,’ to her own accompani-
ment. Carrie Moore, in a little white muslin
and black hat and white veil, put ever so
much fun and feeling into her coon ditty.
She’s a gifted youngster, and looked very
pretty on Saturday, with her white cheeks and
liquid black eyes. Carrie had with her her chum,
Cesca Vollugi, whose voice was perhaps the best
on tap. It’s a pity the tuneful Signorma doesn’t
push forward faster. Besides her voice, she is
blessed with lovely golden hair, a sweet smile and
an agreeable face, but though she’s a biggish,
buxom girl, she suffers from a dowdy deDortment.
Cecil Englehart looked better than she* sounded,
in blue-flowered muslin and a hat turned up in
front. Maud Chetwynd, in simple pink muslin,
affected all-black hat like every one of the theatri-
cal ladies. The party included Dorothy Vane
(Mrs. Norman Menzies), in greeny-blue Eton suit
with white silk applique trimmings, who seemed
enlivened by the company of her old chums, and
who, with Miss Menzies, shared their homeward
drive.
“ Suppose that six curates and six pretty dea-
conesses could bring themselves to help some
shivoo held in a theatre, I wonder how shocked
they’d be if they found the approach to the har-
monium and hymnbook stage was through a sleep-
ing-room with an ostentatious bed in the middle
of the floor. It was rather Arcadian to see Ken-
ningham, Lauri, and Co. gallantly handing their
fair colleagues through, and absolutely refusing to
be aware of that bed’s aggressive presence.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


Worth Knowing! -gSJKfJiJB
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best “ Pick-me-ups ” in Mental and
Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you feel
a Sturdiness and Firmness of Nerve, as if something
had become suddenly Unbound and given its Liberty.
A notable feature is the gradual disappearance of
greenish -brown deposit, wasting the teeth. By nutri-
tion it corrects the cause of an unhealthy condition
of the mouth. It gives rapid and happy results in
Neuralgias, Dyspepsias, Headaches, Eye, Ear and
Nose Troubles. Originally made by a London physi-
cian, and sold for a fortune. Now bought by the
public for 2/-, per post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist,
3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s Walk, MELBOURNE.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: 2. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE- — 73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART—-93 Macquarie Street.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be the burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who arc leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during* business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
After his experience at that “ State ban-
quet,” Chief Justice Griffith will be likely to
remember that Sydneyites don’t like a long, dull
speech just after their food.
George Maurice O’Rorke, the M.L.
Speaker, has succumbed to the strain of the Syd-
ney Federal festivities, and has retired to a pri-
vate hospital suffering from bronchitis.
Edmund Barton, in his opening speech at
N.S.W. Society of Artists, expressed the hope
that art would advance in “ this colony.” To say
“State” is apparently as hard as writing 1901.
London Times mentions that M‘llwraith’s
estate is valued at £1778 net. He died intestate.
It wasn’t worth while making a will. In
M‘llwraith’s latter days nothing was worth while.
Alfred Deakin’s name is conspicuously
absent from the list of ennobblements flung about
on Jan. Ist. Does the emotional orator from the
Garden State propose to remain true to his early
democratic instincts ?
The knighting of softgoods man M'Millan,
if a tribute to the mercantile section, is looked at
askance by a couple of bigger Sydney merchants ;
and, if a tribute to political labor, is scowled at by
a score on the John See level.
When was the Agent-General for N.S.W.
knighted, or do coming events cast their shadows
before ? Cutting from Letts’ Diary, 1901, No. 46 :
New South Wales.— Sir Henry Copeland ; S. Yardley,
C.M.G., Secretary , 9, Victoria-street.
Where is that title for D.T. boss-director
Major Randal Carey—for which we were naively
prepared by a Sydney D.T. leader? And the
fire-snorting N.S.W. Colonial Secretary, John See,
is also still cruelly left in a state of expectancy.
'Adelaide Critic says that Rupert Clarke
will soon cease to be “our only Australian
baronet,” as Madden of Victoria is to be shunted
up to that honor. In the name of all that is
wonderful what has become of Baronet Way ?
Sculptor Bertram Mackennal has arrived
in Australia just at the right time. His marvellous
Circe, of Paris Salon fame, he has brought with
him and will exhibit complete unless the
Scotchbyterian crowd bar the reliefs on the
pedestal, as was done in the English Academy.
When Lyne was commissioned to form a
Federal Ministry the Australian Star exultantly
said : “ Our Premier is not a man to let the grass
grow beneath his feet.” Lyne’s footmarks are
like those of Attila, jokingly say his friends.
Where he treads, grass grows no more. But the
Star didn’t mean that.
Two Maoris were discussing beer at New
Plymouth (M.L.) “ Who that fellow just gone
out?” “That Mr.
Paterson. He
play te banjo, and
go to te war, and
make korero about
te Poer. I hear
him las’ night. By
colly, he good man.” Then
(with pride), “He come
from my place, Stoney
River.” Stoney River
isa diminutive Maori
settlement, mislaid
so m ewhere in
Taranaki
Oculus: Could
not help noticing
over at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, recent-
ly- how the women
of the congrega-
tion watched Dr.
O’Haran’s every
movement. They
were particularly at-
tentive when he oc-
casionally shook
hands with one
of their own sex.
Judging by the
worn and
strained expres-
sion of the man’s
face he must find
the position of
Master of Cere-
monies at the
Cathedral ex-
tremely trying,
for he cannot
fail to notice
that he is the
cynosure of all
eyes and the sub-
ject of countless
whispered conversa-
tions.
Thoinas Glassey gravely assures the pub-
lic, in a letter to Brisbane Courier, that now
Federation is a fact he is perfectly content to
leave the Glassey family settled in Australia.
The great heart of Bananaland heaved in joy at
the announcement, and the country settled con-
tentedly down to its customary calm.
Over the front of the Divorce Court,
Sydney, hang various Federal-Union mottoes:
“One People, One Destiny,” “The Crimson
Thread,” and so on. Above the court’s main
entrance is a crimson heart labelled “ Wedded.”
This is interpreted as a delicate compliment to
Mr. Justice Stephen, now away on his second
honeymoon.
Mr. G. T. Loder, who died at Singleton
(N.S.W.) last week, aged 78, was a native of the
Hawkesbury. His grandfather was a soldier in
the 102nd Regt. (the N.S. Wales Corps) and his
father was born in N.S.W. in 1796. Hume, the
explorer, was the maternal grandfather of the
recently-deceased, and Loder accompanied him in
many of his expeditions.
Lieut. E. A. Roberts, M.P., the chirpy
little Labor member who went to the war from
S.A. with the Imperial Bushmen, says that the
young British officer is a reckless and overbearing
nincompoop, and that no courtesy can be expected
from any Imperial commander under the rank of
a lieutenant-colonel. The generals, however, are
considerate and polite always.
Dickson, who as this is written lies seri-
ously ill in Sydney, is the only member of the
Federal Cabinet who is not an Australian native.
He is its patriarch, too, with 68 years at his
credit, while Deakin is the infant, his age being 44.
Each of the States has a son in the Govt., save
only Queensland, as Lyne was born in Tasmania.
The honorary Ministers, O’Connor and Lewis,
are omitted from the age calculation, for Lewis is
but 42.
An indomitable law lighter was Henry
Ricketson, the 75-year-old Riverina and Victorian
squatter who recently died near Melbourne.
Land-suits were his specialty; Ricketson v.
Barbour is among the best-known leading cases
decided by Privy Council. It was G. C. Tompson,
who a few years ago died of heat-apoplexy on a
track outside Bourke, that heard the case; his
decision was repeatedly over-ruled until the
Privy Council was reached.
In the distribution of Commonwealth
“honors” the man who comes off worst is Symon,
Q.C., of South Australia, who can no longer dis-
guise the fact that his name is Josiah. Sir Josiah !
Formerly he was Mr. Symon, or J. Symon, or
Jos. Symon, and most people took it for granted
that his front designation was nothing worse than
Joseph. And now his Josiah rises up against
him like a buried crime whose bones refuse to be
overlooked any longer.
It would really appear that J. H. Grey,
the absconded Geelong solicitor, who robbed that
dreary hamlet of everything but the holes in its
socks, still remains within easy call of the scene
of his crimes. A correspondent assures The
Bulletin that one energetic victim-in-a-small-
way bounced his belongings out of certain parties
by giving them the choice of forking out or having
the secret of the missing solicitor’s retreat pub-
lished within 24 hours.
The Federal pyramid for which Premier
Holder aims is the Chairmanship of the Inter-
State Commission, which carries a fat salary and
has more promise of permanency that Cabinet
office. No doubt circumstances will rule his
choice of the role of awkward friend of Barton or
open ally of Reid according to which is most
likely to secure the end in view. One thing is
certain —Holder will win election to the House of
Representatives easily, and Kingston is the only
man who has a chance to beat him at the polls.
Vosperof the Mane was a Westralian candi-
date for the Senate. When he had his 2-col.
address printed in the Perth papers the other day
he was a Freetrader and an Imperialist; but most
people expected that in another day or two he
would be a Single-tax Protectionist and a Repub-
lican. Even then they didn’t allow sufficiently
TWO LARRIKINS: SYDNEY AND
MELBOURNE.
for Yosper’s versatility. He died early on Sunday
morning—the only thing he could do that no one
had calculated upon, and thus an erratic yet use-
ful legislator is snuffed out. A great many worse
men than Vosper still live on persistently.
Josh Symon, the new Adelaide knight, is
independent of his law-practice now ; he is owner
of about the biggest and most up-to-date vineyard
in the province. Like Kingston, he is a glutton
for work. But the one is Scotch ; and the other is
partly Irish and a little Portuguese and a good deal
Australian, also Kingston doesn’t own any vine-
yard. And yet he had the chance. Por his
father, for years Speaker of S.A. Assembly,
owned what, in his day, was one of the best vine-
yards in the province, at Marino ; but it has been
utterly neglected, and is now a tenantless ruin,
hardly a vine remaining.
The notorious Jabez Wright, Broken
Hill’s Labor Mayor, didn’t mince matters
in his reply to the formal invitation to the
Commonwealth celebrations: “Thanks for offer
(of free railage, &c.,); but I have more important
work to do than attending the national drunk.”
But there is an outcry against Jabez—he scorns
the “Mr. Mayor” or “ Your Worship ” form of
address—and for once in his career he wavers. If
he does not have a bad fall meanwhile, he will
probably be the Labor candidate for one of the
Barrier seats when the sitting members “go
higher.” Though very illiterate, he is an effective
speaker and a born fighter.
In N.S.W. Chief-Justice Martin’s time
one Plumb, who was chief court-keeper, applied
to him for a fortnight’s leave of ab-
sence to recuperate on the moun-
tains. “ Better take a month,
Plumb,” said Martin, “and come
back a new man. I’ll find someone
to fill your place in the meantime.”
But before the month was out Plumb had to re-
turn to assist in black-draping the Banco Court on
account of the C. J.’s own death.
Everyone is asking how the doughty Jos.
Symon, Q.C., of Adelaide, came to get a knight-
hood, seeing he fought so hard against the altera-
tion of clause 74, and in the battle used such
vitriolic language re Lieut.-Gov. Way and other
magnates. Most people seem to think that some-
how Kingston worked the oracle across the sea for
his boyhood’s friend and latter-day ally. All the
bitterness of a few years ago—Symon would not
shake hands with Kingston when he returned
from England after the Jubilee celebrations —have
now been buried deep.
What a figure for comic opera is that mag-
nificent absurd little Panjandrum, Vic. Leg.
wornici 1 President Anal ! He comes ud to the
Commonwealth banquet togged officially to the
mnes, a la the Lord Chancellor in “lolanthe.”
Afeft I !“°i ’T lf Ul ° f *1!? , B ft ssed advice to
tciKG tiiG lowost scut, upon which the word would
issue from aloft, “Friend, come up higher.”
Nobody can be ’umbler, more deferential, or
unassuming, m private life than Zeal, but directly
he gets “this uniform on,” he is transformed
transfigured, into the cockiest personage of
Australasia. 1 g
r|M , , '
Ihe death of Bishop Salvado, of New
Norcia, W.A., at the age of 86, is reported from
Rome, for a trip to which city he left his Wes-
tralian monastery a year ago. He began training
W.A. aborigines in 1846, and has worked at the
business ever since. Early in his missionary
career he was told by the Bishop of Perth that his
enterprise couldn’t possibly succeed, and that he
had better abandon it; but he believed in his work
and started to raise funds by a musical programme!
which resulted so well that he was enabled to buy
a waggon and load it up-and return as his own
bullock-puncher.
Two more Privy Councillors (Edmund
Barton and Chief Justice Griffith), one G.C.M.G.
(John Forrest), three new K.C. M G’s (j R
Dickson, W. M’Millan and J. H. Symon),’ one
knight (Dr. Quick), and twp C.M.G.’s (R. R.
Garran and E. G. Blackmore). Mr. Garran is a
rising barrister and son of the veteran ex-editor of
S.M. Hebald ; he did great but unostentatious
services during the Federal agitation. Old Dr.
Garran has not been knighted, but that, no doubt!
's because the Imperial authorities are quite satis-
fied so long as the newspaper-proprietor himself
bears the brand of the head-statmn. Once fee is
° Wn gS aU nght; edlt ° rS
Q ’
L- f - Look (d. it. Wises brother-in-law),
late Lond. Daily News editor, who is cabled as
resigning his post because the News has come
under control of “little Englanders” (meaning
the party of Peace and Justice, which disbelieves
in bloodshed for financial syndicates and territory-
fiflnnlfrl resigning.
He took Stead s place as editor of P.M Gazette,
and resigned when Astor bought it; then edited
re£mhinff N the K Ninvs El St d° r ye - ars , before
reaching the News. Stead and Massmgham set
the fashion of punctilio on the other side ; and it’s
a -n °K vT? ft 1 ® ftii E f g T llS u l°’ Jrnallßm - It
will probably be found that Labouchere, formerly
n ° W got C ° ntrol ° f the
cl T)™ 8 ' ..
A.P. supplies trom Milparinka, N.S.
Wales, some facts concerning the “ Major Pelly,”
whose death at Perth and mis-identification with
the imaginary bushranger, “Starlight,” have
been chronicled
About six years ago a military-looking man of about 60
years of age arrived here with two good horses, heavily
packed ; and put up at the local hotel for some months
He styled himself Major Pelly, and spent a good deal of
his time sketching. Several of his sketches are to be
seen here still. One day the landlady of the hotel, hap-
pening to go into his room, found the “ Major ” busily
diately pulled his sleeve down. On another occasion he
engaged in an altercation ivith an old man called “Dad,”
when dinner was called. The old chap sat down to
dinner and was hardly seated when the “ Major” slipped
to the door, and, covering him with a revolver coollv
said he’d blow his brains out. “ Dad,” however wm
equally cool, and remarked, “Fire away, old man'’
The publican grabbed the weapon and found it loaded in
all chambers. Not being able to get his revolver back,
“Pelly” vowed he’d follow “Dad” to Tibooburra and
blow him up with dynamite, which he said he carried.
WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?
MR. LONG : “Say, Sparkler , where do you live? n
MR. SHORT : “ Wha’ for —too late for Xmas
boxes.”
MR. LONG: “I know; but I told my wife this
morning that I took you home last night.”
G. Y. Smith (Vic.) recently deceased, was
Postmaster-General in the second M‘Culloch
Govt., and retired from politics about 20 years
ago, living on slender private means. Before his
election to Parliament he was a miner. He is
remembered as the inventor of the term “ iron
hand ” applied to the closure adopted by the
M‘Culloch Govt.
A Gippsland surgeon went out with the
Cameron Scouts, and, although a surgeon, boasts
of having fought, rifle in hand, right through the
business, and can tell how many Boers he slew up
to the time when a Boer potted him with a slug
that cut the heart and pierced the lungs. But he
made a miraculous recovery, and now talks of
returning to Africa to shoot some more.
In Jan. ’B6 Gladstone offered Chamber-
lain the post of First Lord of the Admiralty, but
the pacific Joe declined the tempting favor on the
ground that it was not congenial with the feelings
of a Radical, or consistent with his professions, to
be the head of a department whose vast expendi-
ture was lavished upon the means of making war.
Now the same man wants to paint the world red
by force of arms.
Colonel Champ, afterwards Inspector-
General of Vic. Prisons, formerly Colonial
Secretary of V.D.Land in the Leg. Assembly at
Hobart, was one night championing the con-
tinuance of Transportation. As an instance of the
benefits of the system, he gave the case of his own
farm, which, he said, could not be worked at a
profit but for cheap convict labor. “ Look,” re-
plied Member Gregson—“ here is a man who con-
fesses that he couldn’t get a living had God made
all men honest! ”
Fitchett and Stead have parted company.
They settled-up during Fitchett’s recent trip to
London. The two men couldn’t “ hit it ”at all—
Stead as the Liberal, Fitchett as the flaming
Imperialist. So the Australian Review op
Reviews now belongs to Fitchett. He sloshes
out what he chooses of Stead’s democracy, and in
goes the other thing, well warmed-np. "Fitchett
also owns the Southern Cross, the Presbyterian
organ, though he is a Wesleyan. He began on
the Wesleyan Spectator, but the fools there—2o
years ago—let him go, because he would not work
for nix, and wanted a trifling remuneration,
merely on principle. Nathless, Pastor Lorimer
Fison, a genial Laputan, edits the Spectator
with better stuff than the Cross. But Fitchett’s
forte is anything but theology.
On 30th December, 1900, Bigjohn Forrest
finished his tenth year as Premier of Westralia.
Forrest’s is the record Ministry of Australasia.
The long-distance Governments of the Seven
Provinces to Ist January, 1901, are as follows,
everything that lasted over five years being in-
cluded :
_ . Years. Months. Days.
Forrest (Westralia) .. .. io o 2
Seddon (Maoriland) .. .. 7 8 0
Kingston (S.A.) .. .. 6 5 15
Herbert (Queensland).. .. 6 1 22
Braddon (Tasmania) .. .. 5 5 28
Fysh („).... 5 i 18
Turner (Victoria) .. .. 5 o 8
Reid (N.S.W.) 5 j 10
Stafford (Maoriland) .. .. 5 0 10
All the States have had at least one long-distance
Ministry (over five years), and Tasmania and
Maoriland have had two each. And these are the
short-distance Ministries, including every Cabinet
that was actually sworn-in, and assumed office
and then perished inside fourteen days :
Bell-Sewell (Maoriland) ... 13 days
Fox ( ) .. .. 13
Ayers (South Australia) 13
Atkinson (Maoriland) ’’ 12 ”
Stout-Vogel (Maoriland) ! 12 ”
Baker (South Australia) .. .. ” n ”
Dutton (South Australia) .. .. n ”
Waterhouse (South Australia) .. 9 ”
Solomon (South Australia) .. .. 7 ”
Atkinson (Maoriland) .. .. ” g ”
Dawson (Queensland) .. .. . . g ”
Atkinson’s six-day Ministry happened 16 years
ago, so the common idea that Premier Dawson, of
Queensland, put up a record in December, ’99’ is
quite erroneous.


MACONOCHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
PRESERVED = FISH OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACONOCHIE BROS., L™ LONDON
Australian Rupresentatives—
SWIFT & CO.. 7 SPRINGST.. SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/0 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The COOLEST Hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere during
the summer months.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oasttweagb-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Nell Cook” : Was camped in the bush
on Queensland border lately, cooking for ring-
barkers, and one morning there hove in sight a
weird little leathery-looking woman, with two
small boys, and carrying in a small cage a morose
cockatoo. Apparently she had come to pay a
morning call, and firstly she remarked “ Hullo ! ”
in a creaky, small voice, as though rusted for want
of use. She said she lived “ over there,” with a
vague wave of the bony, brown, little hand. She
carefully placed the cage on the ground, and from
the way she and the children prostrated them-
selves around the gloomy bird it almost looked as
if they were bird-worshippers. Nor would they
have anything to eat until the cockatoo had been
refreshed. Under the stimulating influence of
tea and cake the woman delivered herself of
a few items of information concerning herself and
family, but the small, tired voice only became ani-
mated when alluding to the parrot. She was the
wife of a boundary-rider living near. Had lived
there a long time, didn’t know how long. Did
not know how old she was, or where she was born,
but (triumphantly) knew she was born somewhere;
had once had a little girl child that died, but for-
got how long ago. The children were at first
like small wild creatures. Their first shyness
wore off, examining everything with a monkey-like
curiosity. The clothing of the boys was of the
most elementary sort, while the woman looked as
though she might have been dragged through
countless wire-fences for several centuries. She
might have been any age. Her hair was burnt the
color of rusty iron, and done up in a knob in size
and shape like a reel of cotton. Finally they
drifted off down creek, all of them again so intent
on the parrot that they neglected to say good-day
to me, and on inquiry I found that this female was
not considered a peculiar type in those parts.
• * * *
“ Alces” : While at work on a crossbred
jumbuck a Casterton (Vic.) shearer cut in half a
lively brown snake concealed in the fleece about
the animal’s neck. A Queensland drover recently
told me that once, in skinning a ewe, he found a
death-adder coiled up in a neatly-made nest in the
belly-wool, which bore traces of lengthy occupa-
tion. The snake was very sluggish (it was in
winter), yet how the ewe escaped being bitten was
marvellous, as the reptile must, from its position,
have been subjected to a deal of squeezing when-
ever the involuntary hostess lay down.
• • * *
A Queensland lady writes to London
Spectator apropos a reference, in the fanciful
travels of Sir John Mandeville, to the long-apple,
which is soft, soon goes rotten, and shows the
mark of the Most Holy Cross when it is cut open.
A good many of Mandeville’s descriptions, sup-
posed to be fictitious, turn out to be thinly-
wreathed realities. This lady says his long apple
is the banana, and when a ripe one is cut across
there is an appearance as of a cross.
BLACK ARITHMETIC.
BLACK MARY (producing Soz.-nugget): “How
muchee that pfeller?”
HE: “ Oh — pennyweight!”
SHE: “ Baal that pfeller pennyweight !—that-one
shillin’-weight. Gib it tchillin’.”
(Deal promptly effected.)
“R.W.S.” : A man recently told me that
he was paid by three different candidates to per-
sonate them in the riding-tests for the S.A. Con-
tingent. Got ’em all through, too ; but, when it
came to his own test, he got a nag that wouldn’t
jump, and was thrown-out.
* * * *
“ Suffolk ” writes re the question whethe*
the dingo is or is not indigenous to Australia
(“P.H.C.,” 8., 13/10/’00): —
In Moree School of Arts library is a slab of sandstone
(the top bed of the foot-hills) on which is imprinted the
pad of a dog, 4in. x 4in., also the right foot of a human.
Also what are considered to be Phallic emblems (casts of
which are in the Australian Museum under the title of
“ Aboriginal doctor stones”), shaped out of a carbonate of
lime. These stones were found in a hollow tree on the route
taken by the Bellinger blacks on their annual excursions
to celebrate their Bora rites. Now, this human footprint
in the carboniferous sandstone and the Phallic emblems
tend to prove respectively that Australia was inhabited
whilst the rocks were in process of formation, and that in
his journey from Asia the early inhabitant of Australia
brought the emblems of his religion with him. All over
Moree district, away from the river system, the various
wells sunk prove it to bo a vast mausoleum of the remains
of extinct animals —fossil bones of the nototherium,
diprotodon, and smaller animals being invariably met
with at depths varying from 12ft. to 80ft.
« • * •
“T.S.”: Re paragraph (8., 27/10/ ’00)
about the dingo feigning death in a time of diffi-
culty, the habit is by no means peculiar to that
animal. I have heard of a bank-manager doing
the same thing while the accounts were being
overhauled. The bank manager is a rather
lengthy animal with a smooth black covering and
a black cloth tail, and is of a burrowing disposi-
tion. Some of your readers may have seen him.
• * * •
“ D. 8.” on a matter of hospitality :
“Geo. T.” says (B. 20/10/’00) that he has never met the
station-hand described by me as wanting in civility to
strangers, but abounding in servility to his “ boss.”
“ Geo. T.” can’t have travelled much of late years. There
was a time when hospitality and civility to a stranger out
West were the rule ; but, as an effect of closer settlement
and incidental competition, they are to-day the excep-
tion. I reiterate that the average station-hand loathes
the approach of a traveller in any form —perhaps, because
he instinctively feels that his billet is thereby menaced.
This is too well-known by those who have travelled
through station-country to be refuted by anybody vege-
tating in the dreary Thompson locality. 1 should know !
—having called at over 60 stations in the last six months.
I make, however, an exception of shearers, whom I found
(with some exceptions, of course) to be a fairly-enlightened
and sociable class.
* * * *
“A.A.A.”: Re the “biggest bullock”
question which is endangering so many immortal
souls. I recently came across a clipping from
Melb. Argus which states that a bullock bred by
Mr. Power near Maffra, Gippsland (1880), stood
Bft. high at the shoulder (!!!) and turned the scale
of 33051b5. (29fjcwt.). Same par. says that in 1854
Mr. De Castella, of Yering, Upper Yarra, sold at
auction 90 head of bullocks averaging £29 10s.
apiece.
According to N.S. W. Astronomer Rus-
sell’s 19-year weather-cycle theory, 1901 and 1902
should be wet years in the Way-back.
* * * *
“ Lar ” : When I was overseer on a cattle-
station worked by niggers at the head of the
Warrego in the early days, the
manager, who had gone for a
spell, suddenly wrote up that
. he’d got married and was bring-
ing the missus along shortly.
The niggers didn’t wear a
tack, so I and one of the
jackeroos reckoned we’d
rig out the three gins that
worked about the home-
stead. We looked out
some stiff white bed-
chintz, with red flowers
on it, got a pair of shears,
some sail needles, some
strong thread, took a
sugar-bag as a pattern
and started dressmaking!
When we had got the
“dresses” fixed up they
were too long, but were
so narrow that, as the
gins were in good condi-
tion, we cautioned them
to play light or the
things would bust. The
day the missus was to
arrive we dressed the
gins, ran a piece of green-
hide through the hem-
things round their necks
and tied it behind, and
when the gins put on their
old belltoppers and stuck
their pipes in their mouths
they went about the place
yelling with delight every
time the chintz crackled.
When the missus arrived,
I told the gins to run up
their horses to the back-
door and show white missus (a town girl) how
well they could mount and ride. Up they
came, yabbering and stumbling over their gowns
till they got angry, when they ripped out some
steep oaths, tucked their “dresses” right up
under their arms, jumped on their horses,, and
went whooping off pelt for leather over the rise.
* * * *
“ Kinirral ” : Niggers on the Warrego
(W.Q.) are always made “plenty sorry” by a
death. The corpse’s nearest-of-kin are banged on
the head with a nullah-nullah till they bleed, and
then dragged over and around the new-made
grave.
* * * *
A. bushman in a journey of 60 miles
recently between two Queensland stations had
twice to crawl over a causeway of dead and putre-
fying beasts, then skim the surface of the floating
filth to get a drink. His horses refused the first
hole, but were eager for the next.
“ Bios ” : In the report of the ’96 Royal
Commission on the fishes of N.S.W., a cer-
tain peculiar white pellicle always found in
FIAT EXPERIMENTUM.
1ST. DOSSER: “’Ave a drop, mate?”
2ND DO. : “ What’s in it?”
1ST. DO. : “I dunno. I found th’ bloomin’
bottle, and wanted ter find out.”
the cod is gravely stated to be the actual picture
of a tree near where the young fishes are spawned
—produced by some sort of prenatal influence.
The appearance, however—as I know from dis-
secting scores of cod—is not pictorial but struc-
tural ; being, in fact, a system of arteries essential
to the life of all Australian fresh-water fishes.
The “trunk” is the basal artery; the limbs
ramous arteries ; and the anastomosing branchlets
form the rest of the “ tree.” Bushmen and fisher-
men still swear by the “natural photograph” ;
but it is regrettable that so vulgar an. error should
be perpetuated in an expensive publication which
has been distributed to scientific institutions all
over the world.
Many of the regular highways in Queens-
land are at present closed to traffic through the
drought, and numerous station homesteads are
deserted for want of water. The other day a
Govt. officer after a holiday in Clermont had to
take train to Rockhampton, then on to South
Australia per sea; train again from Adelaide
some hundreds of miles, and lastly per camel to
his destination, “ Oontoo,” a town on the borders
of Queensland and S. A. A glance at the map will
show what such a journey means.
“BF.”: When I was a raw new-chum
I had’ occasion to take a coach journey. We
stormed at a little roadside house at dead of
night. I had a large flask of whisky with
me in my bag, and, thinking to do the
right thing, produced same and gave
drinks all round, including the sullen-
looking owner of the wretched hole.
I wondered at the time why every-
body should regard it as such a
good joke, but since then I
have often wondered more
what were the actual remarks
made about me by the un-
licensed grog-shanty keeper
after we had taken our de-
parture.
“Gilaomi”: In an
old “Sands’ Directory”
Burrowa, N.S.W., is des-
cribed as built on both
sides of Ryan or Dissen-
sion Creek. Can anyone
say how the watercourse
got the name ? It is jocu-
larly said that the big
recreation-ground lying be-
tween the two parts of the
town andthrough which the
creek runs was put there to
keep the Ryans and Dwyers
apart. Putting up at a Burrowa
hotel recently I chanced it and asked an atten-
dant if her name was Ryan. She replied, “No,
sir, it’s Dwyer; but it was Ryan.” So perhaps
the feud is healed.
9 • * *
“O.” : Cavern mentioned by “C.F.”(8., 20/
10/’oo)has evidently at onetime been asubterranean
watercourse, entering the Murray just below
Swan Reach. Length of cavern unknown, as
nobody has yet got to the other end. Present
writer, at all events, was quite satisfied to return
after about a mile on all-fours and in intense dark-
ness with innumerable bats fluttering around.
From a large gum-log about 200yds. from the
mouth —carried there probably by water —some
suppose the cavern to have been formed by a
channel leaving the Murray somewhere bet ween
Overland Corner and Pyap and taking a short cut
across the N.W. Bend (underground).
m * • *
“ Suffolk ” : lie size of iguana. One Sun-
day in 1883, whilst on mounted police patrol near
Burragorang mountain (N.S.W.), I was having a
pitch at a settler’s when one of the children sang
out, “Father, there’s a goanna running away
with one of the sucking-pigs ! ” The old man got
his gun, followed the reptile, and shot it. It was
6 feet long and thick in proportion. Several
“suckers” had been previously missed.
COHEN’S NOSE.
SCENE: Mr. Cohen talking to clerk who is speaking
of life’s hardships.
MR. C. : “ What do rob know about hardships
in life ? If you had your nose to the grind-
stone as I have had for the last 20 years
then you could talk.”
CLERK : “Good Lord! what size must it -have
been 20 years ago?”
TYSON: A BUSHMAN’S YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s my ruddy off-side leader,
And a skulking swine at that—
He’s as lazy as an M.L.0.,
And as cunning as a rat;
He was always d n well eating,
And he never seemed content,
And “ Hungry Buddy Tyson ”
Was the name by which he went.
If you turned him into clover
He would guzzle till he’d cough,
And he’d burst upon a haystack,
If you didn’t hunt him off ;
He had very little conscience
When he felt inclined to dine, .
And the women wouldn’t trust him
With the washing on the line.
We.ll, one day it chanced to happen
I was rocking down the Gap,
When someone came behind me
With a rattling, blanky trap ;
And when the polers rushed a bit
He heard the waggon jolt,
And Mr. Ruddy Tyson
Laid his ears back for a bolt.
I spoke to him and soothed him,
Then I jumped in front and swore,
And I chopped him with the greenhide,
But he gave a ruddy roar
And sent me back and spinning,
And he galloped down the track
With fourteen ruddy bullocks
And the waggon at his back.
They were going very nasty,
With their heads laid to the creek,
My mouth so full of dust and oaths
I couldn’t make it speak,
When just as smash seemed imminent
And everything to H—ll,
The blanky off-side leader
Tucked his blessed head and fell.
Then, the others in behind him
Took some headers on the road,
But the brakes were on the waggon,
And they stopped the ruddy load,
And when I poked the bullocks
With the whip-butt from the dirt
I couldn’t find a cripple,
Or a single bullock hurt.
And I found the ruddy reason
Why the ruddy leader stopped.
He saw a bit of butter-scotch
Upon the road and propped,
And now whene’er I think of it,
And see the ghastly sight,
I thank old hungry Tyson
For his ruddy appetite.
FREE LANCE.


Trials of an M.F.
No legislator is better known in Queensland
than Mr, Andrew Lang Petrie, M.P. for
Toombul. Mr. Petrie was elected by that con-
stituency in 1893, and his supporters’ appreciation
of his ability and integrity is shown by the fact
that he still represents it.
Speaking to a reporter recently Mr. Petrie
referred to the fact that his life had not been
without trials. Questioned further he said :
“ For many years I have been troubled with
rheumatism, which caused a dull, aching pain in
my shoulders and limbs, and stiffness of the
muscles. For years also my digestion was im-
paired. My appetite quite deserted me, and
although I forced myself to eat I could not relish
my food ; after meals there was a sense of weight,
discomfort, and sleepiness. At times there was a
bitter taste in my mouth. Headaches now and
again troubled me, and my ill-health seemed to
take away the activity which formerly character-
ised me. The medical skill available to combat
my complaints seemed to give only slight relief.
Having read good reports of Dr. Williams’ pink
pills I decided to try them. After using them for
four weeks an improvement was noticeable, and
thence onward my progress was rapid. Before long
I was enabled to discontinue Dr. Williams’ pink
pills, as they had cured me completely both of
rheumatism and indigestion. As it is over two
years since I used them there is no doubt about
the permanency of my cure. Several of my
friends and relatives have obtained great benefit
from them, and I can personally recommend Dr.
Williams’ pink pills to all sufferers from rheu-
matism and indigestion.”
Mr. Petrie’s recommendation endorses what
thousands have said about the merits of Dr.
Williams’ pink pills : by enriching the blood and
retoning the nerves, they cure anaemia, debility
and insomnia, paralysis, rickets, St. Vitus’ Dance,
fits, erysipelas, dysentery, effects of typhoid, etc.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place Sydney,
two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen and'three-
pence, post free. Write for free pamphlets.*
TJae LADIES’
“ Fx & R
Watch at £6 6s.
Is a f-plate Lever.
Is jewelled in 10 holes.
Has ruby roller jewel.
Has solid heavy IBct. gold case.
Has Brequ6t hair spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 16 years, and kept in order for
two years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case. ’
It goes with profound accuracy.
FAIRFAX » ROBERTS
f
Lady’s f-plate movement,
14ct. Gold Case
£5 5 0
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
VIGE-RECAL JEWELLF3S,
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality
Order
SCHWEPPE’S DERATED
SARSAPARILLA
AT A WESTERN PUB.
THIRSTY TRAVELLER (spitting out -water): “ Holy
wars—soap !”
MRS. PULICHOUSE: “I’ve told that wretch of a
boy a dozen times not to use soap when he 's
been swimmin ’ in the tank!”
“ Alpar ” : When I was spreading refine-
ment and culture at Possum Hollow a big bush
larrikin came one day to the gate of the select
bark seminary, and wanted to know why I had
whacked his little brother Jerry. Also, he in-
vited me out to see if I could whack him as easily
as I did Jeremiah. It was hot, and I wasn’t feel-
ing good that day, so I didn’t go out. Instead, I
loosed on him the two biggest girls in the school
(sisters), about 12st. each, who had a grievance
against the hulking object at the gate for speak-
ing disrespectfully of their mother. The pro-
ceedings were short and unscientific. Last I saw
of the bush lout that day he was covered with the
footmarks of the two girls, and was trying to get
a large quantity of mud out of his ear.
* * • •
“ H.S.” Me the dingo-question :
About Kimberley, W.A., there are some very big native
dogs of a dark brown color, as well as the smaller, fox-
like species common all over the continent. In both
species the forehead is flat, with “ pricked ” ears, having
generally a forward lean. The dingo, when travelling
fast, always cirries the head high, the tail extended
horizontally. The aboriginals catch the young puppies
and take them to the camp, where they are reared at the
breasts of the gins—suck and suck' about with the
picaninnies ; some of these gins become almost as much
attached to the canine as to the human. About the
most remarkable characteristic of the dingo is the amount
of battering he will survive. As to his sagacity, a
friend of mine once left a box of fowls outside the camp
at Cambridge Gulf, the box having strips of hoard nailed
securely over the top. In the morning every fowl was
still in the box, but all were headless ; the dingoes had
quietly lain in wait, and at daylight snapped off each
head as it popped up between the b ,irs. Excellent cattle-
dogs are often found in a cross of dingo and collie—
somewhat severe, but very hardy and fast, and nearly
always with that great desideratum in cattle-dogs—good
feet.
» * • * "
“Dodger”: Me tight corners. Billy
Y , a crack camp-rider of the Dawson, was
once “ shouldering ” a big bullock, hoop,
horns, when by some chance the bullock got
one horn through the ring of the bit; but
after going thus for a couple of hundred
yards at top speed the beast got his horn
free.
• * » *
“F. 8.”: A friend of mine noticed
near his camp a trap-door spider run in front
of him and pop into its hole, pulling the
“lid” down as it disappeared. The lid
seemed so neat and perfect a circle that the
man stooped to examine it, and found, to his
astonishment, that it was a sixpence ! There
was nothing but silk thread covering the top
of the coin, but underneath mud and silk
thread were coated on and shaped convex
(as usual). The coin had probably been swept
out of the tent with rubbish.
It is announced officially that about 45 per
cent, of the sheep in Hughenden district have
died. A drover took away about 1000 sheep to
save them. They arrived at country containing
whitewood shoots, ate thereof voraciously, and
died to the number of 850. The drover took 17
hours to travel seven miles, and only kept himself
alive by drinking the blood ¥ a sheep he killed.
* * * •*
An English paper re the Governor out-
rages :
Advices from Australia state that the blacks have risen
against the whites in the outlying distncts and massacred
great numbers of the inhabitants, who were taken by
surprise. A large proportion of the victims were women.
They have not yet learnt in Hingland that the
whites have retaliated by organising a head and
scalp hunt in the scrubs and gullies of Mt. Erebus.
“Bluebell” : We had on the station a
blind old gin known as “ Boko Mammy,” and once
when she fell sick the tribe thought she had had
a pretty good innings, and were on the point of
burying her alive—they’d got her sewn up in
her ’possum rug and all —when we rescued her.
However, she “tumbled down” soon after, and
we saw them doubling her up and cracking her
knees. I’ll never forget the sickening sound !
“ A. A. A.” ; Re crystallised hollow pebbles
(8., 27/10/’00). It was not water that those
pebbles (most probably quartz) contained, but
carbonic acid which had been taken up during the
process of crystallisation, and liquefied under
immense pressure. The liquid generally fills
about two-thirds of the cavity, and pebbles con-
taining it are not very rare.
“A.”: “Tomahawk” (8., 13/10/’00)
mentions as an uncommon exploit the scaffolding
of big timber by means of the “shoe.” It is an
every-day occurrence with the splitters in the
Tasmanian gum forests. The “shoe” is a
piece of timber roughly shaped, with the
axe, unshod, and driven into a narrow
hole previously cut into the tree about 7in.
Have seen a Tas. axeman fix a length of
round, green sapling not more than 3in. in
dia., at a height of 20ft., and stand there in,
seemingly, perfect security. Exhibitions of
“shoe scatfolding” have been given at
various times in Tas. The “ shoe ”is gener-
ally about 4ft. long, and made of split
timber.
Re liquor adulteration (B. 13/10/'00),
you don’t need to go to Queensland to
get liquor that will “bite all the way
down. In ’Bl I called at a pub in
N.S.W. back country and stayed 3
days to spell the horses. We limited
ourselves to six nips per day and
yet I left hurriedly on the third day be-
cause I could see white, transparent faces
all round me. Was told by the publican’s
neighbor that the last load of spirits—including,
amongst other items, 15 gals, rum —had arrived two
years before. The publican had been selling
“ rum ” all the time, and at the period of my visit
had 60 gallons in stock ! Talk about the widow’s
cruse !—Heimsdal.
* * * •
“Ston”: Re snakes climbing wall
(“ A.S.”, B. 24/11/’00). I have often killed snakes
in a hay-loft—whither they had doubtless gone
after mice—and was puzzled to know how they
got up, till I one day found a snake ascending the
ladder by coiling itself successively round the
rungs and then reaching out for another. How
they got down I can’t say. [Rats ! —Ed. B.]
“ Vril ” : To “ A.S.” (8.*24/11/’00.) There
is a green tree-snake in Queensland that can climb
anything. I have seen one go up a weatherboard
wall, ziz-zag fashion.
“Eller” : Re “ Steele Rudd’s ” “Dad”
and the cow with blind teats. In a recent N.S. W.
South Coast police-court case it was deposed that
when the buyer asked “Is she a good milker? ”
the seller replied, “Oh, she’ll simply astonish
you ! ” And she did —for she had blind teats ;
and the buyer was “ astonished ” some more when
the beak dismissed the case.
* * * *
“ Bullfrog ” : I was ploughing about two
miles from the house, and saw the storm coming,
so I let two of the horses go and jumped on the
other to get my coat. The loose horses started at
a gallop for home, and the brute I was on went
after ’em just as the hail started. I had on a
button-at-the-back shirt —the wind kept it open
and the hailstones poured in. They were no
bigger than peas, but by the time the horse got
home with me I had Sin. of ice all around inside
my shirt, like a lifebelt. I was doubled up like
Tod Sloan, and the cooky was laughing, but when
I rolled off, tearing at t':e shirt, he thought it was
full of snakes, and had sense enough to fetch the
whisky.
• * * •
Mr. W. Rodier, of Tambua station, Cobar
(N.S.W.), has apparently solved the problem of
rabbit-extermination by the simple means of kill-
UNDER HER THUMB.
DAPHANE: “My dad’s — ei—a blacksmith. Wot
does your ole man do? ”
EAURY: “O, my ole man does whatever me muther
tells ’ im .”
ing all possible does, and no bucks —with the
result that, to quote the originator of the idea,
of does, as compared with bucks,
causes the former to be so over-attended-to by the
latter that they cannot breed.” When all the
does are killed, it only remains to wait for the
dying-off of the bucks. Mr. Rodier lias amply
demonstrated on his own run the efficacy of this
simple plan.
* * * *
Goombargana station, N.S.W., has this
year cropped 8000 acres of self-sown cereals, the
wheat of which has yielded 10 bushels per acre —
equal to the previous year’s retui’n from a regu-
larly-sown crop.
De Wet is Abd-el-Kader over again, with
a very little better chance.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
B. : The Anglican Canon named takes con-
fessions from the ladies, as you state, but he doesn’t let
them go into details. If they start to be explicit he pulls
them up short with, “ Sin of the flesh, that will do—next,
please,” or words to that effect. This scribe has informa-
tion from someone who had a confession from one of the
Canon’s confessees E.F.P. : A man five years at
N.S.W. Bar is eligible, without an examination, for a seat
on the Supreme Court Bench, but unless after a success-
ful examination is not eligible to be appointed Police
Magistrate under the Public Service Board C.S.S. :
Why, Marshall-Hall comes of a pious family Rough-
rider : What of that! The biggest steamers afloat
are still English (Irish-built). The Oceanic (White
Star) can give the Grosser K. 4000 tons
R.E. : Australians, as well as Britishers, complain of “ in-
sincerity ” in the typical smart Yankee who stays among
them long enough to be fo ind out. Which is merely the
same thing as calling the flippant stranger a born man of
business. The commercial nature is essentially insincere
and the modern town-bred Yank shows it in its highest
stage of development. But his country cousin with the
hayseeds in his hair remains a pattern of simple honesty
for all the agriculturists on earth.... Will J. : Verse
unintelligible. Obscurity is not profundity Ibex:
Not worth while.... Bullaman : The “serious” verses
are funny, and the “ lively” ones are deadly.. .. Dodo : If
the serio-comic girl didn’t swear so hard it might pass.
... .Mulga : W.A. may be hopelessly barren, as you say,
still the part of it sown with wheat has given a better
return per acre for the last 10 years than the wheat-
country of either N.S.W., Victoria, or S.A.—more than
twice as good a return as S.A. And for the last 10 years
its cultivated area (all kinds of crops included) has pro-
duced, on an average, produce worth £2 13s. Bd. per acre
per annum, against N.S.W. £2 ss. 9d., Victoria £2
os. 9d., S.A. £1 2s. lOd J.F.O.F. : Falls flat
Iris : Falls flatter J.M.G. : Falls flattest
C.M. : If there are in Sydney, as per official statement,
6000 “poor families” (or say 30,000 persons) willing to
receive doles of food during the Commonwealth cele-
brations, no wonder you can find in the State lots of men
willing to go and fight the Boers, or anybody else, for ss.
a day and trimmings Hugh Mac: “ Mary ” for illustra-
tion Alone : Neither has force or beauty enough
M.G. : As a rule there are two sides to the story when a
woman slaps a man’s face in public. She slaps one side
only Wandering J. : Your sneer at “ sientiflc dot-
tards ” is just what might have been expected from a per-
son so deficient in observative faculty as not to have
learnt to spell decently Will J. : “ Fate ” too unintel-
ligible. Even an allegory should have a certain per-
spicuity P.H.O. : Sorry still not up. Straining
after effect too evident, and you shouldn’t seek
for unusual expressions E. (Syd.) : Declined
Mac : The registrar may have been mad enough. Lots
of madmen know that they are mad : and a man may
know that a thing is wrong and yet be utterly incapable
of resisting the impulse to do it. The law, we know,
holds otherwise, as per the Macnaghten judgment, but
any mad-doctor will tell you the law is an ass. Not that
any observant and reflective man needs any support for
such a conclusion beyond his own experience
Balmain Prodigy : Possibly par W.A.P. : Please wail
elsewhere Sam, A. : No thanks Hermit: You
deserve to be E.1.L.: There are many other objec-
tions to printing it F.M.N. : “Respectability” well
done, but rather slight O.J.D. : Would rather kill
another “ Dying Stockman” poem than resuscitate one
which “appeared 18 years ago.” Homus : View these
things languidly, having read so much worse
....Ben Sun: “Ballast-Guard” too close to verse
printed Paw Paw : Not bad ; not good enough
W. M. W. : As verse, by no means bad. But do you really
believe that The Bulletin is addicted to that brand of
Jingoism ?... .Wal. O. : Chestnut !... .W. 0.0. : Many
thanks, but it is practically irreproducible. Photo, re-
turned... .Dodo : Ooppertop is not up; the other may
have a chance.... Barbarian : Too spasmodic and incon-
sequent for print Tamil: Could have been made a
good item No use as it stands T.B. : Would need
too much re-writiug T.H.A. (0.Q.R.) : None usable.
....MS. returned P J.O’D. : Many thanks A.
Friend: Unusable Republican (Too.): Quite use-
less C.C. : Will print “TheK.” F.A.C. : His cri-
ticism doesn’t count for anything in particular
F.N.T. : Read those alleged verses to the girl herself.
If we printed them, the public would stone us to death.
....J.O. (II.): While the case is sub judice you mustn’t
publicly talk thus about “a perjury-conspiracy on one
side.” Joseph Claude Feeran : You, indeed, are the
champion modest man R.W.S : Yes, that & so.
There has been a Greek Orthodox Church open in Sydney
for 15 months past R.B.T. (Eng.): America off our
beat. Also The Bulletin does not publish serials—and
has no room for matter which is also offered elsewhere.
F. : Kruger is a very old man, and infirm; he has
had his day of strength and valour. Nearly three years
ago he was pronounced by an eminent French doctor to
be suffering from Bright’s disease ; in the photos, you
can see “ kidneys ” written all over his face. Steyn, it is
true, was written down as a coward at the beginning of
the war, but his slanderers were the men whose con-
spiracy of lies dragged the British nation into the con-
flict... .Quilp N. : Will print “Dream.” J.O. (Tas.) :
Glad to hear from you again Grasstree : Not up.
At present you lack crispness of touch... .G. 11.8. : Too
trifling... Kodak : Both fairly funny, but your work
lacks finish F.N.T.: You enlighten us as to the possi-
bilities of amatory poetry. A couple of verses :
My arm is never rightly placed
Or seldom at its ease,
Save it’s around your slender waist
To embrace you with a squeeze.
My case would be a far worse one,
And surely I’d be sad
If you by someone else were won ;
In all likelihood I’d go mad.
But don’t let her know that, or she’ll give you a bad time...
Father John : Considering L.M.D. : “ Question ” won’t
do Grip : Insignificant Wailandool: Consider your
adjectives, what they mean.... E. J.D. : Bad verse isn’t
better because written in ga01... .Nellie (Ad.): Worth-
less, dear girl... .E. M‘D. : Don’t know till we compare.
....Dros: Can’t say how glad we are that “ode”
was rejected L. (Bendigo) : Not bright
Kirk : Good enough ; but rather personal and far-away
for U5....M.A.: Hasty scraps refused T. Timaru :
Here you are for what you’re worth—
“ All men are liars ” —so David sang or wrote ;
And, Faith, I half believe him ; but please note
He spelt it wrongly—men are just the lyres
The women play on, rousing fierce desires.
And all the tunes they strike, you see,
Are writ in major key of O ;
“Cuddle,” “ canoodle,” and things that are worse
But always ending for the man in Curse !
For ever, in finale, sure you can
Hear ending all, a most emphatic Damn !
Fraelissa : Not much—nothing Plebeian : Fine
sentiments; feeble verse D.8.G.: Not quite good
enough ; try again.... J.W.D. (Fiji) : “ Mallow ” not bad ;
but get a better subject.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Originality : If you allude to the sketch on page 13 in
issue 22nd Dec., all we have to say is that the similarity
in question mainly exists in your own imagination. The
two ideas concern masks and the stage, but there resem-
blance begins and ends. The item here printed was, as
far as we are aware, entirety original, and it is a much
more subtle one than that cut from the paper you name.
The Bulletin artist cribbed neither idea nor drawing
James (Drys.) : Can’t make head or tail of it. ..Fraelissa :
One very old, and neither fit for use... .Clurc : May have
one re-drawn.. ..E.J.D. : Can’t use either... .Louis M. :
Farmer’s-friend theme too hackneyed ; “ Bullocks ” may
do; also “Where Men G 0.”... . M.T. : May do for re-
drawing... .P.H. (Ben.): Altogether too crude. You
must study patiently at a life-class. You possess some
humor and should get on. ..Unavailable : G.J.O. ; W.M. ;
Natte Yallock ; E.J.B. (very old); Bones; Les. Lee;
Zif ; Mackay ; J.A.B. ; M. Stan ; J.S. (Pyr.); Faith L. ;
Cecil D. ; Moss T. ; Linvoil; M. Eth. R. ; J.H.N. ;
H.P.S. ; H.P.W. ; H. West; Jacob S Bullaman (Bar-
caldine) : Good idea. Handed to artist.
HIS PARTING
SHOT.
URCHIN (derisively):
“ Yah I You an’
yer bullocks I Why,
I reckon it ’ud take
yer all yer time to cart tucker ter a parrot wot
was orf ’is feed !”
Mr. Atlee Hunt, barrister-at-law. Who was
secretary to the N.S.W. United Federal Executive,
V, a a hcon nnoointorl nrivate-spcrctarv to Premier
8 Deen a PP omtea private secretary to Premier
Larton.
Last year S. Australia’s Forest Dept, made
distribution of fruit ; tree, and
rfjo ' ines * 1 1^s °^ n account it planted
123,113 trees, but, through the bad season, little
more than 50 per cent, survived. Of all forest
trees the dept, is having most success with N.S.W.
ironbarks
nTTTJTP annv
J-U G U -tv r. oUrvc. HiYRiG,
Apply MORRIS’S IMPERIAL Eye OINTMENT, and
avo id intense suffering. Never be without it.
r\ „ ko„ u b n i . T , .
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes. Pots,
4s. bold everywhere.
“ Pukaki ” on opium-eating • I took
, 4.1 A „x .• , ' • . ,
laudanum for three years at irregular intervals—
sometimes twice a week, sometimes once m
three weeks. Can’t say I had a craze for it, or
that I had to “ increase the dose.” I used to take
it every now and then, when I felt as if I would
l ßh e iV T°t ften b f f< ,’ r ff g 7 ng y x achtil f’ or , to th ?
theatre. Its mental effect was to create a pleasant
and stable exhilaration and clearness of mind,
lasting about eight hours. The only physical
effects were a singing in the ears, and a great dry-
ness of pa l ate . I gave it up a year or so ago, as I
found myself suffering severely from biliousness
the day after taking.


Aw/
*<?
K% 's
fle*<kvrty j ,
r& A
| yjo * N«e^eAvj
tbx^V on 7
sc^o o'
-
r~ ~llkaL’ I
!S^&/\*7^
7 Jn o>
SxX
mlh
lif" bio* 'fc $M i
f Y®“ «•' tT + ill
§Ao e Wc n Vm
Ibe /All
| -% 4/ Tr *Mf
I K a_ Ob-1 '’'S
I -i°“ v v/r" ,
I trw n}‘SA <e J
I °^
p/1
/ I'ests'tfe ,-
/gUpa bell'totiat- ifor’ ijfje /
Ur 1
co^cjl
Vs
l°*>e W
otje eotj/eJ/foi?
a n I*9 Vo'{ r *7^*
, 1 v^xf"
X bloKe t^us'fev'
cf nr v
_ iy<>3‘-*W Wp
SOME IMPRESSIONS OF THE GREAT JAMBOREE.


lynb addresses THE ELECTORS.
A Voice : “ What have you ever done for the Commonwealth » "
Lvne : “ Didn’t I order 2000 cases of champagne ?” _
TwiCci arj a ap « a ’p a -'jUO
V~Q K'<* f I r/p C J
a political! pooh bah
The Premier of NSW congratulates the Commonwealth Minister for
the Interior
•‘George Reid stands higher to-
day in the estimation of the people |
than ever before "—or .words to
\ that effect —Syd. D.T.
LONDON, Friday.—Nicola Tesld. the cele-
brated electrician and inventor and associate
worker with Thomas A. Edison, states that
his instruments in the Colorado Observa-
tory recently recorded three faint pulses 6f
energy which were not dt#s to the influ-
ences of tlie Sun or Earth.
Tesla states his belief that the inhabitants
■of - tho planet Mars are signalling to the
EXPLANATION.
BaldiieadedJParty on Mars (watching the, recent fire-
work display in Sydney ) : “By Jupiter ' I believe
those Earthians are signalling to us ; but whether}
it’s a challenge to fight or an i
invitation to drink, dashed
if I can make out 1 Let’s .
send ’em a wireless
and ask ’em to speak up !'/ M
ft Scene.—/U cZose o/ the Ifotrbor illuminations
■ and fireworks.
■ Little Boy ; “ Father, will there be any
more Commonwealth i ”
H \ Father : “Well, I don’t know; the
7 people will have to be /
' /y\ uncommon wealthy g
lllv a ff° r( l another. g
uL'TuV one.” g
t 1 \
_ IHS V
o
, oF i
Ht?Y- ,\l
Q h UiPhp's Key /jo jofT^.X
ON THE THRESHOLD OF HISTORY.—SAeic/t ty rte Understudy.
Wf^*m
/f .1 ny r /7 \i
vyi -m/ f
I A v 1 \ Cwfir
CARTOONLETS.


ndon
Lever
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS —“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
n Black or Nickel, 20s —perfect timekeeper,
rhe LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s : in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 XOs,
£4, £5, £6, 1 7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 , 4s,
£6 6s, £6 6s, i'7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Faunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch. 20s ; Pearl Sec Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s Od.
The Latest Style.
cm?
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and R iby
Ilorse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooc i.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s (id. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
Hand-made 1
Solid Gold,
15s ; extra
heavy, 30s,
Saunders. «
bedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Ss 6d, i a 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
heavy, 25s ; ISc. Gold, 20s : extra
355, 408. Send for card.
A. Saunders.
Registered 150. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 1 s ;
8 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, sinner
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunuers.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
Bed or
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethvsts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Stjde Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
'<2s£3f-
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, '3, £3 108, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, i*7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s*
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
qr
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7e 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Qold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
k. 8a .nders.
Cold Irooch, Diamond-out Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Cold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
ap
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunuers.
“ Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3 ; Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
5a 6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pir.s.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition. —A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Lone Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
ƒsd
f
sdf
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
df
df
dg
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or
phires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ;
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size ot Diamonds.
Saph-
Larger
Price
fg
Gold Grosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c. Gold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, i Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
Baden-Powell Gold
Diamond, 25s ; wit
Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
,hout Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Oharm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
o*r.
A. Saunders.
Sold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin
go-Bragh” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Charm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
]sc. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
=<§>
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3*
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
;v--v-
A. Saunders
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunc'ers.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6a,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Ginks,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 150.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbed
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring- Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS
LEADING A.RT JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
Station/)
SYDNEY.


A Lambton correspondent sends a pointer
for the Animals Protection Society, which, in
such a matter, should surely be able to claim the
co-operation of the Govt, coal-mine inspectors :—
Editor Bulletin.—Isn’t it a curious thing that while a
carter depending on his one horse and cart for a living
must not work his horse with a bad shoulder or a sore
knee, wealthy N.S.W. coal-companies can with impunity
work anything that can keep on its feet. At one pit I
know of a horse whose head was so battered that you
could scarcely see the bridle for hard lumps of skin and
flesh overhanging it. The wheelers always placed him a
C f U P e hundred yards to leeward at crib-time because
of the fearful stench from his wounds. Have seen horses,
out after a hard shift, get to the last danger-board where
a gang of men were waiting to be let in, and then have to
go in again with the gang and work “a doubler.”
It is pi yiful the way the poor animals look at their
more fortunate companions on their way out, and try to
lift or kick the barrier down. Even when they have
travelled a couple of miles down, they will try to get out,
in crossing from one travelling road to another, by turn-
ing up the engine-bank. A feed for the poor beasts, on
these double-shifts, is too often a secondary consideration
—considered lucky if they get a drink. Water-bailers’
horses very seldom carry a nosebag. They generally
leave the top at 10.30 at night and get back about 8 in the
morning, and then they often have barely time to get a
feed ere they are taken for boundary-riding or odd jobs
on top. The wheelers often brutally use a horse ; but
then, on the other hand, it amounts to this—a certain
quantity of work must be done —or 14 hours’ notice.
“ Quercus ” re “ tipping ” :
Re “ Diogenes” (B. l/12/’00)and the “ tipping” system,
The impecunious Lord Rossiyn had recently an article on
the subject in an English magazine. It seems to me that
the real offenders are not the recipients of the tips, but
the employers. A regulation prohibiting tipping is posted
in all first-class London clubs, but the rule is, of course,
ignored, notably even by «;he committee which framed it.
As long as hotels and steamers are overcrowded with
waiters and others of the unorganised labor class (who
cannot demand, as a right, any minimum wage) so long
will the public be a party, not to the pauperising of the
employes, but to the assisting of big hotel and steamship
co’s in underpaying and sweating men, who, through
want of organisation, are apparently without remedy.
Tiib Bulletin Booklets, No. III.
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS,
A New Collection of Verst s by Roderio Quinn.
Enveloped ; 1s. 9d. post-free.
£3T Onlv 500 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion booklet by the same author, was
sold out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Post-free for postal note or stamps of any province.
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
RESCH’S WAVERLEY BREWERY,
- S"STID3SrE"y —•
CITY OFFICES: CHARLOTTE PLACE.
BREWERIES :
EdgedifFe Road, Waverley # Dowling Street, Moore Park
Box 233, GLP.O.
Telephone, 206.
. AGENTS FOR . .
Watson’s Whiskies
Sazerac Brandies
Hy. Goulet Cham-
pagne
Bols Bitters,
Liqueurs & Gins
M
s'.
m
. . AGENTS FOR
Jubilee Schnapps
Princess Lager
Beer
Guinness’ Lantern
Stout
Proprietor.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN & IMPORTED WINES.
Unlimited Supplies in Cellars, 241 Pitt-street, Sydney, and in Bond.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
the fa.m;oxjs remedy for
CO Cal 18, BRONCHITIS, ASTHM A, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure » certain. BEWARE OR" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address token not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Food? are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
s
nr"
"BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and Is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid*
BE/ieEK'B FOOD la sold fn Tina DyWimhtu, 80., aesiywAsra.
“‘Benger’s Food* has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives ,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
dgf
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
69 Collins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney
.A.AfW/V
GrO TO HEILL-
« IGOIiANK for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER, j
7i Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM
vc
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
We have the Commonwealth. Now we
only want a Cromwell !
Mary Jane Gould will not lace Toby Bar-
ton for the Hunter. Gould’s money-bags can’t
materially help him in this case.
Jingoism chuckles. It has already, it
reckons, accomplished three-fourths of the task of
rivetting upon Australia the shackles of an
aggressive militarism.
Chief-Justice Griffith at the Common-
wealth banquet: “The State from which I come
is one of six, yet it is as large as France, Germany
and Austria combined.”
“ I do not like to see too many lawyers in
Parliament. They dip their hands too frequently
into the Treasury. Jessel, the Jew, was the only
exception to this rule that I know.”—Gladstone,
in “ Tollemache’s Talks.”
Queen Victoria cables Lord Hopetoun :
Accept my heartfelt congratulations for the new year,
and for the welfare of my new Australian Commonwealth.
“My Commonwealth ! ” Ha, ha ! Her Gracious
must surely have been thinking of “my”
Dominion !
Queensland has a sort of hybrid old-age
pension scheme already working that gives relief
in some cases, but the authorities salve the Tory
conscience by taking from the applicants any
house or property they have and vesting it in the
Govt. Of course this isn’t Socialism.
Sydney Telegraph now calls Dry Dog
Reid the “low tariff leader.” Considering that
the Dry Dog man’s fiscal arguments consist almost
wholly of statistics that are either straight-out
falsehoods or falsehoods by inference, he does
seem about as low a leader as any party could
have.
LED LIKE A LAMB.
PHRENOLOGIST: “By your bumps, Mr. Casey. I
should say that you -were easily led.”
C ASEY: “ Begorra, Mr. Phrenologist, shure
indade, ye are roight; Oi’ve been married
three toimes.”
Again the irony of politics ! Barton was
sworn-in as Federal Premier within the bound-
aries of the State electorate of Randwick. Rand-
wick, by prefering to elect Bagman Storey and to
reject Edmund Barton, in 1894, gave the first solid
indication that Sydney intended to fight against
the federation of Australia.
Maoriland’s penny post commenced on
Ist January, and there are already strong demands
that the Federal penny post shall follow. But to
carry a letter for a penny 1100 miles from one end
of Maoriland to the other is one thing, and to
carry it for a penny 2400 miles from one end of
Australia to the other isn’t quite the same.
Tasmanian papers swear a good deal at
their island only getting an unpaid Federal
Minister who holds no office. But after all there
are probably 10,000 years ahead, and the present
Ministry is only fixed for four months. When
the Federal Parliament meets, Tasmania has only
to produce a man of sufficiently commanding
ability to get the Premiership, and if it produces
two men of sufficiently commanding ability it can
have the Treasurership as well.
Victoria's Houge of 48 Rich Landlords
threw out the Scripture Lessons Referendum Bill
le'uctantly and by a very small majority. That
Upper House is pious in its own sour and useless
fashion, and it would gladly have passed a
measure for introducing the Bible into State
schools, but the idea of a Referendum to
decide that or any other question was
abhorrent to its narrow soul. Why
doesn’t the Assembly, if it really
wants to get the direct opinion of
the people on Woman Suffrage
or the Bible in schools or
any other subject, simply
take a Referendum on its
own authority, and thus
introduce the principle
whether the Council is
willing or not ? Kingston
did it in S.A. Is Victoria
prepared to admit that it
hasn’t the same courage and
energy as the State nextdoor?
This is a matter on which it
needn’t be kicked by its
dreadful tipper House un-
less it really likes being
kicked.
A well-known N.S.W.
legislator was once address-
mg a meeting which a straw
would have turned either way,
when a big miner arose and began
reading from a volume according to
which the candidate had formerly
expressed views directly opposite
to those enunciated by him that
night. The platform supporters
turned sick with fear, but pre-
sently the candidate rose and de-
manded, “ What’s that you’re reading ? ” “ Han-
sard, ” was the reply. “ Pooh ! ” contemptuously
returned the candidate—“a thing issued by a
Freetrade Government!” Then the crowd whooped
enthusiastically, and the Hansard man had a
bad time while being vigorously passed along to
the door.
Melbourne Leaded reckons that it knows
the kind of Cabinet Reid wanted to construct —
one consisting of George Houstoun Reid, George
H. Reid, G. Houstoun Reid, George Reid,
G. H. Reid, G. Reid, and Reid. Alas ! even that
wouldn’t satisfy him, for it would leave Dry Dog
Reid out in the cold—unless he was made an
honorary Minister.
Sydney D.T. in an attempt to injure
Federal-tariff-formulator Kingston, states that he
“ would never brook a strong man in his Cabinet.”
Yet the only Cabinet Kingston ever formed con-
tained Playford, Holder, Cockburn, Gordon and
Jenkins, who were, when they joined, absolutely
the strongest men in S.A. Parliament, and the
combination lasted six vears.
“ N’lmporte ” on the subject of naming
the Federal capital :
Dear Bulletin. — lie Hori Grey as the introducer of the
clause which subjects revision of the Federal Constitu-
tion to the popular assembly, would it not be best to
name the Federal capital after him? “Greyburgh” or
“ Grey town” looks and sounds well, and we would have
it all to ourselves ; the memory of the “ great pro-consul ”
is surely more worthy of preservation than that of the
purely local “ Wentworth.”
The utter absence of reference in any of
the Commonwealth celebration speeches to the
name of that sound Federalist, ex-Chief Justice
Lilley, of Queensland, suggests something more
than forgetfulness. It may have been prudent to
omit the name of late Premier MTlwraith, but
when speakers were searching history back to
Wentworth, at least Griffith should have thought
of Lillev.
Though the whole postal and telegraph
business of Australia and Tasmania has passed
into Federal control, there is a great silence
among the State Postmasters-General in the
matter of resigning their billets. There is even
some talk of a conference of State Postmasters-
General a month or two hence. Yet, long before
that time, there should be no Postmasters-General
to confer.
Bulletin recommends every democrat in
Australia to get his name on the Federal vote-rolls
at once. Witii manhood suffrage over all the coun-
try, the Federal elections give a splendid chance
to sweep the Commonwealth House clean of mili-
tarism, servility, jobbery, and thievery. The issue
is in the people’s own hands ; and if they pickle
the rod for their own backs—serve ’em right ! So
up with the Gum-Tree Flag, with the motto —
Australia for Australians, and Australians
for Australia !
The question already raised whether
a Federal Minister should get his salary of £4OO
a year as a private Federal member in addi-
tion to his Ministerial salary of about £l7OO a
year. The Bulletin says YES in a tremendous
voice. Good men can’t be got, as a rule, without
paying for them, and even with both salaries com-
bined the Federal Treasurer will get less than
many a bank-manager, without the bank-manager’s
life billet. And a good Treasurer needs to know as
much as three good bank-managers.
“ Freetraders must speak out,” says the
newly-knighted M‘Billion, ex-Treasurer of N.S.W.
“We must now strenuously fight for the principles
of our fiscal creed.” Pity the M‘Billion didn’t
fight a little for his alleged fiscal creed when he
was Freetrade Treasurer of N.S.W. He certainly
took care that there should be no duties on cloth-
ing, and manfully discouraged the local clothing
trade which might interfere with the importing
business. But he protected most other industries
more or less. The M‘Billion would make a good
member of a Protectionist Ministry which be-
lieved in Freetrade in drapery.
RACIAL DIFFERENCES.
MOICHAL O'NALE ( truculently): “Oi nivver
knew a Dago that Old soil me hands wid.”
L. BOEGIA : “ Maladetto! My contra-man Leo
thirteen time! You lika. kissa him TOE.”
The adjustability of Premier Holder’s
political conscience is proved by the fact that after
being ready to join Lyne, and after having hoped
to enter the Barton Cabinet, lie ( exclaimed with
simulated glee that he has now an unfettered
hand to advocate a Freetrade policy—which will
be useful as assisting him to a remunerative
alliance with Reid. Never in State politics has
Holder’s Freetrade been deeper than Holder’s
lips, for all the Ministries with which he has been
associated have been definitely Protective.
Premier Lyne’s translation to the Federal
sphere will leave a vacant portfolio, which rumor
reports will go to F. B. Suttor, Vice-President of
the Executive, now representing the Govt, in the
Leg. Council. No salary is attached to this latter
billet, the custom being for the salaried Ministers
to each make a grant to the Vice-President. With
threatened reduction in State Ministers’ screws
the probability is that this arrangement, never a
commendable one, will be dropped for the future.
The P.M.G’s salary will be available for the
Upper House representative.
Tasmania’s Great Western private-railway
syndicate, which only started, after five years
delay, when it was kicked hard by the Lewis
Government, is pottering along building its line
at the rate of £2OOO a month. At this rate, it will
take probably 48 years to finish the work, and it
only spends even this amount under protest, and
asks twice a week to be allowed to hang up the
job indefinitely while still retaining the conces-
sion. And still Hobart clings to the myth that
handing over the work to a private syndicate with
a big land-grant is the only way to get speedy
communication with the West Coast.
“ Fairplay ” to The Bulletin :
Sydney D.T. printed a par. t’other day with a flaring
headline “ Bombala surrounded by flames” —this no
doubt to make it appear that Bombala is an unsafe place
for the Federal capital. I was at Bombala a few days
after the alleged conflagration, yet not even the vestige
of a fire was perceptible within two miles of the town.
What fire there had been was confined to a fifty-acre area.
Can it be that the par. was printed with the object of
prejudicing the superior claims of the locality to the
Federal capital? Apropos, a Govt, engineer was sent up
to Orange a few weeks ago to report on the local water-
supply, but his report has not yet seen light. When it
does, it should make interesting reading when placed
side by side with the report furnished by the League’s
paid official.
J. H. Symon, Q.C., declared at a recent
Adelaide meeting that D. H. Deniehy was the
real father of Australian Federation, and anyone
who cares to delve in far-back political literature
will at once see that the assertion is maintainable.
But of course Deniehy only sounded “the Aus-
tralian note,” and the Australian note is not popu-
lar just now. Hence Deniehy has been forgotten,
and the name of Dailey given to a N.S.W.
Federal constituency on the ground, as set forth
by an Irish M.P. of N.S.W. Assembly, that he
was “the first Australian statesman to strike the
Imperial note ” and the first to be “ summoned to
the councils of his Queen.”
That New Year’s distribution of food to
6000 “ needy families ” —apparently needy
bachelors and spinsters “on their own ” were not
reckoned, and the relief was confined to families —
in Sydney and suburbs is still awaiting explana-
tion. If a family is reckoned at five persons, that
distribution means that one-twelfth of the whole
population of Sydney and its environs is in want
or on the verge of it. A truly awful state of
things is herein foreshadowed, and if four years
of “ Freetrade ” has brought this to pass, what a
grim joke it is at the expense of the Jolly and
Fat policy ! The 6000 Jolly Skeletons —it sounds
like the name of a public-house, by the way.
A belated hunk from George Reid’s last
great Freetrade speech :
While, during the five years preceding 1899 the number
of male operatives in Victoria had decreased, showing that
“ the tree was rotten,” the number had increased in
similar establishments in N.S.W., &c., &c.,
Possibly this is another of the facts which the
guileless and phonographic George took on trust
from Max Hirsch. According to the published
information on page 47 of the “Abstract of the
Statistics of Victoria, 1899,” the number of male
employes in the protected State increased in the
five years previous to 1899 from 35,467 to 44,041.
It seems to be George Reid that is rotten —not the
tree.
Last Friday the first Australian Federal
Ministry was only four days old, and the three
Sydney Calico Jimmy dailies were all demanding
to know its fiscal policy, and threatening to sool
the dog on it if the information wasn’t instantly
forthcoming. Not one of them inquired about its
borrowing or non-borrowing policy, its Old Age
Pension policy, its policy for preserving the
Federal territory from the grasp of syndicates and
land-grabbers, its public debt conversion policy,
its railway policy, its land-tax policy, or anything
else. The Freetrade dailies of Sydney wear a
very thin veil of democratic sentiment, and the
raw bones of their Calico-Jimmyism stick through
it in all directions.
In passing its Federal Senators' Elections
Bill t’other day, Vic. Assembly fixed the hours of
polling from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. all over the State in
place of Btos, as for the State elections. Where-
upon the Argus arose in great haste to protest
against such an' entirely unnecessary innovation,
and pleaded tearfully for sundry hapless returning
officers, who “might have to find their way
along country roads in the dark ” (!) The Argus
poses as the friend of the country as against the
city, but the heavy journal is, of course, unaware
that the country worker is nearly always engaged
between 8 a.m. and 5 or 6 p.m., and that the
extra hour or two gives him just the desired op-
portunity to record his vote.
Attorney-General Isaac Isaacs claims the
Victorian State Premiership as Turner’s successor.
The stock of Kookaburra Peacock has long been
steadily rising, but Isaacs has always ranked as
second man in the Cabinet, and his inheritance
appears sure. Isaacs has been frequently described
as furnishing the brains and the strong democratic
instincts of Vic. Cabinet. The Kookaburra man’s
friends put in the same claim for him, and the
Kookaburra man’s enemies say that be is an able
and wily schemer who has no settled instincts of
any kind, and that his fearful laugh is an acquired
habit carefully worked up for purposes of advt.
Probably, however, Turner supplied his own
brains and his own democratic ideas, and was
dependent on neither man. People who want to
appear well-informed have a habit of looking for
a power behind the throne even when there isn’t
any.
The Commonwealth Ministry of seven con-
tains three laymen (Lyne, Forrest and Dickson)
and four lawyers (Barton, Turner, Deakin and
Kingston). The great William Pitt Cabinets of
England never numbered more than seven.
Modern British Cabinets sum up to nearly a score,
a matter Constitutionalists regard as a source of
weakness. Honorary members of a Cabinet are a
dangerous, when not useless, excrescence. Parlia-
mentary sanction should be insisted on before
a new Minister, honorary or otherwise, is
attached to a Cabinet. In Australia, in Victoria
particularly, the practice of making a
man a Minister without portfolio has often been
badly abused. In England, during later years,
the practice has amounted to a form of bribery.
The inclusion of R. E. O’Connor and Lewis will
over-strengthen the lawyer element in the first
Federal Ministry.
“THE BULLETIN’S” AMATEUR ART-
GALLERY.
CAUSE NOT GIVEN.
“Did you read about the fellow who drank a
gallon of whisky dying? ”
“ No. What did he die of?”


TUF -
fflodern Jrt Jewellery (Jo.
TELEPHONE 3490. *OB7 PITT STREET.
9e. Bell Bangle, 32s 6d, with 1 Bell, 245.
SPECIAL VALUES IN COMMON-
WEALTH PRESENTS.
Gold J-Hoop Opal Bangle, 555.
16c. Pearl and Turquoise Swallow and Star
Brooch, 755.
15c. Pearl Flight of Time Brooch, 455.
Open Saturday Evenings,
6 to 9,30.
15c. Turquoise and Pearl Set Cable Bangle, 47s 6d to £5 15s.
9c., 22s 6d to 755.
9c. Gold Bamboo Bangles, from 27s 6d to 40s; 15c., 67s 6d.
PIRCCT IMPORTERS.
9c. Gold Turquoise and Pearl Bangle, 45s
9c. Gold Engraved Flat Band Bangle, Patent Snap,
17s 6d ; others 20s to 40s.
9c. Gold Twin Swallow and Heart
Brooch, 7s 6d.
Gold Pig
Charm, 4s 6d.
15c. Pearl Lyre Brooch, 50a
Gold Button Hook Charm,
10s 6d.
Gold Charm, 6s 6d.
9c. Gold Heart Locket,
7s 6d.
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
i-u % COTlt;inu . ous use bv tbe Constipated, the Goutv and
to chemists £or “ Regimen for the
Publisied by'the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
It seems strange that the highly-trained
Mid splendid horses at the George-street, Sydney,
hire. Station could not have been saved when the
nags and greenstuff of the Commonwealth decora-
tions caught fire on procession day. Had the
alarm come from the furthermost part of the city
the poor animals would have been galloping down
the street in a few seconds, but with the fire at the
. static® itself they were helpless.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete—one of the
features of the approaching Commonwealth festivities—
should command the ready support of all. The object is
good, the price of tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided- three concerts in Sydney Town
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. W. Moffitt Burns, hon. sec., 35 Oastlereagh-st.*
A smart Melbourne pickpocket’s “but-
toner,’’ away from a pressing crowd
headed by two stodgy constables t’other day,
skippecrtip the stairs of the Metropolitan Cham-
ps to A, top store y> took off his coat and hat
and toddled calmly down again, meeting his
pursuers toiling upwards. They had the
joy of arresting the left-off garments, also of
realising how neatly they had been “ had.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
vers, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Touching natural remedies that flow from
rocks and are used for both drinking and bathing
purposes. The Melbourne agents for Hepburn
Mineral Water lately obtained a careful analysis
of its virtues fiom Mr. A. de Bavay, who found
• carbonates of lime, magnesium and soda in solu-
tion to the amount of about 30 grains of each per
gallon. Also grs. 2.24 of carb. of iron, not to men-
tion sulphatesand things thathaveassistedto perpe-
tuate the youth of J. S. Butters. The best testi-
monial the Hepburn water has ever received was
Butters allegation that lie was laid on to it long
long ago by his old friend, Dr. Diamond Beaney’
and believes it to be the main secret of the splen-
did health he enjoyed last century. But to resume.
Analyst de Bavay said something which should
interest many who go down to the Hepburn
Springs armed with bottles, cans, and other
utensils wherein they carry away doses of the
famous water for home consumption. “In the
event,” says Mr. de 8., “of an escape of the
natural carbonic acid gas with which this water is
charged, the salts of lime, iron, &c., become pre-
cipitated. Th acid gas makes the
chemical properties soluble, and should the acid
disappear, or become materially diminished from
any cause whatever, the qualities of this fine
water will completely disappear.” In short, the
crank who, after drinking as much as he can carry
m his stomach, fills a whisky-bottle with mineral
water every night, until at last he has colored the
bottle like a meerschaum pipe, gets no more tonic
from the contents than he could get by swilling a
matutinal quart of ordinary water from the bed-
room jug. It is the bubbles do the trick. The 80
or 90 years that Butters has (thusfar) added to his
mvaluable life are due to his having bought his
.Hepburn elixir by the 5-gallon cylinder, from the
Melbourne Agency. These cylinders are charged
with an extra quantity of natural gas at the
Mineral Spring. Taken fresh from the Spring in
a pannikin the temperance liquor is gassy enough,
of course, but after a short stay in a hand-corked
bottle or can it becomes flat, stale, and foolish.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Premier Seddon has appointed a Com-
mission to collect evidence as to the desirability
of Maoriland entering the Commonwealth. As
the Commission, however, consists mostly of anti-
Federalists, it looks rather as if it was appointed
to fix up a foregone conclusion, and to find
excuses for Seddon’s separatist policy.
The bell-ringers visiting Sydney for the
Commonwealth revels have been picnicked by the
local janglers, with the result that N.S.W. is now
menaced with a “Campanovian Association.”
On second thoughts, however, The Bulletin is
inclined to approve of the step. It will pro-
bably some day be found necessary to extermi-
nate the whole fraternity of bell-bashers, and an
opportunity may thus be afforded of slaughtering
the lot at one “ go.”
On New Year’s eve, Newcastle (N.S.W.)
had a big fire, which raged for 10 hours, and
finally went out “on its own,” after destroying a
big bulk store with contents worth about £70,000.
Now, Newcastle and suburbs have 17 volunteer
fire-brigades, with 300 members, but up to an
hour after the fire was first seen, not over 20
“ firemen ” were on hand, and not for another
half-hour did Newcastle’s only steam fire-engine
come on the scene—taking yet a further half-hour
to get steam up. It is explained that about 250
of the firemen were away “attending fire-brigade
competitions.” Apparently the volunteer fireman
exists more for the sake of such competitions and
the showing-off of his much-polished trappings
than for the putting out of fires.
A Wonderful Cure.
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER, A
PATIENT IN THREE HOSPITALS,
FULLY ONE HUNDRED DOCTORS
ATTENDED HER, AND DIAG-
NOSED HER CASE, BUT
COULD EFFECT
No Permanent Relief.
VITADATIO
CURED HER.
READ HER TESTIMONY.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
91 Collins Street, Melbourne,
March 28th, 1900.
45 and 47 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Dear Sir,—For Twelve Years I was a sufferer of
Bleeding Polypus in the Womb, and was treated by the
best medical skill in Ballarat and Melbourne without
avail. I have been in Three Hospitals, but derived no
permanent benefit from the treatment I received.
I was advised to try Yitadatio, and after taking a
course of the Medicine lam completely cured. The
Medical Men who attended me expressed their astonish-
ment at my recovery, and stated if they had not attended
me they WOULD NOT have believed I had suffered as
stated. I write this for the benefit of similar sufferers,
and you are at liberty to publish and make what use vou
like of it.—Yours truly,
(Signed) M. BECKMAN.
P.S.—Altogether fully ONE HUNDRED DOCTORS
attended to and diagnosed my case.—M.B.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
MILES AHEAD OF ALL OTHERS
• . Are America’s Representative Typewriters . .
■ !
The Host
•• jjensmore
.. Hem (Jentury
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOE YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (Largest dealers in Australia*
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Oollins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedlbv Button, Launceston and Hobart.
NOW READY.
ft POLICY FOR THC
COMMOWWEftLTH.
Beipg a scries of articles repripted
froip “Tbe BGlletio,” With ap
appendix dcalipg Witb tbc Fiscal
QCigStiop.
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
ROADSTER
DuniqpTyres
£
•/Z
t
EXCEL ALL
OTHERS FOR
Comfortable
AND
Easy
Riding
CYCLING
is
EASIER,
SAFER,
AND
CHEAPER
WHEN
“ DUNLOPS
Duniop Tyres
v
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
and at I®® Clarence Street, Sydney
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&•
to.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
axr.s.'W.
Plant deplete o.s |.(so.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 A CASTDEREAGH ST., 74.
■ * SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
3* Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
the
United Australian (Ijatial Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Gapital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire Plate-Glass , Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600— assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
£4,800.000 0
£3,196,353 0
R roistered Capital .. ...
Paid-up Capital (23 4, ’OUt
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esa., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsgate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES’.
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S.- Bell.
Haymarket, Gosfo.-d with, aercicy at Wyongl, New-
castle • with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The Bank of Berth Qasensla^d
1,1 AI ITKII.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A,. J. Charkbr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,003
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
5 share : amoo ... 18360,000
CrrY~MUTUAL FIRE
»3
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Deui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and IVIARINE.
£1,000,000
PAW UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest (Colonial Company.
, a minn E , wr g 1 pitt stij Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 12,12 Noon.
Buninyons, Tues., Jan. 15, 5 p.m.
ne, Saturday, Jan. 19,12 Noon
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 22, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 22, 5 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 12, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, Jan. 15, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 19, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I.eura, Saturday, Jan. 12, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 19, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for .Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrOstccs, €*€<;<itorS,
AND
AgeOCV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 81st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
® DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERSon MONDAY, 14th JANUARY, 1901, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 3J per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
HE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
(jneensland Sinsltinp gosapy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
A SILVER WATCH
FOB, NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
VV FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle: —
I TR*TH *ND J*ST*CE C* H*ND *N
H*ND W*TH D*TY.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with ttie watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you it you have won the watch.
We are making- this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “ I received
the watch quite safely, and am very well pleased with it.
I thank you very much.”
Address —THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M‘ Milt,an. Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.,
Sydney; L. A. .Ik.ssoi’. Esq., Adelaide.
Brandi Managers : Melbourne, D. Olykb ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Parla.nb ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montekiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
BjEA.kGEß.avian Hollow Grown©
vc
v
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
made in various widths of blad
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT. & GO-. LONDON
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH.and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th January.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shipper-
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron < ari ied. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight,, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN - SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamersof this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
T ituila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under
Passengers hooked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STAMSHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
nxr. id. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
505,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3| million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
Sydnej.
Business Announcements,
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
heapest, and Most Stylish CI-OTHING in Australia.
-LINCOLN,STUART&GO.
PliopmKTA Y LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
r
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds. Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v f material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns. 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s#
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s#
Riding Breaches, 255.
Riding Habits, <fcc.
We supply ready made. Men's
capital Tweed Suits 21s. it 2*»s.
i Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. «d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. IM,
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s lid.
Kl; k and Grey Alapaca S; c*.
Os. 91. White and Brown Drill
Tiv.um i* 3s. <H..4s 9d.,55.(>d.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Hhiits, colored
front, and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Matie Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. (jd.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d. t all
colors
Hard Hats, 4*. !»d. Caps. Is,
i erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties,allshapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
(;5.9d.. 9s. (jd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of ail kinds and self-mecsurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
cx
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic'Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, i be.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(HMITHM).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And OULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping:at Fremantle
to all North western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Wednesday,
January 9. (Without
Transhipment.,)
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
- January 11. (Tranship-
ping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
January 12. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
January 11.
Heat and Cheapest ltonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Go. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & GO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
TIIIC POPULAR PASS UNO Kit LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN pvery 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooldown, Thursday Island,
and Nonnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, arm FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
fosse n</er A eeom ntodotion, I tten dance and
Cuisine unrirolled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PIIILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, 83’dney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.'
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal. Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate PorLs.
With Permission to eal] at Brindisi.
'the Company’s steamers now call at Fiemantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON -Single, 33 10s to 677
Ditto Ditto Return 7110slo 121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) Between intercolonial poros
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars .on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows ,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply' at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Kates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company wall be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney,
||)‘|luiraith,||) < Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn 8s Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of (he Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Desp ndeney, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
AifaUne Blood Pills
w ill cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Diver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion.
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for ail complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAYJ^REE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . , .
in Plain Cover.
*1
g f
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
vd
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr BaSSmilSSeil,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIIIUSSeiI.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - A Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A handles*
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stout vst
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perf c,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearan -e
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant owe
for all kinds of headache, no mailer how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guarante <1
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both iu Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 300 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBOURNE: 150 BourJce-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE : 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z. , WELLINGTON : f)l Lambton Quay*
BERTH: 481 Hay-street.
KALGOOBLIE ; Hannan-street (neoct Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Biesse-street.
EREMANTLE ; Henry-street.
Some Samoan postage-stamp dies were
destroyed lately at Wellington (M.L.) by Mr. J.
Davis, until recently postmaster on that blood-
red island. Several stamps were issued during
Mr. Davis’s term, including the “Black Error” —
so called because Malietoa’s noble phiz was
printed in ebony. This stamp was withdrawn, it
being deemed a reflection on his Majesty's colour.
Bishop Webber wrote to London Times
lately, saying that he needed £13,000 for the Bris-
bane Anglican Cathedral. His friends advise him
to go to the old country and try to raise the
money himself. The Bishop doesn’t like the idea,
but says that if the money is not raised in three
weeks he will actually depart on a collecting mis-
sion. Does the worthy cleric fancy that the
British public will actually raise the money to
prevent his coming ? Surely modesty couldn’t go
further.
Some sayings of Oscai; Wilde, who died
the other day in Paris
Education is an a l.nirable thing. But it is well to re-
member from time to time that nothing that is worth
knowing can be Taught.
To be really mediaeval one should have no body. To be
really modern one should have no soul. To be really
Greek one should have no clothes.
The English are always degrading truths into facts.
When a Truth becomes a Fact, it loses all its intellectual
value
The criminal classes are so close to us that even the
policeman can see them. They are so far away from us
that only the poet can understand them.
Art is the only serious thing in the world. And the
artist is the only person who is never serious.
The only link between literature and the drama left to
us in England is the bill of the play. [No wonder his
fellow-dramatists loved him.]
The only thing that the artist cannot see is the obvious.
The only thing that the public can see is the obvious.
The result is the Criticism of the Journalist. [No wonder
the critics loved him.]
The 19th century dislike of Realism is the rage of Cali-
ban seeing his own face in a glass. The 19th century dis-
like of Romanticism is the rage of Caliban not seeing his
own face in a glass. [No wonder the puhlic loved him.]
There is no such thing as a mor d or an immoral book.
Books are well written or badly written. is all.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
r'oun„Z 0U : - ha i or otl.c-r» iso, perhaps sur-
• iii flam mat ion and swollen that when you
ainti v‘VJ Ur " n *® r OT V 1 inflamed part it leaves the impres-
ts V\Lh r’ U: UCr i the •V? A , ° u l 1, . avc ,loisoll that defies ah
never, you \ lave ,r “' d , whicli. if not extracted, von
vnP,". reCOVer ’ bl “, K ° "" suffering till death releases
y ,„ l ' •ethans your knees are swollen, the joints being
" ; th f sam . e "’■til the ankles, round «hich the skin
may be dtsco'otired, or there may be wounds ; the disease
wait v d t 0 con t! n " c wIU tirpftv.- you of the power to
mart; .' na y have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told vmtr ease is boneless nr
CURF d voT S t Üb T ,i , t t ° amputa J"" i bm 1,0 ”«t. for I CAN
„,V KL ,' ou - I don t say perhaps ; but 1 W 11.1,. Because
Sendaton V c e e for ed W reBS ° ' '° r mjt
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OIKTAIENT aud PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Haml« m n ld 6 Kllee ’ x lt' era,cd Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
BSn, d nn« lU . m^ Ur R- Abscesse8 ’ Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Buntons, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
AI BKRT ’ 1 "-( Gr ?r at nla , m ’ ,/:I ' d - per hx. Prepared by
Ai.jij.iil /Jr Farr in gdon-street, London, England
100k n fn ' fc-LL'Ol'T BROS., Sydney Purchasers sftould
™ k J'?* * ihe registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
fg
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 8/6 eacfc
PLAITS and TAILS,
Stlin. lone. f/6. all real
CUTTINGS * COMBINE
worked up, 5/(i per 02.
\Ve are the clieapeStlo A«»
trails for all Uair Work.
Semi Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigz^fl,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will 6<op at Doo»-
Seod stamps for full Price List-
fW#spt atteution'ffjver) to Country CtdaWk
v
Medical,
Dr. Boxwell’s ™t£?ILENT PILLS.
IV ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
L> TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
(COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
I benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
inn
DEAF
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
e . ne^?- y ’ s . tren £ th al »d vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Go., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases-especially
in Hot Climates. *
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
' DIARRHCEA, &c-» Rears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial
xcv
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
HE ITS and
A TELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which’ is fully-
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Celts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,"we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
xcv
RAMEY’S M EDI CATC R
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness, Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months' treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin ■( i
Nasal Ointment, only ■ ”/ " Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
ALCOHOLISM!
Or the LIQUOR HARIT positively CURED
by administering |UQ^§Y.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectlv harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
the eucrasy coy.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
IK
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
1 lie best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chrome Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
usis Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
I;or all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Stores GS r * ces IS * and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Sole Makers* BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
'J'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being- the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always he relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. pu-
box Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Praliraii,
Melb. saysi: ‘ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
ffla
DEAF
xc
The New Patent
(SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing'. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable,
"o n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address -L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


“ Dizziness ”
Is a very common consequence of indigestion and
torpid liver. Sometimes there are spots before
the eyes, and hot flushes. At other times a
sensation of vertigo occurs, at once suffocating and
«23*
A
7
blinding. It is a waste
of time to attempt to
cure this condition by
ordinary means or reme-
dies. The stomach and
organs of digestion and
nutrition must be restored
to healthy activity, the
blood must be purified,
the liver cleansed and
strengthened, the kidneys
to work properly as nature
intended, before a cure
can be hoped for. This
is the work Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills do.
They strengthen the
stomach, purify the
blood, cleanse the clogged
liver, give the kidneys
the help . they require,
and promote the health
of every organ of the
body. “Having been a
sufferer from biliousness
and headaches, and tried
different medicines, also
doctors’ powders for the
head, and getting no
relief from them, seeing
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
■Pillc o A varfi aorl T dht’-
chased a bottle, and the first dose relieved me.
My husband also uses them. I recommend them
to all my friends suffering the same as I was. I
may say I have been using them some time, and
never known them to fail You may make what
use you like of this.” This is the evidence of M[rs.
Noble, Hurstville, N.S.W. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills positively cure biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver and
kidney complaints, pimples, and blotches. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, price, Is. lid. per
bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and the fullname blown thereon.*
Sydney Commonwealth celebrations might
very well be summed up as half-a-million harbor
souls and a million barber’s poles.
Lord Tennyson, at the Adelaide celebra-
tion on Jan. 1, strongly advised the people of S. A.
to preserve their State rights, to fight hard to
maintain their individuality, and to keep up the
status of their Governors. To help them in these
laudable efforts, he said, he had refrained from
attending the big demonstration in Sydney. All
his Cabinet Ministers but two, most of the legis-
lators, and shoals of other prominent public men,
however, temporarily emigrated to Port Jackson.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Skilled masseur (Swedish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. Young man ;
testimonials and references on application to
“Masseur,” Bulletin Office.— Ativt.
JUST THIKTK
CHURCH MISSIONARY A. H. LENNOX rode his
RED BIRD BICYCLE
ACROSS AUSTRALIA 2060 MILES ON HIS OWN, and never had a single trouble.
This is absolute proof of the staunchness of the Machine. Buy one on Easy Terms.
branches in eveky state. GQOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
THE MOST CASUAL OBSERVER
when
examining’
fAassey-tfarrts fl'f tytit
Cannot help noticing the PERFECT FINISH in every detail and SIMPLICITY OF WORKING PARTS
ADJUSTMENT. This feature has made THE MASSEY THE BEAU IDEAL TOURING MACHINE.
Easy terms arranged. SYDNEY DEPOT : 385 GEORGE STREET.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Opening of S.A.-N.9.W. inter-State cricket
match supplied a genuine surprise—l6,ooo people (less
the usual percentage of deadheads) paid £550 at the
gates. Fact of the Wheat State, a few weeks ago, beating
N.S.W. by an innings and 35 runs suggested that, at
least, present struggle would be close, but it was very
one-sided. The wicket left nothing wanting, yet S.A.
went in first and were all out for 157, while the home side
had only one down for 224 when stumps were drawn.
“ Noss ” Iredale (not out) had 107 in front of his name.
Aboriginal Marsh downed five wickets for 34 runs.
Saturday’s feat makes the twelfth century notched by
Iredale in first-class cricket —four of them were hit up on
the Sydney ground. Last time Iredale scored three
figures was when he compiled 111 at Lords in ’99. His
total against S.A., up to Saturday, was 1231—the highest
made by any player.
* * • *
Monday’s play in S.A.-N.S.W.
was remarkable. N.S.W. bats reached best form, and
pasted weak bowling unmercifully. Day’s score 499, and
when stumps were drawn the board showed 6 wickets for
723. This reads like a record. Four individual centuries
(Iredale 118, Noble 153, Gregory 168, and Duff 119) in one
innings parallels the achievement of Yorkshire against
Warwickshire five years ago, when Lord Hawke, Jackson,
Peel, and Wainwright each placed three figures in front
of his name. On that occasion Yorkshire’s total was 887
—the best performance in a first-class match up to time
of writing. N.S.W. (opposed to S.A.) last year at Adel-
aide notched the highest score (807) in inter-State cricket;
then Gregory, Trumpet - , and Noble hit up hundreds. Pre-
vious best was N.S.W.’s 775 against Vic. at Sydney in 'B2.
Murdoch, Jones, and Garrett totted up the centuries, and
the first-named’s 321 remained a record till Olem Hill
wiped it out t’other day in Adelaide.
* » * *
In the end, N.S.W. men were all out for 918,
the record for an inter-State match. Poidevin scored 140
(not out).
* * * »
Remarkable how successful left-hand bowlers
have been this season. Victoria’s triumphs have to a
great extent been brought about by the effectiveness of
Saunders. Then there’s Travers (of Adelaide) who has
done a lot of good for his side. M'Beth’s performances,
too, call for special mention. Clem Hill is a left-handed
bat; so is Stuckey, who had such a big say in Victoria’s
recent triumphs over N.S.W.
Victoria’s three substantial cricket victories
have much lessened interest in the premiership, but the
return match with N.S.W. should provide a draw if the
selection committee is wise in its generation. To get
two drubbings from Vic. in one season is not quite a
novelty', but it is most unpleasant. A judicious selection
on form and not reputation may save the mother State.
* * * ♦
Fred Hack, the long stonewaller of S.A.
cricket-team, has left his Adelaide billet, and hopes to
settle in Melbourne or Sydney as a coachbuilder.
Although not in great form this year, Hack was top of
last season’s inter-State batting averages.
• » • •
C. T. B. Turner recently captained a team from
Gympie (Queensland) against a' combination from Bris-
bane.
• * • *
Commonwealth athletic sports crieket-ball-
throwing competition at Sydne.v Cricket Ground (Friday')
produced these performances : Vic. Trumper 120.yds. lft
6in., and aboriginal Marsh 92yds. Unusual conditions
prevailed. Throw was measured from a mark which the
competitors couldn’t step ever either in delivering or
following up. This makes rumper’s feat particularly
good. Last Feb. he did 124.yds lOin. C. H. Gordon, on
the old Albert Ground in Elizabeth-street, Redfern, cast
the ball 122yds, while “ demon ” bowler Spofforth’s best
was 120yds. The world’s authenticated record is 140yds,
(really 142Jyds) accomplished at Clermont (Q.) by an
aboriginal (“ Billy ”) nearly 29 years ago.
* * * *
Mo. was very much got at over Khaki, winner
of Sydney Tatt.’s Cup t’other da.v. He couldn’t be drawn
the night before at the card-reading, and remained dumb
as an oyster while the list was being gone through until
the nag named was reached ; then he took a chance and
launched out, with the result that the waiting stable
grabbed all offers available at a reasonable price. One
extra-careful firm dropped something over a thousand.
Khaki is the second foal of Godlike, recently sent to Eng-
land. He was thrice unplaced at 2 yrs. Backed for a
mile welter at Moorefield recently he cut up badly, but a
week later nearly sprang a surprise in Warwick Farm
Handicap. His showing in Boxing Day’s Summer Cup
was good, but few noticed it. However, he got home
when very specially wanted, and that’s the main thing.
* » • ♦
Fleet Admiral was the hero of the New Year’s
Day - meeting at Flemington. With 8.10 to carry, the
old dandy won the Bagot Handicap in attractive
style. The opposition didn’t look very - strong on paper,
but all the same the performance went to show that
Fleet, with a fair run, should have nearly captured last
Caulfield Cup, in which he had the luxurious weight
of 7.7.
* • * »
Aquarius, the V.R.C. National winner, scored
another bracket at Flemington on the Ist. This was one
of the occasions when Aquarius wasn’t “ expected,” and
he went out at 12 to 1 in a small field. The result set
people thinking of the nag’s performance in the 3-mile
Hurdle Race on Cup Day (when he was the hottest of
street-corner tips) and again on Oaks Day. There were
interesting whispers in the air re the doings of Aquarius
at Melb. Cup meeting.
* • » •
Second trip of Bananaland crack nag Ohio to
Sydney promises as little remuneration as on the previous
occasion, and emphasises the generally accepted fact that
Q. horse-racing form is comparatively poor. Piles of
coin were heaped on him at Randwick, but he didn’t even
shape well, and his display in N.S.W. Handicap at Rose-
hill, Saturday, showed no improvement.
« * * *
Etneiuraf (Farniente backwards) is the latest
infliction in N.S.W. turf nomenclature.
* * * *
Captain Scott, the glorified veterinary surgeon
who married the rich and very mature widow of the late
Hon. James White, of N.S.W., and who succeeded to the
lady’s handsome fortune when she died, soon after the
marriage, has, with his trainer, been “ warned off ” the
Irish turf because of the crooked running of his horse,
Raven’s Plume. It is enough to make old James White
turn in his grave.
• * * •
N.S.W. crack nags, Parthian and The Tola,
were among starters in w.f.a. Final Plate at recent Man-
chester (Eng.) meeting, humping 9.5 and 9.6 respectively.
Spectrum won in a canter, with Parthian second and Tola
last; 6to 4 was winner’s price, and 100 to 8 could have
been had about Parthian. London Sportsman expects to
see Parthian win a good race this year, but says ’tis Mr.
Tom Muir’s intention to have him trained for w.f.a.
events only, ignoring handicaps. Apropos, T.M. has
written that he came at Parthian in the Queen’s Plate
(2m.) at Derby to the extent of £5OO because the crack
nag met a “ rather weak field.” Australians who know
Mr. Muir will have some difficulty in assimilating this
tale, especially when ’tis stated that he explains the nag
was only 7 “ half fit.”
* • » *
The “sport ” at some of the oldest of the English
racecourses is very cheap. The Nottingham Steeplechase
meeting, for instance, is a two-days affair, and yet the
total amount of stake-money offered on the second day
was only £550 for six races, including a principal event
of £250.
A newsclip: A gamble when under Govt,
supervision, is alleged to be inviolable, and is always
supposed to be one of the most valuable guarantees of
“ Tattersall." Yet extraordinary happenings will some-
times occur, even more mysterious than those of the
famous V.D.L. Bank lottery, which left, or rather
sent back, by a chain of coincidences, certain valu-
able Hobart properties into the hands of the original
owners. Thus the other day the Maoriland Govt, balloted
3 7,325 acres of second-class land in the King Country
The marbles were drawn by a Mr. W. W. Hardy , and five
of the Hardy family secured selections amounting to oner
3815 acres , comprising one of the choicest bits of the blocks.
Another family named Dunning was equally favored by
“ blind chance,” securing a complete estate with adjoining
boundaries of 2263 acres. Of course, the result is that
some people are dissatisfied, and want Seddon, whose
desire to secure honest land settlement is unquestioned,
to investigate these remarkable coincidences.
* * » •
Feature of Saturday night’s cycle racing at
Sydney Cricket Ground was Bilmartin’s brilliant sus-
tainment of his marvellous mana. He got away
with the two scratch races after desperate
struggles with Lawson, Forbes, Beauchamp, Lewis and
Morgan. Final of Sydney Plate (cut out in 2.71-5)
brought Martin, Morgan, Lawson and Forbes to the
mark. American Vanghan paced. First-named three
seemed to cross the line simultaneously, but they were
placed as given. Later, Plugger Bill annexed Sydney'
Plate (second distance—ten miles), beating Beauchamp
by half a wheel, with Lawson close up, in 22.46. Martin’s
sustained spurt in the last round was an eye-opener, the
packed crowd cheering him continuously.
* * • •
Tas. rider Beauchamp built up a big reputation
by downing Plugger Bill in a heat of the mile supremacy
and the final distance (five miles) of Sydney Plate. Each
time the bulky “ Murkan ” was fairly overwhelmed by
the Tas. top-notcher’s brilliant burst of pace at the finish.
Both struggles were hot from the jump.
v * • *
Mile cycling championship of Australia at
, Sydney Cricket Ground, Monday night, produced heaps of
excitement. Recently arrived U.S. front-ranker Lawson
got the third heat by a wheel from Morgan, and then won
the final—a length ahead of Beauchamp, with still
another Yankee (Chapman) third and the Sydneyidol Joe
Megson fourth. Time recorded, 2.16 2-5.
♦ * » *
Yankee crack sprinter, Ivor Lawson, now in
Sydney, shows great improvement with each fresh
appearance, and, atop of big things already done, is ex-
pected to do considerably better on Wednesday and
Saturday' (this week), and Monday next. Thursday (last
week), in his heat of the Mile Scratch race, he appeared
surely beaten half a lap from home, and everyone thought
the finish a “ moral ” for Lewis, but Lawson came as if
shot from a catapult, and got over the line half a wheel
in front of Lewis and Walne. Lawson had a big reputa-
tion in America, and looks like living up to it here. He
sits his machine well, and pedals with clockwork accuracy.
May not be generally known that, at Ballarat, on Boxing
Day, Lawson secured the Five Miles Scratch (£35) and
the Half-Mile Handicap—Martin finishing behind him in
each.
* * * •
Lyne wheel race (run over two miles and worth
£200) was the big thing of Sydney night-cycling carnival,
concluded Monday. The pick of riders in Australia
lined up. Bilmartin started favorite for the final —t’other
Yankee (Lawson) being next —and won by half a length
with a spurt that fairly crazed the spectators, who
cheered madly. Morgan (second in recent “ Austral ”)
emphasised the general opinion that he comes closest to
the great plugger by finishing on Martin’s heels. Beau-
champ (Tas.) was third, and Fay fourth. Time (4.10) was
very fast.
* * * *
Time (2min., dead) of S. Australian cyclist
Champness, in final of the “ Martin ” Plate at Sydney
Cricket Ground (Saturday) is the speediest ever achieved
in a mile competition, and brings him into line with the
best we have.
* * * *
“Trap”: At N.S.W. Gun Club big shoot,
Friday last week, no less than 72 noms. (including 8
“stars”) showed on the board. When these were
reduced to 12, president Faithfull vented a suggestion
that the lot left in should take a fiver each out of the
£lOO offered, but two or three weren’t on. Next round
saw five go out, and t’other seven closed on a tenner
each, and continued until only four stayed; these
whacked the remaining £3O. Writer can’t understand
sportsmen doing this sort of thing. Why not go for the
lot or none? That’s the practice in every other game.
Why is it different at pigeon-shooting ? Have often seen
swell shots take £2 each, then £l, and so on till they’ve
distributed £5O or £lOO among a dozen or fifteen. If
competitors (professedly sportsmen) won’t act up to the
character they assume, clubs should legislate to compel
them, especially as there are some who’d rather shoot for
the lot, but will not stand out against the cutting-up
proposals for fear of getting disliked.
* * -K *
Struggle between Australian top-notch swim-
mers, Dick Cavill and Fred Lane, in the 200yds. Common-
wealth supremacy at Cockatoo Island (Sydney), Wednesday
last week, was a treat. Not at any time right through did
more than a yard separate them. Lane finished first, with
barely the length of his arm to the good, in 2.22 —just
2sec. slower than the world’s best (2.20) held jointly by
Tyers (amateur) and Nuttall (prof.).
* * * *
Crack swimmer Fred. Lane has given out that
he’ll swim in races no more ; his constitution won’t stand
it. Writer expected to hear this ever since Fred came
back from England, as reports previously reached Sydney
that on at least two or three occasions he fainted after
extra-tough struggles, and, altogether, seemed to be in-
juriously affected by the constant strain.
• * *. *
Boy Dick Cavill’s win of the 1000yds. Common-
wealth Championship at Cockatoo Island last week in
14.31 l-sth showed beyond question that he is unapproach-
able from half-a-mile up, though Reid and one or two
others might finish very near him over any less distance.
The 1000yds. is rarely swum now, but it was much
favored of old. Once at Robinson’s Baths (Domain),
“ Bill ” Corbett, the champion of his time at all distances,
put up 14.34 for 1000yds., turning every 50, without a
“ kick-off.” Conditions of last Wednesday’s event were
much easier, as the turn was only necessary at the end of
every 100yds.
* * * *
Most promising youngster in the swimming
game just now is 15yr.-old Claude Corbett, who’ll be top
of the heap in another year, if he doesn’t get there before
this season ends. At Cockatoo Island Commonwealth
swimming display last week he won the two big events
open to all Australasian Schools. The Half-Mile was first,
and this he paddled over in 13inin. 32 2-sth sec. ; then the
100yds. fell to him in I.9—only 2-sth sec. slower than
Lane’s time for same distance on same day and at same
place.
* * * *
A challenge from Englishman Barry and Aus-
tralian Jim Wray to row any two in the world for £2OO
a-side created lots of talk and ink-slinging in
England early last month. Most people thought it was
directed at M.L. Tom Sullivan and Australian George
Towns. When asked about the match, it being sug-
gested that he and his chum Towns were probably meant,
Sullivan said, emphatically, “In no possible way shall I
identify myself personally with anything with which
Wray is connected.” Australian scullers at ’Ome are evi-
dently not a happy family.
* * • *
Low as the standard of pug. ability is in
N.S.W. just now ’twould seem to be worse in Melbourne—
judged by the manner in w’hich bruisers from the latter
State have been shaping in Sydney of late. Thursday
(last week) at Gaiety A. 0. “ Cocker ” Tweedie and Cullen
(Melb.) supplied a farce that filled every onlooker to
t/he brim. Cullen couldn’t or wouldn’t fight, and Tweedie
was little better. Former seemed to want to get away
from it, but “Cocker” wasn’t able to send in one hard
enough to provide an excuse for being counted out.
Often Cullen went down determined to stay, but the
crowd wouldn't let him. “ Gerrup ! ” they yelled, and
he did, but not too willingly. The thing ended after the
fifth round when the “ wipe ” was skied in the Melb.
man’s corner. Saturday night, at Golden Gate A.C., some-
thing similar was provided ; Sydney waterman Johns met
“ young Corbett ” (Melb.), and had it all his own way
from start to end, sending Corbett out in the fifth 3min.
* * * *
Referee Wally Weekes, after the second round
of the Tweedie-Ned Cullen fight at the Gaiety A.C, (Syd-
ney) last week : “Gentlemen, I know both of them can
do better 1 ” Two rounds later : “ Gentlemen, it’s a
genuine fight; I know Tweedie is doing his best, but I
don’t know the other gentleman.”
“Jab”: See Australian Jim Richardsonis atwork
in England again, and wants another match with Ohrisp,
who beat him twice before. Richardson hasn’t been heard
of for a long time, and, as he is ready to back himself well,
the inference is that his chance is thought good. Writer
remembers Richardson fighting the goriest fight imagin-
able with “ Pheasant ” at the old Darlinghurst skating
rink eight or 10 years ago, when things were so rough
that they carried the ropes and posts of the ring with
them, and fell down 3ft. among the people. Richardson
won, but got a severe drubbing. He has been in England
some years, and, though a game and fairly clever fighter,
seems to do little good—more through bad luck than
aught else.
* * • #
Tom Burrows, whilom Australian crack wrestler
and axe-swinger, and ex-holder of the world’s endurance
club-swinging record, is in S’Africa with the British
troops. Recently Corporal Day, of the 16th Lancers (3st.
heavier and 3in. taller than Burrows), was backed to fight
Tom and stop him in 8 rounds. Burrows came out atop.
* * * *
Yankee mailboat Sierra brings news that
world’s champion bruiser, Jim Jeffries, has got down to
business ; he is matched to meet Akron giant Ruhlin in
May, and Sailor Sharkey 30 days later. Prospects are
that Fitzsimmons wdll take on the huge boilermaker if he
gets through with the two contracts now in hand, and
they look fairly sure things for him ; but he’ll know he’s
been fighting when they are done with.
* * * *
U.S. scribes tell Clioynski’s story of how he
saved M.L. Bob Fitzsimmons from Deing licked by the
erstwhile Dublin brewer’s carter, Peter Maher, In the
initial round Maher had Fitz. on the ropes dead to the
world when the gong clanged and saved him. There
were still 30sec. to go. The timekeeper had his hand on
the bell-rope as freckled-faced Bob got the punch on the
point. Choynski struck the timekeeper’s arm, the bell
sounded, and he rushed in and carried Bob to his corner
limp as a rag. After that Fitz. was more careful and
didn’t give the Irishman another chance. Choynski
claims that he should have had a big slice of the 10,00dol.
purse Fitz. won, as but for the bell dodge ’twas any odds
on Maher getting the money.
* * * *
Mile Australasian Championship, held on Syd-
ney Cricket Ground last night, was won by Lawson on
Dunlop tyres.
The arrangement appears to be that Lyne
will hand over *he N.S. W. Premiership to See,
and that in return See will help Lyne into the
representation of Cowper (Grafton) electorate in
the House of Representatives.
Up to now, no Australian politician has
publicly flaunted the Windsor uniform. When he
had it on, he darted into a cab and pulled the
blinds down till he arrived at his destination,
which was always Govt. House, to meet others of
his own kind. Now, the brass-bound Imperial
agents are seen in hotel vestibules, swaggering
round with cocked hats and swords. Seddon, for
instance—and Wise.
The latest sensation comes from Mathinna,
Tasmania, where James Whyte, a married State-
school teacher with a family, shot his brother-in-
law, Sydney Jackson, and the latter’s sister, Miss
Rhoda Jackson, and then committed suicide. All
the parties were highly esteemed locally. The
jury found a verdict of murder and suicide
while of unsound mind ; but had Whyte
merely wounded himself they would doubtless
have (as in a hundred similar cases) verdicted
wilful murder, and a Supreme Court jury would
have convicted Whyte, who would, doubtless,
have been hanged. So much for the logic of the
law ! The root cause of the trouble seems to have
been that Whyte _ loved Rhoda Jackson, and
feared she was going to marry another man.
True Love again—real, red-hot, sizzling, savage,
uncivilised love !
Cardinal Moran barks up the wrong tree
in claiming precedence at public functions over all
other local clerics. His contention that his claim
was allowed in Lord Jersey’s time doesn’t hold
water—what was then arranged was that, at Govt.
House dinner-table, he, as the senior in office,
should go before the Primate. Since then, if the
two happen to be present, the Cardinal says grace
before, and the Primate says grace after the meal;
but it was distinctly laid down by Lord Jersey
that the old rule as to precedence on public
occasions of the C. of E. clergy was to remain.
Independent people can only sympathise with the
Cardinal to the extent of objecting to the Angli-
can Church having precedence as a Church, for
there is, thank Heaven, no State Church in Aus-
tralia. But the Cardinal does not merely protest
against the Anglican Primate having precedence;
he (the Cardinal) insists on having precedence
himself. Evidently the only way out of the trouble
is to ignore all the Churches, leaving them to
attend public functions or not, just as they please;
for there is no reason why the parsons should get
any more official notice than the members of the
plasterers’ union.
Harwood, M.L.C. (Victoria), on the
Woman’s Suffrage Bill, just rejected by the
House of Landlords for the sixth time :
Until the Council is thoroughly satisfied that the
Assembly is absolutely hacked up by the community, the
fact that the Assembly continually sends this Bill up to it
should have no weight whatever with members.
The people have elected three successive Assem-
blies containing a majority of Woman Suffragists
—the present one contains nearly a three-fourths
majority—and still the Council isn’t satisfied.
The Assembly has offered to let the matter be
decided by a direct vote of the people, and the
Council isn’t satisfied with that. Will Harwood
explain exactly what evidence will satisfy the
Council ?
The fact that Lyue and Turner have ac-
cepted Federal office without immediately resign-
ing their State Premierships complicates things,
and Sydney Telegraph thus figures out the situa-
tion ,
Mr. Lyne, acting strictly in his capacity of State
Premier, has agreed to allow the Ministers some rooms at
the Treasury and in the Colonial Secretary’s building.
As Minister for Internal Affairs, he accepts the quarters
that Mr. Barton provides for him. As State Premier, he
allows Mr. Barton all the accommodation that he needs.
If Mr. Barton should not allow him sufficient room, he
will get Mr. Barton to apply to himself as State Premier
for more accommodaf ion.
Mr. Lyne will transact the business of the Home
Department at the State Premier’s Office. It is improbable
that, in the course of his business as Minister for
Home Affairs, he will have to communicate with himself
as State Premier. That lie will do through Mr. Barton as
Prime Minister. But if it should be necessary, as Minister
for Internal Affairs, to send himself a message as State
Premier, he will get Mr. Barton, as Prime Minister, to
conduct the negotiations. He will not be able to com-
municate with himself by telephone. He must first tele-
phone to Mr. Barton what he desires to ask himself.
Then Mr. Barton will ring him up and inform him
what it is that he wishes himself to be asked. Should
Mr. Lyne, as Federal Minister, desire to remon-
strate with himself, as State Premier, he must secure
the assistance of Mr. Barton. He cannot accuse
himself of any wrong. He cannot suggest to himself that
he should take action in regard to any matter that might
relate to his Federal Department. But as a Federal
Minister he can request his chief to send himself a strong
remonstrance at his failure to perform the act that he
ought to have done as State Premier.
With Mr. George Turner the complication will be still
more interesting. As Federal Treasurer he may have im-
portant relations with himself as State Premier and
Treasurer. He, too, will probably not communicate
with himself direct. But if there should be a difference
of opinion between himself as the Federal Treasurer and
himself as State Premier and Treasurer, he will have
to open an extensive correspondence with himself through
the medium also of Mr. Barton. As State Treasurer he
may find that the payment of the Customs surplus has
failed to have regard to an item that is essential to his
accounts. He will immediately as State Treasurer ring
himself violently up as State Premier requesting himself
to communicate with Mr. Barton as Prime Minister,
urging Mr. Barton to demand of himself as Federal
Treasurer why this apparent discrepancy has been allowed
to occur.
If the response that he makes to his Federal self
through Mr. Barton is not satisfactory to his State self,
he may request himself as State Premier to invoke the aid
of the High Court to issue a mandamus against his
Federal self, or some other form of legal process, compel-
ling his Federal self to act squarely by his State self, and
make gcod to himself the amount that he has not allowed
himself. Altogether the prospects before Mr. Turner
are infinitely more touching than they are before
Mr. Lyne. The only danger in regard to Mr.
Lyne is that while the relations between himself
as State and Federal Minister may be acute he may as
State Premier some day meet himself face to face as
Federal Minister. Then, being a man sometimes of quick
temper, it is impossible to predict the horrible conse-
quences that may result.


Guard
Your
Health
BY
SMOKING
DERBY
TOBACCO
IV. | J
1>
\/7*
i.^
f/'j'h
Vi
Jar
/—•
-VT*'#
A SIGNAL SUCCESS.
Derby wins
Respect.
FAIRFAX <3c ROBERTS,
. . The Oldest Consulting 1 Opticians in Sydney . .
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
London Prices. 23 Hunter Street
JUST OUI, FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d., posted.
vxc
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands.
(Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON <5 CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
OYER
6,000
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
AND
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USE
NTIM CUSH REGISTERS
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 PITT STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
mm
Eradicates Scurf,
Promotes Growth.
SS*'
FOR
T.ME
K-SSfSS
Mi
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
IJfSSJ
□Oiiiamin
r'l
fT
31 '
I
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,"
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Standard Exploration Co. : Cabled last week
that this co. had been unable to meet its obligations be-
cause of the Lake View collapse. A little over two years
since, the Westralian “ cat ” mines floated by Whitaker
Wright, in conjunction with Kaufmann’s and others, pre-
sented such a horrible spectacle in the presence of the
Ivanhoe and Lake View mines that Wright conceived the
brilliant idea of separating the sheep from the goats, and
decided to put all the cats in a bag and allow them to
slowly drown themselves under the name of the Standard
Exploration Co., which has the modest capital of a million
and a-half. They consisted of the Austin Friars Syndicate,
Golden Crown. Hannan’s Golden Group, Hannan’s Golden
Treasure, Mainland Consols, Paddington Consols, Thames
Hauraki, the Wealth of Nations (or “ Expectations ”), and
the Wealth of Nations Extended. When the shareholders
of these practically defunct co’s were called together,
Wright told them that if the London and Globe had not
promoted the amalgamation they would have had much
trouble from want of capital, but the bull having been
taken by the horns “ as a matter of pure philanthropy ,”
they would, in all probability, in the near future recover
what they had lost in the past. The Marquis of Dufferin
remarked at same meeting that the mines controlled by the
Standard co. were amongst the best in Westralia outside the
famous Kalgoorlie properties. In addition to taking over
nine mines, not one of which had paid a div. and all of
which were bankrupt, it had an option on something
situated on an island in the Pacific and shares in some
Westralian co’s, the names, price, and number of which
were not stated. Shares soon went to a premium, soon
afterwards to a discount, and they have stayed there ever
since. Most of the mines have since languished from
want of gold and from want of money, although the Stan-
dard started with half-a-million working capital. No
doubt it has been largely used in trying to “ boost ” Lake
View shares, and has been lost for ever in the attempt.
And this is the result of Whitaker Wright’s “pure
philanthropy.”
* * * •
The British Australasian on Whitaker
Wright: “ Casually as I have known him I have always
entertained for him that admiration which one cannot
withhold from a plucky fighter. Mr. Wright is one of
those rare characters who show up best when sorely be-
leaguered and when their back is to the wall. The late
Sir William Robertson used often to say : ‘ If only Wright
was as good a business man as he is a financier and fighter
he would indeed be invincible.’ Sir William omitted to
realise that business men can be bought by the score for
£lOO a year, whereas for the man of pluck, of individuality,
and of magnetism you may pay a fabulous figure and yet
get him cheap. 'Of such is Mr. Whitaker Wright,
and he well deserves the unique eulogium passed
on him by Lord Dufferin, himself a master of
men as Mr. W'right is of affairs. He is essentially a
market man. One never knows in fact whether he is a
“bull” ora “bear;” thus he obtains the might which
attends mystery.” There is a lot more similar hogwash,
published just one month before the cable announcing a
drop of millions in Lake View Consols, the ruin of the
London and Globe and of the Standard Exploration cos ,
and all on account of this great man Wright. Yet the
British Australasian will not kick itself for this mistake
—it will go on to soap the next Australian mining
boomster. The constant greasing of the Hooleys,
Bottomleys, Kaufmans, Wrights, and other boomsters is
the most deplorable and disgusting feature of London
financial journalism.
* * * •
Golden Arrow : The pallid 0. E. Hogg, con-
sulting engineer, company promoter and director, has
issued one more circular about the Golden Arrow, and
deals it out to a shareholder because he has asked to have
the property examined by an unbiassed expert and to
take such action as would ensure better management.
London Critic gives a list of the Westralian
mines in the promotion of which Hogg played an
important part. Nearly all have been reconstructed,
not one of them ever paid a div., and the list is long.
Hogg once estimated that the Golden Arrow down to
75ft. had a reserve of ore valued at £126,000, and as it
was increasing in width it justified the conclusion that
the quantity w T ould be doubled—giving upwards of
£400,000 as the value of ore in sight available for treat-
ment. Since that time the co. has been reconstructed
three times, and the liquidation in each instance has
been carried out in Hogg’s office by one of his nominees.
* * * *
Lake View : Shares between £8 and £9, and not
likely to slump until the “ bears ” have taken their profits.
Last week announced that Dufferin had resigned ; now
stated that he has withdrawn his resignation, and is re-
turning to England to meet the shareholders. As the
London and Globe Corporation finds it impossible to
realise on its assets at present, a special meeting to con-
sider resolutions for liquidation has been called. Under-
stood that the mine is being thoroughly re-sampled by
Hartmann and Nicholson, the last two managers. It will
be long ere the public will be re-sampled.
* * * *
“Miner” sends The Bulletin some more about
Donnybrook, N.Q. : “ Donnybrook is the most flourishing
mining camp in Queensland. It has two crushing mills
in course of erection, besides ten winding plants and
other machinery, ail within one mile. All the reefs to
the south and S.E. of Donnybrook were worked 30 years
ago and abandoned, and afterwards fossicked by hun-
dreds of fossickers up to the present. But none of the
claims were systematically worked until Mr. A. L.
Wilson took up the block off the Donnybrook P.C., and
found payable gold below the sulphide zone. The
last crushing of 200 tons gave Boz. to the ton,
and now he (Mr. Wilson) is sinking on another block
(No. 2), which he expects to bottom at 700 ft. The Donny-
brook P.C. crushed about 300 tons tor 6oz. per ton, and
the Erin’s Hope is bagging all the prize ore and sending
it to Illawarra for over 20oz. to the ton. This s3 T ndicate
is putting up a mill to treat its own stone. The Erin’s
Hope cuts the granite and porphyry in two ; the foot-
wall is granite and the hanging-wall porphyry. Same
may be said of the block, as the granite takes a dive
under the porphyry and no granite appears again for
miles. So, when sinking a block shaft, it is a great guide
that you have not bottomed until you strike the granite.”
• • « *
“W. 8.”: “Pickaxe” (B. 17/11/’00) knows
little about the Richton property if he says “ the gold is
not there.” And lam far from being a “ long way out ”
in my statements. I said the mine was “within” two
miles of the Burdekin, and £60,000 was spent on a rail-
way, machinery, and a 40-head battery ”; which is cor-
rect, with the exception of the distance from the river,
but I said “within.” Now I am again in Charters
Towers, and have some more facts. Bremen and party,
who have a tribute in the Disraeli mine, lately crushed" 9
tons for 350 z. gold. James and party 7, also tributors, in
Nov. puVthrough 78 tons for 1260 z., and Thompson Bros,
had a good crushing lately—2Joz. per ton. Bremen’s
show, in the bed of the river, is improving. The first reef
found was about 18in. thick, then a footwall reef Ift. thick
was opened up, and another 2ft. The two footwall reefs
are flatter than the one first got, and it’s probable that
the three will join at a depth. They had a good crushing
from the reef first found. Martin and Grace, who had a
claim on the Englishman, have crushed 75 tons stone for
102 oz. gold, besides which their sandstone will bring all
round between £2 and £3 per ton. Martin and Grace
have more stone in sight, and are on a good thing. This
shows how little “Pickaxe” knows about the district
when he says the stone wasn’t there. Ere long you will
have a good deal more of the Richton.
• • • *
Three miners, including a Maorilander, have
managed to steal £4OOO worth of gold from the Russian
coast, opposite Cape Nome. In the course of the venture
they killed a sentry. The Russians know of their de-
posits, but impose too severe working conditions. There
seems to be auriferous sand right across, the Straits. The
further it is wrought from the beach the richer it
becomes. Profitable dredging is therefore expected. It
is a blackish sand, and Maorilanders compare it to their
ironsand.
• « * »
Dear Bulletin.— Re that North Lyell par.
Surely you must give the Crotty-Lonergan-Madden crowd
credit for financial skill in steering the N. Lyell co. to
success. They are certainly wise in sending 1000 tons
weekly to the Lyell smelters—so as to obviate borrowing,
or a refloat, to perfect their reticulation, tramway, aerial
way, and meet their surveyors’ and other expenses ere the
smelters are erected. Again, the natural outlet of the
Lyell field is Kelly Basin—good railway topping Mts.
Dukes and Darwin with easy grades, plenty of timber
and flux, grand smelter-site between two rivers, (the King
and Governor). Whereas Lyell co. has a cumbersome Abt
system of railway ; is short of water in summer ; has to
haul ore over a mountain on aerial tramway, and
haulage would cost thousands to get near Jukes or Darwin.
The North’s 30 miles of rail is trained in 75min. as against
Lyell Co.’s 20 miles in lOOmin. See 1 The N. Lyell can
put ore into its train easier than into Lyell smelters. The
Lyell co. can take its own ore easier than anybody else's.
Transhipment means running a “ dummy ” after the N.
Lyell co. has pushed its ore half-a-mile past its own
aerial. Re combination— Surely you know that the clever
crowd incorporated most of the outside shows, such a 9
S. Lyell, Comstock, Consols, Jukes, Darwin and other
shows, to make their rich ore a successful smelting-
proposition. I predict the combine will emanate and be
effected by the North people taking in the Lyell co., with
Stieht as general boss.—J.O.
* • • •
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland has replied to
Warnford Lock’s indictment of the N.S.W. Mining
laws. Says they need no defence, only a little explana-
tion ; that Lock had been barking up the wrong tree ;
that he had imported a private quarrel into the debate ;
that his management of Wentworth mine had brought
about a crisis, and, as he could not have everything his
own way, and the' N.S.W. Govt, would not alter the
laws to suit his own eccentricities, then everything
connected with the local mining law was everything that
was bad. He also charged Lock with treating working
miners with indignity in compelling them to be searched
and making them spies on one another. Solemn fact is
that the energetic Lock was not fit to deal with the free
and independent Australian miner. He would do all
right with nigger labor, or with whites in a forelock-pull-
ing land.
» • • «
The Victorian Parliament recently passed an
amending Companies Act which most carefully avoided
the question which, so far as banks are concerned, called
for most attention. The old Act was most specific in de-
manding that bank balance-sheets should contain full in-
formation, which was very good in theory. But the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia cheerfullj' dodges this by
putting £3,400,000 of its liabilities and a corresponding
amount (in paper-value) of its assets (the very worst
assets, on which the whole question of the bank’s
stability appears to depend) into a nominally separate
co.—separate only in name, for it really belongs
to the bank as much as the bank itself does. And about
this co. it gives no information —neither as to earnings,
profits, losses, depreciation, surplus, deficiency (which
i may be a million for all that the balance-sheet shows), or
anything else. Apparently there is nothing to prevent it
, going further, and putting the whole bank, all except £6
! or so, into an Assets Trust, and then giving no informa-
j tion at all about anything. And either the letter of the
| Vic. Companies Act allows this audacious evasion of its
spirit, or else the Vic. Companies Act isn’t enforced.
* * • •
I Dear Bulletin. —Re answer to “ E. 0.” (B.
24 8/’00). Cash is the true coinage of China, the ex-
change at present being about 800 to the dollar (Mexican).
Sycee is simply silver bullion, either in the form, of shoes
(worth about 67 taels) or small irregular-shaped pieces.
The tael is valued at about 1 1-3 dol. ; exchange from 72
to 78 taels per 100 dol. The tael is not coined, but notes
of 10, 5, 1 taels, &c., are issued by the Chinese banks.
The Mexican dollar exchange at present is about 2s.
Money' matters in China are further complicated through
the use of the Russian rouble ; very like the old Mexican
valued at 10 per cent. less. The British dolk r
of the Straits and Hongkong is accepted in Shanghai
and the North at a small reduction, and the Hupeh,
Peiyang or Tientsin and Kwangsii dollars pass at a dis-
count in the bank. There are also lots of subs’diary
coins—2o and 10 cent pieces of the various province s—ail
at present at about 17 per cent, below face value. Thus
a Mexican dollar at a small Chinese bank can be changed
for 1110-cent pieces and some cash. A Russian dollar
for 10 10-cent pieces only'. The dollar has sterdiiy de-
creased in value from 4s. 6d. to 25., at about whie h figure
it has remained for nearly five years.—Cheenah, Shanghai.
* * * *
So far from electricity having, as was predicted,
rendered gas completely obsolete as an illuminant, and
made all gas-scrip into waste-paper, the use of the older
illuminant seems to be only now reaching its proper de-
velopment. A notable feature of the current Sydney
■Commonwealth illuminations is the Australian Gas Co.’s
installation, at Wynyard Square, of 18 gas-.umps, fitted
with three VVelsbach burners each, and giving a total
18,000 candle-power of a beautifully pure and steady
light. The principle involved is a trebling—by means of
automatic water-compressors—of the ordinary gas-pres-
sure.
The Powers have announced that they
won’t allow Turkey' to send any Mussulman mis-
sionaries to comfort the faithful in China. Does
this portend the shutting down on the missionary
business generally or is it only a move to chec :
any spreading of the influence of Russia’s old
enemy—the Sultan ?
If the “ gentleman ” (unnamed) who has
been relating his experiences as a prisoner with
De Wet is telling the truth, De W. aforesaid must
have "been pulling his leg to some purpose. The
gentleman says the Boer General had 60C0
men and 18,000 horses —which would need a
daily 12 tons of food and .180 tons of forage 1—
and this in a country laid-waste. Looks simply
as if the Boers had been at the campaigning
dodge of stuffing a prisoner with lies, and then
turning him loose, or allowing him to “escape.”
The nameless one says De Wet “ admitted that
he. was beaten.” But being beaten in war is
being forced to do what your adversary wants you
to do, and so far De Wet has apparently not
been forced to do that. De Wet’s game is evidently
to avoid close fighting, in that he can’t afford to
lose men, so when large bodies of British come in
his way he simply leaves behind a few to keep
them amused and “gets” with the bulk of his
men. Petty British entrenched posts (like
Dewetsdorp) and small convoys are his objec 4 .
He can master them, and they supply him with
ammunition, food, horses, and waggons.
Edward Knox, of the Colonial Sugar Re-
fining Co., and chairman of the Commercial'
Banking Co. of Sydney, died suddenly last Mon-
day, in his 82nd year. He was a native of
Denmark, of English parents, and was educated
at the Danish school of Soroe, and in Germany.
He arrived in N.S.W. in 1840, and m
1843 became manager of the Australian
Sugar Co., afterwards merged in the pre-
sent C.S.R. Co. The deceased, who was
known throughout life as the straightest of men
and the most considerate of employers, was pre-.
sident of the Union Club of Sydney, and was in
a very wide circle probably the most popular man
of his generation in N.S.W. His eldest surviving
son, E. W. Knox, is manager of the Colonial
Sugar Co. ; other sons are T. F. Knox, managing
director in Sydney of Dalgety and Co., and
Adrian Knox, of the equity bar; he leaves also
four daughters—Mrs. W. O. Gilchrist, Mrs.
E. H. Mackay (Q.), and two unmarried.


Business Announcements.
li£
L'l
PRICE— Single Razor, 10/6; or with Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/-; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7 6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHS
CABINET PHOTOGRAPHS
of North Gregory Aboriginals, Corroboree cos-
tume, &c., Two Shillings each, or a dozen
assorted for One Pound post office order.
GEORGE WOOD, photographer,
Boulia, Queensland.
ORNAM€NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS &, WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Netv South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House f
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXIGATINC,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
ft
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENCLAND.
Publications.
TWO GRAND
N
Allap’S
AQstraliai?
*tW
Books
Price 1/- each, or Posted 1/2.
No. 33.—Favorite Songs.
When the Heart is Young
Buck
Good-bye, Sweetheart,,
Good-bye Hatton
A Bandit’s Life Harper
Ever for Thee Foley Hall
Juanita Mrs. Norton
The Adieu Schubert
Salley in our Alley
Old English
I Arise from Dreams of
Thee Walton
The Sea is England’s Glory
Glover
Whispering Hope (Vocal
Duet)
What are the Wild Waves
Saying ? (Vocal Duet)
Glover
No. 34.—Herz’s 100 Chords, Scales, Arpeggios,
Exercises, &c.
(Fingered and, Arranged.)
This work is indispensable to every Musical Student,
and should be used in conjunction with the Instruction
Book.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia
or direct from the Publishers,
ALLAM Bt CO. Propy. Ltd
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 24th December, 1900.
TREASURY BILLS ACT OF 1899.
rpENDERS will be received up to and not later than Ist
February, 1901, for the purchase of £500,000 worth of
Treasury Bills, to be issued under the authority of the
Treasury Bills Act of 1899, which provides that, for the
purpose'of carrying out certain Public Works, the raising
of a sum not exceeding Four Millions sterling is
sanctioned.
Such bills to the amount mentioned above, viz.,
£500,000, will have a currency of five years, and will bear
interest at the rate of 31 per centum per annum, payable
half-yearly, said interest to accrue from Ist February,
1901, and be repayable at the Treasury at par.
A deposit of 10 per cent, on the total amount of Tender,
in Sydney Bank drafts payable on demand, cheques on
Sydney endorsed by banks, or Sydney Money Orders,
must accompany each Tender, and the balance of
accepted Tenders will be payable at the Treasury, Sydney,
within three days of date of allotment.
Bills will be issued of the following denominations, viz.,
£lOO, £5OO, £l,OOO, £5,000, and where possible will be
allotted in the values applied for by successful Tenderers,
but the Treasurer will not in any instance guarantee
division of values to Tenderers.
■ fApplications will be receivable for sums of (£100) one
hundred pounds and upwards.
Forms of Tender and all particulars can be obtained at
the Treasury, Sydney, on and after Ist January, 1901. i
Tenders to be addressed “ Under Secretary for Finance j
and Trade,” and endorsed “ Tender for Treasury Bills.” j
The highest or any Tender not necessarily accepted.
2a7. WILLIAM JOHN LYNE. I
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
vx
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN,
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
.FISHER & COMPANY’S^^-
PHOSPHERINE!
AN INFALLIBLE AND TJNIQUALLED TONIC FOE THE
NERVES, BRAIN, AND HEART.
The ROYAL ROAD to SOUND HEALTH and SOLID COMFORT.
Especially recommended for delicate GENTLEMEN, LADIES, and CHILDREN.
A Certain Cure for Headache and “That Tired Feeling.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, Is. PER BOTTLE.
POST FREE (excepting Queensland) to all parts of Australia.
FISHER & CO’S PREPARATION has been on the market for SIXTEEN YEARS.
IF’XfSIOIieiE*. & COMPAMY,
The Leading Homoeopathic Chemists of Australasia,
PHARMACY: 337 George Street (nearly opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
ADVICE FREE ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPTSCT A r.TTES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heap office : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
rpZEEJE -
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical _aod
SCirgical IpStitCite—-
I3XT -AJNT
Which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, M ““ fact f ur ® a^ ti^ers f n the
surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands Wall ce Electro
healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethies which‘
the medical profession, and announce to the public tliat upon all special complaints thej still conti
suited by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
mm
HOWARD FREEMAN , Director ,
Dr. Harmon's College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
RICHARD WALLACE, Chief Consulting Staff,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by
letter or in person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and strictest
privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION —ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
SPECIALITIES:
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections. Nerve and Brain Complications.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections. Blood and Skin Diseases.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
HP' cA
mm
ii
Possibly if you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends or jealous physicians, you may omit consulting us
but remember if you allow your disease to run riot in your system, you are guilt} of culpable negligence and v
alone be responsible for your future pitiable condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
Do Not be Drugged to Death by Quacks
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the held of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of gmng counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothX to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too car.efulwhom they consist.
A mione-h libertv of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE I REEMAN AND
WATTAOFELEOTRO°MEDICAL AND. SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
rm?ive\he advice ofone fitted by superior skill and education the result of specia study. Our reputation and
receive tne aavice impara ii e led success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.
225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street,- Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
vx
TRY IT m YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
v
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
v
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price
Gel; Posted Gel.
xc
f
çg
fgdfd
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCE R
and RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Prcc'uoss Luxuriant Hair, r revents its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE HEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
m
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; tor Removing Scurf, Dandruff, Ac, also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
" HARLENE” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
■i/., 2/6 an 4 (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
“HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
BALL MILLS
31 O’Csnnell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st, MELBOURNE.
DAPTO (Lake
#
(Umitk; ),
Illawarra),
near SYDNISY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRO33XJCEEIS
OF
FINE SILVER.
ww
n
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. . BllANl) OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Furcnasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST THICKS PAID FOE ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT.of ASSAYS,
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. V\ einbeko, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.V/. ;or Martin Place SYDNEY.
Taken I'll In The Street.
On the 26th of January, 1898, a young lady,
passing through Burton Street, in Darlinghurst,
was suddenly taken ill. Fortunately, she was
seen by the people of a house near by, who am-
ducted her within doors, administered a stimu-
lant, and cared for her until she was able to go
home.
This, you may say, was hardly an incident
worth putting in print. That depends on what
it signified. To a besieged and starving garrison
the sound of a distant bugle is a matter to make
the heart jump.
On arriving at her house, we are sorry to say,
the young lady had a second seizure, and a doctor
was at once called in.
No, it was not the nerves, or a rush of blood to
the head ; the symptoms pointed to a thoroughly
disordered state of digestion ; ulcerated stomach,
probably. So spoke the medical man, after a
careful diagnosis.
Such being the doctor’s opinion, he prescribed
on the lines suggested by the facts. The sequel
proved him right, albeit his treatment had but
little beneficial effect. For this he is not to be
blamed, as there are few diseased conditions more
difficult to correct than the one he met with in
this instance. Many physicians decline to touch
such cases—sending the sufferers to hospitals.
In a letter dated August 20th, 1899, the young
lady describes the events alluded to here, and
informs us as to the final result.
“It was early in 1897,” she says, “that my
health, previously good, began to fail. In spite of
all we could do, I got worse, and in the middle of
that year my state was dreadful. Not only was
my appetite wholly destroyed but I abhorred the
very siyht of food. From the most savoury and
attractive meals that could be put on the table I
turned away in disgust,
“That this was unnatural and alarming, of
course, I realised ; but what could be ’done ?
Hardly a day passed without my suffering agony
with a twisting, griping, gnawing feeling in the
stomach.
“ The pleasure and comfort went out of my life
as completely as the sparkle vanishes from a lake
on a cloudy day.
“At length I acted on my mother’s urgent andr re-
peated advice, and began the use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. She said it had wrought a wonderful
cure on her ; and why should it not on me ? So I
said yes, and we sent for it. Before I had taken
four bottles the trouble passed away, and I have
been a strong, healthy girl ever since—and that is
now eighteen months.” —Maud MeGuinness, 158
Burton Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W.*
A Voice from Gath and Ashdod.
In self-defence the “ separated brethren ” of
Melbourne have resolved to manifest themselves
(modestly) in a clubbic manner. The articles of
faith and membership are appended :
THE PHILISTINES.
This is the Confession of Faith :
Whosoever will be of us, before all things it is necessary
that he hold the Philistine faith.
And the Philistine faith is this—that ws worship Genius
and Friendship.
Neither confounding admiration with affection nor
dividing Ability.
For there is one person of the Friendship and another
person of the Genius.
But the heart and the head be all one—the Affection
equal, the Genius eternal.
The Friendship not necessary to be comprehended but
only to be returned—and the Ability incomprehensible.
And Genius has a triune Godhead—the first the mind,
which is the act of a man ; the second the soul, which is
the emotion of a woman in the mind of a man ; and the
third the spirit, which is neither man nor woman, but of
both.
Yet there be not three Gods but two Gods.
The first God is Love, and the second God Genius.
The first not born but create, the second neither born
nor created but proceeding.
And to each and both his angels—Belial, Baal and
Moloch; Rimmon, Dagon and Azrael ; Mammon, Agag
and Goliath ; Beelzebub, Endor, Ichabod and Doeg.
And of these not one nor another is greater, but co-
equal in all ways and manners.
And unto each his sign. To Belial the sign generant—
to Moloch the blood-gout—to Baal a tower of his high
places;
And the sign of Dagon a fish, and of Azrael a wing ;
And the sign of Agag a boot with holes in the sole
thereof—and the sign Of Goliath a bat of brick ;
And the sign of Beelzebub a house-fly—and the sign of
Rimmon a terrace;
And the sign of Mammon a farthing—and of Endor a
broom of birch ;
And the sign of Ichabod a setting sun—and the sign of
Doeg, the Edomite, a hornet.
And unto each his house and habitation —unto Belial,
Philistia and the Palace of Black Wrath—and unto
Moloch, Gehenna —and unto Baal, Askelon ;
And unto Dagon, Gath—unto Azrael of the Wing,
Adullam ;
And unto Agag, Lehi—and unto Goliath, Gilboa ;
And unto Beelzebub, Tophet—and unto Rimmon,
Suburbia;
And the house of Mammon is Gaza—and the house of
Endor is Ajalon ;
And the house of Ichabod is Timnath—and the house
of Doeg, the Edomite, is Tarsus.
And the souls of these, even from Belial unto Doeg, the
Edomite, enter into the bodies of such as are found faith-
ful, and the names given unto them by their fathers are
for ever lost.
He therefore that will be one of us must think thus of
us.
And the right faith is that we believe and confess—
that there are but two Gods —Love and Genius.
And yet there is but one God—for Genius producth
Love, and Love begetteth Genius.
Perfect God as to the Genius, and perfect Man as to the
Love.
And any that would be of us must acknowledge us as
his Angels.
And at the end all Gods and Men shall go unto judg-
ment ; yea, even we that are Philistines.
And they that have done good shall go into the tenth
edition, apd they that have wrought evil shall not be sold
on the bookstalls.
* * * *
THE LITANY.
Remember not, oh Lord of Love and Genius, our
offences when we did write tripe—spare us our just
punishment for the line that did not scan.
Spare us, good Lord !
Prom all painting of poster girls in a crimson meadow,
and from the necessity of writing for Punch—
Good Lord, deliver us !
Prom all blindness of heart, from pride, vain glory and
hypocrisy, from envy, hatred and malice, and all un-
charitableness—
Good Lord, deliver us !
Prom all dukes and princes—from shoddy titles,
mayors, councillors, and magistrates, and from all credi-
tors who have hardness of heart and contempt of OUR
WORD and commandment —
Good Lord, deliver us 1
That it may please thee to bless and preserve all such
as buy our copy, or our drawings; to illuminate all
editors with a true knowledge and understanding of OUR
WORTH so that both by their payment and publication
they may set forth and shew it accordingly—
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord !
That it may please thee who alone art able to work great
miracles, to endow McKinley, of Punch, with grace,
wisdom and understanding—-
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord !
That it may please thee to keep all Philistines—and to
comfort all such as are of us —and to fill the pipe and glass
of them for ever and ever—
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord !
That it may please thee to preserve for posterity all who
write, to help all authors laboring of book, and all artists
in cross-presentation of picture—to comfort all such as
play the bassoon, and to show thy pity upon all that
listen thereto —
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord !
That it may please thee to give unto us the whole
world in a bag, so that the people shall crown us with
garlands—and to bring back the golden age upon earth —
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord ! _
That it may please thee to give unto the Great Public
a heart to love and dread us, so that they may ever-
more have affiance in us and seek always our honor and
glory—
We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord !
* • * »
LET US PRAY !
Oh, Thou Great God of all the Arts, who sitteth at the
right hand of Shakespeare ! Oh, Thou to whom Darwin
is acolyte, and Mozart and Asaph chorus, and Velasquez
the gonfalonier. Oh, Thou who inspired the first steers-
men of the rafts of Lebanon to the havens of Joppa—Oh,
Thou who hast translated men from dust and made the
stones find a voice—Oh, Thou who sendest true Love and
true Genius to travail in the Four Ways of Poverty, and
to tarry in the streets, of Hunger, Cold, Waiting, and Con-
tumely that they may catch a beam of thy great light,
and by it win their own—Oh, Thou who liveth in all
things, and wert old or ever the chimneys of hell were
hot, and yet art ever young—give unto us the vagrom
spark—the lacrum of that divine fire that burneth some-
where everlastingly.—Amen !


The Waverley Brewery Co., findind their
old premises inadequate for business require-
ments, inform the public that in future the busi-
ness will be conducted at premises recently
purchased by the co. at Dowling-st., Moore Park.
The new premises have been very largely added
to by the erection of spacious stores, &c., and
customers may rely on the very best attention.*
Public Notices.
phe (federal parliamentary
TO THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen.—
I have the honor to announce my Candidature for
a seat in the Federal Senate, and to respectfully ask to
cast in my favor one of the six votes which each elector
will have.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES STYLES.
Business Announcements.
Awarded GRAND PRIX,
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
ON YOUR
HOLIDAYS
TAKE A
KODAK
WITH YOU,
And secure pleasing mementoes of interesting
places visited.
No dark room is required for changing the films,
as Kodaks are ....
Loaded and Unloaded in
Daylight.
Kodaks all prices, ss. to £7 15s.
OUB LATEST NOVELTIES ake
™ PANORAM
KODAK
for taking Panoramic Views 7in. x 2|in.
Price only —£2 12s. 6d.
THE . . .
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
For pictures 3£in. x 4|in.
Fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant
Reversible View Finder and Focussing Adjust-
ment made of Aluminium.
Price only —£3 16s.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet and Price
list and mention this paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, and of
KODAK, L»
“THE BLOCK,”
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
. . . AND AT . . .
LONDON, GLASGOW, LIVERPOOL, PARIS,
BRUSSELS, BERLIN, VIENNA, MOSCOW,
ST. PETERSBURG, and ROCHESTER, N.Y.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
yill fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 rears’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs. • J
Dr. Clarliaon’s Re-]
brings the dawn of new life to every organ' of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour. J
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dvs
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price-ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
OAuu OR WRITE-
OWL r A u t t e dkug store
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. 3
v
cxv
PUBLIC NOTICK.
MYERS & SOLOMON beg to inform their
very many esteemed Friends and Clients
that the business will be continued exactly on
the same lines as hitherto.
MYERS &. SOLOMON,
42 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
RETURN THANKS.
MYERS AND SOLOMON return their sin-
cere Thanks to the very many kind
Friends in Town and Country for letters of sym-
pathy and condolence in the recent loss of their
lamented Partner, Mr. Henry Solomon.
To Newspaper Proprietors, Printers,
Journalists, and Speculators.
FOR SALE— a Leading COUNTRY NEWSPAPER in
one of the most prosperous districts of New South
Wales. Up-to-date plant, wide circulation, extensive
advertising and job-printing connection. Satisfactory
reason for selling. Open until February Ist, 1901.
Apply in first instance to
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
JOHN WHEALY, formerly of Perth, near
Bathurst, write to your Brother,
MICHAEL WHEALY,
Peel Street, Tamworth.
UIANTED. Present address of Miss BESSIE
KNIGHT, who left Cobar for Sydney in 1886.
Important news from US.
Address.— CUSS-MEDI, c.o. Bulletin, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House,
Sydney, 18th December, 1900.
LAND AND INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT
OF 1895.
IST OTIOE is hereby given, under section 30 of the above
Act, that Returns of Income received during the
year 1900 for the purposes of the assessment of Income
Tax for the year 1901 are required to be furnished to the
Commissioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before
the second day of February, 1901, and all persons who
are in receipt of income, and all persons liable under the
provisions of the Act in any representative capacity to
furnish returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby
informed that the prescribed Forms of Returns are now
available, and may be obtained (except those for Com-
panies) on application at any Post Office, Police Office,
Custom House, Railway Station, and the Office of any
Clerk of Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or profes-
sion on their own account are required to furnish Income
Returns irrespective of the amount of their income ; but
no return of Income is required from any person in receipt
of salary or wages only if the gross annual amount of such
salary or wages does not exceed £2OO.
All employers of labour, whether they themselves are
liable to make Income Tax Returns or not, are required
to furnish to the Commissioners of Taxation the name,
occupation, and addresses of all employes whose salaries
or wages for the year 1900 aggregated £l6O and upwards.
Public attention is called to the fact
that a penalty not exceeding Twenty
pounds is imposed on any person neglect-
ing to furnish the Return required of him within
the time above mentioned, and that persons failing to
furnish such Return are not relieved from liability to the
penalty by reason only that they may not have received a
notice to furnish the Return, or that the prescribed Form
may not have been delivered to them.
The attention of owners of taxable lands subject to
mortgage is invited to the necessity for furnishing the
requisite particulars, in order that they may derive the
benefit of the deduction to which they are entitled in
respect of the interest on the mortgage on their lands,
including improvements thereon. Without these par-
ticulars the Commissioners will be unable to make the
statutory deduction from the tax on the unimproved
values.
Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained on
application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the second day of Feb-
ruary, 1901, before mentioned.
N. LOCKYER,
R. N. JOHNSON,
L. S. SPILLER,
Commissioners
of
Taxation.
N.B.—Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms of Return. 2clo
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enormous Success of the Grand Comic Xmas
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
entitled,
Puss izx Boots.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harr.v Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importations,
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
BOB—THE LEONARDS—JENNY.
THE SISTERS PAUL.
Splendid Reception of Messrs. Will Whitburn, Tod
Callaway, Prof. Almond, Pope & Sayles, Misses Daisy Har-
court, Susie Anderson, Violet Bishop and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove
EVERY EVENING.
FOURTH WEEK of the GRAND PANTOMIME,
CUMDERELL A..
The Most Beautiful Spectacle Ever Seen on any Stage.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 25.; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
THIRD WEEK of THE CONVINCING NAVAL MELO-
DRAMATIC ROMANCE.
WITH FLYING COLORS,
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING.
FIFTH WEEK of the New Musical Comedy,
FLORODORA.
Which has taken Melbourne by Storm.
| Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
To Country Residents.
NEW CENTURY SHOPPING.
To enable you to buy your
DRAPERY and CLOTHING
at our Economical
NEW CENTURY PRICES
please write for our General Catalogue,
containing 87 Pages of Useful information.
A compilation of everyday p g-
requirements, —1“ ■ * El El ■
(Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.)
IS IT WORTH A PENNY to secure a copy ?
(An application on a penny post-card is ■'
sufficient.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL DRAPERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Should you happen to be in Town please
call or ask for
OUR GENERAL CATALOGUE.
Amusements.
AND CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
FITZGERALD BROS.’
New Continental Circus and
Menagerie .
An Australian Institution worked and run by
THOROUGHBRED AUSTRALIANS.
Location : THE OLD SPOT,
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Opp. REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
Visited nightly by thousands of delighted amusement
seekers.
The Attraction Supreme of the Festive Season.
The Great Holiday Programme.
THE NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
THE DUNBARS, MDLLE. RHODESIA, THE JANDAS-
CHEVSKYS, ROSE AQUINALDO,
ADELINA ANTONIO,
MDLLE. MILLIE DAGMAR, VERNE VOLT, THE
FRENCH CLOWNS, &c., &c.
The Menagerie of Wild and Trained Animals, from all
parts of the globe, which has been recently added to.
During the Season a number of Novelties will be intro-
duced, including many importations engaged and
arranged for by Mr. Tom Fitzgerald during his recent
tour of the world.
Day Shows, Wednesdays and Saturdays.
FIRST GRAND CHANCE OF PROGRAMME
(TO-NIGHT, SATURDAY).
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
Season Drawing to a Close.
The Animal Acts under the control of Herr Lapf.-
HERR VON DER MEHDEN conducts the SPLENDID
BAND OF 20 PERFORMERS.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
FRANK JONES, Press Representative.
HAL GEORGE, Secretary.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
1900 CHRISTMAS ANNUAL. 1901.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Matinee Performances at 2 o’clock Every Wednesday and
Saturdav Afternoon.
The PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled
AUSTRALIS, or THE CITY OF ZERO.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAIVSPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN, GRACIE WHITEFORD & CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
The KT ew Barmaid.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 12,
“WHEN THE LAMPS ARE LIGHTED.”
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAWTREY comedy company.
THIRD WEEK
AND INCREASING POPULARITY OF
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Mr. Herbert Ross
Mr. H. Stephenson Miss Ruby Ray
Mr. T. Holding Miss Roxy Barton
Mr. R. E. Watson Miss Madge Hope
Mr. Wilson Power Miss Lena Brasch
and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
Mrs. LILIAN PARSLOW-WALL ACE will play a Violin
Solo between Acts 2- and 3.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.30 o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s, 338 George-st.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Business Manager, Mr. .E. F. BRADLEY.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Business Manager Mr. Harold Ashton
THIRD WEEK. THIRD WEEK.
Enthusiasm Greater than Ever. Mr. J. C. Williamson's
Marvellous ANGLO-AMERICAN 810-TABLEAU of" the
SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, &c. EVERY AFTERNOON
at 3. EVERY EVENING at 8. VIVID and SENSA-
TIONAL WAR SCENES, absolutely taken on the Field of
Battle, and an Infinite Variety of other Magnificent Pic-
tures. Concluding with a Brilliant Colored Reproduction
of the ENTIRE PANTOMIME of “ CINDERELLA ”
Box Plan to-day on view in vestibule of Athemeum •
also Menzies’and the Grand. PRICE—3s., 25., is. ’
A POLICY FOR THE Nowßeady.
Price 6d. ;
Posted, Ba.
COMMON WEALTH.
At Poverty Point.
fid. Bulletin. —J. A. Delany dropped a bombshell into
a perfectly self-satisfied mutual admiration society when,
at the recent “ send-off” to Hazon, he fired off the cold,
hard fact that Australian musicians, no matter how
talented, are thought little of in their own country until
they have received the hall-mark of European approba-
tion. J. O. Williamson, who was present, cited, in oppo-
sition, the relations which existed between his firm and
Melba, but only managed to strengthen Delany's hands,
by stating that he (J.C.W.) had recently offered Melba
20. times more per night to re-visit Australia than he had
paid her a week prior to her departure. Sydney D.T. fol-
lowed with a leader on the subject, in which, of course,
the inevitable Marchesi cropped-up. Now, it may interest
musical Australians to know that Mine. Marchesi’s
“ world-wide fame ” exists here, and here only. She is
very small potatoes in Paris. Her pupils are nearly all
Australians, with a few Americans and English. French,
Italian or German pupils she has none. Melba has boomed
Marchesi as Albani boomed Lamperti. Lamperti could
boast of numerous eminent artists as pupils, but, from
personal experience, present scribe can affirm that these
same artists, in hardly any case, took away from Lam-
perti anything they had not brought to begin with.
Printer’s ink, judiciously used, works wonders.— Spogato.
Melbourne’s boss basso, W. G. Barker, has been in a
bad way lately. Many people, including Tiie Bulletin,
used to say of him that he would be altogether admirable
if he could only put a little devil into his work. With a
grand voice, good vocalisation, and a rather striking
appearance, Barker was, nevertheless, an unsatisfactory
artist. He looked and sang as though he had some
trouble on his mind. Poor fellow ! it now appears that
he was afflicted with a cranial tumor, which explains the
want of vivacity in his platform style. Several pieces of
diseased bone were taken from his head the other
Saturday, and it is hoped that the operation will make a
new man of the estimable “ W.G.”
Re Arthur Styan’s acting in “ With Flying Colors,” a
Melb. daily said “ he reminds one very forcibly of Mr.
Titheradge at his best.” Styan is a clever artist, but how
does he suggest a Titheradge performance, except in
being quietly effective ? The criticism reminds one that
the Australian stage of late years has had only two quiet
“ heavy ” actors who could play emotional parts in strik-
ing style—Titheradge and Styan. Other successful lead-
ing men have been quiet and light, or heavy and robusti-
ous when they were not vehemently heroic. These
ranged from Boucieault and Brough to Wilson Barrett,
Julius Knight and Cartwright. By the way, Styan did
some admirable work as a member of Cartwright’s co.
His Lord Jura, in “ Moths,” made a pathetic decease, and
his.Loftus Roupell, in “ The Tree of Knowledge ” was a
convincing sinner of the hard, reposeful type.
Le Guide Musical, Brussels, on one of Lalla Miranda’s
recent performances : “ ‘ Romeo et Juliette ’ had a genuine
interest from the very personal interpretation given to
the character by the heroine. It was no longer the
country Juliette with manners of last year. What a dis-
tinction, what reserve, what candour and piquancy, with
sometimes a little coyness. Her attitudes and very aris-
tocratic appearance have an exquisite charm.” And of
her singing, the same critic says: “ Mdlle. Miranda’s
brilliant execution of the ‘ Valse Song ’ brought to her a
great ovation. In the sentimental passages her voice has
very caressing intonations; the cres. and dim. are
admirable.”
Mrs. Brown-Potter recently stated that she had no in-
tention of returning to Australia, although she had
received handsome offers from both Williamson and Mus-
grove. By the way, she is said to have made money at
mining. Many stage charmers get the real straight tip.
For instance, Melba is said to have made a haul of
£40,000 out of Spanish copper-scrip. ,> . . . -
On the day after the funeral of Sir Arthur Sullivan, ten
of his songs were sung at a ballad concert at St. James
Hall, London. The Morning Post criticism said that
“ Orpheus with his Lute,” which was “ one of the earliest
and certainly most beautiful ” of Sullivan’s vocal com-
positions, was “ very sweetly rendered by Miss Florence
Schmidt.”
Maud Ohetwynd, the bright little woman showing con-
spicuously as the millionaire’s daughter in “Floradora,”
at Melb. Majesty’s, is quite anew recruit, and has come
to the front with a rush. She was married to a son of
Dr. Singleton, the big Vic. philanthropist, and is a St.
Kilda girl.
The company of the Savoy Theatre, identified of late
years with Gilbert and Sullivan opera, contributed the
prettiest of tributes to Arthur Sullivan’s funeral show.
A circle of white flowers framing a seven-stringed harp
with the fifth string broken—the composer having died in
his fifth decade. And somebody wrote a couple of “In
Memoriam ” verses which were not too bad
Sleep softly. We who live shall hear alway
songs that you gave us while you walked the earth ;
Some exquisite voice shall echo every day
Music you made for sorrow or for mirth.
Sleep quietly, but hear, as in a dream,
Magical music of the enchanted night;
Sleep on, and, as you listen, may it seem
They, too, were yours, the songs you did not write.
“ What kind of reception did I get in Dunedin?” says
Donald Macdonald, the returned war-lecturer. “ Well,
every third man there is a Macdonald and every'tenth
man Donald Macdonald, so you can judge for yourself.”
The only new thing under the sun is the outrageously
funny scene of Bland Holt’s home, built on a right-of-
way. Just as Bland is cuddling his new wife a chaw-
bacon coolly walks across, then a coster, a man comes on
with a donkey, another with a bulldog, which chases Bland
round the furniture. The whole is a piece of impossible
gTptesquerie, but it tickles the diaphragm with its memo- I
ries for a week after.
Nellie Stewart gets a startling effect with her final cos-
tume in “ Cinderella.” The shapely form of the principal
boy is encompassed from neck to toe in one close fitting
silK garment of the same glowing pink as her naked arms.
Ovpr this is the coat of crystal— a garment nothing more
th|n a yard-and-a-half of scintillating jewels, with a hole
fos the wearer’s neck. The sides are completely open,
affording more than glimpses of Nellie’s sides, and it ter-
minates just below her broad hips.
That extremely decollete costume of Mine. Darto, in the
Princess’s pantomime, got out of order one night last
week, and the public were treated to a most unusual
vision. Mme., however, pluckily kept on and finished
her dance, but the crowd lost its head, and demanded
encores before it would permit the performance to go on
and Mme. to adjust the errant elastic.
The imitators of Charles Godfrey are badly off for songs
these times. If they had all the natural endowments of
poor thirsty Charley—voice, talent, and magnetism—
they couldn’t make much impression with the clumsy
hunks of bathos they heave at Rickards’s audiences.
George D’Albert, the latest and most forcible of these
misguided grafters, would be acceptable enough if he
sang some of the best of Godfrey’s ditties. Why not ?
Geo. Ridgway gets a show as clown in Musgrove’s
“ Cinderella” matinees. George thought he had washed
the grease-paint off altogether. He has long been known
as a Melb. master bill-poster. He was the star trapezist
of the Lenton troupe, and learnt the business from
Leotard, at London Alhambra, with the use of Leotard’s
ropes.
According to London Daily Chronicle Sir Arthur Sulli-
van’s new opera, in active rehearsal at the time of his
death, is never likely to be performed.
“ I backed a horse at ten to one and he came in at a
quarter to four.”— Funny man in “ Cinderella."
Marshall-Hall is going to do a big business with his
Conservatorium, and will yet thank his lucky stars that
he was canted out of the University.
Ed. Bulletin. —Can you tell me why the
Sydney town clerk publicly appeared on the day
of the swearing-in, adorned with a barrister’s
wig ? I have never heard that the ingenious
gentleman had any connection with any branch of
the law. Was it merely an advt. ? —B.C,L.
From Argus, 27/12/’00 : —
Yesterday afternoon’s trains were both well filled, but
not crowded. Among those who left Melbourne were Mr.
Alfred Deakin, Mr. Frederick Sargood, M.L.O., Mr. George
Bruce, and Sub-inspector Ward, and Detectives Mac-
manamny, Bannon, and Fryer, who are despatched to
watch the Melbourne criminals during the celebrations.
Which is particularly rough on Deakin.
Rev. David Laseron, who was so badly
wounded in a Sydney railway-carriage some years
ago by a bullet from a pistol flourished by Tommy
Walker, ex-M.P., somehow or other nearly man-
aged to shoot himself with a revolver at a Blue
Mountain hotel the other day. He explains that
he bought the weapon as a present for his son and
didn’t know it was loaded. When last heard of
the pistol-persecuted parson was still suffering
from severe shock, partly attributable, he says, to
the association in his mind between revolvers and
his own narrow escape years ago.


Three Years
Liver Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURE.
The Case or
Mrs. KATHERINE GARLAND.
(by our special reporter.)
“ Your visit has come as a pleasant
surprise to me,” was the remark with which
Mrs. Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hills, greeted the reporter from this
journal, as it savts me the trouble of
writing to you about my bad attack of liver
complaint, from which I suffered terribly.
I am a very poor correspondent at the best
of times, preferring like most members of
my sex, to receive letters rather than write
them ; but I am so conscious of a deep
obligation to Clements Tonic for restoring
me to health that I made up my mind to
write expressing my gratitude, and as you
have obviated that duty 1 will gladly give
the fullest details.
“ How long did your liver trouble afflict
y°u ? ” asked the reporter.
“For fully three years, and I hope it will
never come on again. Do you know, I
believe I would rather be dead than
continue like I was then. The first s.gn of
my . failing health was an unaccountable
fastidiousness regarding my food. I some-
times felt like eating a little, and as soon as
it was before me I should turn right against
it, and do nothing but mince and turn it
over, then finally leave it alone. There
was always a sickly, sour taste in my mouth,
my . tongue being so dry and rough,
particularly in the morning, and I was often
seized with a fit of vomiting, which was
invariably followed by the act of belching
distasteful gases from the stomach. The
operation of ridding myself of the bile and
so ir wind from the stomach caused me no
end of discomfort and pain, and blinding
headaches were frequently experienced
after I had been retching. Heavy pains in
the shoulders, and sometimes in the chest,
often paid me more attentions? than was
agreeable, as they made me form the
opinion that I was slowly falling into the
clutches of some dreadful disease. Indeed,
this idea was made all the more likely by
the yellowish hue of my skin, and my eyes
became a dirty green colour. Liver spots
also came out on my chest. Besides the
puns in the chest and shoulders, I would
have severe attacks in the side, and they
were so excessively tormenting that I had
10 a Pply hot fomentations, but they only
i >.ve temporary relief, and made the next
attack more acute. It was next door to
impossible to ever get a brief respite from
iny many ailments, for I could scarcely ever
get to sleep, and the little repose that did
occasionally come to me was marked by
unpleasant dreams and restlessness. On
awakening it required a great stretch of
imagination to believe I had slept at all,
so weary and fatigued would I feel. My
limbs ached with sheer weakness, and I’m
*« re I was an obj'ect deserving compassion
when crawling about the house in my vain
efforts to do a little housework, only to sit
down quite exhausted and fret for hours.
When I wanted to stand up I had to do so
carefully and steadily, otherwise a fainting
giddiness would take charge of me, and my
head would whirl round like a spinning-
wheel. These fainting sensations left me
dreadfully depressed and low-spirited, and
I. sat or lay brooding over my misfortunes
till I got very melancholy. There was not
an ounce of flesh on my bones. So weak and
debilitated had I become that I was almost
afraid to look in the glass.”
“You look remarkably well now, how-
ever, Mrs. Garland.”
*' Yes, thank God, I am like I used to be
before my three years’ sickness. But you
have not learned all my troubles. The
worst and most terrifying thing has yet to
be described. ©I have not yet mentioned the
anxiety my heart used to cause me. You
do not think I look like a woman whose
heart is diseased, do you ? No ; I’m sure
I don’t. But I was almost worried to death
with that thought when I was so ill. My
heart used to start suddenly beating with
such violence that I dreaded it stopping or
easing off, in case it would stop for ever.
But it would quieten down after nearly
scaring the life out of me, only to start
again with renewed rapidity. I have since
learned that palpitation of the heart occurs
in liver disease cases when they are very
serious, so mine must have been a very bad
case.”
“And what treatment did you receive
from your doctor ? ”
“ Oh, the usual—medicines and pills, and
I don’t mind telling you that the liquids
they termed medicines did me no end of
injury. Why, I used to loathe the thought
of swallowing it; the smell was offensive
and the taste was disgusting. C But I
persevered with them for three years’ all to
no purpose. Then a friend told me that
Clements Tonic was the best thing for me to
take, which I did, and you can see the
result for yourself. Clements Tonic seemed
a little bitter at first, but I could soon drink
it like water, without any reluctance what-
ever. But even if it had been gall I would
have drank it, because it brought about my
convalescence in no time. I told my doctor
I would rather have Clements Tonic than all
his stuff, as it was doing me good, and his
physic had completely failed. He replied :
‘ Well, I’ll not make much out of you now.’
And he spoke truthfully, for I can be
independent of all doctors now. I rapidly
experienced ease from pains in the stomach,
chest and shoulders, and the easing of pains
in the head brought delightful, soothing
sleep. My appetite came back, and I did
not notice any discomfort after eating. The
liver spots were eradicated, and my skin
recovered its usual colour. No more fears
of heart disease worried me, as the palpit-
ation disappeared with the other disagree-
able symptoms. To be as brief as possible,
I must candidly admit that Clements Tonic
is solely responsible for my cure. When my
son-in-law was up in the mountains he wrote
saying he was sick, and I sent him a couple
of bottles of Clements Tonic to Katoomba.
He subsequently thanked me, stating that
the medicine I had forwarded had cured
him. One of my daughters has been under
treatment during the past twelve months
for asthmatical bronchitis (another doctor
says it is heart disease she has got). They
have not done her the least good with their
phjsic, so lately she has been taking
Clements Tonic. She has had three bottles
up to now, and she is making good progress
in the right direction. I believe Clements
Tonic will make a woman of her again. My
faith in it is without limit, and I am so
grateful for its effect upon myself and
relatives that you can publish my testimony
as much as you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION'.
I, Katherine Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Sorry Hills, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contain* and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her
present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Surry Hills, this 11th day of August,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
A. DAYIDSON, J.P,
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
vc
çv
Fop Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
. ™, 8 T I # MONIAL '~ 1 have b f en 01 nurBe for year*, and hare nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been iU for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s • Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
£!£ of hea,th cannot be •"—*■■***-a
L H siupTv C Mam«:i?mil FRU . IT SALT ’ 0N A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
“ MARVEIIOUS - ,T IS - IN FACT - NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE
CAUTION.—s*> Without it, you tar a
Prepared only by J. Q. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT»WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Medical.
I Cure Fits.
You are 3
not asked
to spend ft
any money to test whether my 2
remedy does or does not cure a
\ Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, «
, &c. All you are asked to do is to
' send fora FREE bottle of medi= £
| cine and to try it. I am quite ?j
| prepared to abide by the result. \
\ A Valuable and Safe Remedy, A
i APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
’ H.G. R00T, 28, Endslelgh Gdas., LONDON.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to nse
Row’s €n)brocatioi}
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it.. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>brocatioi>-
N)
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give bub
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
K3BF" “ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Hypnotism
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE.
Wonderful , Afysteriou* # Fascinating.
I teach you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perform astonishing feats, and
produce fun by the hour. Gratifies
every ambition, and brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my large
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FREE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once. Address—
Prof. R. H. Barraden,
79 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
<9
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved bv testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
r H’™ nsist upon havsn ff TRUMAN S
LUIICXN, and no disappointment can occur.
„ Prepared by Poingdkstke <fc Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. ,
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
J
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a ~
QUAKER
Batb Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/“, Including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when notin use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Buildings, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Business Announcements
charming gifts
FOR CYCLISTS,
TOURISTS, LADIES,
SPORTSMEN,
AND ALL
HOLIDAY MAKERS*
KODAKS
Kodak Photography is the best hobby
In the world. It is mastered in a -few
minutes by anyone.
No Dark Room Worry.
Films Changed in Daylight.
KODAKS FROM
s s * to £7 15s.
Send for Illustrated, Price list, and
mention this Paper,
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London,' *P*ris, Berlin, Brussels. Vienna, S'.
Moftpnw n riff Hpphestpr. .Y.
v
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
AuM.-aUan Colonies.
s>
m
CS
USE
SPOONER’S
3J
Jmm3
SPOONERS
>- CK
V
4
4
WTINT UAThFR BOOTS
i CUZE2 MOS&S
l“* V*
‘W 1 • ? £
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning 1 and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper s.
Boot Shops, Saddlers, ete
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches i;
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
Prose
Paper


THE. LEADING HOUSE.
_ ESTABLISHMENTS -
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PE ETH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
NO MID Dl- E M E N
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
No. 201a— Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 15-carat Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Clip, set with
Pearls and Turquoise, 18s 6<L
No. 116a —9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193 —Set Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d; 15-carat,
£110s; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. E7478— 9-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11s (id.
No. 021—15-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E 7347.— Solid Silver Shaving Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chased ; Best Silver-
plated, 18s 6d and £1 ss.
m
w
w
m
Cut-Glass Toilet Box, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d
Medium, 21s ; Large, 255.
m
m
EfifinffiViW
"'HH
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 10s.
No. 284.-Out-Glass Puff Box, witl
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558. —Very Massive 15c. Gold Broo h, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special value.
No. 150.—16 c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s 6d.
No. 017. —9c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 ss.
No. 139.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. P 3739 —Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box,
7s 6d.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, lls 6d,13s 6d, £1 Is, £ll2s 6d.
No. 383 A.—Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
I
KU
No. 373—Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Back, 6 divisions, “in. long, 12s 6d
No 177.
Gold Keeper, 18c.,
£1 Is.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d;
Or-, ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 178. Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 169.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A Links.
Sc. Gold, £1 5s ; 15c. £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
6 Fine White Dia-
monds, £5 5s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 215—Pearland
Ruby Heart, 9c.
Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18c. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver-plated Egg Frame 2-Cup,
£1 5s ; 4-Oup, £2 ; 6-Oup, £3 3s.
No. E 6851 —New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
13s 6d. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. E 960- Beautiful Silver-plated
cuit Box, £llss.
No. E 7849 A Charming and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416 Ilandsorile Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 103. —9c. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130. —15c. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 015.— 15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch,'£3.
No. 137.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
Others at £2, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15s,
No. 319—Silver Button-Hooks and Shoe-Lift’
16s 6d ; smaller size, lls 6d.
No. 295—Silver-plated Serviette Kings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
No. E 946 Morocco Case,
Solid Silver Shell-Pattern
and Knife, £1 5s
containing
Butter-Dish
No. 268a —Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File,
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d.
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10s.
Any of the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
Free and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Pree.
A3NdAS ‘pOejJS $ IS aSjoip z\i,


LANGUOR AND LIVER DISORDER.
KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
€
Vi
a
%
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
Ifj
'0
—London: 1
41, FARRtNGDON ROAD, E.C.^t
SFn TR AflF MARK .!
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
EXACT SIZE
ofthe.botilE
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
That Tired and Drowsy Feeling- you suffer from
at this time of the Year is caused by Liver
Disorder, which can best be removed by a
course of KUTNOW’S POWDER.
At about this time many people are suffering from a tired and run-down feeling. They have little
inclination to eat and work. They are drowsy during the day, yet when night comes are unable to sleep.
All this is simply a proof that the liver is disordered and torpid, as a result of which the blood, nerves,
and tissue have become filled with acid and alkaline impurities.
Restore the liver to activity, and remove these impurities from the system, and the lassitude and other
troubles speedily vanish.
We are confident that nothing does this more quickly, effectively, and less unpleasantly than Kutnow’s
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. For restoring a disordered liver to healthy activity, and cleansing and
purifying the system, nothing equals Kutnow’s Powder. In order to coilvince our readers of this, we send a
sample free to every one that applies.
If, therefore, you suffer from lassitude, and your liver is torpid and deranged, take a course of “Kutnow’s,”
and see what the result is. If it does not give you quick relief, we could not afford to spend so much money in
advertising, as the purchasers of a bottle of the Powder would not buy a second one.
Kutnow’s Powder is composed of the medicinal, purifying, curative properties of the noted health springs
of Europe, which render it a certain remedy for all disorders of the digestive functions, and make it a perfect
purifier of the blood and tissue.
Whether the trouble be connected with the liver, stomach, or kidneys, nothing will relieve it more effect-
ively than a course of Kutnow’s.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “S.
KUTNOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on “KTJTNOW’S,’'
and firmly refuse any substitutes ; they may be worthless, probably injurious .
PROPRIETORS - —.
S. KUTNOW & GO., Ld 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A —.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Old Days and Old Deeds.
AUSTRALIA'S FIRST WHITE CAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Austbalia had a narrow escape ! Instead of
South Africa, New Holland might be in this year
of grace the scene of a struggle for supremacy
between Boer and Briton; and the name of the
firbt governor of the Antipodean States-General
might be Stadtholder Boudewijn van der Mylen,
instead of the Earl of Hopetoun —but for an acci-
dent.
In the year 1628, when England was trembling
on the verge of the Great Civil War between
Charles I. and his Parliament, and the King was
confronted by an angry Commons, with its famous
and strongly-drafted “Petition of Rights,” Hol-
land, just emerging from the sea of troubles in
which her struggle with Spain had involved her,
and vigorous in a newly-won nationhood, was
casting eager eyes for new lands and fresh outlets
for her commerce. Rumours of spice islands and
golden continents came washed up by the waves
to the shores of dyke-buttressed north-lands, and
the shrewd men of the market-place listened with
Midas-ears. So it came about that a great project
was set afoot to colonise the latest-won territory,
and to plant a Hutch factory on the north-western
coast of that “Terra Australis Incognita, the
existence of which had haunted the dreams of men
for ages. An expedition was fitted out; the
Batavia and two other ships were got
ready for sea; and Francis Pelsart was ap-
pointed Commodore of the little fleet. The
vessels were manned by Hollanders, Danes,
Norwegians, Erenchmen, Germans and English-
men (much like the British merchantmen of
to-day) the Seventeenth Century scum
of the dockyards, and the riff-raff of the water-
side taverns. The intending colonists appear to
have been wastrels and ne’er-do-wells, with a
sprinkling of more earnest folk ; but subsequent
events showed, curiously enough, that the loyal
section of the expedition consisted mainly of
French soldiers, led by a presumptive Scotchman
named Webby Hays. , , , , . ,
As soon as the Batavia had cleared the roads
with her two consorts the supercargo of the Com-
modore’s ship, a designing fellow named Jerome
Cornelius, began to sound the crew as to their
willingness to take part in a general rising, with
a view to the seizure of the vessel, the murder of
all not of their party, and a career of piracy on
the high seas. This Cornelius had been a chemist,
and his past was of dubious complexion ; but he
soon found tools to further his enterprise, and
simply bided his time and opportunity. The
accomplishment of his project was, however, a
matter of some difficulty, for his hands were tied
while the other ships kept company with Pelsart.
In due course the three vessels made the Cape of
Good Hope, there “refreshed,” and then stood
away across the uncharted seas that stretched
between South Africa and North-Western Aus-
tralia. By-and-by came a week of storm, and
the consorts were hopelessly separated. Cor-
nelius did not, however, strike his blow. His sea-
manship was of too poor a quality for him to
assume the responsibility of the command ) so he
suffered his chief to live until the weather
became calmer. But one moonlight nighty when
all was ready for the uprising, the Batavia
struck on a reef of rocks known as Hout-
mann’s Abrolhos, somewhat south of the lati-
tude of the present town of Gerald ton on the
Westralian mainland. Great difficulty was
experienced in landing the crew and passengers
on the two islands of the Pelsart Group—subse-
quentlv known as the “Batavia’s Churchyard
and ‘ ‘ Th wart-the-way. ” Yery little water could
be brought ashore, and there was none to be found
on the Abrolhos rocks. In the confusion of the
wreck, the supercargo had been left behind, and
his murderous plot was temporarily quashed.
Confronted by all the horrors of a water-famine,
Pelsart took with him eight companions, and, set-
ting out in the Batavia’s “ sloop,” steered for the
mainland on a quest for water. He did not find
any, and, instead of putting-about, kept on a
course for the Dutch settlement of Batavia, where
he ultimately arrived in safety, secured a ship,
and returned to the castaways to discover a per-
fect Pandemonium of murder and rapine.
On the tenth day after the shipwreck, Jerome
Cornelius was washed ashore on a piece of the
bowsprit, accompanied by a cask of wine, a cask
of water, and a barrel of vinegar. He found
affairs in splendid trim for his mutinous purpose.
Pelsart and his most trusty officers were absent
searching for fresh water, the riff-raff of the crew
had broken into the rum-casks, and were whisper-
ing of love and of loot in eager groups of disap-
pointed riders. But first Cornelius had to be rid
of Webby Hays and his five faithful Frenchmen,
so they were sent away in a boat to look for water,
armed only with two old Dutch muskets. They
were absent 20 days, and returned to the Batavia s
Churchyard only to find a general massacre m full
progress.
The first step in the conspiracy was the swear-
ing-in of the conspirators. This accomplished,
Cornelius had himself proclaimed Captain-General
of the settlement. His intention was to murder
all— save some forty of his own creatures—and
then to await Pelsart’s return in the ship he
should obtain from the Dutch Government at
Batavia, to lure the crew ashore, to make them
drunk preparatory to killing them, and to seize
the vessel for “freetrade” on the Spanish Mam.
Prior to the general massacre, however, he began
the study of his butcher’s r6le by a little prepara-
tory slaughter. .
In,his subsequent confessions, obtained by the
application of torture, he admitted to having the
chief barber put to death because he stood in the
way of another buccaneer, and “had not wished
to dance to all their tunes.” The Council of the
Mutineers consisted of three others beside him-
self, “and whenever it had been resolved among
them to kill anyone, it was immediately carried
out.” He was very thorough in his methods.
When a party of four fled from the water and
took refuge in his tent, he ordered a fellow named
Jan Hendricks to despatch them, saying, “ Go
and kill them ! ” —a command which was promptly
obeyed. When the sick were to bj put out of the
way, Cornelius and two of his Council took a com-
plaisant tool named De Vries and led him to the
huts of all the patients, eleven in number, and
ordered him to cut their throats —and De Vries
performed his task with alacrity ; and when the
mutineer Peters had cut the throat of the carpen-
ter’s assistant, it was done in the soi-disant
Captain-General’s presence.
One of his murders was peculiarly atrocious. It
was that of a cabin-boy, whom he first sent to
snare some birds, and then had him followed by
one of his accomplices, with instructions to catch-
up with the lad and cut his throat .while unaware
of his intended fate. A mutineer named Leonard
Michaels confessed that he had been sent out on a
raft by Cornelius with others of his gang to
Thwart-the-way . Island, with instructions to
drown and otherwise put an end to all the people
upon it —a commission which was faithfully
executed as far as the men on the place were con-
cerned, although some women and boys were
spared. The Captain-General also put swords in
the hands of three of his butchers, and told them
to kill De Vries —who really merited something of
the sort for the part he had taken in slitting the
throats of the sick. The family of the settlement s
clergyman had to be sacrificed to the buccaneering
needs of Cornelius and his crew ; but the clergy-
man himself was to be spared for certain diplo-
matic purposes. So the Captain-General sent for
his trusty van Huyssen, a past-master in the
gentle art of shearing weasands, and gave him a
quantity of specially-commandeered provisions,
saying, “ Conrad, invite me to dinner with you in
your tent this afternoon, to meet our good Minis-
ter and his eldest daughter. While we are din-
ing, Leonard Michaels and Wouter Loos, Hen-
dricks, and some others of the boys, will pay a
visit to the good man’s hut and provide for his
family in Heaven.” Then he added with a laugh,
“ And the parson won’t live long either.” And it
came to pass that these things were done, as he
had said.
His great general massacre was in its
incidence and vastness a coup (Pettit; but he
arranged several diplomatic disappearances as. he
gradually prepared for the final demonstration.
On the night of the 12th of July, he called
Leonard Michaels, Jan Hendricks, and another
out of their tents, and instructed them to cut the
throats of Musketeer Van der Enden, Car-
penter Heynoricks, and a sick ships boy—
a command which was strictly carried out. In
the morning of the 6th of August, he entered
the tent of one of his swashbuckler brigade, a
frank, straightforward murderer, named David
Seevanck; and there he gave to lusty Jan Hen-
dricks a dagger, with the remark, ‘ ‘ Go, and cut
out the heart of Stoffel Stoffels, that lazy lout who
stands there working as if his back was broken.
This, according to custom and usage, Jan Hen-
dricks straightway did. On the 16th August,
giving his sword to Jan van Bommel, this Cap-
tain-General of mutineers said: “ Go and try
whether it is sharp enough ; cut me off the head of
Coen Aid erts with it!” But Jan Bommel was
not strong enough in physique for this task, and
wept bitterly as he handed the weapon to Matthias
Beyer, on account of his feebleness of muscle.
Beyer was a villain of more stalwart build, how-
ever, and speedily shore off Coen’s head —in the
presence of the applauding Cornelius. On one
occasion he called into his tent a stout cabin-boy
named Roger Decker, to whom he gave a cup of
wine, together with his own dacrger, and the
injunction, “ Go outside and stab Hendrick Jans
of Purmerant to the heart” —and Hendrick Jans
was carefully and scientifically stabbed. Corne-
lius grew doubtful as to the fidelity of one of his
own followers, Jacob Heyndricks, head “ bottler”
or steward of the shipwrecked Batavia. He
ordered him, therefore, to be dealt with, but
David Seevanck interceded, saying “Jacob
Heyndricks is a good carpenter ; let him live ! ”
But Cornelius replied, “He is nothing but a
turncoat, and quite unreliable. He will only tell
on us some day ; he must be put out of the way.”
He*also ordered one John Pinter, “an English-
man,” to be killed—an order that was successfully
accomplished ; but he was not so fortunate with
the barber’s assistant, for when Albert Jans, the
Captain-General’s henchman, made a slash at'the
foredoomed man, his attempt was frustrated by
the bluntness of his sword. It did not pene-
trate the leathern jerkin of his intended victim,
who managed to escape by swimming away in the
darkness.
Jerome Cornelius was a compound of Frank
Butler, lago, and Louis de Rpugemont :
cut-throat, traitorous liar and imaginat»ve
romancer. He believed in himself. He believed
in God. All his fellow desperadoes he compelled
to swear fealty to himself with great and awful
oaths—“upon their soul’s salvation, and by the
help of the Most High.” These lusty murderers
were very religious men, and all breaches of faith
were safeguarded by orthodox anathemas. I heir
many-sworn covenants were ludicrously solemn—
“ May whoever does the contrary be the Devils
prey,” was one of their most forcible appeals to
fidelity to each other—and their leader. When
the general massacre was decided on, they set
about it with all the fanaticism of religious
enthusiasts.
The day of the massacre was coincident with
that of the return of Webby Hays and his five
loyal Frenchmen, from their search for fresh
water. Hays arrived in the middle of the
slaughter, and seeing the turn affairs had taken, at
once put his boat about and pulled for dear life to
a neighboring rock, called afterwards High, or
Square, Island. He was there joined by some
forty fugitives, who had escaped either by swim-
ming or on rafts. Here they piled rocks together
to form a fort, and Hays set a guard to watch,
day and night, against a surprise. The refugees
on Square Island also fashioned for themselves
weapons out of hoops and nails, which they bound
to sticks and staves with pieces of yarn and sizing.
Meanwhile the work of massacre went on with
vigor on the Island of “Batavia’s Churchyard,”
until there were on the rock only thirty men and four
boys ; and then David Seevanck took a boat, and
crossing over to Thwart-the-way, was joined by
Van Wilderen and his party, and between them
they murdered all the disaffected, save seven boys
and some women. The women were prey.
Cornelius served them out as loot of war to his
followers, giving his good and faithful comrade,
Conrad van Huyssen, the beautiful Judith, the
daughter of the clergyman —who, by the way, was
one of the signatories of the so-called Captain-
General’s commission. For himself,’ Cornelius
selected Lucretia, a widow of ripe and florid
charms. In his subsequent confession he speaks
with rapture of “her skin, so beautiful and fair.
Lucretia was not, however, to be won and worn
without a struggle on the lady’s part. She
responded but tardily to the buccaneer’s wooing.
For twelve days, thongh he was aided by the
“ Batavia’s” chest, the charming widow held the
Captain-General at bay. He complained bitterly
to his crony, David Seevanck, that neither
kindness nor anger helped him in Lucretia’s favor.
Seevanck, a man of Bismarckian methods said in
a scornful manner, “Don’t you know how to
manage that ? I’ll soon make her yield ! ” Where-
upon the Lieutenant entered his chief’s tent, and
said roughly to Lucretia, “I have complaints
about you ! ” She asked, “On what account?
“ Because you do not comply with the wishes of
the Captain-General in kindness. _ Now, however,
you will have to make up your mind, either you
will go the same way as Wvbrecht Claes, or else
you must do that for which we have kept the
women ! ” Lucretia yielded that day and lived
with her Pirate King until he was handed over to


YOU GAN PROVE THIS,
Because it Happened Here in Sydney. $
A SYDNEY MAN’S ILLNESS, ITS CAUSE AND CURE.
r
V
rte=
*
K_
\
I /
rf//'///////r
I
“Is it your old trouble with the Bach and Kidneys?”
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the
disorder of these most important organs.
The kidneys filter and purify the blood, —that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire body is affected, and how
every organ seems to fail to do its duty.
If you are sick or “ feel badly,” begin taking Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
If the following had occurred somewhere else
than in Sydney, you might believe it, but you
could not prove it, and that makes all the differ-
ence. The reader must have seen many such
statements before, but he took very little notice of
them, because he knew neither the persons men-
tioned nor the towns they were supposed to live in.
But here is the statement of a Sydney man,
spoken for the good of Sydney people, and that
is why we say you can prove this. It has the right
sort of ring to it.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s street, Rand wick,
this city, says : —“ Por years I have been a sufferer
from backache. In my work I have to stoop a
good deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind
would double me up with pain. After stooping I
would be scarcely able to stand up straight again,
but would have to unbend gradually, and get the
kinks out of my back. I used many sorts of
medicines for this ache, but with poor success.
The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I think.
I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and
I am very pleased to tell you that these pills gave
me almost immediate relief. They went right to
the root of my trouble. The pains diminished
after further treatment, and at length totally dis-
appeared. I shall always recommend these pills
for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states:—
“It is more than a year ago since my husband
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for backache.
I am now enabled to say that the pills wrought a
permanent cure in his case. The pains never
returned since. I can speak with conviction of
the marvellous way they acted in his case. He is
very enthusiastic about the pills, and is always
recommending them for such ailments as the pills
are meant for. He had been bad over te .1 years,
so you can see it was no common remedy that
could cure him in the way Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills did.”
This is only one case, but there are hundreds
more like it, both here and in Victoria, in Queens-
land, South Australia, and West Australia, in
fact, in every town in Australia. The papers in
every town have a fellow-townsman’s statement
every week, very much like Mr. Hibberd’s given
above, telling what this medicine has done for
them.
Now, there must be some good reason for the
unparalled success of Doan’s Bachache Kidney
Pills in Sydney and N.S.W. generally. \Y hat is
that reason ?
In the first place, they are a medicine of great
merit, for Sydney people are praising them every
week in these columns.
In the second place, their whole action is on the
most important organs of the whole body—the
kidneys. In other words, they do one thing, and
do it well.
But why are the kidneys the most important
organs of the body ? Because they filter the blood.
Every drop of the blood goes through the kidneys
many times a day, and it is their duty to filter
out the surplus water and the impurities the blood
has gathered up during its circuit of the body.
These impurities are the cause of your headache,
restlessness, sleeplessness, backache, general de-
bility, rheumatism, gout, urinary disturbances,
pains in the joints and limbs, irregular heart,
stomach troubles, and a thousand and one symp-
toms. Help the kidneys to rid the body of these
impurities, and you can be well. You can be well
in no other way.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OE PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking proper
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan's Ointment will certainly
cure every form of piles—itching, bleeding, pro-
truding, and blind piles—and hundreds of lives
have been saved by using this cheap and effective
remedy right at the start, because at such times a
single pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-
seated, chronic cases, several pots are sometimes
necessary before a cure is effected. Here is a case
in point:—
Mr. William Gilliver, of the well-known firm
■of Gilliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full: —
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-Street, Sydney,
Feb. 14, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Oint-
ment advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use
more than one-half of it, now six months ago—
and lam perfectly cured. You may use this as
you wish.—“ Yours gratefully,
WILLIAM GILLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan's
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gulliver.
He knows, for it cured him.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it ; send
a penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention Thb
Bulletin.
justice, sharing his petty dominion with little
reluctance.
The massacre was ended, Thwart-the-way
Island abandoned, and the mutineers made ready
to subdue Webby Hays and his forty-five followers
on Square Island. But, mad with lust of blood,
and drunk with gore and glory, they first raided
the jewel-cases of the Dutch East India Company ;
broke open the bales of silk and satins that formed
part of the “ Batavia’s ” cargo, and unrolled the
precious sheaves of gold lace. Cornelius, in his
“Satanic pride,” says an old Dutch chronicle,
“did wear different clothes every day, and
flaunted himself in silk stockings, and garters with
gold trimmings.” Moreover, “he invented fresh
cassocks every day.” Cornelius was a veritable
Beau Brummel of a past age in Au tralia’s history.
He likewise made for his personal body-guard
uniforms of crimson embroidered with three
broad bands of gold lace, ‘‘ so that the material
was hardly visible.” This was horrible, in the
careful eyes of the Dutch. Murder and rape were
orimes of some heinousness ; but this desecration
of the Company’s property was the last straw on
the back of the camel of mercy.
After a reckless and riotous orgy, the Captain-
General wrought on his following to make an
attack on Hays and the fugitives who had escaped
to Square Island. They found a pretext for their
foray in the fact that a boatswain's mate, named
Peter Lamberts, had escaped to Square Island in
a little boat he-had himself roughly put together.
So Conrad van Huyssen and 21 other lusty scoun-
drels rowed over to demand both boat and man.
They returned, dishonored and beaten-off by
Webby Hays and his party, without either. A few
days after, another attempt was made ; this time
with three boats, and a storming party of 37, led
by Jerome Cornelius himself. But the redoubt-
able Webby Hays and his men stood their ground
valiantly, and fought like tigers with their rudely-
fashioned weapons, knee-deep in the sea. The
crafty Cornelius next essayed a ruse, and employed
Clergyman Sebastian to negotiate with their
former companions, and to beseech them in the
name of his holy office to sink their differences,
and to live all together on the Island of “ Batavia’s
Churchyard.” The sacred man had many journeys
to and fro, and the creak of his boat’s rowlocks
was always to be heard. Cornelius offered
Webby Hays some cloth with which to replace
his people’s worn-ou; rags ; but he insisted upon
Lamberts and his boat being given up —as a re-
turn favour. Conrad van Huyssen heard of their
parleyings, and rated his chief roundly thereupon,
vehemently declaring that he would fight Webby
Hays the day following in the very teeth of hell
itself. But the Captain-General soothed him with
the advice, that as battle had failed, bribery might
be more successful.
Cornelius then tried to win over the five
French soldiers with an offer of six thousand
guilders apiece. He wrote them a letter—
somewhat humorous in parts. He spoke of a
fugitive, named Jean Coos, then on Square Island,
who had offered to stab another of Hays’s party,
a Jean Thierson. If he would keep his promise
and perform the stabbing, the mutineers would
accept it as an act of friendship. But Cornelius
insisted upon having surrendered to him a number
of hated and feared persons, among whom he enume-
rated “ the bottler’s mate,” “ the fat trumpeter,” a
“deaf” somebody or other, “squinting Heynd-
ricks,” and other shipmates. The French
soldiers showed the letter to their leader,
who was instantly on his guard. So when
Cornelius, accompanied by five other scoundrels,
landed on Square Island with the promised cloth-
ing, wherewith to confirm the pact, they were at
once set upon by Hays and his men. Four were
killed outright: to wit, David Seevanck, Conrad
van Huyssen, Van Wilderen and Cornelius
Peters; the Captain-General himself was made a
prisoner, but Wouter Loos escaped. On the re-
turn of the last-named to the “Churchyard,” he
was elected provisional Captain, and, in this
capacity, returned next day, with all the men he
could raise, in order to obtain the enlargement of
his chief. Webby Hays had four of his men
severely wounded, but Wouter Loos and his gang
were driven off.
At this juncture, Pelsart arrived from Batavia
in the ship Saardam, and, having cast anchor, put
bread and wine into a boat and rowed over to
Thwart-the-way Island. Here, to his astonish-
ment, he found not a living soul. Preparing to
leave the island, he was intercepted by Webby
Hays, who told the Commodore to rejoin his vessel
immediately,_ as a party of mutineers were even
then on their way to board the Saardam, and
further, gave him a brief outline of what had
happened in his absence. Pelsart hurried on
board just in time to see a boat putting off from
the shore full of fellows in crimson uniforms
covered with gold lace. This sight filled the old
mariner with a sublime rage. Burning with a holy
zeal to punish this awful piece of insolence, he
mounted the poop, trained the ship’s guns on the
advancing boat, and then exclaimed, in a voice
choking with fury, “ Why do you come armed?”
“You’ll damned soon see, when we get aboard ! ”
was the reply. “ Throw your arms overboard, or
I’ll sink you ! ” thundered the little man. The
mutineers saw the guns frowning ominously over-
head, and reluctantly dropped their pieces into
the sea. “Now come on board !” was the next
bellowed order. They went, one at a time, and
were heavily ironed as soon as their feet touched
the vessel’s deck. When things had been made
safe and sure with the mutineers, and the fugitives
on Square Island had been succored, Pelsart next
rowed over to the “Churchyard.” When the
mutineers who had remained on the island saw
the fierce little Commodore marching up from the
beach at the head of his men, they immediately
gave up all idea of resistance. “ Now,” said one,
“we are all dead men ! ” expecting to be at once
shot down. Pelsart had, however, no intention of
obliging them in that fashion. He simply put
the lot in irons and marched them off to durance,
as vile as the Dutch, or anyone else, could make
it in the seventeenth century. And now Pelsart
found himself in a difficulty. Should he take the
prisoners to Batavia for trial, or should he deal
with them on the spot ? The Saardam was suf-
ficiently laden, and Cornelius was so subtle a
rascal that he might succeed in corrupting a crew
of archangels. Finally Pelsart resolved to mete
out seventeenth century justice then and there.
Then the Inquisition began ! The first to be
examined was Jan Hendricks, aged 24. He had
killed, or had helped to kill, from 17 to 20 people,
at the express orders of Jerome Cornelius, the
Captain-General, who was charged with the whole
crime of the mutiny, with all its incidental hor-
rors. The torture .was repeatedly employed—
with varying success in the case of Cornelius, who
was prepared to swear any way the wind blew.
; Leonard Michaels, aged 22 years, had some 12
deaths to his score, and was charged with
helping himself to one of the married women.
Matthias Beyr, aged 21, nine deaths and the
abduction of a married woman, was the next.
Then came Albert Jans, 24, murders and wanton
acts; and so on, and so forth. Cornelius was
condemned to the chopping-block, where both his
hands were struck off, and whence he was taken
to the gallows and hanged. Several of his imme-
diate followers were condemned to the loss of the
right hand only before being gibbeted; others
were simply nap 'i ; two were marooned on the
mainland.
Pelsart recovered all his rix-dollars, save only
one chest containing 8000 coins : and that lies
somewhere off Wreck Point, even unto this day.
And such is the narrative of Australia’s first
known and recorded blood stain.
In China.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all earth s un-English and heathenish holes,
None comes within cooey of China.
Hie rottenest place, from the Line to the Poles,
Is that same Middle Kingdom of China.
Yet sometimes I think that we say and we do
Lots of things, and applaud them as proper and
true,
Which we d censure and damn with a mighty
“ 800-hoo,”
Were they done by the people of China.
All ranks and all titles by merit are won
In the pestilent kingdom of China ;
ie y S° back to the father, not down to the son—
Shows they’re all topsy-turvy in China.
It is birth, and not worth, that we Britishers
prize ;
We “kotow” to men whom we inly despise ;
Lhe knaves and the noodles make laws for the
wise.
We should call that rank nonsense—in China.
They’ve a praying-machine, which petitions can
string,
Sixty millions a minute, in China ;
Of course it’s a horrid, irreverent thing,
They’d use nowhere else than in China.
We British keep thousands of parsons to pray,
Costing millions a year. But though Chows do
not pay,
They get as much soul-saving comfort, they say,
From those praying contraptions in China.
We send parsons and opium and cotton and guns
To the poor, darkened heathen of China;
We force our religion and Sunday-school buns
On the perishing millions of China.
But supposing they sent us some preachers across,
To make us wear pigtails and worship a Joss,
Should we blandly look on while they tore down
the Cross ?
No ; I guess we’d make ructions in China.
The way they treat women’s a perfect disgrace
To the bad, brutal people of China ;
They .cramp the poor feet and they paint the doll’s
face
Of each dear little girlie in China.
Our women may paint, and it can’t be denied
That their waists may be pinched and their hair
may be dyed,
And their busts may be padded, and lots more
beside •
But, bless you, they don’t live in China.
The practice of gambling’s a terrible vice
’Mong the sin-sodden people of China !
Fan-tan, pak-a-pu, and a species of dice
Are all known to the gamblers of China.
True, we bet in our streets, and play cards in our
pubs ;
We have poker and nap in our big, toney clubs;
But we cannot attend to our own dirty dubs
While we’re preaching reform—out in China.
They have no old-age-pensions or maintenance
laws,
These barbarous wretches in China;
No bankrupts are there ; and to find out the cause
Is to cast a dark shade over China.
There a man cuts his throat when he can’t pay his
debts ;
No child e’er to honor his parents forgets;
And the worst thing of all is that nobody frets
They are most unprogressive in China.
They are all imitation—they’re copyists grand—
The ingenious toilers of China;
But they never invent, and they don’t understand
How to fashion a new thing in China.
Yet I fancy I’ve read that in centuries gone
ihey made silks, and had printing-machines of
their own,
And the mariner’s compass, to Europe unknown—
But, of course, we don’t copy from China.
We pay our physicians for potions and pills;
They pay them for health, there, in China.
While the patient is well he has regular bills; *.
When ill he stops paying, in China.
Our doctor draws fees, if he cures, if he kills ;
He gets paid while we’re sick, he gets named in.
our wills.
How blest are we British, escaping the ills
Of unhappy, illogical China !
We are patriots here, when we hold by our own ;
’Tis a different matter in China.
To expel the invader, or bid him begone,
Is flat-foot rebellion in China.
How happy, contented and proud should we be
That our lot has been cast in the Isles of the Free„
Where we do as we like—if we only agree
To condemn the same things done in China.
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
In Victoria the Crown Prosecutor always
challenges a butcher as a juror in a murder case.
Just inaugurated in London a Colonial
Club, which according to its prospectus, “has
been established to afford an Imperial social centre
for colonial subjects residing in or temporarily
visiting the United Kingdom, and for those asso-
ciated with colonial interests in England.” The
Club is to have no politics, and “special’ care is
to be taken to preserve its colonial character -
birth or residence in the colonies or possessions of
the Crown, or a very close identification with
their development or interests, being an indispen-
sable qualification for membership.” The pre-
mises are opposite the new War Office in White-
hall.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
.
y
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is -well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
“ I have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have been greatly benefited by doing so.
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.” ° 6 J
So is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER'S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
cxvc
xcv
E SEN'S
[FARRINGDi
f LON)
'Sen(?. \
nueV
(FARRINGDOH AVENUE\
LONDON. \
, irmilABLE ID
SfiffiEßS & SPEAKERS
2m
eJjf*
PtnrtME
per
xcv
PLAIN NOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
eloth-oovered edition of this) great work, PLAIN HOME TALK.’
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Spbeohm and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. x s 6d cost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. 1
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; pest Is 3d. ’
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist : post free la. The
Art or Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One i Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
AnsTr Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d,
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate. Dreamer's
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historvL
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciikvasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son°-9
Is 3d post free, ° ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, is 6d posted.
NQTI3.— felR ROBERT BlkA.fi wishes here id notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the nuhierous SPECIALLY INTERESTING- AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by liiln are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—inost of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR/ 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
WHATEVER THE WEATHER
Whether the weather be wet
Or whether the weather be hot,
Whether the weather be set
Or whether the weather be not.
Whavever the weather that causes your ills ,
To weather to weather, why—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
<to
PIL«L<£
ifx)
IS
3PEt
xc
Pro-ii
ilie
ieian
Soia
HELENS
ST
ZNCE.AND
XANtASHIHE
ft
These renowned Pills are composed entirely of medicinal
herbs, and are warranted free from mercury or other
poisonous substance. They cleanse the stomach and
bowels, and purify the blood; invigorate the whole nervous
system, and give tone and energy to the muscles. In the
preparation of BEICCHAM’S PILLS the most scrupu-
lous care is taken, and the ingredients form the most
successful combination that has ever been discovered for
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Wind & Pains in the Stomach,
Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver,
Female Ailments,
. . . AND ALL . . .
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors
everywhere, in Boxes Is. l\d. (50 Pills), <& 2s. i)d. each.
Over 6,000,000 Boxes sold Annually.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
BECOUKENDS ITSELF.
Efficacious. Economical. Cleanses the Teeth. Perfumes the Breath.
IN COLLAPSIBLE TUBES, 1/- Each.
“ STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK-
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORILANP : aod Otf>er Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shilling’s (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Pe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
xc
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
OWNING To/y,
8
IRISH MOSS
-The besf remedy-
FOR INFLUENZA, * /
COUGHS,
Ask for Barm mg ton s c ° L °br ONCH IT IS ,
and see thatyou ASTHMA.


HOSE.
HOSE, %
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
fin. x 3 PLY RUBBER.
0 GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
455.
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
PERDRIAU & CO., 270 25235.* 1
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . «
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
SS Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broolunan’s Building, Adelaide.
THE~WORTHI NGTON
.... IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
COMPOUND
WORTHINGTON
Sole Australasian Representatives!
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence
Street,
Sydney,
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Importers of every description of Material and Furnishings for
MINING, ENGINEERING and IMPLEMENT MAKING.
SOLE - -
REPRESENTATIVES
IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
_
OIL, STEAM & GAS ENGINES, PUMPS, BOILERS, GOVERNORS, TOOLS, &C.
Irrigating Plants a Speciality.
DEPOTS IN SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH & COOLCrARDIE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE ZiADIfflS.
W- C- J X)'R,TTDG}-DE3 &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOlUi STKl'ilil', SYDNBir
10pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from alt the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROB
and
arket-Sts
vxc
vxc
Board or Apartments at Option.
the most nutritious.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTINGk
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS.
■lllllilllllllll ■■MIIMIIMIIIIIIII ■■ lIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHI 11111 l ■■lllMlillll—l ■—
~r— -■ , —.
CHRISTMAS and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
YOU CAN OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
by Rail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &C.
Poultry, Fish and Game forwarded in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter “ Golden Star ” and “ Berry ” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins, .
ICE ICE ICE Pure Crystal Ice— packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. Send for OUT Price Lists H. PATESON, Manager.
Parke & Lacy Co ltd
vx
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Com-
pressors, Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers,
Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and
Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond
Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz Mills,
Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and
Mine and Mill Supplies.
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence St., Sydney; 435 Bourke St., Melbourne.
“7
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE:
BLAKE’S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ HAND and MACHINE TOOLS
STEEL PULLEYS STEEL SHAFTING
PLUMMER BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
WSgM
