

’S ALE.
GAELIC W!
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocos,
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. <3K WATKINS «SC CO.,
3.07 Kent Street, Sydney.
—FOR — _ . .
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BEARINGS*,
PittiAg,No.io6 for Fast
Watch Repairs b’ r Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver .Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
85s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Pltt st™t, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel .for Miners’ Drills; Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EILES.^^-
That’s All!
TOOTH
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
& C3O. ...tel.,
S 3 37- c3Lxs.ey.
7
ixai
hobaht.
“
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
‘ S ‘<c, c "‘a,
TO MELBOURNE ~ VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA, RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 pxTT STREET, SYXSKTJESY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address m Aus-
tralasia Free pn receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK
NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY,
H, L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
m
HH9H
LEATHER
"belting l
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUQOWICI Sc SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Rranches '—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st.,.Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;U. K. Pysh and
Oo.,.Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland-,
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Tales of the System.
TRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray i-iors its,
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
I
“ABBOTT”
WHY not drink ft
PURE WATER ■
FILTERS.
MELBOURNE
486 COLLINS ST
FREMANTLE 4 KALGOORLIE
214 H IGH ST T M 5 DONALD ST
JOSHUA’S
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet: “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “ A Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Glarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3. ■^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Eeasonable
..
nner
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
oT various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi>
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOTT OET
Row’S Cnjbrocatioi).
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's
and wharf-men’s life which E. J.'Brady has contributed
to Tiib Bum.KTiN and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the. first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—-the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered * Jones.’” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing ; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
The Bulletin
Vol. 22.—N0. 1107. j
[ Saturday, May 4, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
ctnd the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
voice,
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
directed lung. '
D. A lobe of one of the lunga.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG-,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain AO cocaine or other poisonous dru< / . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in
free on receipt of stamps.
Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, 0. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. y v *****
“Dreams in Flower.”
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Ltd., will
publish, about the middle of this month, a booklet
of verses by Louise Mack, under the abov'e title.
The style will be that of previous Bulletin
booklets, but the size larger, extending to 48
pages, iii artistic cover, enveloped for postage.
This collection includes all the best vei-ses which
the author has written during the last ten years,
with several unpublished pieces.
As only 500 copies are printed for sale, intend-
ing purchasers are recommended to forward
names and addresses to the Bulletin office at
once; and the booklet will then be forwarded
immediately on publication.
The price is 2s. bd., which may be enclosed by
postal note or stamps of any Australian State, or
of Maoriland.
THE RED PAGE.
Glimpses.
IT is nearly four years since I left that home-
stead on the Barrier, and yet the harsh lines
and angles of my impressions have not be-
come so softened as to fit them for artistic
treatment. They are too near, too recent, and it
is in remoteness that the hand of enchantment
weaves its wonder-work. Yet, here and there, an
experience has drawn apart from its fellows,
taking to itself the peculiar memory tinge which
is to mental impressions what the scent of old,
dead roses is to our favourite verse-book.
The country round about the homestead seems
no kindlier now than when I resided there ; time
can never make that country lovely, and yet, in
looking backward, I find in the brown ground and
broken quartz a certain charm. The saltbush and
muiga did not pretend to be what they were not ;
they did not put forth any flowers in the Spring.
Spring and, Summer and Autumn and Winter
were one to them ; and, whether or not the sap
rose in their veins when the winter was over, they
did not hold out any flower signal, blue or
yellow or red. They were honest in their ugli-
ness. Ido not remember to have seen any
rich sunsets: the great artist lacked a canvas
such as the humid coast atmosphere and its cloud-
gatherings provide. But, nevertheless,-the West is
memorable to me .because of something that came
out of it. It was red as flame and curved like
flame, and, though it was but dust scalped from
the plains and lifted into the air, it sent before it
such a thrill of awe as no knowledge of its cause
or composition could resist. There was such
directness in its approach, such deadly steadiness
of motion, that deep called unto deep, and the
soul was troubled by elemental fear. In the
presence of death one might be brave, it is only
the individual life which is imperilled. But
when Nature becomes the aggressor, and the whole
race appears as if on the edge of extinction, the
mind shrinks within the grip of a panic, dark and
mysterious. There is no moment so filled with
terrible sensation as that in which we lose con-
fidence in Nature.
* * * *
The homestead garden was always good to see.
11 was like one of those green kindlinesses done to
the deserts of the old world, only that in place of
wandering Arabs it consoled the eyes of rouse-
abouts and sundowners. After the white quartz
and the'hateful glare of the tracks had strained
ami p lined the visual sense, the green garden
seemed a ccSisoUfion, a blessed thing-. 1 could
imagine a man living on the Barrier, one who had
never wept before, whose heart was a dead thing
with a live grief in it, coming at length to this
green place, aqd emptying his whole sou L. at sight
of it in a while of quiet weeping.
As one came Over the crest of the hill and saw
it in the hollow under, the heart went out of him
and ran before, As he went away again, to face
the mirage and the dust on the lone, hot track to
the Never Never, it was the last picture with
which he filled his mind.
1 have an idea that a landsc ape without green
is like a life without -love, and I have often won-
dered in what way an artist, born in such barren
environment as that 1 speak of, would make his
gift manifest. If he never saw any green in his
life, other than that of the saltbush and the muiga,
what would the loss mean to him ? Could he feel
any of the thousand and one associations that
are linked with the colour—as, for instance,
hope and graves made beautiful—and love ?
Could he ever learn the that follow its
decease, the sisterhood of sad things that come in
the train of Autumn ? All he would have to draw
from would be the fall of the leaf in his blood, the
memories of old-world seasons experienced by his
forbears. ''
Of one thing, however, I am certain, and that is
that the artist of the Barrier would never be re
markable for the quantity of his output. The
workshop is too large, and to get at its best the
mind needs compression, narrow walls that force
it back on itself. In spacious surroundings, wide
plains and seas, thoughts become as birds released :
they fly away into an infinity from which no call
of will can bring them back.
* * *_ * ' '
Nowhere else is night so full of magic. The
stars seem very near and their appeal to the eye
is intimate. In the city a thousand mundane
lights salute one, but on the plains a man ? s first
look is upward, and, if the stars are there he feels
that the world means well with him. They are a
symbol of release, a message that the red day is
dead. They soothe the system with the exquisite
sense of a perilous ordeal passed, and appeal to the
mind in the manner of a kindly convalescence, as
when a fever is over, and body and brain made
free of delirium.
• •, • *-
The violin is said to be the sweetest music-
maker that men know. But when the system
craves for the sound of water, when all the pores
in one’s body yearn for rain, as' happens almost
every month of the year and every year of the-de-
cade on the Barrier, a sweeter music than any
violin’s is made by water running through green
places 'in the darkness. It is like the voice of a
friend—a promise of help. Yet, beyond that, it is
something more—something which only the
genius of a German poet could half-interpret—
something not sad, but weird and beautiful.
It needs the night and the place to lend the
enchantment—trees to divide the current and
darkness to hide it. The water that I heard was
neither good to see nor to taste. It came from
the depth of a hundred feet, and the poison of
many sodas made it acrid. It nauseated even the
flowers; they drooped away from its bitterness,
and perished. Still, it was their only
drink, the garden-tank being long since
dry and the skies holding no promise of rain.
Bain ! A hit a lovely word it is, what a complete
sound-sig.iifiliation of all it means. And it came
cloudlet 1* t j' if : u wise : The skies were altogether
tluVrc wi« and when I went to rest
room ' mi, Ul -r ? ' e , ta P’ lap ”of a wasp in my
sisteiitlv Tr te e P, , lono aw °ke me, ringing in-
and ‘i (“ill . + Tf S ,^ 1 9 n tvvo o’clock in the morning,
news T fnii* f, lme . could only mean serious
and wo stnr ,i°i We( J • t K ’ bookkeeper to the office,
amazement at l tl ’ le switchboard in mild
and the shnVr«^ be tei<! P 10rie bad six connections,
H representing these were all down
at tl'p rv 1 though all the world were calling us
fixed the We ( 3 uieted the alarm "and
In a rnbmfn t and stood by, faffing results.
lig.i,t on rto 6 ° r , t ,'Y° there came a quick flick of
ine- to nn switchboard, and the shutter belong-
sefzed tm, OUt ' Statlon l fell down. The bookkeeper
with a rv, l ec ? lve r» but in a second dropped it,
been a m «. in a J bis fiug ei- s. Then what had
tW fK-ii yst ®i ry became manifest, and we knew
of ]L) +w y n i lleS a storm had put out a hand
mip-ht- ) t< i l Cad us out °f our sleep, so that we
h6ar r. le good tidings. The rain was
coming and it came at dawn.
* * * *
did™?!? passed that some human derelict
<lrif t down on the homestead for food, or
ViMrl’., '!. gUldan ? e - ? recall two nien, one of whom
‘ cur se in his blood, while the other had been
given a mission.
w/f)!'?/ ir m mai I came out of the staring sunlight
with hloodless hps. His face was pallid, sick with
I,®, IL t ° f th ? corpse, and, when he opened his
mouth, I saw that his gums were blue. He ate
, a madman or a wolf, bolting his food without
nastieation. When he had finished eating he
went to the shearers’ hut, and for two days he lay
tnere, not sleeping, but in a stupor. On the third
day a constable visited him, and the man took up
his swag and went away. He had been ‘‘leaded."’
t oor beggar !” said the policeman; “but
there are lots like him.”
This man had worked, how many years I do not
remember, m one of the Broken Hill silver-mines ;
and he had sold the purity of his blood, drinking
m poison at every pore, so that others might be
noh—-find for some shilling’s a day. “ There are
lots hke him,” and I wonder, if they were all mar-
shalled in the presence of the rich man, would he
be altogether happy ?
A week after, this man was found hiding like a
j n . a deserted hut. He was taken down to
Adelaide and put away in a gaol, or an asylum, or
a hospital, or (God being kind to him) in a
cemetery.
* • * •
The other man was an old track-wanderer to
whom the Great Silence of our country had given
the weirdest of missions. “Promise that you
will teli no one,” he said ; and I promised.
Wherefore I may not write what he told me.
N.S.W.
RODERICA QUINN.
Bedtime.
‘‘Bedtime, children!” (Howls, &c.)
“Well, just live minutes more.”
(Five minutes later.) “ Come, now ! time’s up.”
(More howls.)
“We wants supper.”
“ I’m so hungry.”
(Bread and milk hastily prepared and set before
them.)
bay, ma, how do you spell Presbyterian?”
Lorry, aged 7.
Ma pretends not to hear,'and bends over the
three-year-old. “Be quick, Teddy; hurry up,
mother’s waiting.”
By-and-by they are safely landed in the bed-
room.
“My teacher was so cross to-day,” begins
Lorry ; ‘ ‘ can’t I stay away to-morrow, ma ? ”
“ Where sail I put my horsie?” demands Teddy.
“ O, here’s a bootiful place.”
“I say, ma, how do you spell Presbyterian?”
“Teddy,” says ma, sharply, “put that horse
on this chair at once.”
“A boy had such a dirty face-to-day, ma ; the
teacher washed it.”
“Who was it?” said ma, thoughtlessly; “one
of those dirty Smiths ? ”
“O, I’ll tell them you said they were dirty, to-
morrow,” said Lorry, quickly’
“If you do, you little imp, I’ll whip you,
mind ! ”
“No, I won’t do it.” (Grinning). “But, ma,
how do you spell Presbyterian ? ”
“Here, hurry up and get undressed, Teddy
dear; see now, I’ll unbutton your slices ; be
quick, Lorry’s nearly undressed.” (Prolonged
howls).
“ Stop crying—what’s the matter now?”
“ Oo nasty boot sing ; I wanted to take off my
socks.” (More howls.)
“Well, there, there; I’ll put it on again ; now
you take it off yourself. Lorry, what are you
touching up there? Come down this minute ;
you’ll break your neck.”
“ You do look so little, ma, down there,” says
Lorry from the top of the wardrobe.
“ If you don’t come down quickly, I’ll give you
such a caning.”
“ Stop ! Come back, you, bad boy !” as Teddy
hits out of the room, his little shirt-tails fluttering
in the breeze. “ And the cold you’ve got on you,
too ! Lorry, put your nightgown on at once, do
you hear! ”
“All right, ma; but is it P-r-e-s ”
“Drat the boy; if you worry me any more
with your Presbyterian I’ll give you a spanking,
I know.”
“Come here, you young monkey ! ” —to Teddy.
“You shall have this on.”
(Teddy captured and forced into the nil welcome
garment. Howls.)
“ Well, you shouldn't have been a naughty
boy, and then mother wouldn't have had to whip
you.”
“Now," says Teddy briskly when he has been
comforted. “ Now, as I dot everysing ? Where’s
my horsie ? I wants my horsie, dear little horsie,
did er’s daddy leave it in the cold ! ”
“You good-for-nothing little monkey, you !
what's that you’ve got in the cart?” (Sniggers
from Lorry.)
“Dat's my dirt.” (Howls.) “Don’t frow it
away ! my hoisie brought it.”
“ You scamp, in the clean sheets too !” (Howls.)
“ O, if .you cry for a week you shan’t have it, so
there!” (More howls, and groans from Lorry.)
“I say, do stop his noise ! I know I’ll have a
headache to-morrow.”
“I’m sure 7 will,”- says ma, crossly, as she
cleans up the mess.
‘ ‘ l wants my-y-y ’igs, ” sobs Teddy.
“Your what?”
“Mgs.”
“ What does the child mean, Lorry? ”
“ What's it you want, Ted?”
“My i;s ! ” fairly shrieks Teddy, “oo nasty
boot sings!”
“0, pigs ! his pigs, that’s what lie wants, from
his Noah's Ark.” P
After a long and weary search the pigs are
found under a flowc.r-pot in the summer house,
and Teddy nestles down among the pillows and
piep ires to sleep. There is for a time a silence
which is broken by Lorry.
v.
‘‘Ma, how many letters are there in Presby-
terian—seven ? ”
“ ’Sh, I’ll tell you in the morning ; go to sleep
now.”
“ I don’t believe vou know, ma.”
“If you don’t be quiet now, i’ll give it to you ;
Teddy's nearly asleep.”
“ No I isn’t.”
“Well, what are you so quiet about, you dear
little mouse—well, you are a little imp to-night ! ”
(pulling back the bed clothes in a hurry).
“ You've been sucking- Noah, and you’ll be
poisoned! you naughty, naughty child.”
Lorry sets up howling excitedly. .“O ma, will
he die ! what if he dies ? ” Teddy howls as his
mouth is roughly wiped out.
“ Ma, will he die ? ” frantically yells Lorry.
“ Wills I die ?” wails Teddy.
“ No, but he deserves to. You shan’t have
Noah any more.” (Noah is thrown out of the
window.)
“ Oo nasty boot sings oo ! ” splutters Teddy
when he can get breath. “Where’s my ’igs? ”
“Can't have the animals any more. See, here's
a pretty' scent bottle to cuddle up ; now be a good
dear little boy and go to sleep.”
“I won’t go to sleep.” (.Scent bottle is sent
flying and shatters a looking-glass in the distance.)
“Oo’s a nasty boot! ”
‘4Good patience! seven years bad luck.”
(Smacks, howls, sobs.)
“ I say, do keep him quiet! I can’t go to sleep a
bit,” groans Lorry.
“I wants biscuit, lolly, and d winks,” sobs Teddy
exhausted.
“ I’ll have one, too ; I’m so hungry,” says Lorry
springing up joyfully.
So refreshments are produced.
“Now-, for goodness sake don’t make any crumbs
in the bed!”
“No, Teddy, you can’t hold the cup by- your-
self.” (More howls from Teddy.)
“ Me wants to.”
“You can’t, I tell you. Well, just for a
minute. There, I thought so.” (Smack, smack.)
“All over the bed. Well, of all the tiresome
little —— ” (Howls from both.) “O, I’m cross
with him. It’s just soakj>”
“Well, will you ever do it again? There,
there; he didn’t mean it, did he ? He’s very
sleepy and tired, poor little man. Did mother
whip him ; but then he was naughty, wasn't he?”
“ I wifi bedood.” The sobs gradually subside,
and tired nature sinks nearly to rest.
“Mother,” break* in Lorry’s shrill, flute-like
voioe, “if Teddy had died just now, where would
he have gone?”
“ Hush ! To heaven, of course.”
“lint he’d been naughty, and sucked the paint.
You said bad hoys couldn’t go to heaven.”
“Be quiet, be quiet ! you’ll wake him up ; and
I want a few minutes quiet.” (Two minutes
silence.)
“ I wants to kiss Lorry.”
“ But you kissed him before. There, there ;
don’t cry ! kiss'him and be quick.”
“ Oo’s c’oss.”
“No ! mother’s not cross, pet! dear little follow,
he’s going to be a good boy, isn’t he?” (Kiss, kiss.)
“ Toll me about the bears.”
“Mother,” says Lorry, as she tucks him up.
“ Do tell me how to spell Pres ”
“If you wake Teddy up again. I’ll give vou a
whipping that you’ll remember : so there ! Go to
sleep.” - •
R.A.K.
Alphabetical Verses.—The Letter D.
They please me not—these solemn songs
That hint of sermons covered up.
’T is true the world should heed its wrongs,
But in a poem let me sup
Not simples brewed to cure or ease
Humanity’s confessed disease.
But the spirit-wine Of a singing line,
Or a dewdrop in the honey cup !
1872- J'mU Lawrence, Dunbar.
The murmur of the mourning ghost
That keeps the shadowy kine,
“ Oh, Keith of Ravelston,
The sorrows of thy line !”
Ravelston, Ravelston,
The merry path t-h it leads
Down the golden morning hill,
And thro’ the silver meads ;
Ravelston, Ravelston,
The stile beneath the tree,
The maid that kept her mother’s kine,
The song- that sang she 1
She Sang her song, she kept her kine,
She sat beneath the thorn
When Andrew Keith of Ravelston
Rode thro’ the Monday morn.
His henchmen sing, his hawk-bells ring,
His belted jewels shine !
Oh, Keith of Ravelston,
The sorrows of thy line !
Year after year, where Andrew came,
Comes evening down the glade,
And still there sits a moonshine ghost
Where sat the sunshine maid.
Her misty hair is faint and fair,
She keeps the shadowy kine ;
Oh, Keith of Ravelston,
The sorrows of thy line !
I lay my hand upon the stile,
The stile is lone and cold,
The burnie that goes babbling by
Says nought that can be told.
Yet, stranger ! here, from year to year,
She keeps her shadowy kine ;
Oh, Keith of Ravelston,
The sorrows of thy line !
Step out three steps, where Andrew sfc©*#
Why blanch thy cheeks for fear? . « •
The ancient stile is not alone,
'Tis not the burn I hear !
She makes her immemorial moan,
She keeps her shadowy kine
Oh, Keith of Ravelston,
The sorrows of thy line !
1824-74. Sydney Deietf
Nothing to do but work,
Nothing to eat but food,
Nothing to wear but clothes
To keep us from going nude.
Nothing to breathe but air,
Quick as a flash’t is gone ;
Nowhere to fall but off,
Nowhere to stand but on.
Nothing to comb but hair,
Nowhere to sleep but in bed,
Nothing to weep but tears,
Nothing to bury but dead.
Nothing to sing hut songs,
Ah, well, alas ! alack !
Nowhere to go but out,
Nowhere to come but back.
Nothing to see but sights,
Nothing to quench but thirst,
Nothing to have but what we’ve got;
Thus thyo’life we are cursed.
Nothing to strike but a gait;
Everything moves that goes.
Nothing at all but common sense
Can understand these woes.
Alfred Dermttt.
We meet heath the sounding rafter,
And the walls around are bare ;
As they shout to our peals of laughter
It seems that the dead are there.
But stand to your glasses, steady !
We drink to our comrades’ eyes :
Quaff a cup to the dead already, - •.
And hurrah for the next that dies 1 /
Not here are the goblets glowing,
Not here is the vintage sweet ;
’Tis cold as our hearts are growing,
And dark as the (loom we meet.
But stand to your glasses, steady 1
And soon shall our pulses rise :
A cup to the dead already ;
Hurrah for the next that dies 1
Not a sigh for the lot that darkles,
Not a fear for the friends that sink ;
We'll fall ’mid the wine cup’s sparkles
As mute as the wine we drink.
So, stan 1 to your glasses, steady !
’T is this that the respite buys :
A cup to the dead already ;
Hurrah for the next that dies !
i
There's many a hand that’s shaking,
There’s many .a cheek that’s sunk ;
But soon, though our hearts are breaking';
They il burn with the wine we’ve drunk, -
So, stand to your glasses, steady !
’T is here the revival lies :
A cup to the dead already ;
Hurrah for the ncjxt that dies !
Who dreads to the dust returning?
Who shrinks from the sable:siiore
Where the high and haughty yearning
Of the soul shall sting no more ?
So, stand to your glasses, steady !
The world is a world of lies :
A cup to the dead already.;
Hurrah for the next that dies !
Cut off from the land that bore us,
Betrayed by the. land vve find,
Where the brightest have gone before isw,
And the dullest remain behind.
-Stand, stand to your glasses, steady !
’T is all we have left to prize :
A cup to the dead already ,
Hurrah for the next that dies !
Capt. Doivlimf. ,
Sigh, priests:! cry aloud, hang your pulpits with black
Let sorrow bow down every head :
The good friend who bore all your sins on his back,
Your best friend, the Devil, is dead.
Your church is a corpse you. are guarding its tomb :
The soul .of your system has fled.
That- death-knell is tolling your terrible doom ;
It tells us the Devil is.dead.
You ’re bid to the funeral, ministers all ;
We’ve dug the old gentleman’s bed : .
Your black coats will make a most excellent pall
To cover your friend who is dead.
Ay, lower him mournfully into the grave ; .
Let showers of tear-drops be shed.
Your business is gone ; there, are lio souls to save ;
Their tempter, the Devil, is dead.
Woe comes upon woe : you can,ne’er get your dues.
Hell’s open, the damned souls have fled :
They took to their heels when they heard the good news—
Their gaoler, the Devil; is dead. V\
William Denton.


PRICES
FOR
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO ,
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go.
and Reduced.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
W ho render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
CB 8
/>
sfloo
580$
33)
seo7
5801}
ms
ran feed nof lo or bora
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Itsr Thousands Selling Daily.
'cbb'
BRIAR
iiiick Simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIBT
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . ■ .
GOOD HAIR FOR ALJL.!
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SW For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
$
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
%
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
LEA & PERRINS’
SAU
SAUCE.
See that this Signature
o&sa,
is on every Bottle.
Agents
CJIRGOE, SON k CHAPMAN.
(DAVID COHEN A CO., Sydney.
THI ORIGINAL WORCISTIRBHIRB.
THE CONINGHAM CASE.
p m '*m
The Suppressed Book of the First Trial-
Together with the report of the SECOND TRIAL,
with its exciting and dramatic ending and subse-
quent developments.
A Complete History from Start to Finish.—lllustra-
ted with Photos and Sketches of Principals.—A
Fair, Unvarnished Account.
THE BOOK IS NOT FAKED.
The Parties to the Suit.
The Abigail Case.
Private Detectives at Work.
Petitioner’s Story.
The Wiitten Confession.
The Baby in Question !
Co-respondent’s Denial.
“ I’ll be a Protestant in the Morning !
The Teachings of Liguori.
Who's Zero ?
Jury Addresses.
The Second Trial.
Spies Galore !
The Relief of “ Burnlda 1
Drugged Colonial.
The Mysterious Mrs. B
The Final Verdict!
Subsequent Developments.
Price SEVENPENCE (posted anywhere).
ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA, OR
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments op .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Ltd.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and U O’CONNEII STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Oliarge : 3 Jt'er Cent, "fco the G-rowera.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge jd.
“ UAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
oCmum
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Bts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
T">t». Clarksou’a Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
exueriments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
nr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vlg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
Darts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will "bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful,
will Dring rr THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
CALL OR WRITE— OWL
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
L \
tbo '
4
II
nim
%
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable,' and
may be worn witho« the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
YOU.,
£ a. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 I
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 I
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attainments 830 i
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
THEY WILL CURE


3Lre
ss
Care GEO.
SALI
ADAMS, Hobart.
To
TUKF CLUB 13.
(Altered from Birthday tup owing to the Queen’s
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
ay 25,
ath)
shares in above.
Nam
e
Addi
"ess
£
Ellesmere Stakes.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
¥ ••
To TATTEItSALL.
Please allot me
Ist June.
in the above.
shares
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE CLP. June 15.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL
Please allot me
above.
shares in the
Name
Address
Grand National H. July 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
Silver City C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
shares in above.
s
Address.
full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


DELICATE
CHILDREN.
CHILDREN all like Angier’s Emulsion
and take it readily when they cannot
be induced to take Cod-Liver Oil.
Blapd, soothing, creamy, and a splendid
tonic, it is just what the little ones need,
and it is really marvellous in many cases
to note the rapid improvement in weight,
strength, and colour. Give it to the
children if they have a cough or a cold;
if they are pale and thin; if they are
scrofulous or ricketty; if their food does
not digest or their bowels are out of order.
The medical profession prescribe it largely
in such cases, and it is used in children s
hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S W.
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresli colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs— •
Ayer's
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresh cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. i. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
*
%
*
9
£
<*>
V
V
LADIES.--*
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
ADDRESS— L.D.I., 300 Collibe St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &T.UI’.;
Mattalasse and other Unshhinkable Shikt
are highly recommended.
33, per Half-dozen, free by pout thro :kj bn n t
A tiMrafia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, ft’laad.
Australias? ProVidcot Society.
MONET TO LEND
Or c!l\ 0 p ASTOR LANDs'coniH"^
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repayin,
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MMftU&V'
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
gSHT Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
JBIO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ol Light Vehicles
The Best and Chearest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware ok substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without, eggs in
Less Time and at Hah the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything. *-
DELICIOUS to Jam Tails.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
£ Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900 —British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
chc
highest jimxl
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
mm
tm
5
d rL BHITT REC
Bp
flppoittttijc
to
tnFnp\
/ur
Her iKajestp Che Queen ana fi.R.B. Che Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
N.S.W. Carriage & Sacldlery ]yCa>nf- CJompajay
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
' (close to Redfern Railway station).
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from u*.
Our One-man Sulky, i 5 ; 2-Sprinir Sulkies, £7;
3. Spring Sulkies, ' 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, til.
Double Bu<rs'ies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
Itu. Ladies' l’haetons (single and double). Doc; Carts,
and every, description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S tf'DLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUR SI'KCIAT, \o. 2
£8 18/6
T>elircred at, any Wharf or
SAW. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
As a result of prolonged drought in Queens-
land, the Registrar-General estimates the decrease
in stock for last year thus : —Pigs, 17,235 ; horses,
23,275; cattle, 995,632; sheep, 4,874,761 —total.
5,910,903. Taking an all-round valuation of 10s.
a head, this means-just on three millions dead los
to the Statp.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Song of Black Nights.
Some sing Hymns to the Dawn ;
Let them sing, I will not bring
My harp to keep accompaniment.
Some make Music of Moons ;
Ah, pale Nocturne, my pulses spurn
Your liquid silver, your dim, wet gold.
I worship you, Moon, but you shall not hold
My soul in your hands, and the Sun’s red poem
Shall pass me by like a hidden cithern.
Moon, is it fault of mine that I do not set
Your tender crystal high in my heart?
Moon, is it shame to me that I will not let
Your fragile shining light me to Heaven ?
Fault or shame, I will keep my name
To set at the end of the only song
I ever will sing, my whole life long.
Sun, is it written down in your red, red book
How I was faithless, who loved you so well?
Then is it written, too, that my false eyes look
Up to your face, Sun, and all’s forgiven ?
Faith or fall, I must keep my all
To swell the sound of the only song
I ever will sing, my whole life long.
Dawn, shall I weep that the youth of the world
from me
Has passed and left me lonely and old.
Blind to the perfect rose that I would not-see,
Your beckoning blossom, tenderly calling.
Blind with tears, I have turned the years
To swell the tides of the only song
I ever will sing, my whole life long.
Night, will you hear as I lie at your shadowy gate,
And silent, silent, wait for your perfect breast.
Night, will you know, though my Wandering
Heart is late,
It is yours at last, and is yours for ever.
Little Dawn and the Middle Morn,
And Moon and Sun, I have left them all
For the tireless peace of your passionless thrall.
Listen, listen, my Heart,
Let us lay the white Moon here asleep,
Eiss her, and say a low good-bye.
Cover her face with the vines that creep
Through sunny places. Ah, do not weep.
Let us lay her here, asleep.
Listen, listen, my Heart !
Let us hush the baby Dawn to rest.
Kiss her, and sob a sweet farewell,
Cover her little angel breast
With tiny blossoms, half-blown, unpressed.
Let us leave her here, at rest.
Listen, listen, my Heart !
Let us clasp the red Sun once and then
Leave Him and utter no good-bye.
Cover his limbs with the eglantine
Too heavy and honeyed for mortal men,
Let us clasp him once, and then
Then to the Night,
And good-bye to light,
For ever, and ever, and ever.
Oh tender, noble, imperious black,
Best and bravest, shield that I lack,
And lacking, fail in the fight out there,
Wrap me round in your long black hair,
Cover me close with your tender arms,
Blot out the memory of stars and morn.
Wrap me close in your long black hair.
Warm and fragrant, and when I stare
Up through its masses to where the trees
Mutter above me their Symphonies,
I shall see no trees, and the Symphonies
Will persuade my beliefless, vagrant soul
That she is the only music-maker.
Only law giver, condoner, law-breaker. . .
And wrapped in your shadow, so close, so strong,
Lying silent, perhaps ere long
I shall make, or capture one perfect song.
Wrapped in the Night !
Ah, the wild delight
Of the great fresh world that creeps down and
near.
Wrapped in the Night,
Shut out from the light.
At last I can listen, at last I can hear.
At last I have caught the meaning
That haunted me always, but always fled
-Just as I gained it. Now, living or dead
I shall never be haunted any more,
For the black, black night has revealed the shore
Of the furthest sea in any world,
Has carried me up to the highest steep,
Has borne me under the under-deep,
And lying silent I know, ere long,
I shall catch and capture my perfect song.
My splendid, passionate, scythe-like song,
Blown of the dark as a soul is blown
Out of the black unknown.
N.S.W.
LUISE MACK.


WOOD
SPLIT
DODGE^
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 »» » wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE Hm (Jo. [td.
60 Glarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
DIAMONDS
ARE
TRUMPS
. . AND . .
The Best Value in Diamond
Goods is procurable at
Art
Jewellers
*c.
sokinc s;
Sydney.
500 other designs in Bangles, -from 15s to £l5O-
- send for our Illustrated sheets of Novelties.
Telephone 3642. All Goods Post Free.
Lovely Gold
Bangle,
Set with 16 First
Water Diamonds
and 16 Rubies or
Sapphires,
£l9 10 O.
9 Lovely Opals
and 16 Diamonds
£2O O O.
1 Opals and 12
Diamonds,
£lB 10 O.
9 Lovely Rubies
, or Sapphires and
16 Diamonds,
£22 10 O.
CC
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“ A. BOWMAN’S
. . Yod Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
I*7/6 per pair.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do- One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots- only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
Has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE ~~~
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
frr>
'l-:'
VJ
I
Mb,MV
General Agents for Australasia—
E. RICH & CO. L™
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
George’s Head, Mosman, 18/4/1901.
Messrs. E. Rich & Go., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
In reply to your letter of the 16th inst., I have
much pleasure in stating that in January last during
some very hot weather your “ P & B ” Ruheroid Build-
ing at the Agricultural Ground, which was used as an
Orderly Room, was very comfortable and wonderfully
cool. I am of opinion that your Ruheroid Roofing fur-
nishes a very effective protection from the heat of the sun,
I remain, yours faithfully,
J. 11. A. Lee, Major,
N.S.W. Engineers, O.C.S.M.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
SATURDAY, MAY 4, 1901.
Priob 6d.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1107.
MAY!
“For I'm to be Queen o’ the May, mother, I’m to be Queen o’ the May!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS'
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and Itlaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland! is now
■6l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tiib Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in IHacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiif, Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfit.te l for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <fc Co., Corn hill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2IS Sutler-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MAY 4, 1901.
Official Jingo Blackmail —Again!
The following circular, of which many copies
have been sent to The Bulletin by indig-
nant teachers, speaks for itself :
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 25th March, 1901.
TO THE TEACHERS AND OFFICERS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
At a meeting of the teachers and officers of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction (the Chief Inspector presiding),
held at the Girls’ High School, Sydney, on Saturday, 9th
March instant, it was decided to recognise the con-
spicuous bravery and ability of our comrades who fought
in South Africa and so highly honored our profession." It
was considered that contributions from One Shilling to
Five Shillings per head by every teacher and officer in the
service, would furnish a sufficient fund with which to pro-
vide suitable souvenirs expressive of our admiration for
our returning confreres, and mementos for the families of
any who in the fortune of war have given their lives for
their country.
The Executive Committee, consisting of Lieutenant
Colonel Paul, Messrs. J. W. Turner, W. H. Teale, W.
Gee, R. H. Grieve, G. A. Rourre, and F. Garden,
believing that the whole profession is heartily in accord
with this movement, confidently appeal to you for your
warmest and prompt support.
Contribul 1-mis (in postal-notes preferably, or stamps)
will be received by the Executive Committee, or by the
honorary treasurer, Mr. John Dart, Public School, Croy-
don Park, Croydon.
Head teachers are requested to kindly invite the co-
operation of every member of their staff.
F. BRIDGES, D. T. WILEY \Hon.
Chairman of Committee. J. H. STRONG / Secs.
• * * *
The school-teacher is one of the most
luckless of Australian civil servants. He is
exceedingly ill-paid as a whole, especially so
far as concerns the lower branches of the
profession. His lines are often—very often
—cast in lonesome bush places such as no
other public official has to continuously
inhabit. A very large proportion of the
N.S.YV. Civil Service lives permanently
among the flesh-pots of Sydney. Of those
who are not so fortunate, the Lands official
and the magistrate and the C.P.S. and the
border customs functionary mostly dwell in
towns of some size, where the cool’shadow of
the public-house makes an oasis in the land
and the long beer falls as the gentle rain
from heaven. The farthest-out railway man
is at least in touch with civilisation, and.
adjacent to the two streaks of rusted iron
which lead Sydney-wards and Melbourne-
wards ; also he is not wholly removed from
the stream of passing humanity. But the out-
back teacher is about the last and remotest
pioneer of the public service. He has to
carry the blessing and illumination of geo-
graphy and syntax to the last hamlet on the
track to Godforgotten, and almost the last
hove on the outer rim of the county of God-
torsaken. He is expected to know more
than 95 per cent, of other public servants
have ever heard of. His slow promotion is
gained by brain-racking study and severe
examinations. He is judged by his success
in sowing facts in the wooden and unrespon-
sive mental, soil of the bush - cursed child
out-back, and if he strikes a sutficientlv
dull patch of childhood, his prospects, how-
ever clever and industrious he may be, are
small indeed. He is a man of education, and
often of refinement and culture, who is
always liable to be sent to herd with hope-
lessly uncongenial minds in a sandy-blighted
land at about the wages of a corporation
laborer. And, in addition to his other woes,
he strikes things like the above.
* * * *
Ever since the Transvaal butchery started,
the N.S.W. teachers have been harried for
subscriptions as no other class has been
harried. They had the misfortune to have
as their political chief the boss political fool
and the boss public groveller of the N.S.W.
Cabinet. He apparently conceived the idea
-or some of his underlings conceived it for
him and he accepted it—that there would be
some special glory for somebody if the ill-
paid teachers contributed about six times as
much to the various S’African butchery
funds as any other equally-numerous section
of the community. So they received circular
after circular demanding to know how much
they would give in a lump sum, and how
large a contribution the Department might
deduct regularly from their scant monthly
cheques for a long period. And as the
result, there was a yell every now and then
that the teaching staff had nobly and volun-
tarily put up another thousand, or some
other large sum, in the good cause of blood-
shed and loot. When a bigger sum pro
rata had been officially squeezed out of the
teachers than was raised from any other
section of the Civil Service, the Public
Instruction authorities actually had the
brazen insolence to boast of the Patriotism
and Liberality of the squeezed teachers.
* • f *
The teachers are a numerous class, but
they are too much scattered to exercise any
very appreciable voting-power anywhere.
They had the misfortune, as already men-
tioned, to have the boss public groveller, or
else the weakest person of no account in the
Lyne Ministry, as their head. They read
these truculent demands for Jingo black-
mail, and noted that the men who demanded
it were those on whom they were absolutely
dependent for promotion.’ And either out
of a grievous mistake, or out of a good and
extensive knowledge of. the general work-
ings of human nature, they decided that
their Jingo bosses, or some of them, were
just the kind of persons who would block the
progress, and blight the career, and possibly,
in the end, harry out of the service the
teacher who didn’t “part,” and especially
the teacher who dared to “kick” openly.
So out of the pittance on which country
teachers are expected to keep up a semblance
of respectability they somehow made up the
subscriptions practically demanded of them.
* * * *
Of course the official reply in such cases
is that the Department has received no com-
plaints, and therefore the Department has
no reason to suppose that anybody is dis-
satisfied. If there have been no complaints,
that is about the hardest thing that can be
said of the Department. It simply means
that the ill-paid and plundered victims of
the Department’s yearning to be lavish
at somebody else’s expense know, or
think they know, the unspeakable
nature of the Department, and are con-
vinced that the man or woman who com-
plained, or who didn’t pay up, would suffer
heavily for it in some way. It is quite
probable, too, that the Jingo daily
papers received no complaints— at least
no signed complaints. They all ap-
proved, in a general way, of the steal,
and probably there was a pretty general fear
that the name and address of any objector who
wrote to them might be handed over to the
departmental bosses, to the objector’s serious
detriment. But The Bulletin can say con-
fidently that it has received somewhere
between sixty and a hundred separate pro-
tests, many anonymous and others not, and
no doubt other democratic papers have a
very similar record. And in every case
where name and address were 'given,
there was the same demand for absolute
secresy about the writer’s identify ; also in
almost every case the same reason was
ascribed—that the man who didn’t submit
cheerfully to be blackmailed would be surely,
on some pretext, or another, made to suffer
for it, and that under the present
regime freedom of thought, speech or action
meant ruin. If The Bulletin was rich
enough to compensate all these teachers for
the consequences it would put the whole-
batch of letters on public exhibition, and
make it known to the Education authorities
that they are, among a very large section of
their own subordinates, about the most
utterly despised men in New South Wales.
And now the employes of the N.SAV.
Education Department,'who have already sub-
scribed enormously more per head to war-
funds than the men of any other profession in
the country, are to be made the victims of
still another grab, and are called upon to
screw out of their meagre pay, the material for
still another splendid example of spontaneous
Jingo enthusiasm. “F. Bridges” “con-
siders ” that a certain sum will be enough,
and F. Bridges, as Chief Inspector of
Schools anxi a member of the Public Service
Board has such extensive power to make or
mar the career of any teacher that the de-
mand is a matter in which the poor teacher,
if born with a taint of suspicion in him,
may consider he has very little option.
F. Bridges requests every head-teacher to
pass the squeeze along, and to bail up every
member of his staff, presumably right
down to the worst-paid little girl-instructor
who is anxiously saving up her scarce
shillings to buy a new hat or a pair
of water-tight boots for the winter. And
F. Bridges is a man of sufficient official
weight to make most head-teachers bail up
all their underlings with energy. The state-
ment that the “ whole profession is in
accord ” with this scheme for once more
bleeding them of the money they can so
ill spare is an insolent lie, and if the pro-
moters don’t know that it is a lie why do
they urge schoolmasters to round up their
assistants and practically drag contributions
out of them ? The piratical demand for
cash admiration of colleagues, who have
been away* on a long holiday at better
pay than many of the working teachers
enjoy, is indeed a fine example of generosity
by deputy. The Bulletin is waiting to
hear about the liberal contributions of F.
Bridges and Minister Perry, who, if they
give £5OO each towards this burst of spon-
taneous admiration, will still have a far
larger margin left in their year’s salary than
the great bulk of those whom they are
harrying for contributions. And it is wait-
ing to see some Minister or high public
servant stick up the railway employes, the
police, and other public (and better-organ-
ised) functionaries for blackmail after the
same fashion and to the same extent as the
teaching staff. The new swindle is a small
one, but then it is only one of a long series
of similar squeezes. Many a weary, nerve-
racked girl teacher, to whom the semi-com-
pulsory toll levied upon her by fat, comfort-
able official city Pharisees has meant the
sacrifice for months of the few poor little
luxuries and enjoyments that made the dire
monotony of her existence a shade less
intolerable, will remember the present pro-
cession of insolent levies for many a long
day.
Talking About the Corpse.
New South Wales will shortly have a general
election for its State Parliament, and a certain
dismal fag-end of the Freetection party —mostly the
Sydney Telegraph and David Storey and some
other persons and institutions of their kind—pro-
poses that it shall be fought on the old fiscal issue.
The idea is apparently catching on to some
small extent, and it really seems as if the Protec-
tion v. Foreign-trade issue may do not a little to
decide who will be the next State boss in Corn-
stalk Land. The device is hardly likely to work
more than once, but if the people are taken in by
it even once it will be a public calamity. No sen-
sible individual wants to hear any more about the
fiscal issue in State politics. The State Parlia-
ment has no more to do with it now than it has
with Polar exploration, and just as much
to do with it as has the Municipal
Council or the Water and Sewerage Board.
If every one of the 125 members of the State As-
sembly was aForeign-trader of thebitterest descrip-
tion, or a Protectionist who wanted a thousand
per cent, tariff, neither circumstance would make
the difference of a single penny in the fiscal policy
of Australia. The fiscal issue in State politics is
Dead, and N.S.W. doesn’t want to waste time
talking about the corpse. There are live subjects
to talk about, and the State Parliament should be
elected solely with reference to the matters it has
to attend to —not on account of its views on the
tariff 4 , or the prevalence of, whales upon the
west coast of Greenland, or the designs of Russia
on Constantinople, or the alarming prevalence of
bluebottles in the south of England, or any other
abstract question. Even the exciting problem as
to whether there ever was a large Australian in-
land sea should not be allowed to distract atten-
tion at this crisis from matters of real import-
ance.
* * * *
The Foreign-trade Party (i.e., the party which has
always preached Freetrade and practised modified
Protection - cum - Revenue Tariffism) would, no
doubt, gain something if the fiscal issue could be
made the battle-cry at the coming State elections,
lints sadly indefinite way it has certainly a majority
in N.S.W.—not a large majority by any means,
but a majority none the less. If the election turns
on the tariff question, and the country wastes its
time talking about the corpse instead of dealing
with surviving subjects, that party gets whatever
advantage there is to be gained by representing
the majority on this very much defunct matter.
If the same party could contrive to hang the elec-
tion issue on the equally-defunct question as to
whether the export of British convicts to
N.S.W. was desirable or otherwise, it might
gain exactly the same advantage with the same
entire absence of any benefit to the public. But
it is only the dull and Tory members of either
fiscal crowd who are likelv to profit much by this
resurrection of the buried Lazarus of State fiscal-
ly™. As an example, that out-of-date fossil, Frank
Grimley, specially urges that the Foreign-trade
Party shall be kept together in the local Legisla-
ture as a bulwark against minimum wage
laws and other progressive ideas, which is
another way of saying that the otherwise impossi-
ble Grimley kind of man shall get into
Parliament on thefalse pretenceof Foreign-tradein
order to block social progress. There are men of
both tariff creeds who have lived all their political
lives on the tariff alone. Strongly Freetrade
constituencies and strongly Protectionist constitu-
encies have alike, in certain cases, returned men
on this issue alone —and have winked at their
Toryism and general incapacity for the sake of
their reliable machine vote on customs and excise
questions. These men lived on the tariff shindy,
and they don’t want to part with their bread and
cheese. If the only subject they know anything
about, and the only one which made the public
tolerate them, is torn from them, where are they ?
Obviously, they are nowhere in particular.
* * * *
To take a single instance, it is impossible to
imagine that any constituency elected David
Storey by reason of his liberal views on the re-
duction of the Assembly membership, on Upper
House reform, on the establishment of a State
Bank, State Land Bank, and State Life Assur-
ance Department, on a comprehensive Local
Government system, or on account of his brilliant
services in the cause of factory legislation, the
enactment of a legal minimum wage, the abolition
of borrowing, the enforcement of a graduated
land-tax and absentee-tax, the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement, the extension of Old-
Age Pensions, the shortening of hours of labor,
and such-like subjects. David Storey and his
kind lived on one subject—the subject that is
Dead so far as State politics are concerned. And
if the State won’t re-elect them on the ground
that they can be relied upon to talk eloquently
about the corpse, then their chance of being re-
elected at all is seriously diminished. As a
natural result, they want to keep the corpse well
to the front.
* * * *
The reason advanced why N.S.W. State politics
should be mainly devoted to animated conversa-
tion about the corpse is that members will fre-
quently gravitate from the State to the Federal
Legislature, and that if the Foreign-trade party
keeps hold of the State Legislature it
will make it so much the more sure that
N.S.W.’s delegation to the Federal Parlia-
ment will be mostly Foreign-trade. If the
old party-hacks who advance this theory
really believed it they would fight all municipal
elections also on the fiscal issue, on the ground
that men constantly gravitate from municipal
councils to the Assembly. It is just as essential, or
just as foolish, to try to maintain a Foreign-trade
majority in the State Parliament as in the munici-
pal council ; one body has exactly the same con-
trol of, and interest in, the fiscal question as
the other. The State Parliament is a body
whose sole business it is to look after the
internal government of N.S.W. ; not an institu-
tion for faking Federal elections. It has
enough work of its own to do—more work than
it is at all likely to do well—and it has no time to
act as Federal Parliamentary committee, can-
vasser and bill-poster for Joey Carruthers and
Co. Apart from this, the scheme of these gentle-
men for capturing the State Parliament m the
Foreign-trade interest is a purposeless affair, even
from their own standpoint. The people might send
125 Foreign-traders to the State Assembly (where
they can’t in the least influence the fiscal issue, and
where their tariff ideas are of no more public
interest than their ideas about a material hell)
and yet not send one to the Federal Parliament.
The Foreign-trade State Government and the 125
Foreign-trademembersin the State Assembly would
have no control whatever over Federal elections.
The constituencies would be different; the ques-
tions on which the election would hinge would be
different; even the franchise would probably be
different. If the N.S.W. Foreign-traders give the
Storey and Carruthers push a majority in 'the
State Parliament, in order that they may in-
fluence Federal elections, they will presently
awake to the dismal fact that'the State Parlia-
ment has just the same influence over Federal
elections as it has over the Gulf Stream.
* * * •
The Labor-party in N.S.W. State politics has
now the opportunity of its life. Its motto is, and
always has been, to sink the fiscal issue. Now the
fiscal issue has sunk itself, and the party which
doesn’t encumber itself with trying to keep the
head of the drowned object above water should
make the best time, other things being equal, in
the race. The question which has been the
biggest half of N.S.W. State politics for many a
year is only represented by two cold tombstones
in the background of State history. The public
wants to know now what its would-be rulers pro-
pose to do about the questions which are still
above ground ; it can’t take any prolonged in-
terest in squabbles as to whether tlie tombstone
that See used to sit on is better than the one that
Lee sat on. The live issue at future State elec-
tions is that of Progress versus Toryism. Every
man who even alludes to the old fiscal issue,
except to state that it is dead, should be dis-
qualified. Every old Tory Foreign-trader and every
old Tory Protectionist who applies for support on
the ground that he used to sit on the right tomb-
stone should be remorselessly rejected. Evcru
Foreign-trader and every Protectionist who applies
for support on the fiscal tombstone dodge should
be rejected on suspicion of being a Torv
and of using his old fiscal principles to
disguise his grievous want of new democratic
principles. All the old distinctions should be
thrown into the melting-pot, and democratic Pro-
tectionists and Foreign-traders should join together
in opposition to unprogressive Protectionists and
I oreign-traders. J. See and C. Lee must appeal to
the people equally on the strength of what they
are going to do in the future, and what they think
about the past is as unimportant as what they
think about the drainage system of the Ancient
Britons.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
225 Square Miles.
The Constitution of the Commonwealth provides
that the Federal territory, on which the capital is
to stand, must consist of at least 100 square miles
—it may consist of any amount more, but 100 is
the minimum. Last week, the announcement
appeared that Premier See was willing to go a
little beyond the irreducible allowance of 10 miles
by 10, and to surrender 225 square miles. The
offer can’t be described as wildly liberal, and The
Bulletin still holds that 5000 square miles, with
the Commonwealth as permanent ground landlord
of every inch of it, is the lowest figure which
should be accepted. The Federal territory wants
to be of such a size that all the land which gains
an increased value by the creation of the Federal
city shall be included in it, and that increased
value shall be the property of the Commonwealth.
With only a 225-mile area it would come to pass
in time that an immense increase m land values
—an increase created solely by the expenditure of
the money of the people of all Australia—would
take place outside the Federal boundaries and be
mopped up by the adjacent private landlord. To
anyone who considers the circumstances, 225 square
miles is an absurdity ; as for the proposed 100
square miles, that is mere burlesque, Melbourne
with its suburbs occupies 254 square miles, and
Melbourne is not a very large city, nor at ail an
old one; moreover, some parts of it are crowded
in a way that, it is to be hoped, the ideal Federal
city never will be. Taking Melbourne as an ex-
ample, the chances are that in 100 years the
-c ederal city would more than occupy even the


miserable “ enlarged ” area which,Premier See
proposes, and a part of the city would stand on
private land over which the Commonwealth
Government had no control, while every penny of
the increased land values created in the surround-
ing country would be annexed by the private land-
grabber. Australia has now a unique opportunity
for a great experiment in land nationalisation. If
it fools it away after this fashion it doesn’t deserve
to have another.
Federal Labour Legislation.
When there are no longer any border tariffs in
the Commonwealth territory, a new Labour pro-
blem must needs present itself. Victoria has a
minimum wage law —the only minimum wage law
on earth. It only covers a certain number of
trades, but it is being constantly extended, and
despite the hostility of the awful J.P. class, which
strives its hardest to nullify the Act in the law
courts, it has levered up wages till the Victorian
worker is by far the best-paid worker in the
Commonwealth. Victoria, by reason of the
scarcity of coal in its territory, has always been a
manufacturing State under difficulties, and if, in
addition to this, it has to compete, when border
tariffs are removed, with the lower-wage States
around it —the States where sweating is practi-
cally unchecked—its industries under present
conditions must needs come to grief. They
will be wrecked on the brutal commercial
law of the Survival of the Cheapest. Either
the other States must also adopt the minimum
wage system and pay their employes better, or
else Victoria must abolish its minimum-wage law,
and the best and most advanced idea in the
world’s social legislation must be abandoned.
Tory politicians in Victoria advocate the abolition
of the minimum-wage law. Democratic Vic-
torians, on the other hand, want the Federal
Parliament to take over the question, and make
equal minimum-wage laws for all Australia, and
lever all wages up to the same standard instead of
down to the same standard. And Sydney Tele-
graph, whose rabid hatred of everything Victorian
is miles ahead of the bitterness of the absinthe-
sodden gutter-journalist of Paris against every-
thing British, denounces the idea of abolishing
the sweater all round as another awful Victorian
conspiracy against New South Wales. It evi-
dently hopes that by denouncing better wages all
round as one more deep device on the part of Mel-
bourne to undermine Sydney it will rally up
the good old parochial gang to vote solidly in the
sweater’s interest. Some samples of the Tele-
graph’s crude and cumbersome curse follow :
The movement is regarded by politicians here with
some amusement and suspicion. ... It is taken to be
the aim of Victorian Protectionists to force on the Com-
monwealth the factory laws of Victoria, so as to reduce
them all to one level and secure that the Victorian laws
shall not place Victorian factory-owners at any disadvan-
tage in competing with the rest of the manufacturing in-
terests of Australia.
How terrible ! By this showing, the idea is sim-
ply to put all Australian workers on the same
level so that the Victorian factory-owner won’t be
crippled by having to pay higher wages than are
paid in the adjacent States, whereby the workers
of the other States will get better wages, and
there will be a fair field all round, and no favor
for anybody. More D.T.:
Mr. Higgins’ intention is interpreted to be to place the
factories in N.S.W. more especially under the same laws
as those which now exist in Victoria, and N.S.W. mem-
bers are not disposed to accept his view that it would be
a good thing to do it. . . . Mr. Barton forgets that the
whole of the States are not likely to take this bait just to
please Victoria, who is intensely afraid of FAIR COMPE-
TITION.
“ Fair competition ” in this case evidently means
sweating competition. The Freetrade party is,
and has always been, the sweating party, and its
organ calls on the people of N.S.W. to vote for
sweating on pretence of preserving themselves
from the encroachments of their insidious neigh-
bor. The Telegraph is one of the papers which
demands that the fiscal trouble shall still be kept
alive in State politics, and which wants to elect a
strong Foreign-trade party to the new State Par-
liament, and apparently what it wants that party
for, both in Federal and local politics, is to resist
minimum wage laws and other such interferences
with the blessed freedom of the sweater. Frank
Grimlet, one of the little wooden gods of the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade crowd, puts the same idea
even more forcibly :
lb would, therefore, be strange indeed if Freetraders
did not desire to be represented in the State Parliament
by men professing the same principles as themselves, and
it is absurd for anyone, whether Protectionist or weak-
kneed Freetrader, to cavil at that course being pursued,
or at the continuance of an organisation designed to
bring it about.
Besides, while it is true that after the adoption of a
uniform tariff the State Parliament cannot interfere with
that aspect of fiscalism which has to do with Customs
and excise, there are many other ways in which the State
Parliament can interfere with freedom of trade ; for in-
stance, by excessive harbor dues and wharfage rates, by
business licenses, or other internal exactions, by undue
preference in connection with Government contracts, and
by importing a few more legislative novelties from Maori-
land, such as polltax on foreign commercial travellers or
the Minimum Wage Act. Surely there will be work for
the Freetraders, as such, in the State Parliament.
F. Grimley, Foreign-trader, demands that the
Foreign-trade party shall capture the N S.W.
State Parliament in order to block laws that tend
to increase the wages of the workers. And the
Foreign-trade Telegraph backs Grimley in this,
while it also denounces any attempt at similar
legislation in the Federal Parliament as a loath-
some Victorian conspiracy, which every good Corn-
stalk should resist to the last. The Bulletin
moves that the Federal Parliament, by hook or
crook, takes over the question of Labor legislation
and enacts a Minimum Wage Law for all Aus-
tralia and Tasmania —not the Victorian one by
any means, but something even better and more
comprehensive. And it moves that all N.S.W.
should make a note that the avowed reason for
sending a Foreign-trade party into the N.S.W.
State Parliament is to block Labor legislation,
and should cast the fiscal question bodily out of
State politics for that very good and sufficient
reason.
Lucre and Loyalty.
The hard cash basis of Melbourne’s Great Grovel
is as palpable as are the Freetrade fallacies of G.
Reid. First of all the Government and the Mel-
bourne City Council wrangled as to the amount
each should pay towards the cost of decorating the
streets with colored sticks and bogus stone arches.
Then Mayor Gillott called a meeting of citizens
and it was rushed by all the boodle-seekers. These
disinterested patriots voted each other on to
committees to the number of 130 persons. The
apparent reason for this large number was to get
invitations from the Government for deadbeats
who had no hope unless they were on committees
of some kind. As the work that these representa-
tive persons had to do was very simple and did
not fully occupy their time, some of them
turned their superfluous energy to private
ventures. For instance, one little committee
conceived a grand scheme of decorations for a
block in Swanston-street, near Collins-street. And
part of that scheme is a grand-stand along the top
of the verandahs, the seats whereof will sell for a
couple of guineas a piece. A prominent member
of another committee was standing by when a
suggestion was made that the Government should
erect stands over the intersections of the main
streets, and charge a shilling a head for seats to
cover the cost of the stands. The prominent com-
mittee-man fired up instantly, “What!” he
gasped. “Charge a bob a head ? Where do we come
in with our stands ?” Where do we come in ! ! !
That is the ruling sentiment of the “patriots”
who are managing the Jookoyork demonstrations.
From the Government which spends public money
in providing entertainment for invited guests, and
the Cathedral chapter which sells the Tabernacle
frontage to a Commercial Travellers’ Club Syndi-
cate, down to the smallest shopkeeper on the pro-
cession route, the desire to “get a bit”- —even if
it be only a bit of cold turkey—out of the Joolc’s
visit is the motive power that works up the ex-
citement.
♦
Federal IKkembers.
“Wurrym” sizes up the Westralian Federal
members :
Now that the Federal elections are over, including most
of the “ shouting,” people will wonder to some extent
what the gods have sent them in the way of senators and
representatives. Of the Westralian crowd, not one is
possessed of conspicuous brilliancy. Staniforth Smith,
who topped the poll for the Senate, owes his position to a
charming manner, a good stage-presence, and that mag-
netism that makes a new acquaintance say at once,
“ Here’s a white man.” Little versed in debate and a
diffident speaker, he will have to rely mostly on his per-
sonal charm to carry him successfully through the career
on which he has entered.
Matiieson has been apely described as “an English
Tory, masquerading as an Australian Democrat.” The
voice is the voice of Democracy, but the paternal “ coat-
of-arms ” with which Alec has adorned his shop in Perth
doesn’t belong to this country. He is said to be ambitious
of obtaining a portfolio in the Reid Govt., which, he
hopes, is to come shortly. An anxious waiter for dead
men’s shoes is Matiieson, according to common opinion.
Pearce and De Largie, the two Labor-members, are
workers, the one a carpenter, the other a miner. Pearce
was defeated when he tried to get elected to the State
Leg. Council. On that occasion the gilded Brookman
topped the poll, his election expenses being equal to 50s.
for every vote obtained. Pearce was fourth at about ljd.
per vote. Pearce is a burning, eager being, very much
in earnest, a great believer in the power of truth, thrifty
—he adds a little bit to his cottage each day after the
completion of his day’s work—with a kindly and attrac-
tive manner. De Largie has always been a fighter for the
workers —notably in the great Newcastle coal-strike of
years ago. He is a poor speaker, and, unlike Pearce,
does not seem to improve with practice. Personally he is
not so popular nor so well-read as Pearce, but the
miners have remembered his past services.
Harney largely relied on the Catholic vote to pub him
either first or second, and curses latterly at being placed
below men with what he is pleased to consider intellects
inferior to his own. Harney lias been successful as a
pleader, and has got Big-Head. Trusting to his powers
of elocution, which are undoubtedly great, he uttered
throughout his campaign large mouthfuls of froth, varied
at times with chunks of foolishness, such as his state-
ment that the northern part of Australia would have to
be allowed to employ colored labor. This was bad for
Harney, and it was doubly bid when, in trying to
explain away his foolishness, he blamed the reporters for
misreporting him.
Just- as Harney trusted to the Catholics to boost him
in, so EwiNG(brother of the N.S.W. senator) relied on the
Orangemen, he being Past Grand District VVilliAM-goat
of the order. Ewing is certainly one of the brainiest of
the crowd from W.A.—not that that is saying much—but
he is shifty, and, like Matiieson, though he talks “de-
mocracy,” he thinks the other thing. To him, social
position, birth, wealth, count for much—at least that is
the sort of Democrat Senator Ewing of W.A. is suspected
to be bj- some people. As a speaker he relies rather on
declamation than logic, Bis style being of the Buzfuz
order.
Of the M.H.R.’s little can be said. With the exception
of Fowler they are a colorless lot. Fowler is a type of
Scot that makes the name of Bis country respected where-
ever he goes. He has not quite learned to be an Aus-
tralian yet, but there are hopes for him. He is a stub-
born Freetrader, who accepts a revenue tariff grudgingly
enough, as a matter of expediency. Solomon was the
chosen of the revenue-tariff crowd and is locally popular
in Fremantle. Maiion.is the journalistic John Norton of
W.A. ; and Forrest—well, he’s just Forrest.
One lesson I think has been taught by the electors to
candidates —“ Leave religion out of politics.” Harney
and Ewing, representatives of rival sects,'were put at the
bottom of the successful lists. Cavanagii, the beloved
of the Roman Catholic Hierarchy, was easily put down by
Fowler, who mad 3 no sectarian references and for whom
no sect fought —this despite the fact that the R.O.
b shop instructed the nuns at the convent to tell the
children to tell their fathers to “ vote for Mr. Cavanagii
and to pray for him.” It is not to be supposed that the
day of politico-sectarian bitterness is over, hut I think it
has had a bad shake in W.A.
—■ ■
Editor Bulletin. —As to the following circular :
Dr. O’ Haran’s Vindication. Gundagai, 13th April, 1901.
Dear M id un,—The recent trying ordeal which the Right
Rev. Dr. O’Haran has undergone, and come forth with
his character unblemished, calls for strong sympathy
from all who are women in the truest sense. It is also
well known that Dr. O’Haran has been put to very heavy
expense, and for the purpose of helping him, who has
nobly and grandly fought a great battle, I have great
pleasure in convening a Meeting of Ladies of Gundagai
and district, for the purpose of felicitating Dr. O’Haran
on his triumph, and to assist him in a financial way. The
meeting will taka place at 4 p.m., on Wednesday after-
noon, 17th April, at Walker’s Hall, Gundagai. Should
you be unable to be present, I will be glad to receive
intimation of your cordial support, as we would be failing
in our duty as true women were we to allow the occasion
to pass without showing our appreciation for the man
who has so well and ably fought the cause of truth and
justice. I remain, yours sincerely, A. F. Dodd, Mayoress.
Now, whilst Dr. O’Haran’s vindication at the
hands of the jury was as complete as the issues
determined by them could legally extend, and
satisfactory to all right-thinking persons—does it
not strike you that his R.C. female adherents are
exceeding the bounds of sympathy and discretion
when they send out broadcast invitations for all
“true women ” to subscribe to an object which, if
its obverse be to felicitate the priest, has as its
reverse the desire to denounce and fuss about the
actions of the unfortunate member of THEIR
SEX, who evidently must have been either the
victim of a rake or the tool of a blackguardly con-
spirator ?—“ Vihtus Millia Scuta,” Gundagai,
April 12.
4
In the matter of the Federal flag and seal, regard-
ing which the Commonwealth Cabinet offers two
prizes of £75 each for the best designs, we read
that “a board of experts” is to select the two
best designs, which are then to be sent ’Ome for
approval of Downing-street; but whether the Im-
perial authorities approve of them or not, the
designs selected by the “board” are to take
the money. Which means that, either the first
prize-money may be thrown away and a new
competition called for, or the designs will be
adopted whether the British Govt, likes them or
not? And why not?—why, in the name of com-
mon sense are they to be sent te England at all ?
Does a man take the patterns of his new suit to his
mother-in-law for her approval ? As to the kind
of flag that will be adopted, it is pretty well a
foregone conclusion—six bars, five stars, a Union
Jack plastered on somewhere as an emblem of the
“loyalty” of the beknighted land. Our artists
may be as patriotic as any, but they want the £75
(with another £5O added by a tobacco-firm) more
than many, so they will design a variation of the
old commonplace, knowing they will have no show
for the money with any other. In this matter,
also, Premier Barton should see that the compe-
tition is timely and widely advertised, and not
left to the uncertainty of a newspaper par, as
was the case with the N.S.W. “Federal Ode”
competition.
4
Champion’s cutting phrase applied to the workers,
“Lions led by asses,” needs revision. “Lions
led by foxes,” fits in better in many places. Here’s
a pretty example of cunning : The Broken Hill
Municipal Council, controlled by a Labor party,
adopted the very good principle of spreading out
the available road work, &c., among as many of
the unemployed as possible ; so the rule was laid
down and generally applauded—“ First man put
on, first man to go off.” Next—“ What’s right
for a working man is right for a clerk; ”
wherefore, when retrenching, the Labor Council
sacked the oldest officer (the accountant) avowedly
because he was the oldest. Then —“What’s fair
for a working man is fair for a working mans
representative ; ” and so, against the reflection of
Labor-members Cann and Ferguson, the foxes
have been working all they know (over a dozen of
them are candidates for the Labor nomination
to the seats), raising this insane cry—“ The old
members have had a fair innings; give new
men a show now.”
4
Reading the cables by the light of events in
China, there can be little doubt that it is impera-
tively necessary to bring the Boer war to a speedy
end at almost any cost. Practically the whole
British army is locked up in S’Africa, and, no
matter how dire the need elsewhere, not a regi-
ment can be moved thence without imminent
risk of an explosion. The Indian army system
has been strained to breaking-point in China, and
it is notoriously uncertain whether the native regi-
ments would stand against Europeans. They
have never been trusted in the field against
Asiatics, even, without a white admixture of
about one regiment in three. Indian native
troops are notoriously shaky if their flanks and
rear are not quite safe, or if they are not well-
supported with cannon. If there is to be a row in
China, white troops, and plenty of them, must be
sent there, and, failing conscription, they can
only be got from S’Africa; hence, peace must be
made there at any price. Any trouble in China
might easily involve India —with results impos-
sible to guess.
4.
Premier See in his manifesto to N.S.W. electors :
COMMONWEALTH CELEBRATIONS.
In view of the many extravagant statements which
have been made as to the cost of the Commonwealth
celebrations, the following figures will be of interest :
Accounts paid and due .. .. .. • • £115,418
From this amount may be deducted
the following sums —
Materials and electric and other
plant in stock .. .. £17,500
Increased receipts from Customs 9,400
~ ~ ~ Railways 35,000
61,900
Estimated net cost of celebrations £53,51S
There are just two objections to this off-hand way
of disposing of the Great Loose Drunk. The
£17,500 of material represents dead stock ; it may
have cost £17,500, but it has little or no saleable
value. And the £35,000 extra railway revenue is
a delusion and a snare. The Railway Commis-
sioners at the time informed the press that, owing
to the low fares, the cost of extra trains, and the
payment of overtime to employes, most of the in-
crease in railway and tramway receipts would be
swallowed up by the increase in expenditure.
' 4
Arthur Griffith, Labor member for Waratah
(N.S.W.) strongly opposes the proposal to reduce
the number of members in the State Assembly.
His objection is based on the result of the Senate
election, which was disastrous to the labor can-
didates, and he argues that the State electorates
are unwieldy enough already—instancing Wil-
cannia, which is 400 x 200 miles in extent. And
when members are fewer the new constituencies,
being naturally larger, would become unmanage-
able. And so they would be if the local member
still acted as general commission-agent for each
and every of his supporters. But with a Local
Government Act all this would be changed. Mr.
Griffith’s fear is that with big electorates his
party will be snuffed out. But he forgets facts.
Wilc-annia (his own dreadful example) Alma, and
The Barwon in the State Parliament, all huge
electorates, are labor seats. And if the N.S.W.
Labor Party blames the size of N.S.W. (polled as
one electorate) for their Senate defeat let them
study the Queensland figures. In Queensland the
Labor Party made its first startling success at
that same Federal election, and carried a con-
stituency twice the size of N.S.W. in a remarkable
fashion.
4
The census returns show that Sydney and Mel-
bourne are both much larger than was estimated
—Melbourne, 493,956 people; Sydney, 488,968.
Also, Sydney is much closer up to Melbourne than
was commonly supposed. When Melbourne was
believed to be a long way ahead, the daily howl
of the Foreign-trade press was that Protection led
to the congesting of people into huge, crowded,
horrible cities; now that Sydney proves to be
bloating much the faster of the two, the passing
shriek is that great and prosperous centres of
populationgrow most rapidly under Foreign-trade.
As a matter of fact, Sydney is far the more con-
gested of the two cities, and has been for a
long while ; it has nearly as many people on 142
sq. miles as Melbourne has on 254 sq. miles. And it
is quite true, as pointed out by the Sydney papers,
that if Sydney was extended to include 254 square
miles, as Melbourne does, it would be vastly the
more populous of the two capitals. In fact,
if the two cities were put on exactly the same
basis, Sydney would probably contain very nearly
half the population of New South Wales, and the
country population would probably be actually
less than the country population of Victoria.
If another 112 square miles were included in
Sydney, to make it the same area as Melbourne,
it is probable that N.S.W. would have a larger
proportion of its population crowded in one city,
and a smaller proportion in the country and in
secondary towns, than any other big State on
earth.
4
Writes “ Vic-Westralian” from Perth :
Dear Bulletin. — Re par. about the appointment of
young Tony Forrest to a commission in W.A. fifth con-
tingent. Your correspondent evidently never saw or
knew the lad. You can take it from me, who have known
him for seven years, that you can back him for brains
against most men ten years his seniors. He is a fine, manly
fellow, who” commands respect from those under him.
Regarding age, there is not so much difference between
him and young Parker, who had to take command of
the first contingent after the death of Major Moore ; and
who in that capacity earned a name amongst the best of
Australian officers. Perhaps, however, the name of
Forrest was regarded as sufficient evidence for damna-
tion. Just a word on that subject. I came to this State
with a prejudice against that name; but I have had
it knocked out of me, for in my life of half a century I
have never met better or more sterling men. John For-
rest is not the fool he is sometimes called ; and at any
rate he is a Man,
[Five questions and five answers. 1. Are there
not in W.A. sth contingent many just as brainy
and manly as young Forrest? Yes. 2. Is it
desirable to-make lads officers when there are men
available (young Parker, by the way, was also a
big politician’s son)? No. 3. Would young Forrest
have got that commission if he had not been the
Premier’s son ? No. 4. Is it desirable that Pre-
miers’ sons should be jobbed into commissions
just because they arc sons. No. 5.
Then where is Vic.-Westralian ? Gone wool-
gathering 1000 miles from the point at issue.—
Ed. B.J
Thus, an Adelaide “Anglican,” writing to the
press about Cremation :
Surely in our civilised land we are not going to stand
by as heathens, and allow so brutal and heathenish a cus-
tom. How dare anyone fly in the face of Almighty God
by handing over a body for cremation. When the soul
leaves the body the body as well as the soul belongs to
God, and to God alone ; therefore, how dare any human
creature attem >1 to put hands near it for the purpose of
destroying it? . . . God never intended that man
sh mid destroy a body in death, any more than he should
destroy it in life ; and, in my opinion, he will stand
equally guilty before his Maker for one deed as for the
other. He intended, and as good as gave the law, that
the body should be lovingly laid to rest in the earth in its
natural state, and so decay at its Creator’s own disposal.
No truly loving and sensitive person could possibly hand
over the remains of beloved ones for so ungodly and
heartless a ceremony! . . . The face, the form we
so adore, to be blown into ashes by the cruel ruthless
hand of man. “Oh, my God!” I cry, “in Thy mercy
deliver our land from this awful stain of guilt and dark-
ness.”
And this remarkable person—who implies inci-
dentally that he alone is in God’s confidence about
His intentions as regards the human body —leaves
it also to be plainly inferred that, as a “ loving
and sensitive person,” he would rather think of
his dear departed as a hideous mass of corruption
than as a handful of fleecy and inoffensive ashes.
There is a certain kind of alleged human being
which nothing can possibly drag out of the intel-
lectual pig-sty of the Middle Ages.
4
Hicks-Beacjh’s recently-promulgated Budget gives
cost of Boer war to date as nearly £150,000,000 ;
that is to say that each Boer of the (at outside)
15,000 killed, crippled, or captured has cost
£lO,OOO. This in 18 months and the war
is still costing a million-and-a-half weekly.
Then there is the expenditure of men—re-
cently cabled as nearly 18,000 dead to the end of
March, and 2069 invalids discharged as unfit.
But, as The Bulletin pointed out, that is not the
whole truth. There were thousands of others
who had been invalided, but had recovered suf-
ficiently to totter through their duty with perma-
nently impaired health. Now we learn that up
to end of February 40,594 had been sent home in-
valided, and it is safe to say that not one of those
would have been sent home if there had been any
chance of his making a recovery in S’Africa.
Hence the 37,000 or so who are supposed to have
recovered and returned to duty in England are
only the residue after the 2000 or so who are hope-
lessly crippled have been discharged. S’Africa is
enjoined to keep as many of its invalids as possible
to itself, and the Medical Board which examines
invalids at Netley is cautioned to pass for dis-
charge none but the hopelessly-incapacitated.
The others can be got rid of quietly by degrees.
♦
Sir Alfred Milner, in a recent despatch, says :
“It is useless to deny that the preceding half-
year has been one of retrogression.” We knew all
that before; but what about all the wonderful
“victories” of that half-year? “Seven months
ago,” Milner wails, “the Cape was perfectly
quiet, and the southern half of the Orange River
Colony was rapidly settling down, while a con-
siderable part of the Transvaal appeared definitely
reconciled to the British. But to-day the scene
is completely altered. Fighting is still carried on
by the Boers, mostly for supplies, and the country
is denuded.” No wonder, also, that rumour in
London has it that Milner’s three months’ leave
is only preparatory to his recall. Surely that
“six months of retrogression” will be too much
for Chamberlain’s stomach to digest.
-♦
Editor Bulletin, —A few words in connection
with the recent Federal elections in Westralia.
The chief cause of the opposition shown to the
Barton Ministry was the fact that John Forrest
was included in the Administration ; the electors
voted not so much against Barton as against
Forrest. A short time ago Forrest made a
statement setting forth a list of reforms which he
had carried out, and I noticed that The Bulletin
referred to the matter, stating that even Forrest’s
reform record was better than that of Reid. But
what is tiie truth ? Forrest has been practically
an autocrat here for the last 10 years by reason of
the shocking electoral laws. The W.A. people
are the .most democratic in the Commonwealth,
but they have been effectually muzzled for as long
as possible. Nearly all the reforms which For-
rest boasts of having carried out were formerly
strongly opposed by him, but were all along con-
sistently supported by the Opposition. As the
feeling against the autocrat grew stronger, he re-
sorted to every expedient to save himself,
and to this end performed somersaults galore,
dishing the Whigs for the time being most
effectutilly. In fact, so much could be wrung out
of him in this way that many democrats were eager
to keep him in power. Present writer was one,
but with the passing of the Electoral Act of 1899
came the conviction that the Forrest Ministry
must get no quarter. Previous to the passing of
that Act, Perth, Fremantle, and the eastern gold-
fields, with a population equalling two-thirds of
that of the whole country, had but 12 members out
of 44. The redistribution scheme was one of the
greatest infamies ever perpetrated in any British
country, for all it did was to give a few extra
seats to the big centres of population, leaving the
sparse agricultural and grazing districts with
practically their old representation. In the Nor’-
west seven members are returned by about a
thousand electors, while North Perth has only
one member for 6000 on the roll. Then consider
how Forrest flouted the people on the question
of Federation, performing his usual somersault at
the close to save his neck. The people got
even with Forrest on the Federal referen-
dum, and again at the recent elections. Some
of the Bartonian candidates stood a chance
till supported by Forrest then they were
doomed And the coming State elections will, in
spite of the inequitable scheme of distribution,
sweep away the last remnant of the Forrest
Govt.— J.H. .
Writes “ Crank ” ;
The old bogey of the extreme complexities of the Hare
Spence system leading to blunders and a waste of votes
is surely decently buried now. To compare the elections
for the Senate in Vic., and Tas., each voting as one elec-
torate, the number of informal votes was in the first 8769
out of 149,012, while in little Tassie only 419 ballot papers
had to be rejected out of a total of 18,403, or 2 2 per cent.
The elector is not so stupid after all as his friends make
him out to be. What led to the enormous waste of votes
in N.S.W. was the attempt to prevent plumping, by which
not only any paper with more than the magic six but any
with fewer was rejected. In Victoria, with no such
paternal restriction, there was less disfranchisement; and
in little Tassie, where it was voting by preference, but
otherwise go as you please, only 419 voters were self-
disfranchised.


THE ROYAL VISIT
PREMO CAMERAS
PERFECT PICTURES
And you can rely upon getting good results of
the festivities if armed with one of our
tdT No. 15 PONY PR EMOS
The Latest and Most Up-to-Date Cameras.
Price, from 255. up to £2O.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to
BAKER & RUUi>L PROPRIETARY LTD.
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
and at Melbourne, Adelaide & Brisbane
THE
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can he Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper MatteJßought -
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tanje Parcels or
Jteffular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Manager Agents for Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tivoiii Rickards 00.
Lyceum “ My Jack."
Palace Snazelle.
Her Majesty’s “ Fiorodora."
Empire Fuller Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s. “ Macbeth.”
Theatre Royal “The World.”
Ei-iou Rickards Variety Co.
Athbmum Hall G.B. Biograph.
The announcement that the soloists at
Sydney’s big State concert are to be all visiting
pro’s, has aroused vigorous protest. In defence,
S.JM. Herald says that Australia is represented
by the choral societies and orchestra, in both of
which are many of the native-born ! Though no
doubt, the two ladies engaged (Mdlle. Dolores’and
Madame Belle Cole) materially strengthen the
programme, the Citizens’ Committee blundered
badly in aiming at the production of a “musical
treat” for the occasion. The “draw” for the
evening’s amusement at £1 Is. per head is the
presence for 50 minutes of the Royalties and suite.
Tor such an event Australian artists should have
been chosen, to show the visitors what the country
can do, good or bad.
« * * #
After sitting out “My Jack,” which drew
a very large house at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday,
this scribe has come to a resolution. If ever he
writes a melodrama (a thing that may happen to
any man if he is out late) he will submit the
manuscript before publication to a barrister in
large criminal practice, a solicitor, a sea-captain,
a full-blown general, and a professor of chemistry,
and get it edited by all these authorities regard-
less of expense. Then there is a fair chance that
his house will blow up in a natural sort of way ;
and his ship won’t fall overboard ; and his regi-
ment won’t make the grievous error of taking the
regimental plate with it on to the battle-field;
and when his villain dies of heart-disease it will
be heart-disease, and not a mixture of strychnine-
Eoisoning, ingrowing toe-nail and dandruff. Also
is falsely-convicted hero won’t be pardoned sud-
denly in the middle of the street by a policeman,
and the processes connected with the transfer of
real property will be less shamefully mixed
than they are in the usual drama. In the
usual drama large estates are transferred simply
by the villagers giving three cheers for the newly-
found heir, whereupon the evil-minded usurper
turns pale and flies by the back door, and Hi«
Majesty is done out of his lawful stamp-duty.
« * * *
In “My Jack” the long, greyish baronet
is harassed all his days by a terror which any
attorney would dissipate for 6s. Bd. He came
into the property because the family of the
previous owner was drowned on a stormy coast in
one fell splash, along with a whole ship load of
other people. But a certain Greek, who didn’t
know the previous owner from Pompey, found on
the shore, on a date unspecified, the birth-certifi-
cate of the previous owner’s infant son. Also,
Peter, the fisherman, who didn’t know the pre-
vious owner or the Greek or anybody else, found
a live male undressed baby on the shore, on the
same or some other date and either at the same
place or somewhere else ; and brought him up by
the name of Jack. And the fact that the Greek
is prepared to swear he found the birth-
certificate on the shore proves conclusively that
the infant that Peter is prepared to swear Ac found
on the shore is the rightful heir—at least, so it is
darkly understood. And the wrongful heir, in-
stead of hiring a Turk or some other foreigner to
swear that he found a nosebag on the shore, and
thereby proving that Jack is not an heir but a
horse, winch would be a simple and logical way
out of the difficulty, lives in a cold perspiration,
and his hair stands up in the night like the leg of
the fretful dining-table when it is turned upside-
down. Also, he wastes great sums.on the Greek
to buy his silence, and constantly puts dynamite
and false charges of murder under Jack, whose
escapes are marvellous. In the end, Jack and the
birth-certificate come together, and all is over.
Nobody dreams of asking for any evidence that
Jack is the person mentioned in the document.
In the Lyceum variety of melo drama, if a white
man has the birth-certificate of a black female in
his hand, that proves that he is her, and, if he has
two of them, then he is both of her.
* • * *
Nobody connected with “My Jack”
arouses any special enthusiasm, though Robert
Inman, Stirling Whyte, Frank Reis, and Miss
Ada Guildford inspire no active execration at all
events. H. O. Willard, the terribly-depraved
baronet, has one chance to make a hit, and he
throws it away. He is left alone for a few seconds
with a fuse, and there is an enormous quantity of
gunpower, or tooth-powder, or something, in the
next room, and he wants to blow Jack up. If he
snatched the fuse in dead silence, and lighted it,
and took two huge, noiseless strides into the next
room (being a long-legged man he could get there
in one stride), and came back with a glare in his
eye, the audience, not being an absolute fool,
would understand. But when a man with only
half a minute to do the dreadful but silent deed
wanders up and down asking himself at the top of
his voice if he shall do this thing, and calling to
himself to make no sound, and stands still for a
long time stating that there isn’t a second to lose,
the scene grows ridiculous. It is equally ridicu-
lous when the heroine’s brother (an escaped con-
vict) learns that the police will be on him imme-
diately, and sits down on a chair for a long time
remarking that he must fly without the loss of a
moment. And when old Peter goes out in a
howling storm which no one else dare face, and
sculling his boat quite easily with one oar saves
the shipwrecked crew, this writer’s resolve to
have his drama revised by a competent sea-captain
grows stronger than ever.
* * m »
The Bulletin has nothing remarkable to
add to its previous observations about “Floro-
dors‘., A , 1S writer desires to record it as his
candid opinion that the beautifully-artistic “Rose
of Persia was worth 25 of “Florodora,” and
when he considers the cold neglect which fell on
le former show and the wild public enthusiasm
about the latter, his previous ideas re the deficient
intellect of his fellow-creatures are only con-
nrmed. -Probably his fellow-creatures, when they
read the above statement, will say that their pre-
vious ideas about his deficient intellect are also
confirmed—which only shows still more clearly
that a really able and cultured opinion is as much
wasted on them as an oil-painting is on an
aboriginal. Any letters contravening the above
V \ e ' V i. °* n S? 3 will be carefully suppressed,
Wh 1 4.u enable the writer to state next
week that his theories have evidently proved
unanswerable. As “Florodora” is now in
the middle of the biggest boom which Sydney
has seen for many a day it can evidently
struggle through without the aid of present
scribe s good word. As a matter of fact, he has
noticed that the shows he least appreciates often
struggle through much better than the other kind
—which is owing to his taste being above the level
of the common herd. It is no earthly use for the
common herd to call round at The Bulletin office
and argue this point. This paper is going to be
out on urgent business that day.
** * *
John Fuller’s company at Sydney Empire
goes through its programme with a swing and a
dash from beginning to end. The humorist of the
show is Will Watkins, who never escapes with
less than five encores. The average man tires one
out with one encore, but William keeps ’em
an d gets more of them. He is a parodist,
and as a rule parodies are very tiresome,
but all William’s are gems of the first slush of
t’l iriV : One can hardly call a new version of
„ j- .il 1 Oolden Slippers,” dealing with decayed
fish, like William’s “ Golden Kippers,” a gem of
the first water ; but of its kind it is amusing.
His burlesque of the Mafeking Night, “Just as
the Sun went Down,” is excellent. Two coons,
the Jones Brothers, are rather entertaining, and
the same may be said of Fred. Bluett. The Em-
pire’s prices are the cheapest in Sydney, and it
certainly does not give the least in return for
them.
* * # *
To-night (Thursday) “Smith” will leave
liis home at Sydney Palace Theatre for the last
time, and that deserving bird, the “Grey Parrot”
will cease at the same address on the same date.
Friday is to be devoted to a one-night revival of
What Happened to Jones.” On Saturday night
“ Jones ” will happen at Parramatta Town Hall,
and if the quiet and moral old town can shake off
its aged lethargy for once it will find that
“Jones” is good for it, and that it would be a
great deal younger in spirit if it saw things like
“Jones” oftener. “Why Smith Left Home”
will probably not appeal to Parramatta. It is a
very clever and artistic comedy, but then Parra-
matta (like Geelong) never leaves home, and a
play whose name suggests rapid movement might
make it feel tired. The thing that most impresses
a. stranger at Parramatta is the number of shop
signs stating that something or other will be done
for you “while you wait. Waiting is Parra-
matta’s strong point. And Arnold and his
manager, Lohr, are two busy men who wait just
about as much as a whirlwind does. When they
are done with Parramatta they do “Jones” at
Goulburn on Monday, and on Wednesday com-
mence an eight nights’ season of “Smith” at
Adelaide.
** * *
“ Cinderella ” closes its career at Sydney
Royal this week. It has done very well on the
whole, and if the book had been anything like
equal to the spectacular part of the show, and the
jokes had been only half as light and fresh as
Madame Darto’s dancing toe, it would have done
still better.
** 0 m
It was roughtly estimated that from
1500 to 2000 people swarmed Sydney Town Hall
last Saturday on the occasion of the “Bohemian
Night” tendered to F. R. Woodhouse. Com-
plaints were made that the bloated Philistine
made up altogether too large a proportion of the
1500, but the battered and sidelong soft hat of the
real Bohemian was not wanting. It was also
alleged that someone was knocked down
for saying Damn at the singing of “His
Majesty, The King,” but otherwise no excessive
brotherliness was shown. The Empire’s “Sad-
Eyed Shriek” sang “Three Nice Girls,” and
successes were scored by Burns Walker, Miss
King, and others. The usual people who pro-
mised to help along the benefit in the provision
department were accused of frequently forgetting
to do so ; and it was complained of one lady in a
high position that she did not even bring a bun
with her. The audience was very friendly to-
wards Mr. Woodhouse, some of it taking away his
overcoat and umbrella as mementoes.
** * *
Snazelle, with Chas. M‘Mahon as manager,
opens at Sydney Palace on Saturday with his huge
and glittering entertainment “Our Navy.”
Snazelle is a showman who needs no recommenda-
tion, and his present show has already travelled
over a good part of Australasia, and earned
good notices wherever it has gone.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Marie Lloyd has changed
her programme, and now sings of mixed bathing
and other things. Marie’s songs are mostly
jewelled in the tip of the tail, and the gem is of
sapphire hue. Her husband, on the contrary,
eschews the fleshly joke, and confines himself to
the psychological side of costers and their donahs.
Irene Franklin is back again and concludes her
turn with the jingle about keeping them Golden
Gates wide open \ and Riano, Johnson and
Bentley are giving a farewell demonstration that
man did indeed ascend from the low-browed
gentleman who travels across the tree-tops by his
tail.
The Melb. dailies are unrelenting in their
nonsense notices of the Musgrove Opera produc-
tions. The fiction that G.M.’s artists are too
brilliant for the tuneful old ballad operas was re-
peated when “ Maritana ” came along. Said the
audacious Age man : “It is in the last degree un-
likely that Madame Slapoffski ever took part in
this opera in her life before; even artists of her
rank have to come to Australia to learn some
things; and in her case the music of ‘Maritana’
has almost certainly been one. . . . Music
which your tenth-rate chorus girl—nay, even your
aspiring amateur —thinks well within her power
was here translated into sound by a singer who
is a thorough mistress of her art.” Now, what is
the truth about Madame Slapoffski’s “rank”
outside of Australia? In England, the clever
little woman gained most, if not all, of her opera-
tic experience as a member (not a star member) of
the Carl Rosa Co. And now she is taking her
opportunity in a country which has not quite for-
gotten Fanny Simonsen as Maritana, and Lucy
Chambers as Lazarillo, not to mention other and
more recent artists who sang Wallace’s music with
a charm which Musgrove’s co. cannot rival.
** * *
Musgrove’s co. is making things as vari-
ous as possible at Melbourne Princess’s before
the season closes on May 11. Last week “ Mari-
tana ” came to pass, and was found to be a more
satisfactory lapse into light opera than the
“ Bohemian Girl ” performance. All the same,
it was not nearly up to the brightest “ Maritana”
traditions. The music appeared to suffer from a
sort of Wagnerian depression, and some of the
principals were not the people whom a hard,
practical jury of patrons would have selected for
their gaudy parts. Culchaw mocks at “ Mari-
tana” nowadays, and even the Philistine believer in
“ toon ” pure and simple begins to demand an irre-
proachable character with the toon he purchases.
But it is only fair to mention that some of these
objects of Culchaw’s scorn owe their ancient fame
to finer voices, prettier women and more imposing
men than undertake the job at the Princess’s.
For instance, The Bulletin flatly declines to
accept Mooney as a picturesque Don with mash-
ing designs upon the Queen of Spain, nor does
Madame Slap, realise the giddy nightingaley
gipsy maiden of this journal’s dream. But no
matter. “Lohengrin,” with Ella Russell as
prima-donna, Berthold as the glittering custodian
of a weird water-fowl, and Lempriere Pringle for
Emperor of Germany, is more vigorous and human
than previous treatments of Wagner’s melodrama.
Also, “ The Flying Dutchman,” which was given
to Australia (D.V.) for the first time on Monday
night, is probably a serious success, although the
present paragraph can’t vouch for De Wet having
fulfilled the promise of Musgrove’s advt. If
another first production is to happen ere the
season comes to a respectable end, “LaTraviata”
will be the novelty.
** # *
At the Royal three or four evily-disposed
men of “The World” are still plotting to keep
the lawful baronet out of his title and estates, and
every night they take him to a lunatic-asylum
instead of persuading him to try a nice, long drink
with poison in it. Two of these conspirators
don’t object to blowing ships to pieces for the
sake of a little insurance money. The blood of
many drowned and exploded passengers and
crews lies clotted on their black souls, and yet
they permit one friendless individual (Albert
Norman) to go on worrying them. Other villains
in newer narratives have misapplied their wicked-
ness many a time, but Ikey Mossy Holt
and his brother spielers hold the record for
criminal stupidity. “ The World,” by the way,
is the only drama that lands Holt within
easy distance of the gallows. He makes
his final appearance at a fancy-dress ball where
the ballet girls’ dresses are trimmed with electric
lights, and thence he is led away to be hanged
without the option of a fine. After which Miss
Harrie Ireland drops dead casually, not because
her husband has recently broken Ins neck, but in
order that Albert Norman may request the
illuminated ballet to cease their revels, and
bring the curtain down with a few words
concerning the lady’s decease. Harrie of the
auburn hair is a specially attractive Mabel on this
occasion. Her voice is stronger than it was a
while ago, and her figure looks more plump, and
the thought of such a fine girl being buried next
day, or the day after, casts a gloom over the
audience as it clears out.
** * *
Nance O’Neil and Co, at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) have not raised the standard of W.
Shakespeare, but their wrestle with Ibsen was
brought to a close on Friday last. “ Lady Inger ”
settled down into a fairly comprehensible drama
after the first night, and Nance, in the name-part,
was able to deliver her final shriek of horror at
II p.m., or thereabouts. Nevertheless “ Lady
Inger ” showed no reason why it should ever be
played again, outside of Norway. The legendary
interest appears to turn upon a feeble mediaeval
insurrection, headed by a Count Somebody who
lives and dies behind tne scenes, and every time
Lady Inger’s twenty retainers want to throw off
the Danish yoke, she remarks that the spirits are
rising. Also, she has a confusing tendency to get
herself and other people mistaken for ghosts, and
her daughter, too, throws out a ghostly suggestion
in the first act, and the ghost of another daughter,
lying coffined under the premises, is sometimes
vaguely understood to be frightening the mes-
meric Danish Councillor, who leads both young
ladies astray. A drama in which a high-spirited
damsel falls victim to the first' foreigner who taps
at her bedroom door may be called “strong” by
the Ibsen cult, but such virility looks cheap
enough, anyhow.
* * » *
Nance played “Queen Elizabeth" on Satur-
day and Monday. “ Camille ” was to follow, and
to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow the capacious
lady appears as Sir Peter Teazle’s wife. On
Saturday the production of “Macbeth” will
positively happen.
** * *
The last weeks of Rickards’ show at Mel-
bourne Bijou, prior to its moving into the new
Opera House, are being gladdened by a remark-
able tromboner and a genial mechanical donkey.
Frank Latona, the tramp, is a humorist who
brings along a new joke in the first place
and sundry musical instruments afterwards.
His toy a§s commands shrieks of ap-
plause in between the serious parts of his turn ;
which turn stamps him as an expert performer
with bow and mouth. Latona, in fact, is nearly
all that the advt. calls him, and would be quite all
if the adjectives were a little less numerous,
Austin Rudd, Lizzie Kirk, the De Wynnes,
Leonards, George D’Albert, and- other people are
likewise ministering to the wants of Bijou visitors
in this time of colored poles and social unrest.
*# # *
At the Athenaeum Hall the Biograph that
took snapshots of the Dook’s infants is proceed-
ing as before, and in Exhibition-st. an active little
circus is banging its drum and blowing its own
trumpet with much animation.
** * *
Some unjointed chatter from George Mus-
grove :
I haven’t a photo, of myself. I haven’t had one taken
for eight or nine years.
When the “ Belle of New York ” was running in London
I used to go to the theatre about once a month. No need
to check anything ; £302 a night every night and every
matinee, arid we had eight performances a week.
£60,0l)0? the man who said that I netted that Out of it
—well, I suppose he saw the books. I have another
“ Belle ” running now at the Shaftesbury Theatre. Its
name is “ The Fortune-Telleh” It ran three Seasons irk
America ; and every seat is booked in London for the
next six months.
Augustus Harris had six principal tenors irk his com-
pany. The night came when the tenor set down on the
programme became suddenly ill. Gus. ran round to
the other five. One wouldn’t, one couldn’t, the third
wouldn’t think of going on without being properly
announced the day before ; the fourth had an important
business engagement, and the fifth had a very interesting
novel and was too comfortable to talk business. No ;it
didn’t upset Harris. He was too used to it.
lam quite distinct from Williamson. All business is at
an end between us ; and we are just running in friendly
opposition. When we ran in partnership I stayed in
London and sent all material, pieces, and companies.
Charles Kenningham was principal tenor at the Savoy
when I engaged him, and Tapley occupied the same high
position at the Lyric and the Avenue. Kingston ? I en-
gaged him on his first appearance in London. It was a
matinee, and I arranged with him directly after the per-
formance. He’s got the stuff in him, and is good enough to
play all-round leading man in drama, in London or any-
where else. With the experience that Kingston has gone
through in Australia he should, with his ambition and
enthusiasm, become a finished actor by the time he gets
back to London.
I offered Charles Hawtrey, brother to W. F. Hawtrey,
£lOO a week for a five years’ engagement. He will possibly
earn £5OO a week in America—going as star and sharer in
profits. Little Tich, music-hall artist, wouldn’t go to
America for £4OO a week. Why ? Because he didn’t feel
inclined ; so he broke his contract.
American interviewers ? “ And,” said the American
interviewer, “ of course you think New York city is the
finest city in the world ?’’ “ No,” I said. “ Ah ! you prefer
Washington?” “No!" “Chicago?” “No!” “London?”
“No!” “ St. Petersburg?” “No!” “Vienna?” “No!”
“ Paris ? ” “No ! ” “ What, then, sir, do you think is the
finest city in the world?” I answered —“ Woolloomooloo.”
“ Dog gone me, if ever I heard of it,” he observed. And
next morning he had half-a-column about me and Wooll-
oomooloo.
Six American reporters got around me in an hotel-room
and wouldn’t let me out. “ Gentlemen,” I said, “ what
do you say to to-morrow afternoon ? I’m very tired now.
To-morrow afternoon I’ll give you a couple of hours if you
like.” They didn’t like it, nut, after a conference among
themselves, they consented to leave me alone till the
morrow afternoon. Next morning, however, a telegram
necessitated me leaving before noon, and so I didn’t see
the reporters. But it didn’t matter to them. Each had
a 2col. interview with me in his paper next morning.
At Poverty Point.
Manager Williamson, before leaving America, secured
the option of Australian rights in all plays, present and
future, produced by the almighty Frohman. Among
Frohman’s recent successes are “ L’Aiglon,” wherein
Maud Adams has “ knocked ” New York, “ Zaza,”
“ Sherlock Holmes,” “ Under Two Flags,” and “ Madame
Butterfly,” the latter, a short play with some remarkable
effects, being a big “go ” in London. All these are
likely to be staged by J.C.W. anon, as the first results of
his important ’Murkan contract.
News comes that Williamson was on the spot when his
Italian Opera artists were finally selected, and he reckons
that the enthusiastic Hazon is not overrating them. The
programme for the first three or four weeks is fixed.
They open (June Ist) in “ Aida,” with Larizza in the
tenor part; “Lucia” and “ Ernani ” come next, and
then “La Boheme ” will be introduced to Australia,
“ Otello,” “Romeo and Juliet,” and the more ancient
“La Favorita ” are also listed for a first production
this side of the line. Mr. Williamson, having heard
Melba in the opera, was much impressed by“La Boheme.”
It should get a fair show at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) next
June, for the orchestra is to number 41, and the chorus
is the most Federal body of singers that any Australian
management has ever collected. Voices have been
brought from Sydney, Adelaide, Hobart, and Brisbane,
but—says George Tallis—the choristers were mostly en-
gaged in Melbourne, “ which seems to be the best of all
recruiting-grounds. ”
A certain tenor has never been desperately popular
with local petticoat-wearers since a malicious rumor ran
that he had said, after his Faust debut: “ Vimmens lofe
me now, but ven dhey schall schee my Lohengrin dhey
sehall be mad mit lofe ! ”
Tom Kennedy, who looks after the Distressed Actors,
has had a distress of his own lately. A while ago long
Thomas suffered the serious accident of falling casually
down a cellar hole at a restaurant where he had never
before had reason to suspect an opening in the floor. The
question of a benefit for the damaged hon. sec. of the
D.A. Fund is being held over until the return of president
J. 0. Williamson to Melb.
Melbourne’s awakening to Nance O’Neil’s true dramatic
value seems to have been hastened by her La Tosca per-
formance. It *vas bound to come, anyhow. Rather
strange to say, many of the women—other than pen-
women—who were Nance’s hottest admirers at the outset
of her first season in Melbourne, are now vehemently ad-
mitting their loss of faith in the unconvincing stormstress.
As for the local press “ critics ” of both sexes, they have
so far committed themselves to the worship o< Nance,
that they couldn’t now see their way to go back on it if
they wanted to.
Tenor Louis Arens, late of the Musgrove Grand Opera
Co., has gone to Prague. He would have stayed had his
salary been increased, but Muzzy would not pay him
more than the £3O a week he was then receiving. A
commendable decision : the excessive payments made to
some grand-opera artists are not to the advantage of Art.
When a manager pays these thumping big salaries he has
to make things balance by cutting down orchestra or
chorus, or the minor performers.
Snazelle’s biograph, “ Our Navy,” which opens at the
Palace Theatre, Sydney, next Saturday, is about the onlv
show that seems at all likely to benefit by the “ York'”
flutter. In Bendigo last week the public were found to
be loyally affected by the fact that the little Dook is
something of a naval officer, and the biz. for Snazzy’s
instructive Bio. Song and Story entertainment was boom-
some.


The City Leader of 28th July, 1900, writes
regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited : “ The security of this office is unchallengeable,
for its funds are ever increasing and now stand at
£2,385,266, including the sum of £123,609 which has been
added during the year.”*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have now
completed and handed over their contract for the supply
and erection of a bucket dredging plant for the Ovens
Valley Gold Dredging Co., Pore Punkah, Victoria. The
work was done in record time, and the plant started off
and has continued to work without a hitch. Messrs.
Richardson and Blair, the engineers for the Ovens Valley
Co., express themselves delighted with the class of
machinery supplied and the expeditious and satisfactory
manner in which the contract has been carried out.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
flUan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* -Jr * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances. *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* » * •
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * ♦
Birthday, Yic. : Lewis, the former boss, has
taken the place of the man who got himself the sack
by writing a letter, the discovery of which he admitted
was an “ unfortunate circumstance.” For two years the
show has paid regular monthly divs. of 2s. ; reef small,
and sometimes erratic. Men who examined the mine
after one div. often wondered where the next was coming
from, but it always arrived, nevertheless. Mine looking
remarkably well in the bottom. Shares, 70s. ; have been
much higher, and not likely at present to go any lower.
* » * •
Birthday South (Vic.): Shaft 600 ft. For years
have been developing the northern ground trying to pick
up the Birthday run of stone, which has been worked to
within 200 ft. of its boundary, and good gold in the face.
Recently a prospecting drive was put out south, and
after going about 100 ft. a reef was struck, and has since
been driven on over 50ft., from 2ft. to Bft. thick, payable
all the way, and from 2oz. to 3oz. stone in the face. Looks
like a new mine, and there is no reason why the reef
should not be carried right up to the surface, but much
will depend on the length of the shoot. Shares, till
recently a few shillings, now 175., and worth at least Is.
more for every foot the level is extended on payable
stone.
Hem yark [ife Insurance (Jo.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
fHOS. P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT SJREET, SYDNEY
APPLY—
“ ENGLAND’S FRVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
—’ '' ' ■—w—^
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting: Charges.
Nv. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-ft., Adel.; 37 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. Jambs’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (08/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaohfng Powder, Mining Requisites.
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The half-yearly report of the National Bank of
Australasia (Melbourne) shows a further slight increase
in profits, and for the second half-year in succession the
ordinary shareholders get a 3 per cent, dividend, though
the margin after paying it is certainly very small. The
doings of the National Bank in recent years have been
after this fashion : s
a g
10 , ° <V • °
to <u o a> cs o a> o r
2 | 852 8* Sg-S S*
fi £ coSoO Hrt
Sept., 1895 £13,763 £7644}
March, 1896 10,523 £lOO,OOO 7644} 12,437
Sept., 1896 11,706 7644} 16,498
March, 1897 14,712 7644} 23,566
Sept., 1897 18,275 7644} 34,196
March, 1898 15,472 \ 7644 i 87,480
For. shares 45,456/ 1
Sept., 1898 17,602 7644} 97,437
March, 1899 12,324 7644} 102 ’1 1 '
Sept., 1899 19,246 7644} 113,718
March 1900 22,1521 68>0 00 7644} 65,204
For. shares 4,978 /
(£476,976 capital written off)
Sept., 1900 27,065 7644} £17,887 66,737
March, 1901 28,448 7644} 17,887 69,654
The earnings are at the rate of £3 12s. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ capital as at the commence-
ment of the half-year (preference capital, £305,780 ; ordi-
nary capital, £1,192,440 ; reserves, £66,737). This is cer-
tainly a far better return than is shown by the A.J.S.
Bank, and better than the Oity Bank of Sydney. On the
other hand it is rather below the Bank of Victoria, and
far below some other Victorian banks —such as the
Colonial, Royal, and Ballarat Banking Co. And as this
position of affairs cannot now be ascribed to the payment
of an exorbitant 4} per cent, interest rate on recon-
structed deposits (these having been wholly cleared off)
the rate seems low enough to suggest that a little further
writing down of the assets might not be out of place.
During the last six months the note circulation
of the National Bank has increased about £30,000 ; bills
in circulation have increased about £300,000 ; and de-
posits have increased by about £556,000. Also cash
and liquid securities stand at the very massive figure
of £3,464,264 —representing no less than 43 per cent, of
all liabilities to the public. The National Bank’s holding
of State and municipal securities alone amounts to
£768,610. From a depositors’ point of view the National
is one of the really strong banks of this country, but from
a shareholders’ standpoint it might have been better in the
end if another £250,000 or so of capital had been written off
last year. Further, it would certainly be much better if
the dividend on ordinary shares was kept down to 2} per
cent. The 5 per cent, dividend on preference capital and
the 3 per cent, paid to ordinary shareholders absorb
almost the whole earnings, and the process of rebuilding
the shattered reserves is now exceedingly slow. A sum of
£69,654 (of which only £19,220 is accumulated profit, the
other £50,434 being forfeited capital) is a miserably in-
adequate reserve for an institution of the National’s size,
and a much more serious effort should be made to
strengthen it.
• * * •
The Bank of Australasia :
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
April, 1896.. £40,568.. 5 per cent. = £40,000.. £812,222
Oct., 1896.. 40,400.. 5 ~ = 40,000.. 812,622
April, 1897.. 45,376.. 5 „ = 40,000.. 817,993
Oct., 1897.. 40,278.. 5 „ = 40,000.. 818,276
April, 1898.. 48,546 j written off = lo.’ooo} 808 > 822
Oct., 1893.. 64,148 { 6 w K“'i : 1S( “>•»»
April, 1899.. 56,312.. 7 per cent. = 56,000.. 810,282
Oct., 1899.. 119,8711 written off = 20^000} 846,153
f 9percent. = 72,000)
April, 1900.. 148,422 2 °’ oo ° \ 88 7>575
I plov6s = 15,000 J
Oct.. 1800.. 161,460{%t5« : US} “■»«
The £75,000 written off has all been applied in reduction
of the paper-value of the bank’s premises, and the bonus
to employes is by way of partial refund of reductions
made in salaries during 1895-6-7. The profits shown
above are at the rate of £l2 3s. 7d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of the half-
year. The two big Anglo-Australian banks have apparently
been fishing very successfully of late in the troubled
waters at the London end of their business, for such
profits as they have been making are very rare in Austral-
asia just now. The ’Asia has added £129,000 to its
reserves in the last two years, so there is no possible
doubt that it is doing well; in fact, so far as all available
records show, the year just ended has been the most
profitable in all its long existence of 66 years.
The Mutual Life Association of Australasia: —
Interest, Total Added to
Premiums. &c. Income. Expenses. Funds.
1893 .. £146,762 £52,525 £199,287 £40,959 £54,748
1894 .. 141,994 53,235 195,229 40,698 46,514
1895 .. 141,822 53,543 195,365 38,114 38,782
1896.. 143,138 54,584 197,722 41,912 47,993
1897 .. 151,203 57,373 208,576 41,676 54,433
1898 . 158,118 58,079 216,197 42,502 67,411
1899 . 174,645 58,880 233,525 44,117 101,759
1900 .. 181,827 62,249 244,076 50,182 78,249
The income, at all events, shows a handsome improve-
ment, and the total funds are now £1,437,612. But while
the income has increased by £10,551 as compared with
1899, the expenses have increased by £6065, which con-
siderably raises the expense-rate for the year. The
Mutual Life Association’s expense-rate, in proportion to
income has been as follows :
1891 .. £23 18 2 per cent.
1892 .. 22 2 7
1893 .. 20 11 0 „
1894 .. 20 16 11
1895 .. 19 10 2
1896 .. £2l 3 11 per cent.
1897 .. 19 19 7 „
1898 .. 19 13 2
1899 .. 18 17 10
1900 .. 20 11 2
The increase in the rate is a considerable one, and it is all
the more unaccountable because the new premiums (it is
new business which is always supposed to involve the
heaviest expenses) are no larger, in proportion to total
premiums than they were in 1898, and are smaller in pro-
portion to total premiums than in 1899.
Another regrettable feature, but an unavoidable
one, is the further fall in interest earnings. Every Aus-
tralasian life office is troubled this way. The interest
earnings for 1900 were at the rate of £4 9s. per cent, on
the average funds for the year, which compares with
some previous earnings, as follows
1891 £5 8 2 per cent. 1896 £4 18 2 per cent.
1892 510 2 1897 418 7
1893 5 7 7 „ 1898 414 11 „
1894 5 310 „ 1899 410 0 „
1895 5 0 2 „ 1900 4 9 0 „
The Mutual Life Association has abundantly
provided for this fall by reducing its estimate of future
interest earnings to 34 per cent., so there is a large
margin of safety. And as the fall in interest can’t go on
(or ever, It may be that an upward movement will set in
before it is necessary to get down to a 3 per cent, basis.
The Association still adheres to its laudable practice of
writing off losses and depreciation every year. Most
offices allow these matters to accumulate until the tri-
ennial or quinquennial investigation comes round ; others
follow the still worse practice of not writing off losses but
keeping the old values of depreciated properties standing
on one side of the account, with a reserve against them
on the other ; and one or two have been suspected
of sometimes keeping the inflated values standing without
any adequate reserve, which is worst of all. The Mutual
Life Association adopts the only absolutely sound principle.
It would do no harm if a little more information was sup-
plied re such items as “ Debentures, £78,515 ” ; and the
fact that the Association holds £91,569 worth of foreclosed
property—nearly £19,000 more than it did a year ago—is
a regrettable, though probably inevitable, circumstance.
Until the property-market improves, foreclosed property
seems likely to be a large item in every life office’s balance-
sheet. But, all the same, the Mutual Life Association
stands higher above the breath of suspicion than most
institutions, and it has always been remarkable for the
absence of doubtful or paper assets from its accounts.
Even such an- item as “ outstanding premiums,” which
certainly can’t be called very papery in its character, is
eliminated.
• • • •
The Carlton Brewery, Limited (Melbourne),
after tottering on the verge of great grief for a long time,
has at last made an arrangement with its debenture-
holders under which it should pull through. The Carlton
Brewery, at the date of last balance-sheet, had a deficit,
even if all its capital was written off, of £343,440. It had
some £681,000 of debentures, most, if not all, falling due
in 1902, but as it had lost all its capital, and more than
half the debenture money, payment was naturally im-
possible. On the other hand, the co. had a very good
paying business (its losses were not on its beer, but
mostly on its property transactions in the boom days),
and was making over £15,000 a year net. Therefore,
it appeared that if the debenture-holders demanded
their money at the due date they stood a
fair chance of losing it all; whereas if they were content
to wait they could get their interest in the meantime and
have a reasonable prospect of getting the principal later
on, when the deficit was made good by slow degrees out
of earnings. It took them fully three years to see the
point, but they have finally decided to renew for 10 years
at 3 percent, interest; half the profits of the brewery to
go in reduction of the principal of the debentures. On
these terms, and assuming a fair and reasonable public
thirst, Carlton Brewery should get over its difficulties.
* * * »
Tooth and Co. Limited, the great Sydney brew-
ing firm, earned £44,898 gross, or £39,898 after making
allowance for depreciation, for the half-year to 31st
March, 1901. This compares with some previous results
after this manner :
Profits Total
less Depre- Dividends. Reserves,
ciation.
March, 1897 £40,055 7 per cent. = £31,500 £78,441
Sept., 1897 33,074 7 „ = 31,500 80,015
March, IS9B 40,278 7 „ 31,500 88,793
Sept., 1898 33,625 7 „ 31,500 90,918
March, 1899 40,741 7 31,500 100,159
Sept., 1899 35,706 7 „ = 31,500 104,365
March, 1900 37,979 7 31,500 110,844
Sept., 1900 36,451 7 „ = 31.500 115,795
March, 1901 39,898 7 , = 31,500 124,193
During the 4J years covered by the above figures £25,000
has been written off for depreciation of plant, and the
reserves have been increased by £54,307, so the Tooth co.
has been doing remarkably weil, all things considered.
• * • •
Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tasmania), on whose
line the passenger gets there gradually in an antiquated
carriage at a first-class fare of fourpence a mile, presents
a third disastrous-looking balance-sheet. The visible
loss is by no means the whole trouble, bad as that is. A
further grief is the large amount of paper assets in the
balance-sheet. “Rights acquired under V.D.L. Co.’s
Waratah-Zeehan Railway Act and other concessions,
£100,000,” is apparently a purely good-will item, which
should be wholly disregarded,,for the rights and conces-
sions of a line that is making a dead loss are worth less
than nothing—for the present, at all events. “ Prelimi-
nary expenses (including £37,433 on issue of debentures),
£42,124,” is also an item that is no real asset at all. If
these paper items are disregarded, and only saleable
assets dealt with, the situation appears to be somewhat
as follows : _ ,
Further Loss by Total
Ordinary Increase of Visible
Loss. Purely Paper Deficit.
Assets.
1893 .. £1395 £104,404
1899 .. 5078 £39,055 148,537
1900 .. 9181 , 60 157,778
There are a good many things wrong with the
Emu Bay Railway Co. in addition to the inevitable
troubles that attend any new railway in a thinly-peopled
country. The original shareholders put up £160,000 cash
(of which £57,778 appears to be more or less gone) to build
a line which (including surveying, railway and rolling-
stock) seems to have cost £394,535. The other £lOO,OOO
which makes up the £260,000 ordinary paid-up capital
went in the shape of shares to the vendor—whoever he
might be, and whatever he might have to vend—and this
£lOO,OOO, having no assets to represent it, makes
up the deficit of £157,778. Said £160,000 was, of
course, hopelessly inadequate for the construction of a
£394,000 railroad. Then instead of putting up the rest of
the money themselves the original shareholders started
raising it elsewhere at insane rates of interest. They bor-
rowed £200,000 on debentures at 6 per cent., and as the
expenses of floating these debentures were about £38,000,
the money really cost £6 3s. per cent. Further, a suni of
over £lO,OOO is deposited with trustees as security for the
debenture-holders’ interest, and if the co. loses the inter-
est on this, the cost of the borrowed money is really about
£6 11s. per cent. Further, £77,172 was raised by the
issue of preference shares which must receive 8 per cent,
dividend before the ordinary shareholders can get any-
thing, and these same preference shares have a claim on
4 per cent, whether it is earned or not.
Further, the Emu Bay Railway Co. only owns
half the line from Emu Bay to Zeehan. The section to
Waratah is merely leased. It was built by the V.D.L.
Co. and sold by that awful land monopoly to the Emu
Bav and Mount Bischoff Railway Co. of London (£60,000
paid-up capital and £130,900 in 4J per cent, debentures,
so the value of this section of 48 miles seems to be about
£190,000). The Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co. made
no dividends in 1895-6-7. Then the Emu Bay Railway
Co. leased this utterly unpayable section for 99 years at
£lO,OOO a year—to earn which it required to make nearly
6 per cent, clear profit out of a railway which was then
earning practically no profit at all. It has also a
right of purchase for £198,000. With half its railway
borrowed at nearly 6 per cent, interest, and the other half
largely built with money borrowed at somewhere between
£6 3s. and £6 11s. per cent., the Emu Bay Railway Co.
naturally makes heavy losses (it is difficult to see how it
can ever hope to make anything else). Meanwhile the old
Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co., which gets £lO,OOO a
year for the loan of its scrap of line, pays its shareholders
5 per cent, dividends. If the State had built the whole
concern with money borrowed at 3£ per cent, and no pre-
liminary expenses or debenture floating expenses, and no
£lOO,OOO for “rights and concessions” it would pay its
way at far less than existing rates—at least the evidence
seems to point that way. But there are hardly three
railways in Australasia which would have a ghost of a
show under the insane conditions with which the Emu
Bay Co. has to struggle. Despite the awful leasing
arrangement the co. would have shown a small profit last
year if its own line had been all built with its own
money. The interest bill caused the whole loss. Almost
every private railway in these States comes to grief
because the shareholders won’t put their own money into
their own speculation, but must needs go borrowing at
high interest. A co. which won’t back its own spec,
freely with its own money can’t get other people’s money
at a cheap rate.
* * . • •
South Australian Brewing Co., Limited, Ade-
laide , ,
Total
Profits. Dividends, &e. Reserves.
February,lB99 .. £9,905
„ 1901.. 29,1® {ISroV- I® «.*“
The S.A. Brewing Co. has been 13 years in existence, but
apparently the first 11 of these were none too profitable,
seeing that out of £22,615 reserves £12,710 are the ac-
cumulation of the last two years. The present outlook,
however, appears good enough, last 3’ear’s profits, less
depreciation, representing 8 per cent, on the paid-up
capital of £250,000. A sum of £200,900 owing on 5 per
cent, debentures is the worst feature in the case.
* * * *
The 41 Otago (M.L.) dredges averaged, week
before last, 340 z. gold each.
» • * *
During the quarter ending March 31 there were
330 summonses issued in Dunedin Magistrates’ Court for
the recovery of unpaid calls on dredging shares. (M.L.
dredging companies are mostly limited-liability, not no-
liability, affairs).
* * * *
Instead of recovering, the lead market remains
unsteady, with the price bobbing up and down a trifle
over £i2. The Junction, which put its new re-treat-
ment plant to work in a final sprint to keep its head
above water, has thrown up the sponge, and (writer 8
supply of metaphors is exhausted), sacked everybody but
the watchman. The directors say the re-treatment plant
(that is, the plant which was used to pick a bit more of
the metals out of the tailings) did good work, and could
have paid with lead at £l3. Suspension of labor con-
ditions for six months has b'een applied for ; it s many a
day since a main-lode B.H. mine directorate had to be so
humble. All the same, it is better for everybody that the
mine should be closed for a while than that the recent
policy of picking out the eyes and jeopardising the
stability of the workings should be continued.
• * * *
Applications for suspension of labor conditions
have prettv often been part of a wage-reducing scheme ;
and on the board of the Junction are men whom the
workers don’t trust a bit. Why, however, can’t suspen-
sion of labor conditions be accompanied by terms
offering the men some protection for the future?
“Right,” the Minister might say, “ I’ll absolve you from
doing what you have covenanted to do if for 12 months
(or two years, or any other term) you agree to submit
every dispute as to wages to arbitration.”
• * * * *
Block 14 is discharging men, and keeping the
rest at work on the richer stuff. The B.H. Prop., how-
ever, is working on different lines ; instead of discharging,
it is absorbing the best men from the other mines. At
the end of Dec. last, it had 2426 men at work
on the mine; at the end of March, 2776. The
Central (Sulphide Corporations) and Block 10 are
doing the same ; so that, in spite of the shutting-down of
two mines and the discharge of men from three others,
6480 men were employed at the end of the third week in
April as against 6862 at the beginning of the year—a re-
duction of only 382. Metallurgist Savage, of the Sul-
phide Corporation, has come back from Europe with
authority to extend the reducing plant near Newcastle in
several directions with the object of bringing costs down
further. And as Mr. Savage returns, Mr. H. H. Schlapp,
his old chief and tutor at the B.H. Prop., leaves for his
first long spell since his arrival in Australia under en-
gagement to the Broken Hill Co. 14 years ago.
British B.H. made a profit of £21,393 for the
half-year to the end of December, and will pay a shilling
div. The result is disappointing, remembering that the
big fall in lead-value did not occur until the half-year was
over. It seemed likely that the co. would decide to shut
down till the market recovered a bit ; but, instead, opera-
tions will be curtailed ; the mill will run broken time on
only the better-grade ore. Of this, by the way, there
isn’t too much ; for prospecting has, on the whole, been
disappointing, and much development work is required.
Dredging returns from Jembaicumbene (N.S.
Wales) swamp (the co. seems to have about 180 acres of
good dredging ground) :
Fortnight ending 16th Feb. .. .. 102’400z.
~ 2nd March .. .. 94 - 70 oz.
~ 16th March .. .. 88 - 40 oz.
~ 30th March .. .. 97‘280z.
~ 13th April .. .. 77 - 640 z.
~ ~ 27th April .. .. 89’120z.
Average for 12 weeks, 45'SOoz. per week.
> * * •
N.S.W. dredges: The Kiandrahas paid another
div., so that the dredge of which least has been said has
made the best performance. Turon No. 1,31 oz. ; No. 2,
2loz. for 8 days ; sellers, 10s.; no buyers. Latter got all
they wanted at £3 and upwards. It was going to pay
divs. last year, but there seems no prospect of any this.
Araluen Valley, 18oz. for 8| days ; Macquarie No. 1,120 z.
for a week; Macquarie No. 2,650 z. for a month;
Colombo, 21 oz. ; the boom has gone, but more dredges
’are being built. Dredging depression is also reported
from M.L.
* • • *
To an enquirer, “Pilica” An English crowd
(Mines Selection Co.) sent out a well-equipped party for
12 months’ prospecting in the M’Donnell Ranges, and
found nothing. Know nothing of any 40-head mill up
there. No co. has ever paid a div. out of anything in the
district, and the seasons have been so bad that the coun-
try is now practically abandoned. No word for "gold"
exists in the blackfellows’ language in the centre of S.A.
They have a word for “ quartz,” and plenty of
buck reefs abound, but gold is mostly more than unpay-
able. Consider it worst place in the world to go for
wages, and nearly as bad for minerals.
♦ * * *
Gympie actually paid four divs. lately, and Ch.
Towers three ; depression on latter field still very marked.
Golden Gate Mill, on Towers, crushed 315 tons for 1828ozs.
» * * •
Lake View W. A. : The rumoured new issue of
50,000 shares officially denied, and another manager-
well, departed. What a pleasant billet the managership
of the Lake View mine must be 1 The man who can do it
without an everlasting nightmare must be a nerveful in-
dividual. When M'Kinnon reported in Aug. last that
there were only 70,000 tons of ore-reserves left in the
mine, the future of which depended entirely on new de-
velopments, he was called to London, and the publication
of his report was delayed till his arrival. Rumoured that
it was first intended to quarrel with him in London, but,
like Callahan the year before, he carried too many guns for
Whittaker Wright, and went back at an increased salary
—to find, k la Callahan, another man in his place. Of
course, in his absence, marvellous developments took
place which M'Kinnon probably has not been allowed to
se e—he might have looked on them with jaundiced eye.
One report says the mine has made another rich strike,
worth 15 to 18oz., at the 200 ft. level in a cross-cut west of
the main lode, and that shipments are to be renewed.
Even shipments will never send the shares to the price
they once reached, and rumors of them and rich develop-
ments have next to no effect on the market. Fourteen
times bitten, &c.
• « * *
Golden Horseshoe, W.A. : Last month’s output
was 15,0000 z. as usual. £60,000 worth of gold for an ex-
penditure of probably less than £20,000. Whence comes
the yarn published in all the eastern dailies two or three
weeks ago that the reef had not been cut in the cross-cut
at the 700 ft. level at the point expected, and that fear
was entertained that the lode was going back into the
Great Boulder, whence it came, although it was 30ft.
inside the boundary in the level above? Shares were
then £9 10s., they are now £l3 10s. —and probably thou-
sands have been over-sold meanwhile. Probably the
publication of this par. has made some people sit up—
£1,200,000 appreciation in two weeks, gross market valua-
tion £4,050,000 !! Just imagine it—for a 24-acre block
with the lode from which it gets four-fifths of its gold
running along the Boulder boundary, the main reef of
which mine changes its underlay with depth and has a
decided easterly underlay at 900 ft. Imagine, too, a 24-
acre block being worth £4,000,000, buildings included, even
in the very centre of Sydney or Melbourne. Also the
difference in the character of the investment: one
every month £60,000 is taken away from it for all time,
the other is practically indestructible and appreciate#
with time and people.
* ♦ * *
Perseverance, W.A. : Adelaide Critic, for
which paper the writer used to have some respect, says
The Bulletin still flaunts the lie that this mine is. heavily
in debt, and proceeds to show to its own satisfaction that
it is quite out of debt and making a big profit. The
statement is based on a circular issued in Feb., and giving
details only up to Nov. A cursory glance at it might
convey the impression that the co. was free from debt,
but a careful reading proves that £116,000 had then been
spent on the new plant, and this had not been reim-
bursed. The Bulletin cannot help the Critic s dullness.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-^
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
$ Barrack Sts., SydQcy
Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
"piFFECTUALLY stops Lung Hemorrhage and Wasting.
Cures and imparts strength to resist Influenza,
Colds and Headaches. The Remedy is a Chill Tonic
in the Depression and Weakness of Chronic Cases.
Is. and 2s. If not obtainable locally send stamps,
2s. 6d.
R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist,
3 Garroway’s Buildings, Melbourne ;
or, 55 Elgin Street, Carlton, Melbourne.
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling end soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
H ill the Jooko; ork shoot ’em—fl at is to
say, knight ’em on sfg.u ? Will lie simply tell ’em
to Arise Sir Smith,” or will the process -be
surrounded . by the usual red-tape, back-door,
underground-engineering preliminaries ? What a
god he would be if Smith and Brown and their
wives only knew for sure that he could and would
give away handles” promiscuously and without
notice and purely “ on his own ! ”
* * * *
( ~usfc a ft<?r writing the above we read that
:‘ Mr - A. Mosley, Chairman of Gibraltar Cliam-
ber of Commerce, presented the Duke of Corn-
wall with an address when he landed at ‘ the
Kock and in return, according to London papers,
had the insignia of St. Michael and St. George
pinned to lus breast.” What an encouragement
tor Australian bounders! The Prince evidently
lias a bag of stars slung round his shoulders, into
which ne can dip-like a fielder on the racecourse
when he has to pay-out.
* * * *
‘‘lt is expected that, although the Duke
Cornwall will not lay the foundation-stone, he
will Visit the N.S.W. Art Gallery incognito.”
By the way, if the .Took visits Melb. Art Gallery
incognito, let him carry a hatchet under his cloak
to chop up Herkomer’s picture of his grand-
mother.
* * * *
Brisbane intends “going it” with a ven-
geance next month. Big show at Exhibition ;
York lays the foundation-stone of a new Anglican
cathedral; and two men are to be hanged in Bo»go
.Koad gaol about the same time.
THE DIFFERENCE.
THE PRINCIPAL BOY : "Do you think tights make
a woman look shorter?”
THE BOLD BAD BARON: “ I dunno; but they
make a man look longer!”
A new aspect of the Plague question.
Brisbane Courier :
We should never forgive ourselves if an epidemic of
plague were to begin just as we were expecting the Duke
and Duchess of Cornwall and York.
The Courier could easily forgive themselves if
the Plague came and carried off scores of common
citizens, but if it scared off the Dook, that organ
would give one great howl of agony and expire.
Snobbery—thy name is Courier !
* * * *
The Plague and the Smallpox and the
Yorks are all coming. In fact some of them have
arrived.
* * * *
Stated (hat the Ophir carries a complete
embalming outfit—just in case, you know ! Apro-
pos, the late Queen’s funeral cost £35,000, of which
£15,000 went in travelling expenses and food for
the troops, and £9OOO in the entertainment of
foreign visitors.
* * * *
“Coronella ” from Melbourne :
The greasy, slavish churches do not utter even the
the late Oueeif ° n ;. Also ’ *—s for
”” ?. Sjueen—yet celebrating all we know ' £2500 for
one display of fireworks, whileVndreds o? peopfe starve!
* * * *
• f ,‘‘ s P e< ;ially-selected horse ” has been
picked by the N.S.W. Police Department for
York* fa 1 l° f «'?. Pu , ke of York. If the Duke of
<Piwn t o a r h ° rSe 1* wilI > of course, be set
•■ mn al lnd f d f *° f , the specially-selected
animal, and if it proves that the policeman who
hrst recommended it didn’t fully approve of the
vfll hlco h i ovidenceof a deep-laid conspiracy
for n J P e a' i T 16 m -j n who selects the horse
nrovo i duke t 0 ri . de on should be able to
and sho. nl 81X Seoorations of intense Jingoism,
and should keep the British flag waving over
Ins house continuously for three months in order
to escape suspicion should York drop off.
Said a Southern Mayor after the Citizens’
lad f decl(ler j that ' lt was wiser to feed
the poor than to spend money in flags and frip-
peries on the occasion of the Cornwall visitation •
HiiknviT'm u 5O t 0 h n e r lp bri^hten file place for
■H-is Royal Highness. My money is not going to
nhl Pf;OP m’ and rU transfei ' to the ladies’ com
™„ + tee y, 1 i'ey °an use it to decorate the Queen’s
urnmhio „ Thl f, w “ not a public utterance but a
grumbling aside to two or three colleagues, who
grinned but made no response. His worship is
very anxious for a knighthood.
* * * *
The Melb. Anglican Cathedral authorities
frfr V fb PU v th i ei B f ° 0t m a hole over the scaffolding
f f nlbo i Y T kI rOCeS , SIOn - The City Corporation
talks about taxing their land on the ground that
it is no longer used solely for religious purposes.
* * * *
One of the sweetest of Yorklunacy surges-
ions was contributed to a Melbourne paper by an
anonymous ‘Flora.” This ingenious nymph wrote:
H.o Pl f P ° Se fhat there be ‘floral gates’ placed at
t ™ riVi an ° e •*? Pnnoe ? Fridge, to be opened by
two little maidens at the approach of their Royal
Highnesses If this could be accomplished I
think it would have a novel and pleasing effect.”
Ilora truly reveals the influence of Royalty on
the average mind, and especially the average
female mind. She thinks of the York and
X uchess not as ordinary worldlings dedicated bv
Dhance to the service of a certain practical system
Dt Government which represents their only claim
to importance, but as a fairy prince and princess
in a panto, spectacle. The real official personage
and his matter-of-fact wife are to be glorified
mummers in a well-staged show. That’s how
I lora, and her like, understand the case, and there-
tore she suggests a pair of floral gates on the Royal
path and a pair of “ little maidens ” to open them.
And why not ? Also, why not grace the York-
opening of the I ederal Parliament with a ballet
selection from “ Florodora?”
* * » *
4. a e TzR l i tk^.^ s raake his official landing
at bt. Kilda Pier, and the ukase has gone forth
that no female welcoiner is to be allowed on to
the jetty to meet him. To this rule there is to be
no exception Her Excellency the Countess and
the wife of the Vic. Chief Justice alike being de-
barred from trespassing thereon. The reason
guen is that the officials wish to prevent any
trifle such as the pushing into the water of a stray
woman or two from marring the pleasure of the
august visitor.
* • » »
Bendigonians are very wroth over the re-
fusal of the Jook to visit their city. H.R.H. will
miss at lot if he does not see Bendigo. Prince
Alfred made a little pile locally in the way of pre-
? e “ t ; s ’ and might have carried away tons of scrip
but he drew the line right there. Diamond rings
were more m his line ! b
* * * *
The poor, over-worked, ill-paid public-
school teacher is expected to be, at his own
expense, a standing advertisement of the Jingoism
of every blatant lat Man who is too mean to nay
for his own Jingo. In N.S.W., since the war-
craze started many of the smaller-salaried
teachers have been bullied out of as much as ten
per cent, of their scanty salaries in pay inf the
patriotic ” subscriptions truculently ” sug-
gested to them by Minister Perry or his satraps.
Now the same Perry has struck another
idea (one which he has borrowed from
Victoria, by the way, where it was originated by
the dreadful F Sargood, M.L.C., now Senator
by the grace of David Syme). It is that, when
the hrst Commonwealth Parliament is opened
there is to be a simultaneous hoisting of the Union
Jack at all the schools in the Commonwealth—
the teachers to find the flags and flag-poles, either
out of their own money, or by passing round the
weary hat after their day’s drudgery is finished.
Why aren t bargood and Perry men enough to
pay for their own grovel ? Here, by the way, is
a circular which reaches The Bulletin by post:
24 York Street (Sydney),
T , a . , . April 19th, 1901.
Deal Sir, In accordance with the decision of the
Premiers and Ministers of Education of the different
States, a simultaneous hoisting of the “ Grand Old
Flag” of the Empire will take place on all State
schools and public buildings throughout the Com-
monwealth, on the occasion of the opening of the
hrst Australian Parliament on the 9th May Her
Royai Highness, the Duchess of Cornwall and York
will give a signal which will be immediately trans-
INSULT TO INJURY.
THE BEAT (after nearly clearing up the counter-
lunch): “ What sorter blooming hotel do yer
call this? Why, yer got no blanky fruit !”
nritted throughout the Federated States as a prelude
to the hoisting ceremony.
We have pleasure in thus early communicating this
information to you in order that, should any in-
quiries be made for “ Union Jacks ” in connection
with the above function for any State school or pub-
lic building in your district, you may be in a position
to cater for the same.
Our Stocks, in answer to cables, are as follows :
6x;i Printed Wool Bunting .. .. 8/-each.
2x4-6 Sewn Wool Bunting .. ..19/6 ~
all roped and toggled, ready for hoisting.
Trusting to receive your orders,
SARGOOD, Butler, Nichol & Ewen.
Sargood ? Sargood ? Where have we heard that
name ?
* * * •
Geelong is bursting with rage over the
.look’s visit. According to the first arrangement
all Geelong was to see of the great apparition was
to consist of a 15 minutes stoppage at the railway
station. The sad little town on Corio Bay com-
plained that this was an insufficient allowance of
.Took, arid Premier Peacock’s Government offered
to let the royal train slow-down as it approached
the town, so that if York happened to be near the
window those townspeople who chanced to stand
on the right side of the line might see him if they
jumped three or four feet in the air. And Geelong
replied with indignation that it wasn’t going out
in its tallest bell-topper and longest coat-tail to
jump ridiculously on a windy plain to see anybody.
The Peacock party may now consider Geelong a
lost constituency.
AFTER THE
SPREE.
LITTLECHAP: “ Say, Jiylets, the
wife did perform when I
got home.”
JIGLETS: “ Mine — hie — didn’t say a word.”
LITTLECHAP: “ Scott! How did you work it?”
JIGLETS: “ Didn’ go ’ome!”
The Mayor of Sydney says that the ques-
tion of “ doss-houses ” for the homeless poor must
“ sooner or later ”be taken up. With a severe
winter coming along, the Mayor would do well to
take the question up “sooner.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Let rne once more call
attention to the gross cruelty to bus-horses in-
volved in the greasy state of the blocks in Oxford-
street, Sydney, after a little rain. Saw three
bus-horses down one day this week. The strain
on the animals with a loaded bus is terrible ; and
when they reach the top of the hill they are
trembling and covered with sweat. To anyone
who cares for horses, the sight is sickening, and
all for want of a little inexpensive top-dressing.—
Boko. [Absolutely true. —Ed. B.]
Leaks out casually that N.S.W. Govt, has
been spending £lOOO per month in rat-killing.
The capitation costs 6d. per head, which would ac-
count for 40,000 rodents per month, ’supposing
that no other items are included in the £lOOO.
Premier See’s announcement that he intends to
reduce this expenditure has aroused vigorous
protest. Ratcatching has now assumed the pro-
portions of a “ vested interest.”,
“ Shellback ” to The Bulletin :
By an order recently issued under the authority of the
Victorian Ports and Harbours Department it is directed
that the entrance to Port Phillip shall he closed to all
common or garden vessels from 8 to 10 a.m. on May 6th,
and also whilst the Ophir and escorting: cruisers are being
navigated through the Rip ; same orderapplies also to the
South Channel, the only deep water approach to Hobson’s
Bay. Query: What proceedings would betaken in the
event of, say, one of the Vic. colliers disregarding the in-
structions, and poking her grimy nose in front of the
Jook’s procession—for pari icular care is taken not to de-
fine any penalties in case of non-compliance. Said dept,
seems to reserve all its activity for engineering Royal
“ oorrobborees” and Lady Loch “programmes,” instead
of devoting itself to increased facilities in the matter of
coast lighting and means of inter-communication between
isolated and almost (from shoreward) inaccessible coastal
points. Recent wrecks on Vic. coast, all (with the
Federal exception) point to the absolute necessity for the
immediate erection of a leading light on C. Liptrap, which
in dirty weather would save skippers many an hour’s
anxiety on the long stretch intervening between O.
Schanck and the Promontory, and vice versa.
* • * *
The crew of the yacht Ariadne, recently
wrecked under sue 1 ) queer circumstances on the
M.L. coast, were introduced to the owner by the
Duke of Manchester, and appear to have been
composed of “Johnnies” down on their luck, and
desirous of emulating “ Ye good old English Buc-
caneer.’ They were all “gentlemen working
their passages,” and had a delightfully Socialistic
method of toiling, between intervals of “dining”
with the captain and the owner. One of the crew
informed the Court (privately) that he bad just
received a wire calling him ’ome to a £72,000
legacy, and he wanted the bally proceedings hur-
ried up, doncherknow. Meanwhile, some of the
questions asked by counsel at the inquest, but
carefully left unanswered, leave a nasty taste in
the mouth.
* * * *
An inquiry of a very evil-smelling charac-
ter has just taken place at Sydney Technical
College. It is to he hoped that the papers will
come before Parliament.
“N.’ : Wliafc shocking charnel-
houses, to look into, are the mouths of
too many Australian girls! The teeth
look like a forest, after a blackening,
withering, and blasting bushfire. Or
one might fancy a smashing blow with
a mallet had been struck on all the
teeth at once. Fine young girls, who
can t afford false teeth, appear as crones
with perhaps just two teeth left in front,
and those waggling. It is either this, or
a lot of glaring piauo-lceys for arti-
ficial teeth. Dentists are too prosper-
ous altogether. A radical cure can
no more be expected from them than
Law Reform from the lawyers. Let
me seriously and sympathetically
urge competent inquirers to take this
m hand. It would pay the nation to
see that the growing generation is sup-
plied with good, cheap teeth. Bad teeth
or no teeth cause annually hundreds of
funerals in Australasia.
The Salvation boom which for
t ,Tne lias possessed a way-back
JN.y. W. town has had a bad slump. One
of the most noted converts visited the
local medico’s house, and while in the
waiting-room reduced himself to the con-
dition of Adam before lie took to the
fig-leaf. Thus unarrayed he sought the
doctor’s maid and besought her to hasten
the coming of her master. She’s run-
ning yet ! When the doctor appeared the
convert requested him to operate on his
heart and thus demonstrate to the ungodlv
that it really did contain die Deity !
Let us go down on our knees and thank
Heaven that the toxicological education and
opportunities of the public have been so much
neglected. It is a sad thing, in one sense that
people should still be so barbaric that when they
set about poisoning themselves they should use
such hideously-rudimentarv and agonising agents
as phosphorus, which slowly burns the vitals out •
or strychnine, which compresses a thousand hells
into half-an-hour; or arsenic, which sears the
stomach like a blazing brand. But what mvs-
One of these days, my true love ;
One of these times, you know,
We’ll do what we’d like to do, love,
And go where we’d like to go.
Then you shall be Queen of Hearts, dear,
And I shall be King—Owf Knave,
-J As I was when I took those tarts, dear,
We said I stole —hut you gave 1
Ah, no, you’ll be simply you, dear,
And I shall be only I
Let’s go and do as we’d like to, dear ;
Let’s live till we have to die !
S.F.


The PUREST WHISKFY
-in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
) Australasian Representatives,
' 82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
269 Collins-st.j Melbourne;
i .i.k.z. tin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full .strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
The Boot of the
Ttfftw Century!
If you have not worn THE CALLAGHAN BOOT there is only one way of thoroughly satisfying
yourself of its high merit in comparison with other Boots, and that is
TRYING IT!
Men’s Tan Balmoral Boots, in Russia Calf, with wide welts, carried in pointed, medium and wide
toes—l9/6, 22/6, 25/-, 28/6. Add 1/- for postage.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 Ceorge-st., Sydney.
terious things, and what a lot of them, might
happen if every jealous woman and every cold-
blooded man knew all about, and bad ready access
to, the subtler and more sudden alkaloids !
* * * *
Throughout the abortive trial, at Darling-
hurst, of Jane Smith for the alleged poisoning of
Patrick Conway on board the s.s. Talune, one of
the jurors surprised Bench, Bar and everybody
present by his brisk and breezy examination
of almost every witness. Nearly all his ques-
tions, when answered, told in favor of accused.
Of some witnesses he asked more questions than
Crown Prosecutor Wade and Advocate Reid to-
gether. His Honor occasionally interfered
sharply, but the inquisitive juror held on
tenaciously to the end. He won’t, it is safe to
predict, again be summoned by the Crown.
*.V • *
Acting-Justice Sly followed some old bad
examples in Sydney Criminal Court on April 2(5.
He started the day at the usual hour, and pegged
away at the Patrick Conway alleged murder case
till the lamps were lit. He wound up his charge
to the jury a few minutes after 7 p.m. Then he
tackled another case, and pegged away at it till
10.30 p.m., when he adjourned. Sydney Criminal
Court has a bad record for night-work. A Judge
may be physically able to stand the strain of such
long hours, but more than the J udge should be
considered. “Good law is seldom administered
by candle-light,” said a late English Chief-Justice.
* * * *
In striking contrast to some Australian
experiences was Judge Hensman’s conduct at a
recent Pertli rape trial. Judge Hensman, who is
building up a reputation like Judge Bundey’s in
S. Aus., began his summing up, and then, finding
that it was 5 o’clock, he adjourned till next morn-
ing—he wanted to review the case while he and
the jury were fresh.
* * * *
“ Don’t you think there is some mistake ?
Don’t you think Jim will come back again ? I
feel he will, somehow. He was too good a man
to drown ! ” Thus the widow of a seaman lost in
the Federal, at Melb. committee-meeting to in-
quire into the needs of the bereaved. Sixteen
widows, 29 children, and a number of relatives
dependent on single men aboard the ship. Old
Ocean’s depths of misery !
* * * *
. In a M.L. paper appeared recently an
auctioneer’s advt. setting forth that, on behalf of
a returned war-correspondent, whose name is
given, there would be disposed of “a most unique
collection (though sad) of the British army
badges, also Boer official badges and buttons, the
whole being taken from the dead left on the field.”
“ Most unique, though sad ! ” Sad, indeed,
grammatically and otherwise; revolting also,
is the idea of deliberately stripping-off, for
m i ket-purposes, the insignia under which brave
men went to death.
Dear Bulletin, —About time we had in
our Universities a little less lecturing and more
teaching. At every exam.—in science particularly
—the failures usually exceed the passes ; and as
400r50p.c. gives a “pass,” it’s pretty evident
that lecturing on scientific subjects is sim-
ply waste of energy and time. A snub
from the lecturer generally conveys to the
student that questioning is tabooed. Was
present at a lecture one night when the
picture of a dynamo was thrown on the
screen. “ Wha—what is that —that blur
in the corner?” queried a nervous student.
“That, my dear sir,” answered the Pro-
fessor sarcastically, “ is only a blur to the
uninitiated.” Collapse of intrepid
student.—X.
The treatment of even minor-
offenders awaiting trial in Dar-
linghurst gaol does not tally with
the innocent - unti 1 - proved -gnil ty
notion. The solicitor or friend is
allowed to see the prisoner privately,
but is not allowed to bring in any
documents without having them first stamped
by the gaol authorities. Also, on coming
out, everything is inspected and stamped. The
idea may be to catch any information that would
help to secure a conviction, but it is more probably
mere silly red-tapism.
THE MAIDEN’S PRAYER.
[For The Bulletin. [
She raised sweet eyes so pure and true
To the cloudless heavens, all sweet and calm,
“ ’Tis, Oh ! to be safe in those fields of blue,
Asleep in the bosom of Abraham.”
They brought that maiden of thought divine
To the halls of the large and curving noses.
And there she met Lemuel vested fine, '
Abraham, Isaacs, and likewise Moses.
And authorised now by a ring so new,
By rubies galore and by diamonds pensioned,
She smiles, for her pious desire came true,
And she rests in the place already mentioned.
n. s. w. Constance ClVde.
Editor Bulletin. —When will the heads of
N.S.W. Education Dept, cease to demand part of
the teachers’ pay for purposes with which many of
the teachers have no sympathy ? Only a couple of
weeks ago they were required to raise flagstaffs at
their own expense ; now they are asked (really
they are ordered) to supply souvenirs for return-
ing S’African swaddies. If this sort of thing is to
continue, a teacher may safely reckon his salary to
be 10 p.c. below the nominal amount. —A Sweated
Teacher. [The Bulletin has received from
teachers nearly 60 letters written in a similar
strain.]
* * * *
The desecration of romance is crystallised
in the recent N.S.W. official recommendation that
all notices of marriage shall be posted on the
notice-board at the police court of the district.
Alongside notices about dog-licenses probably.
Some people have got hold of the notion
that Jenkins—the irrepressible Jenkins—sacrifices
much boodle for “position” by exchanging—if lie
can manage it—his £l2OO a year billet as Vic.
Clerk of Parliaments for a similar billet in the
Federal Parliament, where he will probably fbe
glad to jump at £lOOO a year, or less. But
Jenkins runs no risk of sacrificing a shilling of
pension. Under the Commonwealth Act all
State Govt, servants passing into the service of
the Federal Govt, take their pension rights with
them. So the disciples of Jenkins (whom Premier
Peacock and the Vic. Ministry in general
habitually address as (‘George”) may be of good
cheer. The present and future of that wily log-
roller are the Nation’s Care. He may agree to
take a* reduced salary to begin with —but then
there will be—well, titles and things.
• *
In illustration of the deftness of the Jap
labourer. A well-known Northern planter tells
this anecdote. One day he noticed a .Tap,
employed about tlie mill, eyeing a rough log
which had been thrown as waste among a
heap of firewood. After a while the little
brown man came and begged the bit of
timber for himself. The log was given
him. With a handsaw he ripped it up into
thin planks, then began to shape them, and
finally turned out a handsome piece of cabinet-
work —put together without a single nail. And
the planter aforesaid solemnly warns all white
workers against so deft and dangerous a com-
petitor.
In the course of a temperance-sermon the
other Sunday, Pastor Tregear told his Wesley
Church (Melb.) congregation aZolaesque anecdote.
It had recently come under his notice, he said,
that a Carlton woman had robbed her sister’s
body of its shroud, pawned it, and drunk the
proceeds—and was found lying speechlessly in-
toxicated over the nakei "orpse.
IF SHE SET HER MIND TO IT.
H E: “Do you think you could learn to love
me? ”
S HE: “ Oh, I might. Why, I even learned to
write shorthand !”
The murder of two New Guinea mission-
aries—one of them that fine fellow, the well-
known Rev. Jas. Chalmers —once more raises the
question as to what is the good of throwing away
the life of, for instance, such a noble specimen of
humanity as Chalmers, for the sake of a handful
A FAIR DEAL.
“Lord Roberts is sending to Australia
a gun captured by her sons from the Boers.” — CABLE.
T. BULL (complacently): “ Yes, my dear widows and orphans, you have
home a nolle part in this great war of the Empire, in the loss of your
husbands and sons and brothers ; but every cloud has a silver lining—
and now you have the proud satisfaction of looking upon a gun taken from the Boers, who
brought upon you all your present misery.”
of invincibly ignorant and murderous savages,
who don’t want the missioner or his religion, and
generally end by slaughtering him. The best of
those who take to the mission ary-business nearly
always lose their lives, or, like Livingstone,
frankly abandon the trade, and take to the
kindred pursuit of exploration. The honest and
capable missionary—seeing how little real effect
he produces—generally leaves-off caring for the
souls of his flock, and takes to looking after their
bodies. The dishonest missioner becomes a com-
mercial or political agent (or both), and some-
times, as seems to have happened in China, even
an open blackmailer.
In a recent M.L. licensing case Judge
Denniston decided that a “traveller” was
only entitled to drinks on Sunday for a
limited time after arriving at his desti-
nation. “He could legally quench a
thirst induced by his travel, but not one
induced by his stoppage at the place
to which he travelled.” The Judge
didn’t go on to explain how the pub-
lican was to tell whether the traveller’s
thirst was the legal one or not; or how
many drinks were allowed for quench-
ing the legal thirst; or what distance,
after the first travelling thirst had been
quenched, must be covered to entitle
the traveller’s month to be legally dry
once more.
* * » *
“X.”: Consider the lob of the
S.A. assistant-teacher. After many
years of service he may possibly reach,
by increments, the noble salary of £l5O
per annum. He is then blocked.
There is a regulation to the effect
that first-assistants may be appointed
with salary up to £2OO a-year; but
hardly one such appointment is made
in five years. In the city schools,
the assistants do the teaching, the
head, who merely supervises, re-
ceiving £4OO to £450 a-year, while
his chief lieutenant, whose work js
the most exacting of the kind in Aus-
alia, gets from £lOO to £l5O. W. A. is
fast drawing off the cream of the trained
assistants of S.A.
• * * »
N.S.W. Government’s resumption of the
Darling harbor area has variously affected different
individuals. Some are losers by the new order
of things, while others will gain largely. Imme-
diately Govt, took over the properties it started
collecting the rents, but it was by no means so
quick in recouping the ex-owners of the properties.
Many instances are related of well-to-do people
suddenly finding their incomes temporarily
stopped. The most astonished are certain absen-
tees in England, absolutely indifferent to the
politics of the land to which they owe everything.
To these the news that a beastly Australian Govt,
had dared to interfere with their plague-ridden
property came as a bombshell.
It turns out that all the talk about
J. 11. Grey, the arrested Geelong solicitor, wanting
to commit suicide on the voyage from Fiji was
pure “ gup.” The Vic. police who went to. arrest
Grey, gave it out that they had to watch him the
whole time, and Melb. Hkrald spread itself on
how detective M ‘Manamny had worn himself to a
shadow in the process. As a fact, Grey took
aboard a cart-load of books and spent his whole
time reading. Grey’s relatives in Victoria have
been quietly circulating the rumor that the little
discrepancies in his accounts and trust documents
were the result of insanity. They say he became
so worried over certain trust matters, that for the
time being he lost his mental balance. When
arrested he informed the police that, until they
pointed the fact out to him, he had not realised
that he had committed a criminal act.
The iniquity of the amateur Judge system
was manifested so strongly in Perth the other day
that the public had to get up and growl. On the
Police-court bench one morning was a person
whom nobody knew. He turned out, on inquiry,
to be a J.P. appointed some time back, but who
had never tried his hand at dispensing law. His
style, however, when he got to work was novel
and interesting, and some days afterwards he,
sitting with another J.P., created a sensation by
sentencing three youths to 14 days “ without the
option ” for playing “ two-up.” The papers made
such a noise, however, that the Attorney-General
awoke with a start and liberated the three youths
without any apologies to the amateur law-givers.
Didn’t, trouble about the Executive Council, but
just rushed off to where the Acting-Gov. was
sitting, and a message was sent away to Fremantle
Gaol.
* * * *
After Easter vacation W.A. Criminal
Court had a hard job to get to business owing to
lawyers and witnesses not having got over the
holidays. The Crown first called a murder-case,
and then consented to take the case next day, to
suit prisoner’s counsel. Then a criminal-assault-
case was started, and after it was under way,
it was found that accused’s counsel wasn’t present.
A messenger raked him in, and the legal man
stated he bad been “led to believe that the case
wouldn’t be reached that day,” and that, conse-
quently, he wasn’t ready with his brief. Then case
3 was put on, but, to make sure, all hands
concerned were first called, when it was found that
the most important witness wasn’t on hand. Then
the Judge, who was getting a bit warm, intimated
that he would take No. 4, but on the charge being
read it was found that accused’s counsel was
missing. He also “hadn’t thought the case
would he reached that day.” When the next case
was blocked on account of a witness’s absence the
Judge looked as if he wanted to burst; and the
court heaved a sigh of relief when the last one
started off without any hitch. While the jury
was in recess one of the back cases was called
again, and two more witnesses were absent.
Nothing happened—no fines —no anything !
* • *
Will King Ned follow the practice of his
mother and hand over £3 to each mother of
triplets? A S.A. groom has put it to the test;
though Gov. Tennyson, fearful perhaps of the
depressing effect of a refusal, has himself handed
out the money. But what is the matter with the
D.S.O. award to the mother in such cases?
The dusk lies on the river,
The moonlight holds the sea;
My heart beats in the rapture
Thy glances shed on me.
The pulses of my being
Flow on to meet the tide
Of passionate embraces
That draw me to thy side.
A silence, soft and mystic
Droops heavy on the air :
The incense of my sighing
Dies tangled in thy hair.
But pallid Dawn is sweeping
Athwart the slumb’rous ski
To slay our joy, by lifting
Night’s glamour from our eyes.
D. K. I.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.'
For the fun of the thing l
J^ to MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloee and attastton as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Note the number of charming female
figures one sees in the Melb. and Sydney streets
Is the race becoming more beautiful or is it that the
Art and Science of Gowning are being more fully
developed every year? And there is no joy in
store for the deah Duke in driving through streets
lined with loneliness. And when he recognises
the approved P D figure, the product of the
corset which is Art s final triumph, his ecstacy
will be worth going miles to smile at. “ The P D
figgah, by my fewchah Cwown ' ”*
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
AT THE
COMMONWEALTH SHOW.
6LOBB TEAS have NO Equal.
Mcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ . Sydney, April 30, 1901.
Mr Deab Abini,—
A week of rain has given us a ohance of getting
sappy after the long, long summer. Everyone
who hasn t rheumatism, and there are quite 96
persons m Sydney who are free from it, acquires a
juicy look as the winter waxes.
Melbourne is socially the centre of interest. It
is also the centre of an Antarctic disturbance that
is like to wash it away. A correspondent who
looked at the wet, blurred city from the top of a
tower, says it reminded her of Ford Paterson’s
psychological landscapes. Later she grows boast-
ful over its crowded condition. “ Menzies’ has
overflowed into Selborne Chambers, whence the
barrister-people are retreating before a drove of
sheep-owners.”
That proves nothing in particular. Sydney’s
jasper-roofed hotel has been turning visitors away
all the week. Also, it had a German band in its
Winter Garden, the other night, playing “God
bless the Prince of Wales” over and over again,
lhen someone objected, saying “there’s no sich
jierson now,” so the Kaiserites hastily rushed into
the Marseillaise, and some Royalist French wool-
buyers rushed out.
This is the season of the benefit matinee, the
chrysanthemum show and the O’Haran guinea-
gathering. Apropos of Dr. O’Haran : Other day,
1 saw a youth and maid (who looked as if they’d
come from where the pelican builds her nest) stop
at a photographer’s show-case, and —“Emmar,”
said the male pelicanite, 4t look ! ’ere’s the chap
that s been haying his fortagraff took so much for
stamped in with another cnap’s wife.” He was
lindicatmg a portrait of—well, a very well-known
kawyer. Emmar replied that “he looked that
kind.
As for the benefits, George Pack’s showed a
whole star system—Nellie Stewart, Carrie Moore
Brownlow, Lauri, Rivers Allpress, and Arnold’.
Then there was a promising starlet named Maisie
Edwards. The audience forgave Miss Eugenie
Duggan for ringing that cracked old “Curfew”
in their ears because she looked so nice in black
satin and wore a diamond necklace. If these
were not real diamonds they are the best (and
most winking) understudies of the stones I have
seen.
i? n ,^,° f A he six over-grown, over dressed ladies
who (Cook s) tour into the scented island Floro-
dora sat in a stage-box hatted (with strings) and
coated, and boaed in the latest and warmest of
winter fashions. _ Yet you could have raised
mushrooms in six hours in the hot, vapory
atmospheric condition of the circle. A group of
pretty Smith-Leaving-Home girls, escorted by
one of the Florodora, clerks (the kind of clerk we
never saw on land or sea before), sat among the
gods and laughed like mortals.
Some of Sydney’s poor children will have a
brighter time througli Nellie Stewart’s Charity
Matinee—however brief the extra moral glim-
mer may be. _ There was a thronged house.
Several little girls were selling programmes and
bouquets in the circle, and to your Akenehi and a
man who were very early arrivals there,
danced up a little tawny-headed, linnet-like child
who started on the man, “You’ll have a pro-
gramme, won t you ? Yes, you’ve got one but the
lady hasn t and it’s mean to make her borrow
yours. Now have a button-hole. O, you ought,
it s for the great charity, you know ! That’s right
—now have another for the lady ? 0, you ought
I m Nellie Stewart’s little girl, and ” The man
bought all she offered him, biscuits, lollies, nuts
(enough for a family of squirrels) until other men
persons came in and drew off the spoiler.
Miss Stewart and a large amount of baggage,
consisting of her portraits of various sizes and
prices and little swags of sweets, came later into
the circle and did good business. Mr. Innes acted
as baggage mule— acted, mind. He didn’t look the
part.
A. wor( 3 of Tenor Woodhouse’s “Bohemian
Nl ffht. He will get about £lOO, but I think he
would have made treble that sum if Soutar’s
“ artistic playbills ” (scattered broadcast) had been
less—well, less “aitistic.” Scores of church-
social, humorless, non-artistic folk saw that play-
bill, with its leering, female, its
group of Rocks’ ” faces m the background, its
bottle and pipe and got-’em again black cat—and
they spoke, saying, “ A Bohemian Night is an
orgy. Lo, the promoters thereof confess it by
these signs and designs. It is no place for us.”
In reality, that B.N. was a good, too-long eon-
cer: with tobacco-smoke accompaniments. The
only sensational item occurred behind the scenes.
I hate to put anything in this letter that would
make men (or hippopotami) blush, but I must
drop some ink on the straight-fronted corset. It
came out (no, no, I mean it stayed in as usual, but
you knew it was there by the result) at Mrs.
W P. Martin’s reception at the Australia, the
other day. Our friends who have hitherto been
known as possessing developed figures—the dress-
raa _ k er s kind expanded busts, defined waists
and hips, looked strangers with long, flat, thick
forms. A suggestion, if not of slightness, at least
of shghterness, is obtained by this corset of
France that compresses above and below and
laces out the artificial waist-line. Of waists:
there’s one new skirt in Sydney and that’s not
quite finished. The waist of it comes as high as
trie top of a Swiss belt, and no one, perhaps not the
Pans dressmaker that designed it, knows why. A
coat is worn over the innovation. The girl who will
wear it can trim a hat with two fourpenny black
and white handkerchiefs, a buckle, and so much
witchcraft that people say “ how simple, yet
stylish.” J
Mayoress Graham’s meeting to decide upon a
presentation to Duchess May brought out three
su .ggestions. Mrs. Harry Dangar proposed a
mirror or portrait frame of N.S.W. gold set with
Australian gems ; Miss Darley favored a platypus
rug ; and Mrs. Aronson put forward a plea for a
hospital cot or some touch of charity to be named
f Gr tl Duchess May, who is really in need
°. n >° (save possibly a softer facial expres-
j 16 S°id frame with native gems carried
the day, At least the Town Clerk, who counted
the show of hands, said it did. How is it
that on such occasions Woman puts up her
hands as if she had a bit of stolen pro-
perty in her glove ? Mrs. Douglas Mackenzie
was elected Hon Sec. with Miss May Maiming to
do the hard work. Miss Littlebridge Harris was
worried into being Hon. Treasurer in conjunction
a Mayoress. Mrs. Harris, Mrs. Dixon,
IVlrs. Wee, Mrs. Dangar, and others were snared
tor the committee ; then the Mayoress fled to
?Melb SOITle c^°^es and catch the express to
Duke of York’s inky cloak will lose him the
exhilaration of a big garden-party which the
Undergrads are giving at the University on the
oist. of May. He won’t go because of his mourn-
ln% All the Somebodies and Anybodies, visiting
and local, will be invited. Next morning the
Commencement.
A wonderful railway-car came shyly out of the
JliVeleigh workshops last Monday and made its
maiden run. It is a highly-decorated, royally-
furnished car with bedrooms, servants’ cribs,
dra . w ing and observation rooms. Duke
of York will travel in it, but it was built for the
Governor-General.
I have received a white-and-gold-bevelled-edge
card of invitation. to view and critically examine
tjt) S tT ,< Vi( W l l (P, intended for presentation to
1 /lx *“ e Duke. The glorified walloper is 28ft.
long (the Duke issft. 4in.), and hasatagof whitesilk
(that must come off when the Duke starts on the
bullocks), and the handle is legended “Advance
Australia . (after the bullocks, of course). A
gentleman of Queensland created the whip
He certainly ought to teach the Duke how to
crack it also. In one of our narrow streets
he will probably get it tangled round
lamps and shops and tram-cars. And
what about the “language” that should go
with a stock-whip? The Duke is no Australian
linguist. And—will he ever use it on the Duchess
when they get back to the castellated humpy, in
dear old England ? Report says, May is no fol-
lower of the Pauline doctrine anent the subjection
of women.
Have you noticed how fond of big hats are little
women, how fond huge women are of little dogs,
and how pretentious are little sects. Some of the
Primitive Methodists, of Parramatta, have held a
meeting to protest against any alteration in the
Coronation Oath, and a copy of their protest has
been forwarded to London. Yet, the big Anglican
body and the powerful Presbyterian ditto said
nutbn of protests.
S.M. Herald still keeps many thousand paces
ahead of the D.T. in the matter of Alfred
Hospital funds. Those names of Kater, Harris
Irazer and Eairfax shine out like the New
Jerusalem.
Some months ago the cable story-teller said that
a Mr. Hepburn Hastie had got a divorce from his
wife, Major Rankin of the Queensland contingent
being co-respondent. Now if the cable man has a
body to be kicked (we know his soul is not worth
losing) Q. Major Rankin, or his friends, ought
to remonstrate—with boots. The Major Rankin
who was really in the D.C. soup is not the Queens-
lander at all and is in no way connected with him.
A picture by Oswald Brierley, dated 1807 (when
*°ur Wltk the Duke of Edinburgh) entitled
Whaling at Twofold Bay,” has been purchased
by the trustees of N.S.W. Art Gallery. When
Brierley was in Sydney, in 1842, with H.M.S.
Rattlesnake, he was ill and was nursed at “The
Ranges,” Mosman’s Bay. On the wall of the
T? on \ 1(3 P a iM o d an elaborate picture
Ihe Rattlesnake in a Storm.” The Trustees
would not have any rivals in their bids for
Brierley s pictures, anyhow. \Yho on earth would
buy a Brierley picture, save with Government
money ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
i i. P°M> cruel rain like last week’s would abso-
lutely swamp Celebration festivities. Duke or no
Duke, none but carriage-loyalists of the deepest
dye will put out their noses even to peep at the
Corn walls, if tneir arrival collides with another
Antarctic douche, as Baracchi fancies it may.
“Poor Malvern got itself made into a City just
at the end of the Big Damp. There were to have
been processions of floral bikes, &c., and so there
were, in a small, wet way. The Maddens, so
thought the promoters, would bask in a sunshinv
carriage while a’/battle of flowers’ raged round
them. It would have been so idyllic had musk-
roses chanced to stick in his Waxeilency’s ‘ sweet
large ears,’ or violets lodged in his tenacious
moustache. However, the Lieut.-Gov.’s partv
made straight for the Shire Hall, perhaps because
Madame sneezed at the very mention of a
bombardment by drenched giant - dahlias and
sodden melon-chrysanthemums. Anyway the
‘ nower-battle ’ was staved off till drier weather.
“ Damp weather made the Horticultural Show
smell of mackintosh The announcement that the
Gov.-General and his Countess were to be in
evdence inspired the May-preparers with no
exalted fluttenngs. The sun shone out too late
to provide against noses being damp and eyes
watery. It was a wretched day and a weak show
“To the bars of the Anthem, the Excellencies
marched into the Show, accompanied by an aide
(name unknown) who wears a broad boulevard of
a parting m his hair. In their train were
Mayor Gillott and his buxom partner, ex-Mayoress
th U e rn ven fi a rll« ne p 0r -J° hayseeds; also
Presi , dent > w ho seemed very
“2° f th f nove ty of his task when lie
started to adore the visitors. After the
adoration HI. stepped forward, and said,
in clear nasal tones, nice things of the Melb.
people and the reception they gave him the other
day. His mode of address has improved. But
he “ ! on e is always expecting the
breath of popular applause to blow poor Hope-
toun away. Meanwhile, the other Excellency
sat bowing her haughty head, so that she pre-
sented the crown of a large feathered hat to the
publics camera. Anon she stroked her otter
mult, and at last subsided into a dreamy condition,
trom which her sprightly spouse aroused her to
attach the new order of Horticultural fellowship
to his coat. She took it, and aimlessly com-
menced to pin it to the nearer side—
winch was the left. But His Ex., suggesting
j, , warrior in ‘Ma Mie Rosette,’ murmured
other side, please.” A smile covered this little
comic-operatic incident, and, with thanks, labored
and grim, from the Mayor, the Opening Perform-
ance came to an end. 1 ere were a few hollow-
chested cheers, a scrap of clapping, and then the
V.xv. march round and exit. Treasurer Turner’s
spouse and the small young Aide with the boule-
vard-parting got the most fun out of the round
of the exhibits. The jolly matron, whose good
humor is always at high flood, whispered all sorts
of jokes to the imported article till that poor young
man s attitude of suppressed enjoyment seemed
to ask, ‘ Are there many more at home like you ? ’
Also at the Show were some sing-song gut-
tural tones. Minnie Waugh in a real smart
slap-up hat of hooped crown and a flutter-
ing voile skirt was the one sweet musical
exception. When she warbled with some
emotion, ‘ I am young . . . Come and take me !'
a number of earthy men in the audience looked
unsettled. Minnie has a way of leaning forward,
half whispering, and pausing at eloquent points,
which makes admirers rail against the conven-
tions. This inviting warble is a nice cosy form of
art, to coin a new expression.
" " I hate fashionable Melbourneites, they are
such snobs—they are even worse-than English
people,’ wrote the late Francis Adams. Lady
Hopetoun has confided to somebody that she likes
middle-class ’ people in Melbourne very much
better than the ‘ uppali suckles.’ The information
was not intended for publication, of course, but is
really no news, as her Ladyship has never been
at any pains to disguise the fact that Melbourne’s
Naicest ’ likes her not. The pretentiousness of
the first families is distracting to the nerves of
the Governoress-General, but so also is the
avidity of the ‘lower orders,’ who swarm round
the vice-regal carriage like sugar ants round a
treacle tin. Her Ex. finds peace only with the
wealthy lower orders,’ to whom she is gracious-
ness itself.
“SomeToorak women, wroth that the Mrs. Ex-
cellency has forgotten ever meeting them, declare
indignantly that she should never have allowed
her ‘sunny’ spouse to accept the Gov.-General-
ship if she cannot adopt his easy grace, his cordial
manner, and his cheerful philosophy. Why
should the She-Excellency chill them all, and
merely suffer the incense of functionaries with
such a compressed lip under the shade of her
stand-off hat ? Some of these matrons never do
the wrong thing, play the Lady Bountiful with
effect, and are really not at all bounderesque. But
the Excellency will have none of them. All—
mind, all— are to be frozen off. Well, till after
May.
“The Jookoyork business is going to
operate favorably for Melbourne livery-stable
keepers, and the local horsey world in general.
Every hireable vehicle in the city has been be-
spoken for 4 Celebrations 5 week, and every
driver has raised his price. Cooks and
waiters also have agreed to levy a
little Jookoyork tax on the bloated profits of
them who live by purveying food and shelter
to the gilded public. As for domestic servants
they are mostly hesitating just now between a
special retaining-fee or an unprovoked quarrel
with missis, which will qualify the strife-seeker to
throw up the billet and plunge into oelebrations
on Monday. Missis, for her part, daren’t say
rnu°° ' 1 *.° a f° r f ear of being suddenly left,
ihis is the wage-earner’s Hour.
“There is much bitterness among Yic. M’s.P.
in re the giving to each one of six Jookoyork in-
vitations for as many constituents. It would have
been all right had no paragraph been published
that these six had been given. But now the
trouble is that at least 600 electors are worrying
every member for each of his six tickets. In
reality, six invitations only enable three con-
stituents to be present, since the member has to
spare a second ticket for the wife of each one
asked. As a member put it to the writer: “I
didn’t want to be bothered with any of the con-
founded invitations. Of course, I should have
been worried by constituents for tickets, and
should have sent the applications on to the Gov-
ernment; but a polite refusal on official paper
would have satisfied me, as I could have sent it
on to the applicant, who would have seen that I
had done my best. But now—all my chief sup-
porters are annoyed because I did not give them
tickets. It is only ass politics to please six people
and cause deadly offence to hundreds.’
“ People, hall-marked by a previous Presenta-
tion at Court, are to air their Court robes and
kow-tow to Royalty at close quarters. A look-in
at the Princess ballet is hereby prescribed. In
Maritana a blond© belle at the left corner of the
front stage managed her fan and sweeping
courtesies admirably.
‘ ‘ The Hon. Mrs. Rupert Carrington cherishes
the honor of having been a guest at the Duke of
York s wedding. At the ‘ Como ’ fete the other
day, a precious piece of Royal wedding cake was
raffled for three guineas. People rushed it—
though it must have been blue-mouldy.
“Two happy fathers this side of the Murray
who have been blest with a quiverful of daughters
know all the blessed boon of giving them away
one after another in holy matrimony. The
burliest of these lucky donators is Rev. Walter
Fellowes, of Toorak, and the other, Mr. R S
Bradley, of Queen’s College, St. Hilda. The sixth
of the popular Bradley girls—Edith Victoria, is
to be married on Tuesday of this week (D.V.) to
Govt. Analyst Blackett’s son—Charles.
Mn ‘Lady Inger of Ostrat ’ that garnet necklet
and pendant worn with Nance’s black evening*-
gown was a convincing costume-touch. Most
Teutonic women own garnet ornaments, and all
she-visitors to Germany or Sweden bring away
similar trinkets. The pretty red stones are handi-
capped by their insecure settings of pale ‘ German
gold,’ though wearers are generally blissfully
oblivious to missing garnets till some sharp eyed
observer points out unsuspected gaps in the glassy
red mosaic.
“ On first night of said Scandinavian drama, the
old-fashioned expletives pushed the principals into
a tight corner. The author makes the heroine roar
‘Jesus Christ!’ and the hero splutter ‘Damna-
tion!’ whenever things go contrary. Toe audience,
apparently resenting these interjections as gra-
tuitous O’Neilian and Kingstonian blasphemies,
took to catching its breath with a horrified hiss
whenever an archaic oath—most of them were
relinquished after first night—shook up the
dialogue. The supposed culprits soon recognised
the reproof, as one gathered from their worried
looks whenever ‘ language ’ was impending.
“ That assault upon the Blandoltian Miss Ross
—upon whom was thrown a can of beer and
Nubian blacking, mixed —seems so incongruous.
Picture to yourself Frances of the spotless muslins
and innocent hats —Frances, the better angel of
a hundred stage-sinners, douched from a billycan
and felled with a whip ! Now, if the victim had
been our old friend, Elizabeth Watson, with her
mocking laugh, raven locks, and orange or crim-
son raiment, this midnight street-attack by a she-
assailant would have seemed merely an effective
climax to the play—a real-life retribution for
much histrionic heartlessness.
“ One often meets plump, blonde Miss Lorraine
and plump, dark Salvi tramming round town. The
former, not yet quite free of her voice trouble, looks
bored and sad. She and the Italian tenor are old
professional colleagues, and have sung together in
more than one operatic co. T’other day, the lady
related to a local interviewer an adventure of hers
as Mimi, in ‘La Bohemienne.’ Mimi was carried
in dying, and the attendants didn’t fix the legs of
her bed properly. She felt the thing settling
down, and knew that the audience would think it
a splendid joke for a dying heroine to be heavy
enough to weigh down a bedstead, especially as
this particular moribund had rather a well-
nourished air. To make matters worse, stout
Salvi approached to sit on the bed and weep, and
Salvi’s ‘ weeping ’ is none of your passive tearful-
ness. In a desperate whisper, the invalid shooed
the surprised mourner off, while the bed legs
continued to slip. Brave Salvi came to the
rescue ! He knelt by the bier, back to the audi-
ence, propping corpse, couch and all on one
knee. Miss Lorraine,’ says the interviewer,
‘then adds, soberly (italics mine), next day Signor
Salvi told us that when he got home his leg was
bruised and blistered ! ’
“ Here’s a bit of history in connection with Mr.
Peterson’s appointment to the professorship of
music at Melbourne University. Among the ap-
plicants at first was Hamish MacCunn, one of
England’s leading musicians, and a composer of
European repute. Had he continued his candi-
dature, he would undoubtedly have secured the
appointment, as Peterson’s reputation was mostly
an Edinburgh one. But MacCunn withdrew, be-
cause he thought Marshall Hall was sure to be re-
appointed, and Hall is an old friend of his. Had he
had an idea that Hall’s name would be surrep-
titiously withdrawn by the Agent - General, he
would have continued a candidate and then
(oh ! height of comedy) the appointment would
have been a triumph for Marshall Hall.
“ Marshall Hall’s Interpretation Class is one of
the most enlightened and interesting institutions
m this city of impromptu cranks. And it is always
amusing for those not under the scorching fire of
his criticism. The other day he asked a student
who was playing some little thing of Chopin why
she fed angels with roast beef. Another one he
asked in the name of Heaven (or the antithesis)
why she ploughed along in clod-hoppers when she
should be tripping and softly gliding past in satin
slippers. And so on. His metaphors are strong
and vigorous, his candor brutal, his wit pungent
biting—and the students smile.
Nothing matters, he is a god. Besides, the ttirls
like to suffer.
Writes my Brisbane correspondent:—-
‘ T !l ere ar , e disconcerting stories afloat here to
the effect that the Duchess isn’t coming (the
Plague still continues to bob-up locally), and that
Melbourne will be the terminus, so to speak of
her wanderings for the time being. Yet’we
are steadily preparing for both Duke and Duchess.
Apropos of the Royals—Lord Lamington adminis-
tered a severe snubbing to the annual Agricultural
Show committee, which approached him with a
request to send their R.H. out to the ground
ln ..j. me f? r .fch® opening. The Governor tried
mildly to intimate amongst other things that he
wasn t altogether accountable for Royalties’
actions that they are folk who think no small
beer of themselves, and might not care to view
parades of stock.
i j 6 H ? sho P Brisbane gets his own way as a
rule, despite the fact that he is the best-hated
man, according to some authorities, in Queens-
land. He is going to have his cathedral anyhow
and money is being collected in the oddest wavs
-someone suggested that the money from the sale
of plague-rats be applied to the Cathedral fund
but this was not received with favor. The
Duchess is to lay the foundation-stone, and the
crowd are to buy seats at ss. each and con-
tribute to the plate as well.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BEFORE INSURING ELSEWHERE ASCERTAIN WHAT
The Mutual Life Insurance^
Established Over
Half-a-Gsnturv.
Company of New York
CAN DO FOR YOU
FOR YOURSELF—
An Income for Life.
An Endowment for Early Retirement.
A Pension for Old Age.
for your wife—
A Definite Amount at your Death, and
A Fixed Income for her Life.
FOR YOUR SONS-
Money to start in a Business or a Profession.
FOR YOUR DAUGHTERS—
Marriage Settlement Money, or
An Income for Life at your Decease.
FOR YOUR BUSINESS—
Additional Capital at your own or Partner’s Death.
All Policies now issued by THE MUTUAL LIFE embody conditions of guaranteed Automatic
Paid-up Insurance ; Extended Insurance Free of Further Charge ; Loans ;
Liberal Cash Surrender Payment.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General llanager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY —Company’s Building, Martin Flack.
MELBOURNE— 2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Stbskt.
PERTH— St. Gf.orok's Tkrracb.
HOBART—33 Macquarik Strbrt.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.*’
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Gov. Lamington goes 'Ome in June. His
book on Queensland should now be nearly ready.
Two well-advertised citizens of Sydney
now enjoy a bodyguard ; and each citizen carries
his own six-shooter.
It has just been noticed with dismay that
not one of the See Government is bald. The new
N.S.W. Premier evidently believes that a Minis-
try can have hair and brains, too.
J. P. Gray, the N.S.W. candidate who
made a remarkably fine score in his contest for
the Senate, is the son of an old Chartist, and has
worked with the British Radical party.
Five of the six N.S.W. Senators are by
residence and associations Sydney men. Millen,
the sixth, though a backblocker originally, turned
city man within the last few years.
William Wise, a native of Sydney, the
first white man to settle in the Murray district,
died at his station home near Howlong last week,
aged 80. He started the first hotel in Albury.
T. N. Fitzgerald, Melb.’s boss sawbones,
is the only K.C.B. in Australia. By the way,
Sir Edward Strickland, the real suggestor of the
N.S.W. expedition to the Soudan, was a K.C.B.
Senator King O’Malley is teetotal or there-
abouts. Says he has made several fortunes as a
life-insurance agent, and couldn’t have done it
had his clients been able to escape him by setting-
up drinks.
N.S.W. Works Minister O'Sullivan has
christened Shea’s Creek “Alexandra Canal.”
What has the amiable Queen-Consort ever done
that a popularity-hunting politician should, with-
out her knowledge or consent, elect her as god-
mother to a reformed smell ?
Died lately in Adelaide, J. S. Cocker,
whose unpunctuality saved his life once at least.
He was one of the first party sent up to the Nor-
thern Territory to stretch the telegraph line across
the continent, and 'ought to have come back by
the Gothenburg on her last voyage, but missed
the l>oat, and so lived another 26 years.
Mr. A. Matheson, a member for Westralia
in the Commonwealth Parliament, is a grandson
of Spencer Perceval, Prime Minister of England,
who was murdered in the lobby of the House of
Commons, by Bellingham, in 1812. The lunatic-
assassin, who had a serious and well-founded
grievance against the Government, was hanged
within seven days of the commission of the crime.
Jenkins, C.M.G. (capital man for grovel-
ling) says he has kept a diary of his political
experiences which he may publish some day. If
he only would ! If Jenkins would only, unaided
by a paid “devil,” write anything so that his in-
tellectual level might be judged, he would perform
an inestimable public service. But it would have
to be all his own work—certified to under the
guarantee, “ alone I did it.”
R. T. BARBOUR, Hawthorn's representative in
the Vic. State Parliament — mathematician,
amateur weather-prophet, and “ A Valley of
the Shadow” to Freetection.
The London church papers are saying
nasty things re Sam Thornton, ex-Bishop of
Ballarat, who has taken a living worth £l5OO a
year at Blackpool, and the Suffragan Bishopric of
Manchester. When fat Sammy resigned Ballarat
he talked pathetic flapdoodle about wanting to go
home and be buried with his forefathers. But it
is evident that be really went to take a rich thing
in the way of livings. The poorer, hard-working
clergy of the Manchester diocese have a genuine
grievance against Samivel, for snavelling one of
the prizes of the church, which should have gone
to reward hard work and merit.
F. W. Webb’s decision to remain in the
clerkship of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly was not un-
expected. Many wished him to go over to the
Federal Parliament, but fifty years’ service in the
N.S.W. Houses has made binding ties. He was
quilldriving in one or other of N.S.W. Chambers
before the granting of responsible government.
J. G. Burtt, a 93-year-old pioneer of the
Eight-hours movement, died in Melbourne, on
April 21st, the anniversary of the day he used to
celebrate. Burtt formerly sat for North Mel-
bourne in Yic. Assembly, and was a popular
character as far as teetotalism would permit. It
is difficult for an enemy of beer to be the idol of
his constituency.
“ "Dave ” O’Keefe, who goes to the Senate
from Flyspeck Land as a Labor member, began life
as a battery-feeder (The Bulletin knows a dozen
eminent journalists and politicians who started
from the same mark). From country cor-
respondent he moved up to be editor of Zeeiian
Herald, and it was in that capacity that his
straight-out advocacy of the workers’ cause gained
him the friends who ran him into a Senate seat.
Waxellency Madden on the rival sexes :
“ Men are not so simple as women sometimes
think them. Women think they see through men
and walk round them, but men see the women
walking round all the time. Men know perfectly
well what the women are at. They submit because
it is extremely agreeable, and in the next place
it is the line of least resistance under the circum-
stances.” Who would have thought the wordy
man had so much wisdom in him ?
Premier Peacock being told by a batch of
unemployed that they could not take work in
the country because their wives and families
could not be left, sent an officer to wait upon a
dozen of the wives and bring in their opinions.
Eleven of the dozen were quite agreeable to the
idea of the old man going anywhere, and the
cacophonous Premier chortled triumphantly.
Alex, learns quickly. He’s only been married a
few months.
The effort to hoist patriarchal W. H.
Groom, of Queensland, into the Federal Speaker-
ship, is doomed to failure, notwithstanding that,
barring Barton, he alone of the Representatives
has been Speaker in a State House. Sixty-nine
years of age is in itself a handicap. But a worse
handicap is the fact that the inlluential*Queens-
landers who admired him in the Speaker’s chair
are dead or otherwise out of his sphere. MTI-
- Griffith, De Satge, Tozer, Arthur Palmer,
Nelson, and a score of others are really or con-
structively dead, and the Higgses and Glasseys
don’t cotton to him. On the other hand, there
are living and partisan forces behind the other
claimants for the position. Then there are other
reasons why the first Speaker of the Common-
wealth should be one of the very first men in
the Commonwealth.
One of Sydney’s best-known derelicts is a
middle - aged, broken - down English barrister,
whose only means of living
are the results of an almost
daily tour to various offices
and persons to whom his better
days are known. He is a
dreadfully disreputable
object, of appearance
more potent than the
longest temperance-
sermon. He has known
everyone worth know-
ing, and keeps up the
pretence of their ac-
quaintance now. Meet-
ing the refusal of a
long beer in a city office
one day, he announced
his intention of appealing to his
long-time benefactor (a well-known
barrister-politician). “ ;
he yelled, “won’t refuse me a trifle,”
with a withering glance at his audi-
ence. “I know him too well for that.
Do you know” (confidentially)—“it’s
my opinion isn’t a happy man.
There is a look about him I don’t like.
I’m sure he’s not happy. And do you
know why ? He’s not quite a lawyer and he’s
not quite a statesman, and, between you and
me, he’s not quite a gentleman.” And, happy
himself in the thought that there was a man in
the world deserving of his commiseration, and
with a deep sigh for his fellow-unfortunate, the
derelict drifted away.
There is plagiarism somewhere. Several
Df the leading incidents in the recent Coningham
case appear in Maurice Howlett’s short story,
“Madonna of the Peach Tree,” in “Little Novels
of Italy.” A passage: “She insisted upon a
devout churching (whereat, if you will believe
me, no other than Fra Battista himself must do
the office).” But there are others. The book was
published in 1899. The case was “ published ”in
1900.
The recently deceased Francis Curnow,
brother of the editor of S.M. Herald, fought for
the control of the Queensland railways as strenu-
ously and just as unsuccessfully as Goodchap in
N.S.W. Both were brought up on the railways,
and neither could understand the new wave of
thought which proposed to displace them by the
introduction of men from abroad. But Eddy
swept away Goodchap, and Mathieson, Curnow.
Mathieson is the only one of the four now alive,
and he quits Australia for his old home.
ANIMAL ITEM.
SHE: “He got quite cross and asked why we
women were all such cats.”
HER: “And what did you say?”
SHE: “I said that it was all through men turn-
ing dog on us.”
The Marquis of Headfort, the young Life-
Guardsman who married Miss Boote, the ex-Lon-
don Gaiety actress, the other day, is grand-nephew
of Lord John Taylour, who was in N.S.W. in the
’6o’s as A.D.C. to his relative, Gov. Sir John
Young (Lady Young was a daughter of the Mar-
quis of Headfort). Lord John was a rorty
gentleman well-known about town a great
“ patron ”of the stage and colonial beer. He re-
mained some time after the Governor left, but
was too erratic to do any good.
Dr. Jefferis, formerly of Pifct-street Con-
gregational Church, Sydney, who, at 76, has just
finally quitted preaching, might loug ago have
been editor of S.A. Advertiser, if not also of
S, M. Herald. As it was he for years combined
the posts and pays of a cleric and leader-writer ;
he claims to have written for the Advertiser a
quarter of a century ago its first pro-Federation
leaders. But nowadays his Federal ideas read
queerly —as, for instance, his declaration, in one
of his farewell addresses in S.A. lately, that the
‘ white Australia ” cry is “ immoral.”
Federal-Treasurer Turner is looking very
weak and ill. His five years’ work in pulling
Victoria out of the hole in which Gillies and co.
left her, has broken his health, and he will never
again be the same man. During his recent attack
of dysentery he fainted three times. It is very
doubtful whether he will be able to carry on the
heavy work that is falling to his share in the
Federal Cabinet. He is the one man on whom
Barton relies in financial matters, and his sound
common-sense views carry great weight i-n other
directions. Barton values no man in his Cabinet
more than Turner.
About the inventor of Voting by Ballot
S.A. Sheriff Boothby still has in his possession his draft
of the Ballot Act, passed in 1802, and since copied all
over the world. Boothby prepared the Bill for Premier
Hanson, who at first strenuously opposed the idea of
putting a cross within the square. Long ere this, Boothby
had conducted elections under the old style, when voters
crossed out with pen and ink the names of those they
didn’t want. Boothby even goes back to the days when
the “ free and enlightened ” went to a clerk and inti-
mated the name of the candidate they preferred. S.A.’s
chief Returning-Officer is a tall, handsome, active
man, 70 years of age, and is the most popular officer in the
State service.
“ Old Jack” : In the brief notices written
about the late “ Bob ” Whitworth, no mention has
been made of his Maoriland experiences. Bob
was the man who, with his bull-dog “Jerry,”
passed from Martin’s Bay, West Coast, across to
the East Coast—a route never before travelled by
man. On the way he lived, for the
most part, on the Maori-hens caught
by Jerry. It was a noted feat for which
Whitworth got scant reward from M.L. Govt.
And Bob did many things which ought to be laid
to his credit. But he was a modest man, and his
wraith no doubt is better pleased than hurt that
his works in life shall be forgotten.
“ Anti-Humbug ” writes from Geelong :
Editor Bulletin. —How on earth did the idea that J. H.
Grey, the defaulting Geelong solicitor, was “ pious,” get
into the press? It is entirely unfounded. J H.G. may
have been a “good liver” in the material sense —and a
lot of fiction has been woven about him in that respect
also —but, in his reckless moments he never posed as a
pietist. There was a maudlin ambition of that kind in his
composition, but he was a good judge of horseflesh, could
exercise a fine, if costly discrimination in the choice of his
liquors, and liked to surround himself with elegance. His
affection also is reputed to have been of an all-embracing
description. But he did a lot of good without bragging,
and his righteous critics, many of whom are better able
to do so than Grey was in his palmiest days, might
imitate his practical and secret kindness to many an un-
fortunate devil who has to thank “Joe” Grey for being
now on his feet. If charity covereth a multitude of sins,
“Joe” Grey has woven a more ample garment than the
paddockful of purse-proud detractors in Geelong who
glory in his downfall. Gleeson, the plain-clothes man by
whom he was arrested at Suva, says that Grey’s condition
there was deplorable, and £6 was all the ready cash he
could muster.
Charity, it is true, does cover a multitude of sins
—charity at your own expense.
T. W, Waddell, M.L.A.
for Cowra (brother of would-be
Senator Colonel Waddell) who
is the new N.S.W. State
Treasurer, is a serious politi-
cian of the heavy order and
strongly opposes woman’s-
suffrage His acceptance of
office may be taken to mean
that a grave constitutional diffi-
culty has been amicably
settled. Waddell’s electorate
contains two big towns —
Blayney and Cowra. At least,
Blayney and Cowra consider
themselves big; and the
jealousy supposed to exist
between Melbourne and
Sydney is as nothing to
that between Waddell’s
two villages. Some few
months ago a P.M. was
appointed to Blayney;
but, not finding a house
to suit him, obtained
permission to shift his
headquarters to Cowra.
The insinuation that
Cowra could provide, what
Blayney could not was too
much for the latter “great
centre,” and the member
was told to see that justice
was done. After some weeks
battling with the Justice Dept. ,
Waddell brought the question before
the House. It happened that Minister
Wood, oblivious of the impending hurricane,
was playing dominoes or something at the
time, and the Assembly waited in solemn
silence until he could be found. The Minister
then plaintively explained that the P.M.
could not live in a tree—even a Blayney
tree _ an d asked Mr. Waddell to put him up a
house as the best solution of the difficulty. Wad-
dell retorted that there were perfectly lovely
houses in Blayney, and that people who wanted
palaces should not be appointed P.M’s. He wound
up by declaring that if the luxurious official was
not transferred in a week he (Waddell) would
cross the floor and sit in Opposition. The House
rose in a day or two ; and noiv it may be taken
for granted that if the P.M. has not already gone
back to Blayney he soon will go.
Jenkins, who sue -eeds Holder as A.
Premier, came to Adelaide, .aoout a quarter
of a century ago as a Yankee book-fiend,
took to literary societies and fuel; like,
got into Parliament, and has prospered politically.
He is a naturalised British subject in S.A., but
till Federation came was an alien directly he
crossed the border. Strange to say, lawyer Hom-
burg, the coming (Imposition leader, is in a some-
what similar position. He is a German, and
until the beginning of this year had only been
naturalised in S.A. There is another point of
resemblance between the two men (both excellent
and popular citizens), and that is, that their style
of oratory consists of splutters, spits and shrieks,
particularly when there are aggressive inter-
jections.
“ Phil May is not going to lecture,” writes
Thf. Bulletin’s London correspondent. “On his
alleged lecturing tour he is simply going to ‘jaw ’
—at least he says so himself, and he ought to
know. He ‘jaws’ London, the Provinces, the
U.S.—l2 months there—and finally Australia.
He gets £lOO a week for his own pocket-money
alone, and his complete honorarium is munificent.
Hugo Gorlitz—Amy Sherwin’s husband—pilots
him, and young Laurence Bradbury, one of the
Punch owners, goes as Phil’s secretary —a job to
be jumped at. In Australia, Phil won’t ‘ jaw ’ for
pay, but for charity solely, so he will be pleased at
this publicity, which will encourage every dead-beat
charity organisation “down under” to secure his
services for 20 years ahead. He does not ‘get
thar,’ though, for a year-and-a-half.”
Local-preacher Stevens, assistant editor of
S.A. Register, fairly let himself go on the
departure of a fourth of his proprietary for London
this month. Stevens was probably in charge of the
paper that night, judging by the way his eloquence
was reported next day :
The speaker remarked upon the enviable opportunities
which had fallen to the lot of Mr. Thomas, including his
admission at a comparatively early age to the fine pro-
cession of the Register proprietors—a glorious company
of able men burning with zeal for the public good, and
who, relative to their numbers, had done more than any
other body to establish the prosperity of South Australia.
He was now enjoying the golden dream of manhood —the
artist of his life was completing the landscape by painting
in the silver stream of love, the pearly bridge of marriage,
and the indispensable central figure of the Queen of Life.
(N.B.—He is about to be married). .. . They all sincerely
wished Mr. Thomas a pleasant voyage, and a speedy
return with music in his life—the songs of the angels of
love as they ascended and descended the golden staircase
which connected the humblest hearth with heaven itself.
None of the Sydney dailies managed to
convey to their readers anything like an ac-
curate impression of the individuality of
Mrs. Jane Smith, of Talune fame. The
popular fancy pictured Jane as a forbidding,
prematurely-aged ogre, built on gridiron lines,
with a rat-trap mouth, steely eyes and cat-like
cautiousness. Instead of which, during the,first
days of the trial there sat bolt upright on the
wooden bench of the dock, a desirable-looking
woman with a Maoriland complexion, nursing her
arms and knee alternately. Now and again she
would lean forward to adjusf a dark skirt
over a pretty foot that seemed to have
strong objections to hiding itself beneath
the drapery. Her eyes were small and dim,
shaded with unusually long eyelashes, and looked
out wearily from beneath almost semi-circular
and well-defined eyebrows. The face tapered
down from a broad forehead to a pointed chin,
and the collective eye of tiie crowd was fixed on
the unusually thin neck. The waist was narrow
and the bust abnormally developed. Whenever
she whispered to her solicitor through the bars her
face lit up with an animation that absolutely
transformed her.


MACONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLI) EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Hotel
Australia —i*
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing saloon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items etc., exact date and exact
■place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ W.H.R.” : Recently came on a bullocky
with his waggon down to tlie bed in a bog and
immovable. While talking to him another
bullock team appeared, the driver of which turned
out to be one of the flashest bullockies in the
north. “What,” said he, “has she dipped a bit
on yer; well, I’ll chuck on a dozen of my hides
and give her a jerk,” He went back, brought up
a dozen of his “hides,” as he termed them, and
hooked them on to the lead of the other team.
Then with his “regulator” (as he termed the
whip) swinging in the air, he commenced opera-
tions with, “Gee back!” “gee back!” until be
got a fair slew on them in the form of a half-
circle; then changing bis tune to “Way, woa
back ! way, woa back ! ” Spot an’ Mary, Star an’
Cherry, Wolf an’ Leopard, Lamb an’ Shepherd,
Bally, Bluey, Stumpy, Nobby, tear and stretch it,
burst or fetch it, boot and lift her, rip and shift
her, pull the llaming quill (pole) out of her.
They didn’t pull the ‘ ‘ quill ” out of her, but
bending to many severe cuts of the regulator (and
Erobably assisted by the numerous adjectives not
ere included), they eventually pulled her on to
firmground. “Took a bit of shifting,” I remarked!
“Oh,” said he, “a man wants a bit of a snap
like that occasionally, just to test the jewellery”
(chains).
* * * *
“ Wat Tell ” : Knew an old bachelor who
locked up his bouse and went off to Mel-
bourne Cup. A fortnight later I went
along and released a dog that he had left
on tne chain. The
poor brute had had
nothing to eat or
drink the whole
time.
A SOCIAL
TRAGEDY.
POLICEMAN: “ 'Ere,
if you don’t go home
I’ll run you in.”
ANCIENT REVELLER: “ Thatsh what I want,
offisher. I’m the paying guest of temperance
people.” (Hoarsely). “ I’m afraid to go
home.”
“Trotter” : One wet night recently I
camped with a corn-cooky on the Gilbert River
(N.Q.), and won’t easily forget it. A bark humpy
with the roof full of holes ; hard beef, damper,and
post-and-rail tea. A large home-made bed with
four posts, from which hung a thick dirty mos-
quito net. A dog, five hens and a rooster, a goat
and five oats camped here also. The mosquitoes
were so ferocious that I had to get into the bunk.
The cats mewed mournfully and climbed the
bedposts all night long ; the rooster gave an occa-
sional crow ; the dog bad sundry loud disagree-
ments with the goat; and my host snored horribly.
The atmosphere was thick and the heat intense,
yet I daren’t put my head outside the curtain. At
the first sign of dawn I rushed madly for the river
and took a header, clothes and all.
* * * *
Warrego Watchman on a Withered
Land :
Talk about Dante’s “ Inferno,” Dante never wrote any-
thing to compare with the actual everyday horrors of
drought time in Queensland bush. Picture a waterhole
in which are dozens of dead, dying, and recently bogged
cattle. One traveller recently counted 7(i freshly
bogged beasts in a hole but a few yards across,
besides 28 old bodies and skeletons. Ride around
them, and watch the hellish part the crows and
hawks are taking in the tragedy. Here is a beast
stronger than the rest turning his eyeless face towards
the sound of your horse’s feet, and dumbly asking-
to be put out of misery. Further along a cow is still
struggling and fast losing her little strength in a vain
endeavor to loosen her imprisoned feet from the cruel
mud, the while two crows dart and peck with their sharp
beak at hir eyes. You watch The game for a minute,
half fascinated, till a little trickle of blood runs down her
cheek and allows that they are making headway.
A third now joins them, flying to her horn and
refusing to be shaken off by the poor, weak efforts.
Then two of the crows start fighting under the
beast’s very nose, and in a trice the third has seized his op-
portunity, and gouged the eye from the socket, heedless
of tlie plaintive bellowing of the wretched victim, and
while you are looking at her the other crows have secured
tlie remaining optic, and a dozen more are attacking the
bleeding sockets and making vicious darts at the tongue
every time the animal opens her mouth to bellow. Mad
with rage and the pity of it, you feel sick, and
wonder why God made the crow. In desperation
you jump off your horse and hurl sticks and
stones at the evil-looking birds, who merely flutter to a
little distance and caw defiance. Then you put the poor
beast out of her agony, and, as you turn to remount, your
gaze, wandering over the waterhole, is met with other
sights ; other beasts raise other sightless eye-sockets or
dumb mouths, whence the tongues have been torn by
eagle-hawks or crows. You gallop away, half mad, and
wholly wretched with the pity of it, your whole nature
resentful against the terrible condition of things.
* * * *
“ Canip ” : Be cungeboi-eating ( “ Plioa,”
B. 9/3/’l). I have known several cases with
similar results. Have known brandy tried as a
remedy ; result, agony and worse swelling of
tongue. The blacks eat tlie cungeboi or wild
arum, but, according to my nigger mentor, the
proper preparation is to “three day bury him
longa ground, three day soak that fella, dry am
hard longa fire, and smash ’em up,”
* • * *
A Bargowlahmine man, suffering a re-
covery, went wood-cutting out of the town,
hut returned saying that he had been bitten
on the finger by a brown snake, and had
straightway chopped off the injured mem-
ber. A doctor who was procured could
find no symptoms of snake poisoning,
and when the finger was afterwards
produced, affirmed that the snake was
of the “blue” species and lived on bad
grog.
“ Yril ” : Be Jap
and shark in Barvvon
(8., 16/3/1) : Could
not this have been
a gigantic Murray
cod ? I saw one
caught near Surat
(Q.) in ’9l, about
841 b. weight, and lOin.
across the mouth. Some
of the teeth were £in. long, and
the skin ditto thick. Tried to eat some of the
fish, but it tasted like mud and weeds. Apropos,
from inside a 301 b. cod caught in the Condamine
River, near Warwick, I saw taken a bag with a
couple of kittens and a few rocks ; and a
similar fish caught in same locality yielded up a
water-tortoise about 6in. in diameter.
■*■***
A dairying item :
An outcry is being raised in Maorilaud over the ap-
proaching scarcity of Ivahikatea, or white pine timber.
Till recently, this wood was considered worthless ; it has
no strength, and starts to rot almost as soon as cut. As
dairying spread, however, it was found that white pine
timber, light, easily-worked, and perfectly odorless, is an
ideal wood for butter-boxes. At present, it is more
sought after than any other ; large quantities are ex-
ported to Australia ; and the barrackers for new railways
always end up by stating that “ the proposed line will tap
large forests of white pine.” The tree, which grows in
swampy country, dies easily ; and is rotten a year after
death, so that there really is some danger of the supply
going short. It is proposed that Govt, should regulate
the rate of cutting, and levy a big export duty on all sent
out of the State. With care, however, there should he
enough of it for the next two generations.
* * * *
Collecting census information from the
natives proved a tedious job in M.L., and enu-
merators had to sing and spin yarns before estab-
lishing a friendly footing at some pahs. The
Brownies thought they were being enlisted for a
Boer-prodding expedition or that the blue-paper
men were after taxation information. The Age
column was a steep contract. One immeasureably
ancient dame waxed wroth at being set down at
70 ; said she was 200 at least—and she looked it.
CONCERNING THE TYPICAL TESTI-
MONIAL.
COM. TRAVELLER: “ Well, Mr. Bung, I s'pose
we can fix up a line or two bet ween us?”
BUNG : “ Oh, yes. Put down ” (in sing-song voice)
“I suffered excruciatin' pain”
TRAVELLER: “ Wot are yer giving us? I’m
travellin’ for spirits.”
B UNG: “ Oh, beg pardon. Thought you was one
of them boiled pill blokes.”
In a S.A. up-country court, t’other day»
the black-tracker, wood-chopper, groom, and
general rouseabout attached to the local police-
station was called to give evidence. There was
the usual J.P.’s bobbery about the oath. “Do
you know, Jimmy,” asked the chairman with only
the whites of his eyes showing, “where you will
go when you die if you do not tell the truth ? ”
“ Heaven,” cheerfully replied Jimmy. The chair-
man expostulated and consulted the policeman ;
and in Jjhe end they chanced it and swore him.
Later on, tho chairman, complimenting him on
his evidence, asked him why he said “Heaven”
to the first question. Jimmy, by this time grown
confidential, answered promptly—“ Well, boss,
like this-—if I said ‘ hell ’to magistrate ho say,
‘ Lock that blanky Jimmy up, he too much
blanky swear ! ’”
* * * *
From Walgett (N.S.W.) Spectator re the
divining-rod
During the late dry spell Mr. J. Niven, of
Spring Kidge, found it necessary to muster his
flock once a day for the purpose of watering
them. Every paddock was absolutely dry ex-
cepting one near the hotel. There was an old
bull (a rogue) among the stock. This animal
became so roguish that finally the stockman
found it necessary to cut a huge fork of a sapling
and fasten it on to the bull's neck in order to
prevent hint from breaking into dropped land.
Next day the bull was not among the mustered .
cattle, lmt one of the hands saw him lying down
on the flat. Day after, he was in the same place.
An examination was made, when it was found
that the great fork had got the bull down and killed
him. The wise man was sent for, and he at once
pronounced judgment. He said that the fork being
green had acted as a divining-rod, and that when
the bull had walked over the right spot the rod had
been powerful enough to turn the animal’s head to
the ground and keep it there. A number of hands
were put on to sink a well on the spot where the
bull’s spirit had departed. At four feet a fabulous
flow of water was struck. The .Cucfgebego?
residents aver that the creek has been a bank
ever since.
“ Steff C.,” concerning the (probably) last
of the great native Fijian functions—the marriage,
at Rewa, in 1900, of Tui Sawan (chief of Rewa)
with Adi Vuikaba, youngest daughter of the late
Ratu Timoce, second son of the renowned King
Cakobau:
It took several days to get through the various cere-
monies. The first day, there took place, in the presence
of some 8000 natives, the official landing and reception of
the bride ; and next day was performed the Taura liga,
or celebration of marriage, at which all dance, sing and
feast, though the couple were not finally united, as other
ceremonies remained. On the third day took place the
Cola Cake , or carrying of the bride to the bridegroom,
after which they were left alone for two days. Then fol-
lowed the Kana Vat a (first meal of the couple as man
and wife), and, next morning, the Teke Vau, or exchange
of property between the couple’s friends. The final day
was one of terrific uproar over the Cola gie Sill, or carry-
ing the princess in a canoe from her house to the river, so
that she might fish to provide for the family that ought
to come.
The European portion of the wedding was performed
by a Wesleyan minister, assisted by two other white revs.,
at the house of a relative of both bride and bridegroom.
Amongst the cooked and uncooked food consumed were
50 turtle. On the second day there was a wall of taro,
yams, and fish-puddings, 3ft. thick, 3ft. high, 500 ft. long,
and ornamented on top at equal distances with 200
roasted pigs. This was a record gathering. Never in the
memory of the oldest Fijian present had so many people
been assembled in one place, or had there been such a
display of property and food. During the last days of the
festivities some magnificent melees were danced, the
grand finale being the dance of the “ Waves of the sea
and goddesses fishing.” This dance only happens when
some royal event occurs, and must have taken the natives
a long time to rehearse. There were some 500 per-
formers of both sexes, their polished skins shining in the
sun like burnished copper. First the men and then the
women pretended to rise from the sea, approaching and
retiring, all in exact time to low musical chanting, as had
been done by their ancestors for hundreds of years.
* • * •
“Canip”: To “Davie” (8., 16/3/1):
Carpet and green snakes will climb telegraph-
poles. Have seen ’em on the job, but never saw
them monkeying with wires, though I once saw a
green tree-snake at Wide Bay, Q., doing
“Blondin ” on a thickish manila clothes-line.
Among the most-sweated men
in N.S.W. are station-managers.
Dwelling in the big cities all
the year round, some of the
squatter-kings employ men
at from £BO to £lOO a year
to handle stations running
scores of thousands of
sheep. These managers,
besides book - keeping
after hours, are
obliged to slave from
morn till night in heat
and rain, and are ex-
pected to contribute to
local charities and stay
at decent hotels. One
big co. allows its man-
ager only regulation
rations —■ i. e. , flour,
sugar, tea, meat, and
currants! While stay-
ing at one of their
stations, their inspec-
tor one morning at
breakfast asked the boss
to “pass the jam.” The
latter rather indiscreetly replied that he “couldn’t
afford to give any away—it cost fid. a tin.” That
manager is now looking for another job.
* * « *
Vic. schoolmasters in the mallee country
have a busy time, being compelled to act as regis-
trars of births, deaths and marriages, and deputy
electoral registrars, and to assist the departments
in connection with the various matters affecting
law. The teachers are kicking vigorously. One
complains that he cannot- be expected to do his
duty by the pupils, when —as happened on a
recent occasion—a small boy rises in his place in
class, and says: “ Please, teacher, father wants
to know if you could spare time to marry him an’
mother to-morrer afternoon.”
* * « *
In ’93 the French Govt, gave the S. Aus.
Govt, a few date-palms received from Sahara via
Algeria—palms of the Deglet Noire variety, found
to be the most suitable to the Saharan oasis.
Though the palms, which were planted mainly
in the overflows of artesian water in the Far
North, bore a little fruit last year, this season's
is the first real crop; and it seems extremely
likely that the variety’s reputation in Africa will
be borne out also in Australia.
* * * *
A short time ago Rev. Copeland King
visited a mining camp on Mambare goldfield,
Papua, and held a service there, during which an
old miner walked out exclaiming, “I’m full up ! ”
At the conclusion, however, the old fellow turned
up again and said to Mr. King, “ Here, old man.
A VERSATILE GENIUS .
BOSS: “ Want a job, eh! Well, what can you
do?”
SWAGGY: “ Oh, anything. Chop wood-, an’ useful
like, an’ knock about, art cut wood, art
general work like, art rouse about, art handy
man, art—art—chop wood — anything !”
“ Edge-Nevin ” : I could prove to “ Hag-
ram” (8., 30/3/’01) that snakes do “charm” birds,
by taking him into an ordinary fowl-yard and re-
leasing a full-grown snake.
* • • •
A M.L. farmer claims to have invented a
process to abolish the “sweating” set up during the
process of thawing frozen meat, and which so de-
tracts from its appearance. Hitherto it has been
supposed that this moisture exudes from the car-
case. The inventor states, however, that it is
really the air-moisture deposited like dew on the
surface of the meat. He proposes to shield the
carcase by wrapping it in a waterproof cover
during thawing.


A Woman with a Past.
We doubt if any Woman with a’Past—in the generally-
accepted meaning of the term —can be genuinely happy ;
but there can be no doubt about the happiness of a
Woman \yith a Present, especially if the present came
from T. 6. Sada’s popular Oriental Novelty Mart in Pitt-
street, nearly opposite the Imperial Arcade. Anybody
in search of pretty and useful presents could not do
better than visit this up-to-date establishment, which is
simply chock-full of dainty goods such as Fans, Screens,
Japanese Ornaments, China Nick-nacks, Silk Handker-
chiefs, and Bamboo Work of every description. The
prices are all of the bedrock variety, while inspection is
absolutely free. Nobody is pressed to buy anything, and
altogether a very pleasant afternoon's enjoyment can be
had “on the nod” by a visit to T. O. Sada & Company’s
Novelty Mart, 187 Pitt-street, between Market-street and
The Strand.*
CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
& ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bbttles. Made in London.*
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Woman’s Pitiable State.
Falls Down From Weakness.
A pitiable tale, in which a Mrs. Catherine
Saveli is the principal figure, was told to
a reporter. Mrs. Saveli, who lives in Argyle-
street, Bowral, in the course of an interview,
said: —
“I am naturally a hard worker, and when
one has a home to attend to, and the anxiety
of looking after a young family, there is not
much time for rest. Years ago, 1 over-taxed
my strength, with the result that my nerves
gradually became irritated and unstrung, and
the sharp, burning pains of neuralgia came in my
head. The gnawing sensation' was so agonising
that it made me light-headed, and I often fell
down from weakness, due to the nervous ten-
sion. Little hills of trouble appeared to be
great mountains, and everything was an
annoyance. Liniments, fomentations and em-
brocations did not even soothe the pain. At
last several well-known people advised me to
use Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people. I
did so, and one box improved me wonderfully.
I continued taking them, and my nerves be-
came toned up; the neuralgia left me, and I
grew quite strong and bright. Five boxes
completely cured me.”
When the blood is impoverished, the nerves
suffer, then come the cold and the pains of
neuralgia. Those subject to neuralgia, sciatica,
rheumatism and bronchitis, should now take a
few boxes of Dr. Williams’ pink pills; by this
means they will enrich their blood and tone up
their nerves, thus avoiding all winter ailments.
Dr. Williams’ pink pills are sold by chemists
and storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and
nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three, post
free. “How to Cure Neuralgia.” Special
directions free on application.*
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
And still we send missionaries to China.
Here is a hideous story of the bush
Dear bush immorality. ’ The Browns had
r in fhe Gullv for generations. Old Bill had a numer-
ous family and the township doctor had attended them
Crews without having seen the “colour of their
monlv ” After a hit, the eldest girl married, and in due
course the doctor was wanted. The messenger told the
medico that Sirs. Frank required his services. The
doctor didn’t know who was meant until it was ex-
that the lady had been a Miss Brown After he
had attended to the patient he said, “ You know Ada,
T’ve attended your father’s family for years for nothing ;
but I’m not going to take yours on at the same
terms The lady said she didn’t know who d pay. Who
w, fi,e best right to?” asked the doctor. “Well,
said she, “I think they ought to whack it.” “ What
do vou mean?” asked the doctor. “ Well,” was the
naralvsing reply, “ I think Frank ought to pay half, and
fatter the other half.” Again ; at a bush-schoo , a boy,
whose father was also his grandfather, stepped out of
class on arrival of a new teacher, and started prospecting
the teacher’s boots. When he found the man wore socks
predecessor hadn’t-he was satisfied about the
dominie’s respectability. When the inspector came
along the same boy left his form and started looking for
to focks. The teacher would have got a bad mark for
discipline if he hadn’t explained the lad s heredity. The
inspector understood ; he had met with the same thing
“ many a time.” On Monaro, I once struck a family all
living in a 2-roomed shanty. Father and mother occupied
one room, and uncle and 7 youngsters—girl of 18 amongst
them- dossed in the other. I slept in the room with the
“ old people,” who raised a much-split sheet of bark
between their bunk and mine. I was local-preaching at
the time, and felt justified, notwithstanding hospitality,
in telling the woman I thought it would be well if
uncle took lodgings elsewhere. She said it was all right,
as he was a decent fellow ; and, besides, half the
youngsters rightly belonged to liiwij \.A.R.^
Cocky (binding his gun to neighbour)
“She’s a shmall taste out av ordher; an’ mebbe
ye’ll have to fire a shot or two out av her before
ye can get her to go-off ! ” *
A Chinaman keeps a livery-stable at a Yic.
town 13 miles inland, but “business allee same
lotten ” lately. There came, however, a storm on
the coast. Whereupon the wily heathen hired a
man to spread a report that a whale was stranded
on the beach. Within two hours he had not a
hoof or a wheel disengaged, and spent the after-
noon offering grateful burnt (paper) sacrifices to
his Joss.
* • * *
A traveller recounts to The Bulletin
some very human-natural experiences
Did a bit of life - insuring at a one - pub
N.S.W. town. First man I met after break-
fast was a carrier who wanted me to have a
drink, and buy his dog—best dog in the world,
only a beggar to suck eggs. Asked him to
insure his life, and spent half - an - hour ex-
plaining the advantages of 1. a. lie didn’t
think it was a bad thing, but didn’t know
about passing the doctor, as he suffered from
“swelled” (varicose) veins, and “had a
cancer coming on his tongue.” Besides, he
didn’t know as it would be quite safe, ’cause
if the old woman got to know his life was
worth two hundred quid, she’d go for the
money straight. The publican’s wife was
very anxious that I should get Bill (hubby)
for’ £5OO or so, but William “ wasn’t takin’
any.” He thought the thing was right
enough, but had the same final objection to it
as his friend, the carrier. Later on, a half-
drunken cockie came along, and I got him for
£2OO. My doctor soon put him through, and
he shouted for all hands and seemed as
pleased as a newly-made J.P. He went up
the street; and, about an hour afterwards,
returned with a woman at his heels. Left
her outside, and came in and asked me to ex-
plain to the old woman, that, in case of death
before 70, he got nothing. You know, said
he, a man has to be mighty careful what
he is at. I agreed. Then he brought the
lady in. We had more drink, and I explained
that if he died before 70 he got nothing.
“ Hear that, Maria ?” he said. The wife, who
had at first seemed highly delighted, suddenly
became dissatisfied, and wanted him to with-
draw, but I pointed out that it couldn t be
done. That was the only life I got in the
place; and before I left I heard that it had
been treated for some heart-complaint, and
was subject to fits.
* * »
The bloated squatter” again.
A man left his homestead near War-
wick (Q.) the other day to sell 7000
sheep—the remnant of a hundred thou-
sand left on his western station.
I’ve passed round the hat and got you some
money. It’s for yourself, mind ! and 111 get you
some more; but you mustn’t build no church
here !”
* • * *
“Ita": Have several times noticed that
when a cultivation paddock is opened up in timber
country the younger trees on the. border of the
clearing in time develop a decided “lean”
towards the ploughed ground. Can any reader
explain ? [Probably because the roots naturally
make for the cleared ground, where they get more
nourishment; and the tree-tails follow the real
tree-animal, the root, as a dog’s tail follows the
dog.]
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Norton M.: One may do. You have a neat
knack of rhyming ; keep clean, get stronger points, and
you’ll flourish... .W.J. : You’re persistent, and improving
-not improved H.S.R. :We don’t “boycott” any-
body-we’d print and pay for good copy even from the
man who had pastured a goat on the grave of our grand-
mother. If your stuff had been suitable it would have
been used, but we can’t acknowledge receipt of pars.
Would need half Tire Bulletin to do it in... .E. 0.8. :
The question is—lf Fegan possessed twice the qualifica-
tions Lyne credits him with, would he (L.vne) have given
him that Under-Secretaryship had he (Fegan) not pos-
sessed a claim for political services rendered t... .O. A.
Mason : Same old story—entrusting a set of ex-slaughter-
men, ex-publicans and so on, with the beauUficauon and
sanitation of what should be a dean and charming city
8.K.8. : But what a triumphant howi would have
arisen about the “ patriotism ” of Australia had Colonels
Mackay and Lassetter been returned for the Senate
during their absence from this countrj ..... Karde /.
Will print, though the verses strike one as bein
too much cleaned and scoured for your topic, which cal's
for less idyll and more rough reality... • p * all ®
for your Oscar Wilde theory, author ofJ E ‘," ■ ?
Betters is contributing second-rate verse to current
magazines....A.K.O. : No preliminaries, P.lease-get right
to the point. We don’t want people, as it dear
their throats and say “ Haw when they start
this naner .0.0. W. : Yes, the Boer libellers (of the
British troops) are being punished-now how about the
Boer-libellers, the liars who traded off upon"* all thos
hysterical stories about cowardly murdersand the flog
ging of English subjects, male and female t. ... A. •
(Melb )' We don’t want to hear whether or not So ' a _"' l
So” and his wife,” well-known in Society, arenot on good
terms ” That’s their business, not ours. Nor is it 5 ours
.... Mindanao : “ Another way ” would be to enact that
all cases alleged to involve offences against the tactones
or the Early-closing law should be heaid l bjajPOhce
magistrate. To have them dealt with by trading Js. ~
mixed up with all sorts of interests is a . A.inr.
A Dead Failure.... Phil Mac. : “Bounder means a
cheaply-pretentious person—say an amalgam of cat ,
snob and booby.. . Gladstone : Four pages foolscap
abusing a mining millionaire for his alle^e ‘ l ine^ n *' u
True he is very rich, but he isn t half as close as 1
think—he and his wife give away heaps of money,
SCOTCH WASHING-DAY.—PREPA RING FOR
THE DUKE OF YORK.
(From a sketch by Botticelli.)
very quietly. The life of a very rich man who “ parts ’
with the faintest degree of ostentation is soon made a
hell-upon-earth at the hands of all sorts of beggars. The
chief characteristic of that millionaire's liberality is his
ready consideration for necessitous old-time comrades
Rorere : Miss Missionary is a dead failure in China. If
missionaries must go to China they should conform to
Chinese customs and respect their morale of behaviour.
All respectable Chinese suspect the virtue of unmarried
females living in the same houses as male missionaries.
The applied proverb “When in China do as the
Chinese do,” so palpably necessary to prevent “ losing
face,” is neglected G.R.H. : Not up to mark
Will J.: You have certainly original touches, but you
discount them (as in “ Interception ”) by straining after
unnatural effects of style. You’d do better with greater
simplicity.. ..Rooster : Well, you crow like an old hen,
anyhow. .E.8.J.: No room for Welsh superstitions. Aus-
tralia wants all our space Jean 0.0. : Lamentable
effort at verse. Can’t say anything about “ sum for
sketches” until we have seen them G.M. : Ends in
nothingness Nil: Considering “Population.”
Uoola: Possibly “His Country.” Quilp N. : Ditto
“ Horn.” Rek: Sorry ; but would need re-writing
entirely. MS. returned... .J.G.A. : Thanks, but The
Bulletin isn’t going to get violently excited about the
Y0rk5....0.A.T. : Very funny—but 1....F.L.M. : Why
not number your copy ? We have no time to solve rid-
dles of continuation A.M.P.: Rats !.... W.H.D. : Your
list contains too many old-world names to maintain the
grotesquerie of the motif D.J.H. (Melh.) : M.S. so
small and scratchy as to be utterly impossible Toby :
Over-suggestive H.A.M. : No interest A.A.C. :
Laconic, but not worth printing Gold (M.): All
printed already.... Maia : Not yet good enough... .J.J.
(Melb.): Sorry unusable... .J. A. H. : You’re a bit belated.
The war-boom has burst... .Watt Ellis: Probably....
A.B.T. : “Back a Bit” will be considered Turpin:
“ Steatopogy ” means, practically, posterior-rotundity...
C.A.S.: You have imagination, and considerable
felicity of expression, but you sadly lack observation.
O.A.L.M. : We hate the feeble hoax-yarn.... Only :
“ Schimmel ” uninteresting... .H.D.N.: Didn’t it strike
you that was very like your despised sermon?
NORA M‘KAY.
Photo, by James and Sons, Leeds.
Iriezam : Handling much too amateurish Ben Sun :
“ Misunderstood ” not up.... A.W.S. (Richmond): \\ orth
your while to learn to draw.... Edgar P. : Too heavy ; re-
turned with note... .A.D.B. : Remarks to Death and
Drunkards feeble. You don’t improve Magnet: No
interest T.E.S.: Wants compressing and brightening.
.O.A.J.T. : One yell typed; other premature....
Bangem : Yes, we’ve banged ’em... ..T.C. (Manawatu):
Possibly S.F. : Possibly one D.11.R. (Walgett): On
one right track ; but matter not yet bright enough.....
Trader: Will do Schnee : Won’t do C.H.O. :
Spiritless rhymes.... .H.M. : Not bad ; not good enough.
... .Newtown: Possibly Tom B. : Ingenuous, but
much overdone, and too long for its interest... . Betrajei .
Very good in places, but much forced in others, and too
long for “ 8.”.... W.T.L.M. : Not a bad idea, but you’ve
not put work enough into it Cosmos : Travels the
beaten-track throughout, with just a touch of novelty at
end Sandy: Nothing in it, as put Joillew (or
something like that): You have here and there the
glimmer of an idea Geo. R. H. : Touches of power in
places, but not, enough general merit..... Leebride : Too
tamely horticultural Pedlar: “Trinity” flat..
Clv :' Nothing in it (1. A. : Commonplace ideas in un-
distinguished dress.... Miles I : May print verses. Prose-
setting, superfluous and weak... .H.A.M. : Stories not
bad; not good enough Kardella : Looks too idyllic;
considering B.E. : Don’t much care for—W.J.B. :
“Duel” feeble Homo: Possibly D.G. (Maryb.):
Can’t decipher your signature, but will be glad
to comply with your request... .L.A.A. : That’s all right.
The Sydney da'iiv press is livening up. It now' prints
jokes bv Rand wick Storey... .H. : The anonymous illus-
trated life of King Edward, as Prince of Wales, published
by Grant Richards, London, in 1898, is full of detail, with-
out being snobbish.... H.P. : “The only horse that has
been taken from Australia to England, and brought back,
is Lady Hopetoun’s favorite old hunter.” Not so. There
are several, including Paris L.L. : The will made by
the Solitary at the bottom of her glove-box is no good,
sans w'itnesses, hut the Court takes an informal, will. as
evidence of intention M.C.O. : That soul-trimming
story would mean libel, and ovould be hard to prove at
this'date.. .11.V.N. : The smartness of “Light” is very
“ would-be ”... E.E. : Your letter throws no new light
on the discussion Lona M‘C. : Too school-girly
Percy V. : Has good dramatic possibilities, to which you
have failed to rise.... J.G.B. : Ranges from good to mid-
dling, and is hardly compact enough for B Tyrwhitt:
Rather lame and tame E.L.O. : According to all ac-
counts the Federal was a strong, well-equipped ship. She
was by r no means an old vessel..... L.M.R. : The best way
to find out those things is to submit acceptable matter...
F.W. (Africa): That nurse’s story too “ steep.”. ...Tang :
Why set down in MS. that “ the fault was the engineer's ?
That would be a flat libel, and how could we prove it at
this distance? We don’t mean to try A.M.F. i If
there is any humor in the thing, you’ve missed it
C. : By “The King of a Day” was meant a reign of
only one 'day. Quite sound English. Compare “The
bliss of a moment,” &c. The Italian title, however, was
accidentally inverted... .J.A.W. : Only worth a par....
Molly Bawn : Echoes of Keats and Shelley. Try to warble
“on your own;” you have evidently some gift
M.W.': After serious consideration of the case, The
Bulletin records its unbiassed opinion that Carty Salmon
is a very sudden kind of man, and that he saved the Vic-
torian revenue £500... .Prospect Good : Got a doubtful
eye on the ’Enry George yarn Will J. :It takes a lot
of genius to make the dying-swagman yarn go nowadays.
He has died so very, very often Annie H. : The vast
bulk of the document makes it quite hopeless. .Varrevah :
Just 50.... J.J.K. (Bris.) : Thanks. Will be attended to.
B.B: Thanks ; Will print shortly J.K. : Same to you.
Drummer: You’ll have to bang a lot harder!....
D. : Clipping acceptable Lu Lei: Basket emits
faint howls. Guess that’s you Stranger: Well seen,
but not well handled J.M.A. : Send to Ogilvie.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0.H.1. : Acceptable.. ..Mac. : Better not send illus-
trated verses. The drawing may suit and the verse not
or vice-versa .... D.M. (Bath.) : Will submit to artist....
Plvm. S. : It wouldn’t do—they weren’t all Hebrews
F.S.S. : Old subject. ...Unavailable : D.H.R., John Barry.
NOTICE.
At the Molten Hotel in Sulphuric Glade,
Where the temperature’s nine-ninety-eight in the shade,
There’s a thrice-heated chamber dug out with a scraper
For the fellow who writes on both sides of the paper
Where the billows of brimstone delightfully roar,
And the geysers their seething red cataracts pour,
There’s a blistering bath ill a cauldron of flame
For the chump who neglected to sign his name.
—lnland Printer.
M. Ovide Musin writes from Liege under
date 12th March :
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir, —I take the liberty of in-
troducing to you one of my best pupils, a young girl from
Maryborough (Queensland)- Nora M ‘Kay—who began her
studies with me here, at the Royal Conservatory, three
vears ago ; and carried off the highest honors. The
first prize with grand distinction was given to her by
the jury of seven of the best violinists of Europe, \saye
being one of them. She is about to begin a tour in Aus-
tralia, and I am convinced that she will make a sensation,
being a wonder, both with regard to tone, technique, and
style. She has a perfect how-arm, and a magnificent
position. Hoping you will find space in your widely-read
paper for the picture enclosed, believe me, very truly
yours, Ovide Musin.
A sign of the times is King O’Malley’s
election by Tasmania to Federal honors. “The
King ” arrived in Adelaide from Canada some
years ago, and served two terms in the local
Assembly. He lias a wild and whirling style of
eloquence, like that of Smiler Hales, with Ameri-
can exuberance added, and he became the delight
of all satirists and paragraphists. To work up a
pantomime with local allusions meant to drag in
King O’Malley’s name as often as possible, and it
was always sure of a laugh. When he was
defeated by Mayor Tucker, after a desperate
fight which split the constituency into _ two
hostile camps, and broke up many local friend-
ships of long standing, K.O’M. moved on
to Tasmania. There he was instrumental in add-
ing the names of some 3000 West Coast miners
and others to the electoral roll, meanwhile talking
advanced democracy and calling ever) 7 toil-stained
worker “ brother.” He petrified the l assies with
his cyclonic eloquence and wildly-humorous abuse
of the ancient fossils of the Flyspeck. He posed
(he’s good at that) as a modern Peter the Hermit,
specially ordained to succour the dispossessed,
and blast and blither the Fatman unto seventy
times seven. Exceedingly shrewd, but not
over-logical in argument, quick at repartee,
not too refined in expression, but withal
clever enough to impress electors with his
cleverness, O’Malley scored. And no wonder. Tas-
mania was rotten-ripe for change, and the man
with the wide-brimmed hat, blue eyes, and brown
beard, who called every man “brother,” and
boasted that he could fight and beat all the news-
papers in the Island, was the best Cromwell who
appeared in the lists. A man of awful skite, cer-
SENATOR KING O'MALLEY (Tas.).
Photo, by T. Channon, Strahan, Tasmania.
tainly, but as bis big heart and active brain easily
outweigh the dross, this paper expects useful
Federal legislation from King O’Malley. A
photo of the Senator, beaming affably through
his spectacles, appears in this issue.
Bunny has a poor time of it now—quoted
in the London market as,flat at he is bundled
out of existence in Victoria with the assistance of
M‘Lean Bros, and Bigg, Ltd., the big iron-
mongers in Melbourne. That firm supplies guns,
ammunition and traps, and, in cases of dire need,
can turn on a full blast of destruction with Dixon
Gould’s Vacuum Destroyer. This machine is the
Jim Dandy of its kind, is beautifully made,
certain in operation as a Waterbury watch, and
counts its victims by thousands. Poor bunny !*


tV EFFECT OF THE VISIT.
Great preparations.
.b^ h e%t^r4^ re b^ c Sr
makmg dke by the hnndfedSlTght MV, ™
to got things prepared for the Rbyal visit ” is t|,!
formula wEicfi greets one in ever, c‘fe'and tea
nun r began many weeks ago to get in
supplies, and we are still buying. '• g '
fowla ra dnrL OOUntrs ' COm J '" s “ J r great crates of
° 181 , tlQ , cjc8 ’ geese, and turkeva Th«v
? Hj&ed, plucked, and ica In the
also stored mountains of butter and
tu prud “-
“JeyCtyc* 7
v\i °\
V/eeK. our ✓vfiir*
t/ew i-T/lc of JooKoy o r/\ co+Vy
tfj'to f^jeltoo^c
PRESENT FROM A BUTTER
FACTORY
WARRXAMBOOL. Saturday
Mr. A H. Konwiek. secretary of the
Fnmh.nn C and B Factory Co . recently
addressed ■% * ommunic.ir.ion to Ht« Excel-
leney ihe Oovernor-Oenrral. stating that
they desired to present, a box of the com-
pany's butter to H R H the Dhke of Corn-
wall and York on t.he occasion of hi* v»sn
to Victoria
4j7 iutle? i*7 "ff e
hye HeJ jo iy
ac+^*
[oy 2\ l
#
■\S i? w U-r oa # (
W '
JooKoyoi'K
✓f'uyctio&S < "fr? j^ulleti*/
a , i'/e<v An illu^Tr^no 7 of
if*S irjtfr?ti°9S •
ef \ *>*
qaC Conjbu Isorv ba'T~
se?ir?<? vfkX
bow £>345 boiorloucj
CKin; ii?sjs i»7 Heloout'b^—-'
Celebi'dCnQyj?
Will brok^y
<7O r/s-.rJ wii^ 1
\rjy
'ferfrs'f^
t is "
due -io
At this aftomoon’s meeting of the Melbourne’
Harbor Trust Commissioners a letter was received
from Captain Wailington, private-seoretary to his
Excellency the Governor-General, regarding a
conversation which the secretary of the Trust pad
with him in reference to a question of precedence, i
Captain Wailington intimated that he had been
“directed by the Governor-General to slate that
the Melbourne Harbor Trust would'cert only take ,
precedence of the Metropolitan Board of Works. ,r
When the letter was read there were “ Hoorays’*
irora all the commissioners.
A
'■ 'je Qoc ls i!
A NEW MACE
FOR THE STATE ASSEMBLY.
FEDERAL LOWER HOUSE
TO OSE THE PRESENT ONE.
We learn on good authority that
order has been given by the Victorian
Government foT the manufacture of a
new mace fo r the State Legislature, at a
Cost of L 250 or L3OO. to supply the place
Of the one stolen in 1892. when §!r
'Matthew Davies was Speaker.
The new State Assembly mare is we
learn, to be ready for ihe RovaJ visit,
and it will be used in connection with
any function in which the Speaker ap-
pears officially
p*b^, ve iy €^ Uk . e .
v/1 ll |d KoVi<4e<i
/for ijje tfeV'
•'Beware
coloured
tfcKets !!"
Byron Moore, secretary' to the
fV.R.C.. who has been asked by the Go-
vernment to take charge of the arrange-
ments for the spectators at the review to
{be held at Plemington on the 10th May.
.ton Saturday morning had a consultation
With the committee on the subject of the
preparations to be made.
Seven thousand guests have to be pro-
vided for. and an ingenious plan has
been devised by Mr Byron Moore to pre-
vent confusion In respect to the luncheon..
• Various colored cards will be issued, and;
by their colors the guests will know what,
room to g© to for luncheon.
MELBOURNIANA.


“ The picnic to Mr. Reid will take place on Saturday
at National Park, wet or dr?."—Daily paper.
And it did The only dry thing about it was the l)dg.
Mrs. Montkickxr : “ I see the Premier of Victoria is going to give two free
passes to all visiting members of Parliament, and that means that you can take
me, after aIL”
Mr. Montkicker (M.P. for the Flying Fox): “ Er—yes, my I had
hoped—at least, feared—that the obstacles in the way of taking you with me
might prove insuperable.” {
Then he smiled a sickly smile as he thought what a grand opportunity the 1
Victorian Opposition have (if they only knew it) of ousting the present Govern-
ment for the abuse of free railway passes.
! Lf\7TST
AUSTRALIAN 1
Tl\ooPS N* ftr '
.yl S»«ih/'FR'T$ >j
jJFfYS.WfR--
"SCPm'oF THE
£ m»
RECENT ATTACKS ON THE
PRESS.
“In America Freetrade had been responsible for the tyranny of
the Tammany Ring. In Australia it had been responsible -instead
for the tyranny of the press, and any scoundrel supported by the
press could get into Parliament.”— The O’Sullivan, at Manly.
“ Speaking of corrupt literature, he (Cardinal Moran) the previ-
ous day had met a gentleman from West Australia who said that
the West Australian papers boasted that they had received their
information and their press wires from the office of the Daily
Telegraph in Sydney.” (“Hear, hear.”) “If such be true,” com
'tinned the Cardinal—“ I don’t guarantee its truth.”
-DOWN TOOLS ;'. t 0 the A-BG^^i
the» ta ordered to p.»d« “ ed »« *». 6d.
place among tb® t V Tbe pay has b claim
*£*££ 'Bed £,«-*
Bs. a day, and t arranging
•isiz&brr
■y.S *
•f
<£> if X. -xSj
/?<>“
#■&>
<r
York is to be pre-,
sented with an Aub-
tralian horse—also a
stock-whip. The Prince
has risen rapidly in the eyes*
of the Australians, and no doubt
will rise still higher when he
mounts that horse and' cracks that
stock-whip.
“ He was a pressman himself, but he
was not going to let the press tyrannise
over the people, and when the proper
time came the right to create a press
jtyranny would be resisted.”—-jO’Suli<ivas.
This will end by the See-O’Sullivaa
Government establishing a daily paper,
and the imagination revels in the engage-
ment of an editor by O’Sullivan. “As to salary, now,”
he will say to the applicant, “your pay will be 7s. per
day. Yes, sir, not a penny less. I intend to stand or
fall by my living-wage policy. And, by the bye, you
might make a note of this utterance for the first issued
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS,
leading Art Jeweller & Silversmith,
Showrooms i
815 George St., Sydney
#^l7l
A*— A. SAUNDERS
Y 515.817 CEORRES I-^
* SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER, in
Black or Nickel, 20s —perfect timekeeper. The
LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model, 255; in
Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case, £2 10s, £3.
ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6, £7,
£B. Gold Watohes, £4 4s, £5 ss, £0 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you
the utmost satisfaction, “otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.” Send for illustrated
hook of particulars, post free.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2los,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
100. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15.5, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
9c. Gold Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6d
17 Pure Double Out Diamonds, extra strong, 15c.
Gold Brooch, £l2 10s ; with Ruby or Sapphire
Centre, £lO 10s.
16c. Gold 2-Bar and Pearl Turquoise Set Scroll
Brooch, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Sold Heart and Key with Ivy Brooch with
Diamond, 20s ; 15c. Gold, 35s ; 18c., £2 ss.
Solid Gold, “Mizpah,” “Good Luck," with
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
18c. Gold, 2 Bamboo Bar and Pearl Set Scroll
Brooch, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Federal Brooch, with Pretty Enamelled
Flag and Gold Spray, 22s 6d ;
With' Good Wishes, 15s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
(■Registered) Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamond*, £2 10a and £3. Any Name or Motto
Fre*. Six different patterns, similar.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Heart Opals and 10 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to
match, 86s. very Pretty and Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Name Bracelet, Gold Bands, Any Name, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £3 ;
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
Gold Diamond and Ruby Bracelet, £2 15s. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bamboo Bracelets, 18s 6d ; wider, 21s, 80s, 355, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Designs ; Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and Red Stone,
Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold Bracelet, 8 Opal’, 24 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to match, 85s.
Very Pretty.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise Pin, Ladies’ or Gen' .’s, 20s.
Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Scroll Chain and Bell Brooch, 15*.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Solid Gold Spray Brooch, Diamonds and
Rubies, £l2 10s ; All Diamonds, £l5.
Gold Forget-me-not Chain and Heart Brooch
11s 6d ; with Amethyst, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 265. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
3-Bar and Garnet Brooch, 15s, larger size, 21s
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart.
Full size, 10s ; small, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, Sss.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 2 >s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
mm
.
«£?■ '
3SLI. /.:<v '<hjWg. jyisf
saa,
Jm
.
k.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15c., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon Brooch, £2
10s. London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Brooch, Tur-
quoise and Pearl Centre, 20s.
Newest Style.
©
15c. Gold 2-Bar Diamond and 2 Bed
Stones, 25s
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name Brooch, 7s 6d ;
With Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)
GOLD CROSS,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255, SOs ; smaller,
6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart Locket
7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Three Sizes.
Heart CHARM,
with Amethyst
and Pearls,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
Gold Heart and Dumbbell LINKS,
12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
16c. Solid Gold Opal LINK, with
Initial, £2 10s. Extra Strong.
GENT.’S RING.
Solid Gold Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2 ; 18c., £2los
A. SAUNDERS.
ISc. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
18c. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING, Dia-
monds and Rubies, Sap-
phire and Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 1 or 3
Diamonds, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond RING,
£3, £4, £5.
15c. Solid Gold RING,
Red Stone and 2 Dia-
monds, 25s ; similar, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
So’id Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ;
18c. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
ALL ARTICLES- POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 25a, 30s, £'2,
±2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Gold “Good Luck ” Brooch, 10s 6d :
15c. Gold, 21s.
IZP
SIS
Gold “ Mizpah ” Brooch, 2 Ivy Leaves
Heart and Bow, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
GOLD CHARM, raith, Hope, and
Charity, 7s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 15s.
tag"
to
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s Od ; Larger
6s Cd ; Largest size, 7s Od.
These are indeed very pretty.
Our Stock oF Ladies’ Engagement Rings is the
Largest and Best Value in Australia.
jpr~ Send For Illustrated Book and Size Card.~3Kl
Newest Solid Silver
FEDERAL .MEDAL, 2s.
>-
15e. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Heart Brooch,
£2 2s. The Latest Style.
GOLD SHIELD LINKS,
21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Smaller Shield, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies and
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5.
The latest ISc. Solid
Gold Single Stone
Rinjr, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
■ B
18c. Solid Gold, 3
Opals, 4 Diamonds,£s
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4
MIZPAH
GOLD
CHARM,
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c.
Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355,' 40s. Send for caid.
18c. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Diamonds, £8 10s.
Smaller, £5, £6, £7
£7 10s to £3O.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
Oc. Gold, 12s Cd, 15s ;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Any Name Free.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl Ring, 12s 6d.
Very Cheap.
Gold Cat CHABM,
with Pearl, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s;
15c. Gold, 32s 6d ; Silver
& Gold, 10s ; all Silver, 6j
CALL AND SEE OTJR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
Or Send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
LEADING ART JEWELLER
815 & 817 George St.
Nearly Oppo-
site Railway
Btatlon,
Sydney.


Publications.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
. . . BEING . . .
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No.
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No.
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No.
s sis
TH
>33
ftOS
800
rice
\
JbßtJre
j&hJUL % ft Sfc S\o* SMti'Sk*
One of the Finest Albums of Easy Piano-
forte Pieces yet issued
ENTITLED—
Wild Flowers Album.
CONTENTS:
1. “Clematis.” Graceful Dance .. .. Garfield
2. “ Wattle Blossom.” Valse .. .. Garfield
3. “The Pink Heath.” Barn Dance.. .. Garfield
4. “Waratah.” March Militaire .. .. Garfield
5. “ Boronia.” Valse Garfield
6. “The Flannel Plant.” Barn Dance .. Garfield
7. “White Heath.” Valse Garfield
8. “ Sassafras.” Gavotte Garfield
9. “ Golden Wattle.” Valsette .. .. A. Chanter
10. “ Gum Blossoms.” Polka Garfield
11. “ Acacia.” Valse Garfield
12. “ Silver Wattle.” Valse Garfield
Published bt
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd.
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
For sale by every Music-Seller in Australasia.
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
SON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was bom while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to bommunicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
ELECTRIC
*
MINING
MACHINERY
OT EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRIIPP CALL Mil
NOYES BRO
31 O’Ccnnell-st., SYDNEY ; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King 1 Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price OdL.
£3 a Mi"
1.0. F
m
; ; T
L.B.C
m
order
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £921,239.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER « FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 5S Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
A Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
JEIOO Policy.
Age 18 - 20 25 30 35 40 45
Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Building's,
29 Grenfell Bt., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia : ,
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, Ac., on Application.
Smart business men may find employment as Organisers upon making application to above address.
THEROYAL VISIT
Secure
Lasting
Mementoes
Of this
Great Event
KODAKS at all Prices from
. to £7 15 0.
FR€€ INSTRUCTION
. . IN . .
PHOTOGRAPHY
GIVEN TO PURCHASERS.
Write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LIST, Post
Free, and Mention Tins Paper, to
LIMITED
THE BLOCK,
214 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
and of all Photographic Dealers.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post l Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza,—-
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
lASIOND SONS BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot bo had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s lOd from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 158 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
A RATIONAL REFORM IN TEACHING
FRENCH.
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.)
Therefore use PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d.)
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
DAPTO (3L.alse
(LTMITBIi),
Illawarra).
SYDNEY.
MAKE
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
• F
FINE SILVER.
.'dSSB
illlii
HI
iii!
mm
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AMD
ILLAWARRA'
. .JJUAN» •
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SIL7JA - 3JLLIJJ
HIGHEST PRICES* PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P, S. Morse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DATTO, N.S.W. j or Martin Place, SADNE3T.


The public want coupons. When in Vic-
toria an attempt to introduce legislation against
the system of the Co-Operative Coupon Co., Ltd.
was made, 50,000 members of the public petitioned
both Houses of Parliament in support of the
company’s system. These petitions aggregated
over one mile long. 1500 traders issuing the
company’s coupons also signed petitions in favor
of the system.*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
The Proprietors of Condy’s Fluid, of Goswell
Road, London, England, are now placing on
every bottle of Condy’s Fluid a most useful
Book containing instructions from Veterinary
Surgeons of the highest standing for the
treatment and cure of ailments affecting
Horses, Dogs, Cats, Cattle,t Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, Pigeons & Cage Birds.
Condy’s Fluid is really a Magical Remedy
for suffering animals, and this book will be
found extremely useful. We recommend all
our readers to buy a bottle of Condy’s Fluid
and carefully read this Veterinary Book which
is now attached to every bottle.
E 85329
GJ-O TO HELi.-
i I GOLAN I > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HA -T^
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemises sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPL€V CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand ~ -
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted hy
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
high-grade
farm—•
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judging by the number of land-sales
announced in Brisbane it looks as if the financial
institutions smell the advent of a land tax.
Sydney D.T.’s horror at the political pro-
fligacy of Lyne’s appointment of Fegan is badly
off-set by Lyne’s appointment of D.T.-President
Randall Carey. '
During the last 10 years the population of
Sydney has increased by 102,109; Adelaide,
28,842; and Melbourne, 3060. Hobart has de-
creased by 329.
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce is appeal-
ing (and apparently successfully) to the Mel-
bourne and Adelaide Chambers to lend a hand
and save the beloved Kanaka.
Lately a German steamer deposited 114
passengers at Fremantle (W.A.)—BB Italians,
8 Germans and Belgians, 6 Spaniards, 8 English-
men and 4 Irishmen. The Anglo-Saxon race is
getting on well in these parts !
P. O. Fysh takes Neil Lewis’s place as Hon.
Member of the Barton Cabinet. Barton, Deakin,
Kingston, Dickson, and he were the five delegates
to England on behalf of the Constitution, and the
whole five have been included in the first Govt,
under it. ,
Brisbane is the black Conservative blot
on the face of Democratic Queensland. While
North, West and Central went Democratic at the
secent Federal elections, Brisbane stuck to its be-
loved Fat Men like glue. Municipally, that town
is corrupt to the core, and Private Enterprise
grows fat on the city’s negligence. Nationally,
Brisbane was the bitterest foe of Federation m
Australia. Provincially, Brisbane is the coddler
of Kanakas, the harbinger of Asiatics, the sheet-
anchor of the Northern boodlers.
“JAPAN URGES CHINA TO RESTORE LAW AND ORDER
in manchuria."
Brisbane Courier most emphatically de-
mounces the lack of discipline that led to the Q.
Govt, party’s defeat during the late Federal elec-
tions. The League of which the Courier was
the acknowledged organ drew up a so-called
“ticket.” This ticket the Courier promptly re-
viewed and promptly denounced. And now that
organ bellows for “ discipline ! ”
It is peculiar that the German voters of
S.A., and especially where they are segregated in
little Teutonic townships, always follow the
Defence League (Tory) ticket, and almost in-
variably vote solid. Hahndorf, for instance,
put into the box 150 votes for one candidate and
only two or three for the other, though the
latter was the better man, and won in the whole
district.
S. A. Legislature has yielded to the clamour
of the people for reductions in view of the coming
of Jederation. It has abolished the salary of the
1 arliamentary Librarian. Now it will wipe
its perspiring brow and cease from its labors in
the cause of economy.
The salaries of the Governor-General and
the State Governors of Australia amount, taken
together, to over £40,000 a year. Compare
these figures: Australian Governor-General,
£10,000; President of the U.S., £10,000; Presi-
dent of France, £24*000 ; President of Switzer-
land, £740.
The S.A. Cabinet will not be fixed up
until after the York celebration in Melbourne.
Govt, whip Brooker, Ishmael Grainger, ex-. Educ-
ation Minister Butler, and the pragmatical Peake
are spoken of for the two vacancies, and there is
also a suggestion of coalition with the idea of
isolating the Labor party.
The Sydney dailies pooh-pooh the idea
that the faults of Lyne in office should not be
counted against Premier See. The See Ministry
is only the Lyne one continued. Then as the Lee
party is only the Reid party continued, the Neild
grant and other little things should be put down
to the debit of Opposition-leader Lee.
At Wyacca, on S.A. West Coast, during
the Federal elections, 14 persons voted. They all
met together previously, and both for Senate and
Representatives they voted for exactly the same
men—so that six in the first case and seven in the
second had 14 votes while none of the rest received
any. At another polling-place in same con-
stituency (Flinders) the only two votes cast were
informal.
The Bulletin presumes that the insolent
bleeding (by an obsequious gang of departmental
officials) of the N.S. W. Public-school teachers for
money to supply medals to departmental officials
who volunteered for S’Africa, does not take place
without the knowledge and concurrence of
Minister Perry. Also, this paper trusts that
Duke George has a bauble in his bag for Perry,
also one for “F. Bridges.”
Members of the Federal Cabinet have pub-
licly stated that they are confident of a good
working majority. But several of the new and
hitherto-unknown members have not authori-
tatively stated how they intend to sit. Braddon
is supposed to vote as a Reidite —which is singular,
as he is the author of the famous “ Blot ” which
Reid, Sydney D.T. and other Freetrade props
have never ceased denouncing as a death-blow to
the idea of Freetrade.
“J. F. Cullen”
—we seem to have
heard the name before
somewhere —writes to
the Sydney papers
proposing that the
Federal Parliament
Blia.ll amend the Con-
stitution (which it
can’t do, by the way)
to the extent of re-
moving the 100-iniles-
from-Sydney-clause, so
that the Federal city
can be put right against
Cullen’s back-door at
North Sydney. It ap-
parently doesn’t occur
to Cullen that it is
logically impossible to
remove the prohibition
against Sydney being
the capital without
also removing the pro-
hibition against Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, and
other places. And then
the Federal city might
depart out of N.S.W.
altogether. Better
leave well alone.
State Premier See
of N.S.W. proposes to
dissolve Parliament
and go to the country
on a programme
which includes - a re-
duction in the member-
ship of the Assembly,
an enlarged system of
Local Govt., female
suffrage, an improved
Factories Act, arbitra-
tion in industrial dis-
putes, the placing of
the Civil Service and
Police Superannuation
Funds on a solvent
basis, and (though
these are mentioned
rather vaguely) a
North Shore bridge
and a city railway. But Premier See is none
too strong or too definite about a lot of these
things. And there is no sign or promise of the
democratic reform which over-shadows all others
—that the See Government will borrow no more
money for unproductive works and will cease to
heap up ruinous burdens and prospective bank-
ruptcy for the coming generations. That one item
would be worth all the rest 12 times over,
N.S.W. Freetrade politicians Lee and
Ashton both cursed Premier See in last Monday’s
Sydney D.T. because, in his manifesto, he sticks
to the questions which' the State Parliament has
power to deal with, and doesn’t mumble over the
dry bones of the fiscal question, which concerns
the State Parliament just as much as do the rings 1
of Saturn.
THE SILVER LINING.
MRS. SILVERSTEIN: “ Ah, Aby, you’re drunk!”
MR. S.: “’S’hall ri’ m’dear. It’s only on three-
penny long beers.”
The C.M.G. and D.S.O. pest that has
just descended on Australia shows that the
Britisher still believes he can catch the Australian
with forty-third-rate titles in the same way as
he has been catching the “poor heathen ” of the
Pacific Islands with shoddy beads and buttons.
This will continue as long as Australians remain
on their stomachs before the superior British in-
dividual, and accept the shop-stained baubles.
S.A. National Defence League pretends
now that it gave its supporters latitude to vote for
whomsoever they pleased outside the nominees of
the executive, but at the German township of
Moculta (where the League runs the show)
Kingston, Symon and Bonython received but one
vote each, while Holder got but two. The League
candidates—of whom one was a reformed Single
Taxer and another a renegade Labor member-
received 85 votes each.
The Barton Cabinet’s determination to
appoint a Sergeant-at-Arms and an Usher of the
Black Rod does not presage well for the economy
or Democratic simplicity of the new Common-
wealth. Both these officers will be highly paid,
while their duties are either ridiculous or trivial.
It is true there is a Sergeant-at Arms in the U.S.
Parliament, but he is paymaster of the members
and general clerk besides. The Usher of the
Black Rod has no existence there.
“Joey” Carruthers,- in his Rockdale
(N.S.W.) impeachment of the See Govt. :
Thanks to the Freetrade policy of the previous (Reid)
Govt, there was a flowing Treasury, but the flow had
stopped now.
And as N.S.W. is still run on the Freetrade policy
of the Reid Govt., the fair inference seems to be
that it is Freetrade which stopped the flow.
Anyhow, if there was a period of plenty and a
period of scarcity under the Reid tariff, that
tariff can’t get credit for the one without being
debited with the other also.
J. H. Carruthers’ late exclupatory speech
only puts him in a still tighter place. In it he
contends that See is not and cannot be considered
constitutionally Premier of N.S.W. till the coun-
try or Parliament lias ratified his appointment.
Yet in another part of his speech he admits to
having negotiated with Premier See over the
formation of a coalition Government, asserting
that he personally considered such a coalition
advisable. But if See were not constitutionally
Premier why did Carruthers negotiate to join his
unconstitutional Government ?
Q. Minister for Works Leahy announced
mournfully a few days ago that the Q. Treasury
was about half a million to the bad this
year ; that the Govt, had no railway policy to
offer, inasmuch as it would be unable to float a
new loan ; that it would be difficult to raise the
interest to meet existing indebtedness. But Philp
and co. have no ideas on the subject of raising
extra revenue or cutting down expenditure to
meet the shortage, and their policy of leaning up
against a tree and hoping for the best is bringing
the Labor-party nearer to power every day.
Dear Bulletin. —The Fede'ral capital site
(B. 27/4/’01) is correct as regards Bombala v.
Orange, but omits to mention other aspirants—
presumably because Mr. Oliver’s recommendation
of three sites carried a certain amount of finality
with it. A practically unlimited water supply,
with great pressure, can be obtained for “Carcoar-
Garland,” at about the same altitude as Bombala,
and 40 miles nearer Melbourne than is Orange (via
Blayney-llarden loop-line). Annual rainfall 39in.
and conservation would cost less than at Bombala,
as the reservoirs would be quite close to the City
site. —J.B.
Rumor and.ex-Premier Lyne and Varney
Parkes have had a long fight with public confid-
ence, and Rumour comes out (prima-facie) ahead.
When Varney retired from Parliament Rumor
pointed to the Chairmanship of Sydney Rocks
Resumption Board. Varney charged Rumor with
lying. Rumor said Lyne promised the billet to
.get rid of a dangerous Freetrade opponent. Lyne
said Rumor lied. Months passed with repeated
charges and counter-charges of lying. Finally
the Board was formed and Varney was a member.
“I told you so,” cried Rumor. “But another
man is Chairman,” cried Lyne. “Yes,.” said
Rumor, “the other man is put up to be knocked
down.” In two weeks Varney is gazetted Chair-
man.'
In the competition for
Common wealth Parliament
billets, the attaches of the
Vic. Legislature seem to have
come out on top. George Up-
ward, the tactful Sergeant-at-
Arms for Vic. Assembly, goes
over to the Federal Senate
as Clerk of Select Commit-
tees and Black Rod, in which
useful and ornamental capaci-
ties he will be “all there. n
Upward seems just the man
to have the Rod in pickle, so
to speak, when an air of
authority is required, and his
former experience as a Judge’s
Associate ought to fit him for
the Select clerkly position.
Woollard, lately Black Rod
in the Jic. House, is trans-
formed into Sergeant-at-Arms
for the Federal Reps., who
may put him to the test as a
chuclcer-out ere all the gloss
has departed from their fur-
niture.
Though Lee, of Tenterfield, is the elected
leader of the Opposition in N.S.W. State Parlia-
ment, Carruthers poses as the man who runs the
show, and he offers an Opposition policy and heaves
the official Opposition brick at the Government
just like a real leader. Judging by his indictment
the point on which the See Ministry is most likely
to come down with a loud slam is its annexation,
as current revenue, of the rents of the Sydney
resumed aVoa, while making no allowance for
interest on the purchase money. And on that
point it can hardly come down with a louder slam
than it deserves.
Tasmania is the first State to get out a
rough estimate of its population. The figures are
171,006 against 146,0G7 in 1891—an increase of
24,399, equal to 17 per cent. The total is 11,442
less than the estimate. Hobart has actually
diminished; it has 24,576 people as compared
with 24,905 ten years ago, a decline of 329.
Meanwhile its hated rival, Launceston, has in-
creased from 17,208 to 18,043, and on the strength
of this the animosity between north and south
(the Launceston press generally calls Hobart the
“ capital ” in inverted commas as an expression of
scorn) will be more violent than ever.
Pastor Jefferis, of Adelaide (who, The
Bulletin regrets to notice, has sustained a great
blow by the death of his son, Dr. Eddington
Jefferis) about 20 years ago delivered an address
(both in Adelaide and Sydney) on Federation.
A recent perusal of it in pamphlet form shows
that the Pastor was much more correct in his ideas
as to the ultimate shape to be assumed by Federa-
tion than was politician Parkes. The latter at
that time favored Unification, and was not too
keen on the Crown question. In the light of
present events, the Congregational clergyman’s
lecture must be regarded as a remarkably accurate
forecast.
Westralia recently took off its Protective
meat duties, and sacrificed some small revenue in
the process, with a view to making its daily chop
and steak cheaper, and it is now struck by the
painful fact that its daily chop and steak remain
at the same price. The importation of cattle on a
large enough scale to make the business pay over
the great sea or land distances which have to be
traversed in Westralia’s case, is not a business
that men of small means can go.into. And
the men of large means, who run the business,
simply pocket the extra profit which the abolition
of the duties gives them, and smile a smile large
enough to take in a tombstone.
“Joey” Carruthers, who is bidding for
the position of leader of N.S.W. Opposition,
wailts to “lift the N.S.W. municipalities out of
their present state of bankruptcy ” —not by mak-
ing them levy enough rates to cover their expendi-
ture, but by giving them large, permanent endow-
ments out of the public revenue. And as Joseph
doesn’t propose any extra taxation to cover these
endowments, and asthe revenue only staggersalong
now by charging £BOO,OOO a year of its current
liabilities to loans, it may be presumed that
Joseph intends borrowing a little extra money to
go on with. Joseph will probably get in. A
man with a scheme for paying all the municipal
debts at nobody’s expense appeals to the inmost
soul of this country.
Cutting from London Times (weekly
edition) Parliamentary report, Ist March :
THE PAY OF COLONIAL TROOPS.
Captain Lee (Hants, Fareham) asked the Secretary of
State for the Colonies if he could state whether the rate
of pay—namely, ss. per diem, now drawn by colonial
troops in South Africa, was less than the current rate of
wages for the lowest class of white labor in such colonies.
Mr. Chamberlain.—Five shillings a day is undoubtedly
less than the average rate of daily wages for unskilled
white labor in the colonies from which these troops have
beer. sent.
Thirty-five shillings a week and keep less than the
average wage of white Australian unskilled labor !
What a lovely romance! The Bulletin here
says, in the presence of some millions of people
who know all about the subject, that a pound a
week with keep is a high rate in Australia. What
do the Labor papers say ?


Read what VITADATIO is Doing.
Cancerous Growth.
PRONOUNCED INCURABLE.
Turned out of Prince Alfred Hospital,
Sydney.
Given a Month at Longest to Live by the Doctors.
STILL ALIVE THROUGH
VITADATIO
Read What Mr . Adams writes.
WRITE TO HER YOURSELF.
Helensburg Railway Station, N.S.W.,
19th July, 1900.
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir,—About eighteen months ago I w*as turned
out of the Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, as incurable,
suffering from a cancerous growth attached to my spine,
and I was told that I could not live longer than a month
at the outside. The agony was so great that I could only
lie on my faoe and hands, and I wished death to come
and release me from the misery. I could do nothing
whatever for myself and could not stand on my feet. I
felt that I must have further advice, and interviewed the
Doctors at the Women’s Hospital, Crown-street, Surry
Hills. I was told there that nothing in this world could
be done for me. I did call there at the end of the month
and after examination I was told that it only was a matter
of time. 1 also interviewed a leading Doctor in Penrith,
and he told me a second growth had formed, and that
nothing could be done, and that I would soon know the
worst. I had been advised to try VITADATIO, which I
am glad to say I did, and have continued with it up to
the present time. After taking it for some time I
improved, and pieces of white skin came away from me.
I began to gain in weight and am now' able to go about
without any trouble, and do all my work. I have every
reason to believe that, by continuing the medicine, I will
be soon as well as ever I was. I will be pleased to answer
any questions about mv case.
HANNAH ADAMS.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Public Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of Lan-
caster Manchester District made in the matter of
the Estate of Frances Raingill deceased and in an
action Beck v. Bankes 100 L B No. 62 the person
claiming to be JOHN HARDY otherwise John
Mayo Hardy (cousin of the said testatrix Frances
Raingill) or to be a child or the legal personal
representative of a child of the said John Hardy
living at - the death of the Testatrix’s brother
Thomas Raingill (who died on the 9th day of
May 1899) are on or before the Bth DAY OF
JULY 1901 to COme in and prove their claims at)
the Chambers of the Registrar of the Manchester
District of the said Court situate at Duchy
Chambers 4 Clarence Street in the City of
Manchester England or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Thursday the 18th day of July
1901 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the said claim.
The said John Hardy is believed to have lived
in Sydney during the years 1880 to 1895 and is
said to have died in the Rookwood Asylum New
South Wales in the year 1895. Any person
having information as to the whereabouts of the
said John Hardy (if living) or of any child or
children of the said John Hardy or who is able to
give any information as to any of such persons is
requested to communicate with Messrs. Chapman
Roberts & Beck Solicitors 32 Fountain Street
Manchester England.
Dated the 28th day of March 1901.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
TO THE MEM3ER3~OFf
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
Permit me to intimate that I am one of your Directors
who, in accordance with the By-laws, retire on this occa-
sion, and, being Eligible for RE-ELECTION, I am again a
candidate, and have the honor of respectfully soliciting
your vote and influence at the forthcoming election.
My interests in the Society are large, and I think I may
claim that my long experience in connection with the
commercial and producing interests of the Colonies has
not been without benefit to the Institution.
I fully recognise the importance and responsibility
attaching to the position of a Director, and should you
therefore again do me the honor of returning me, my
earnest efforts shall, as heretofore, be given to promote
the welfare of our Society.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH ABBOTT
(GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.).
Sydney, 10th April, 1901.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 18th April, 1901.
Devonshire Street Cemetery.
"M"OTICE is hereby given to approved applicants, their
undertakers and stonemasons, that the removal of
all remains, for which exhumation orders have been
obtained, together with the overground property relating
thereto, must be removed from the Cemetery not later
than the 18th proximo. All remains, &c., not so removed
by this date will be translated to the new Cemetery at La
Perouse by the Department.
_9c_3o. J. DAVIS, Under-Secretary.
Business
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE ~
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
HRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
RETD
PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
x MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects —Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 Springfield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
| LLUSTRATEP gITS S
Look out for the “All Australian” Number.
A New and Welcome Feature in Journalism will be pub-
lished early in May. Stories by E. Favenc, Jimmie
Pannikin, Henry Fletcher, Coojal, Bendee, Constance
Clyde, A. G. Alanson, etc.
Price, One Penny. All Newagents.
Publishers; ROBT. A. THOMPSON & CO., 180 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
%
An important Query!
When purchasing a cycle be sure and ask
IF
are fitted. If not, reject the machine, for no cycle will give
satisfactory results on our roads unless these RELIABLE and
DURABLE TYRES are fitted.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
Cyclists Please Note!
Many riders are disposed to ride
their “ Dunlops ” too slack—a
practice that leads to Side Slip,
Punctures and Cut Tyres. The
illustrations herewith depict the
wrong and right way of riding
tyres. Fig. 1 shows the tyre
almost devoid of air ; Fig. 2 re-
presents the tyre as it is, alas !
too often ridden—insufficiently
inflated; whilst Fig. 3 shows
how the tyre should appear
bearing its full load and pro-
perly inflated. If cylists will
pay a little more attention to
this important matter, they will find that their tyres will give
far better results, besides wearing nearly as long again.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of A us. Ltd ,
• 150 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative Typewriters . .
The Host .
. Oensmore
.. [jeui Century
Why Search Elsewhere V
WE Alone can Offer Ton
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue— Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARCEST DEALERS IN AUSTRALIA
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; ' Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
THE 3NTEW
Sfw
r-RW
JUPITERc
PRIMUS
ROOM
WARMER
(Registered).
This heat radiator
with asbestos cone
will warm a room in
a few minutes, and
by removing the top
cover a kettle can be
boiled upon it.
It is made to fit a
Jupiter or Primus
Stove.
Height ... 18in.
Diameter., loin.
Weight ... 41b.
PRICE
(without stove)
Made in Sheet Steel,
15/-
Made in Sheet Bras: ,
25/- i
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Eavenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d„ Posted.
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERCOSON 4 CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
“SAMITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT, i
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen m
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, *C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
j Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SAMITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d) posted, Bd.
The Secret History
. . or TIIB t .
fIOHINCHAM
- CASE.
DH.O’Hflßan’S UHIDICITIOI
AND HOW IT WAS BROUGHT ABOUT.
The Cause Celebre of the
New Century.
The Church Militant and
the Church Triumphant.
IT may be safely said that the people of Austra-
lia—Catholic and Protestant, Jew and Gentile
—have seldom, if ever, before taken so much
interest in any trial as they did in the Coning-
ham Case. And it may be added that a verdict
never gave greater satisfaction to all decent citi-
zens, irrespective of creed, throughout the Com-
monwealth than that which, at the end of the
Second Trial, sent Dr. O’Haran out of the Courts
of Law with a stainless reputation, and a soul
made stronger- by the suspense and suffering of
many weary months. The true story of this
example of modern martyrdom should be read by
not only every Catholic but by every lover of
Justice in the land. It will be found to be full of
surprising incidents, of plots and counterplots,
curious episodes and cunning intrigues.
The Secret History of the Coningham
Case
Will contain all these, and will be illustrated with
PHOTOGRAPHIC FACSIMILES of the Docu-
ments quoted in the Case, and many others that
did not appear in Court, and have never before
been published. The sole right to publish these
rests with the Proprietor of this Work.
:
* r ■ ' ':"P
mm
: &
mA
■ • -.
m
° w*
A glance at the List of Contents will give an idea of the
quality of the book :
Introduction and General Survey.
The E. R. Abigail Episode.
The First Trial.
The Waddy Fiasco.
Boomerang Strategy.
A Game of Euchre.
The Relief of “ Burrilda.”
Captain Smith, “ Agricultural Expert.”
Documentary Evidence
The Romeo of Glenmore Road.
A Belated Wedding.
Coningham’s “ Bodyguard.”
The Conversion of Exton.
The Trail of “Zero.”
“ Zero ” No. 2.
Dill-Macky’s Revolver.
The Story of the Necklet.
THE LAST STATUTORY DECLARATION
OF MRS. BONNER.
Foiled! '
Collapse of Coningham.
Triumph of Dr. O'Haran.
As a guarantee of the truth and thoroughness, the
.'lever writing and clear language of the work, it may be
nentioned that his Eminence Cardinal Moran and the
Prelates of the Australian States, Dr. O’Haran and all the
leading clerics, have sent large orders to the Publisher.
r he lion. W. P. Crick, N.S.W. Minister of Lands, Hon.
John Gavin Duffy, Hon. J. H. Want, K.C., M.L.C., Hon.
T. M. Slattery, M.L.C., Alderman A. G. Ralston, Dr. Leo.
Kenny, and the leading professional and public n.en of
Mew South Wales and Victoria, as also prominent citizens
n all walks of life in the other States, have already be
nine subscribers.
The work will be published at
5/- per Copy; 5Hi, Post Free.
The work is issued solely to Subscribers, and ; arly appli-
cation for copies is necessary to—
D. COOPER,
flox 265* Ca-.JE».0., Sydney


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
Sr
BILLS
discounted-
Txr.s.-w.
(Uont depiete flj|. go., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREACrH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices
HUNTER & BLIGH STS,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
r ABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
'—TII'R—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,263.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses--equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.809.W00 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
R, bert, Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esu., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
London Office: llt i.shops*/ate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IVvW COUTH wales:
NY6>NICV - 273 GKOIIGE STREET.
/.cting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hay market, Gosfcrd with aericy at Wvoiigi, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE 03., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
]|n ted Australian Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pjtt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
fits Bank of (|ortk Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Uo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ••• 250.000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
est & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORT!, AND
WAIt RN AMBOOL
Peregrine, Friday, May 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 11,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., May 14, 6 p.ra.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., May 14, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAHERO
Tyrian, Saturday, May 4,12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, May 7, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., May 11, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian,Saturday, Mav 4,12N00n.
Peregrine, Sat., May il, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
UKKA'LDTON
CAIUNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Omces Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
•***■** nufflr —r-r-~i ~ ,|i,i ■— g^— umaan
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF TIIE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAM LIME
(C. &. A. LINE)
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver' to Montreal)
occupies about five days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES, •
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and th > United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Jb 6 Trustees, CxecCitorS,
AND
ConjpTijy Limited,
ESTABLISH ED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY ...
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Eslates,' Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 11)0,1
Cl 50,000 0 0
COO,OOO 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312 0 0
6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Marker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Es<|., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant. Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Mel bourn.’.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equi. able Buildings, Geoi-ge Street.
Four per cent. Slock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government •• .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2/00.000
The Commercial Ilanhiny Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katkr, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. 0. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. 11. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. AY. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Ocean
‘uopuoi (o ‘i>vi 'f>o
991U7).imi£)
I>Ul>
<tU9p i 99 V
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir \V. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jfissor, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting gorapg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
QUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc.. For tariff, ap, ly to GKO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany .
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. : '
AERIC, 12,000 tons, to Sail May 3, 2 p.m.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with readme'-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st.,Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
nxr. 33. 3L..
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of" a Total Tonnage of
508,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp ami Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO HONGKONG, via BItIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
Tlie fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S.S. NiIEN TUNG, 1341 tons,
Captain Gosewisch,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL 24th NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Public Companies.
II *4 J THE
United li)S(irasK€ Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected ?>n all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
Marine Risks
.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Hates very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
§sid Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Medical.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States.,
Europe,
Canada.
i
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia', Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia —
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL. LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, etc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
TAEAR SIR, —I hu e been cured of Weakness and De-
- Lj ' hility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSmPCO.
(1.1 M ITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping; at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide, F)iday,
May 3.
’"S.S. Marloo (from Mel-
bourne), Tuesday,
May 7.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Forts North to Cairns
S.S. \Y T arrego, Friday,
May 3.
liest and Cheapest Iloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to»be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MM—llilW WillAi»y M r.^-=^ l h^2aa& fc . «■*.- 'ißUff,Y- lII' ***»■- I
A. U. S. IN. Cov. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS- Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. •
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ceommodation, Attendance and.
Cnisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
Slur' i <llllll imiiiim^—
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LO’NDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return 171 Ills to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
traiia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
ffiddart, Parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers wer ■ specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points : n r ' --nda. United
States of America and Europe at spi r ei in con^
junction with the Canadian-Pacific It:,. .. and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S.'CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID^luiraifh.ffl'gacharn&go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
ICALGOOELIS], 4500 TONS,
COOXjGAEOIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL, POUT NIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle,
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


A Sydney undertaking firm advertises that
it possesses “the finest plant in the colonies.”
Intentional waggery, or merely unconscious
humor ?
“F.C.”: To-day I ran against the first
chapter of a future divorce-case. Was yarning to
my tobacconist when entered a lady and little
girl. She wanted a cigarette-holder, “ something
nice.” He showed several, specially recommend-
ing an amber-and-meerschaum silver-mounted
affair “ No-o. He—he likes them all amber.
Have you any ?” “I’m afraid not. But meer-
schaum makes the best smoke. Doesn t your hus-
band ever smoke a pipe ? ” Then the enfant ter-
rible : “ That isn’t for Dada, mister ; it s for our
lodger.” The shopman never moved a muscle.
A steam-roller in Sydney streets is a sight
to see. A man ahead with a red flag to warn
traffic—people crowding to see—cab-horses shying
and rearing—spavined bus-horses snorting—even
the trams appearing a trifle startled at the strange
visitant. Present writer recently had an exciting
steam-roller experience. He was coming down
William-street very late at night in a hansom
drawn by an old steeplechase-horse —it was the
ancient’s second day in harness—when the moke,
catching sight of the roller, became quite frantic
and bolted at a gallop right down one of the
highest hills in Sydney, never halting till he
arrived opposite the Coroner’s Court. But he
kept his feet all the time, and what was more, the
driver stuck to his seat.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion 'l If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the akin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Recause
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
A 1 BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theijegistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 eacfe
PLAITS and TAILS,
f#ln. long, f/0. all real bs&v
CUTTINGS & COMBLiu::;
•OfTied up, S>/8 per oz.
\V« are the eheapftStln Aat>
(•alia for all (lair Work
S«nd Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz?ll.
HO WILUAU STBBBT, C
earner of Palmer-Btroet,
?: SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Dow..
Send stamps for full Price
Pwsppt aatention'Kiven to Country OldrfX
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
, Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
io-
/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO..
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
DON’T
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System'
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver. Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PH
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or * Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
B9c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALVE RT S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
s
ss>
$
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, Anemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
ftSSSsi
MIMHfStt!
ItfdUN^f
mMiinu
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 211/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for tlie Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
AEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS '
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65.,- 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/■ and 6/*
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
ns
m
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE, 150 Bourke-street
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street
ADELAIDE, 154 Bund/e-st
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORUE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER CITY, Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-street.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fNLORODVNE.
Sate!
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chloiiodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTBIG
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If jt does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), Riving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
tt COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
■THEfI
DEAF
p OMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
cse D r. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPORT, England.
CEB
DEAF
50*0
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BuuK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne'
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder trout ties,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address;
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.


THEY FLY FAST,
RED BIRDS!
are strong on the wing. They never break down, no matter how heavy, the: travelling, or severe the ionrnev
They are a full value bicycle sold on easy terms. J
BRANCHES TN EVERY STATE. GOOIiD BICYCLE CO., 64 King' Street, Sydney.
It is Breakfast Time.
“ Don’t want any.” “ It’s time to go to work.”
‘ Leave me alone.”
//
There you are, limp as a
rag, lying in bed, when
there’s good, cold cash
waiting for you at your
work. But your head is
heavy, your eyelids- are
lead. Your tongue tastes
bad, and you don’t care.
It’sliver —liver—liver, and
stomach —stomach -stom-
ach. You don’t know it,
but it is so. There is just
one remedy that will put vim in you, by giving
you clean bowels, a healthy stomach, a h vel v
liver, and blood that is rich and red, and don t
stagnate. It is Dr. Morse,s Indian Root Rills.
They put an appetite in your stomach, a move in
your bowels, life in your liver, and
the thing that builds bone, flesh and
nerve in your blood. They will
make you sleep at night, wake in the
morning, eat your meals, and work
with pleasure. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills get at the cause; they
start at thefoundation
of the disease ; they
cure when other reme-
dies fail. Dr Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood puri-
fier, and a positive
cure for Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation,
Headaches, Sallow Complexion, Liver and Kidney
Troubles, Piles, Pimples, Boils and Blotches, and
for Female Ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, price Is. Lsd. per bottle, or six
bottles 6s. Gd., or same will be mailed, post paid,
upon receipt of price. Sole Proprietors, The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Dep6t),
58 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Treason from Sydney Truth’s London
correspondent, Maude Wheeler :
Red-haired Florence Schmidt’s limitations have already
found her out. She can sing nothing but florid music, as
she has about as much sympathy or soul as a mummy.
. . . The duke of York is a silly-looking coot, and it is
whispered under the breath that he is a little bit balmy.
The Duchess of York is rather stout, and always wears
her mouth wide open, as if she were trying to catch flies.
Perhaps it was worth while settling
whether saccharine in lemonade is an adulterant
or not; but the abortive prosecution of Tooth and
Co. might teach Sydney health inspectors to turn
their attention to the obvious and really damaging
adulterants. Why, there are probably not half-
a-dozen shops in Sydney where you can buy a
decent pound of coffee, free of chicory and burnt
peasemeal. And as for tea !
A few days will find the mammoth York
carnival, in Melb., at its flood. And we must re-
mind sensible citizens who would emerge from the
rumpus in good order and condition, to consider the
quality of their liquid refreshment, D.C.L.—safe.
No stranger in Melbourne need get lost, stolen or
strayed, if he puts his faith in D.C.L, No reason
why his head shouldn't fit his hat after a night
of D.C.L., with an occasional squeeze of lemon in
it. The Wysky of the Wyse.*
Cabled that there has been a great row in
Edinburgh over a speech delivered by Merriman,
of S’Africa, in which he urged that the South
African States should be allowed a Government on
the Australian model. Jingo cable states that
“ Merriman’s remarks to an audience of 2500 were
interrupted by angry shouts of dissent. The pro-
Boer party had no fewer than 500 hired roughs in
attendance, and they were busy from the start.
Many thousands of excited anti-Boers thronged
the streets in front of the building where the
Afrikander Bond delegate was speaking. The
Scotsman remarks that such brutal scenes have
never before been witnessed at an Edinburgh
meeting.” The trouble was probably the old one :
a dispute as to the right of persons who had
forced themselves into a meeting to which admis-
sion was by ticket, to interfere with the proceed-
ings.
The so-called Sydney “Citizens’ Com-
mittee ” of self-appointed busybodies, whereof J.
D. Slush is mouthpiece, complains that N.S.W.
mine-proprietors won’t forward gratis gold to
cover the Jookoyork’s Grease-Album. Why on
earth should they ? What profit is a mine-
proprietary going to get by handing over
yellow-metal to be presented by a Sydney
Slush-Committee? The Slush-Committee will
get the grimaces, and thanks, and loyal kudos
at the miners’ expense. Let the Slushers
put their hands in their own pockets; if
the Jook wants gold specimens, let him go and
collect them on the mines. Apparently the only
gold forwarded so far is a dredging-ounce from C.
L. Garland, valued at £4—and the gentle Charles
took good care to get a £4-advt. out of it, as
he had a right to. If any other mine-
representatives think of following Garland’s
example, The Bulletin recommends them to
consider the fate of all the loyal trophies which
Alfred Edinburgh collected in Australia, and for
the “ sentiment ” of which he cared so little that
they were sold by auction for the dross they
fetched. George York is a chip of the same block,
for he not long ago sold to one of the Rothschilds
his stamp-collection, made by Government influ-
ence, at a figure reported to be colossal.
Politics is an amusing game. The N.S.W.
Ereetrade Party has just found out it blundered
badly when it fussed over the Fegan scandal; be-
cause if the Fegan appointment is not confirmed
it won’t have any stick to beat the Govt, with, and
if the Fegan appointment—againfet all probability
is confirmed, it will have a very nice, useful
stick indeed. So now the Freetrade game is to
stop protesting, and try and get Fegan the job.
Sydney Telegraph points out that the Barton
Cabinet can’t refuse to endorse Minister Lyne’s
independent action—as if the very essence of
Cabinet action was not the surrender of individual
authority. Sydney Evening News goes farther and
says that if 1 egan isn’t confirmed in office, Barton
and Lyne will have to resign. And George
Reid rolls his eyes at a banquet, and
says that Barton and Lyne are not the
clean Freetrade potato, but he’s quite sure
they will never go back on a pal. All which quite-
disinterested advice from the Opposition shows
how badly they want Fegan appointed—to give
them something to shriek about. But that cock
won t fight now ; they should have produced the
bird before. They should have let the Fegan
appointment go unfussed-over, and then, when he
was really appointed, shrieked for Purity in
Politics. Somehow, The Bulletin fancies the
1 reetrade dog is too old to learn new tricks as he
ought to.
The
Original
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Judged by Royal Artillery’s four-lengths defeat
.of Clean Sweep in S.A.J.C,. Leger (Saturday), it looks as
if the Mulb. Cup winner has gone completely off—and
small wonder, seeing what he has been asked to do. The
nag’s showing at A. J.C. Autumn meet distinctly indi-
cated loss oi form, and should have warned those behind
him, but Scobie evidently thought differently—otherwise
that Adelaide trip would never have been taken. Maybe,
Royal Artillery is quite up to Clean Sweep’s standard ; at
any rate his breeding is not one whit inferior, and he has
been performing well lately. Besides other events he got
away with Onkaparinga Cup (8.5 up), and just before
meeting Clean Sweep and Tinfoil in the Leger had the
colors up for Goodwood Handicap. The Zalinski colt
started red-hot, carrying £IOCO of £1298 invested.
* * » *
“Old ’un ”: Defeat of Clean Sweep recalls a
somewhat analogous case. Pride of the Hills survived
Melbourne and Sydney meetings, but when he returned
.to Adelaide, Filibuster and Moonlight finished ahead of
him in the St. Leger of ’77. Even a horse has a limit.
*•• . •
Bill of Portland—Fishwife colt, Finland (9st.),
was much in the humour on Saturday : he won S.A.J.C.
Goodwood Handicap (6 fur.), cantering from a big field
ln Vi 6 * ’ kut for the re-handicapping provision
would look “ good goods ” for Adelaide Cup this Wed-
nesday ; it might still fall to him. Public picked Q. nag,
Fortune Teller, on his running in Newmarket Handicap,
and backed him consistently, but he could get no nearer
than sixth. Finland has a Maribyrnong Plate and
V. Leger among his fine list of three-year-old wins.
Machine showed £3421 for this event, by far the biggest
amount on any race that day.
* * » *
Peculiar that winners of two big things (Good-
wood Handicap and St. Leger Stakes) on opening day
(Sat.) of S.A.J.C. Autumn Meeting paid £4 55., while
money handed out over the third important race (S.A.
Stakes) was but 3s. more. Amount put through the tote
that day wa3 £11,671 —slightly in excess of investments
for same day last year.
* * * •
La Carabine made hacks of Gunga Din, Tas-
man, Dirk Hammerhand and Flintlock in S.A.J.C. Elder
Stakes (Im. lfur.), a distance she isn’t expected to shine
at. £1332 of £1953 speculated was on the winner, who
paid £1 7s.
* * * *
S.A.J.C. meet, now in progress, calls to mind
that the first Goodwood H’cap was decided 20 years hack,
when 0.0.0 won, and brought £836 16s. to the only man
who “ toted ” him. Suppression of the machine and
stringent provisions of the Betting Act sent the races
away to Melbourne in 'B5, and thence till ’B9, no Good-
wood was run. Ranfurly (.9.4 up) won last year, and was
so little fancied that the tote paid out £l6l 13s.
* * • *
Adelaide Cup has been run on three dif-
ferent courses in the Wheat State, and when Lord
Wilton won in ’B5, Flemington (Vic.) was the con-
vincing place. S.A. racing flourished in the early ’7o’s,
and wealthy men wagered heavily. “Joe” Thompson
had a £15,000 book on the Oup when Nimblefoot started
a red-hot 6 to 4 “on ” favorite in ’72 and got beaten. The
leviathan gathered in every cent of his winnings, much
of it laid in hundreds.
*. * *
Cabled that Australian-bred Australian Star
(7.10) scored in City and Suburban. Handicap at ’Ome on
Wednesday last week, winning by 6 lengths, which means
that the thing was a gift. Alveseot (third) and the
winner were equal favorites at 2to 2. The Star’s victory
was to an extent" indicated by his previous run-away
triumph in London Oup. Australian nags have had a
mortgage Ori the- City and Suburban during late years.
Said that M.L. sport, Mr. Spencer Gollan (owner of Aus-
tralian Star), wants his top-notcher’s full brother, Mr.
Macken s Australian Colors. The price asked is 1200 gs.
* « * *
Not all the wealth of Kalgoorlje goes Bullwards,
after all. Two race meetings.were held there within a
couple of months, with 1000'sovs. prize" money at the first,
and 2750 sdvs. at the secorid : including a thousand sovs.
Goldfields’Cup.
_ Kalgoorlie Cup, to be run in Aug., will be the
richest prize yet offered in W.A. —1000 sovs., and trophy
worth another £lOO.
* * » *
W. H. Jordan, a Sloan-imitating hackbloeks
jock., has the creditable record of 54 wins, 36 seconds and
17 thirds oul of 146 mounts. At recent Wangaratta
meeting he rode in four races, scoring three wins and a
second.
• • * *
Battleaxe —winner of recently-run Auckland
(M.L.) Century Stakes, worth 1000 sovs. —was got by
Hotchkiss from Queen Cole (King Cole-Rosalie), and bred
by Mr. T. Morrin. At Wellington Park yearling sales in
’97 he went for 25 guineas, and started in “ hack ” com-
pany, but wasn’t long getting amongst the cracks.
Battleaxe closed on Taranaki Cup last Feb., and then
followed a long list of disappointments. The day prior
to the Century Stakes saw him run unplaced in a small
event, hence his party handled a comparatively big
“ divy.”
• m m *
Crack N.S.W. country performer, Lucknow,
recently bought for 370g5., and now in Kelso’s (Sydney)
stable, owns an interesting record. He was bred by one
of the “cloth” at Rylstone (N.S.W.), and is by Russley
out of a mare supposed to be by % Kingston colt. He is,
consequently, a full brother to Sam Fielder’s crack
sprinter, Bother. Before Lucknow’s capabilities became
apparent he did service in his owner’s buggy. At last
meeting of Bathurst Picnic Club he humped top weight
(13.12), and won the big handicap (1J miles) easily. His
record at one stage shows 12 successive wins, all scored
in western N.S.W. With a single exception Lucknow
always gave weight away—sometimes heaps. He’ll be
worth watching closely.
• » • *
At a recent N.S.W. country show the “fly”
Sydney push, for a lark, advertised in the local paper—
“ Wanted, a trotter better than 3miu.; apply Molar, Royal
Hotel.” Next morning a yokel brought up a neddy
which, he said, could break 3min. on the road in a heavy
sulky, and a trial was fixed for next morning before
breakfast. To the surprise of the “ talent,” the horse
trotted between two milestones in 2.55, and the trial
ended in “ Molar ” securing the horse for 15sovs. Since
coming to Sydney the horse has never been able to trot
3min. in a pneumatic sulky, and it now transpires that
the guileless country bumpkin had, the night previous
to the trial, shifted one milestone back a couple of hun-
dred yards. And “ Molar ” prides himself upon being
such a judge of pace.
• * » ■
At Bathurst (N.S.W.) annual show there were
some fine exhibitions of trotting. The local handicap (2
miles) fell to St. lago, an upstanding horse by Burlington
8., owned by Dr. Machattie, which covered its 2 miles in
smin. 28sec. Larry, another local horse, won the mile
trot in saddle, heating such a good one as Harold B. He
trotted his first half-mile in lmin. 16sec. and won, pulling-
up, in 2min. 35sec. ’The mile harness handicap was won
by Globe Junior, a fine bay gelded son of Globo, who won
as he liked in 2min. s|sec. Later on Globe Junior started
in the 2 miles handicap ; his future handicappers are not
likely to take his poor showing seriously. In the 2 miles
handicap Silverhue, driven by Dr. Slade, showed herself
a great mare. Moving like machinery she paced past her
field, and, giving nothing else a chance, finished with a
lot in hand in smin. 2sec.
The surprise of Bathurst meeting was the fine
going of Valdemar, a very fine black stallion by Viking
from Lonely Maid. The horse is owned by Mr. J. Joyn-
ton smith, of the Arcadia Hotel, Sydney, who certainly
proved himself a real sport in showing-up a maiden horse
for such small money. Valdemar took first prize for
trotting stallion ; won the maiden trot, and then carried
off the 2mm. 50sec. class trot. In the latter, driven by
Harry Knight, he won with ease in 2min 37|sec. Valde-
mar goes to the stud next season and should prove a
valuable addition to the few desirable N.S.W. trotting
stallions.
* * * •
l< Frank Leleu, the enthusiastic gambler
who died in London, the other week, was originally a
member of tire Billingsgate fish-ring, a lame man with a
quite ungovernable temper, which probably mellowed as
he grew old. Some of your ex-English readers may
remember him by his racing alias—Mr. Beadman (colors,
magenta and green belt). He lost a pot of money on the
turf in the ’6o’s, having the misfortune to own a remark-
ably “ flash ” nag named Orion. In Leleu’s mind, the
Epsom Derby of ’6B was a certainty for Orion, but after
leading the field by two or three lengths for a mile and a
quarter the irrepressible flier came back to them and was
eventually beaten out of a place by Blue Gown and
others. Blue Gown's: time was the record, I fancy, for
the old Derby course, thanks to Orion’s pace-making.
And so Frank “Beadman” Leleu lived to the age of 71!
I. took it for granted that he had been killed by an explo-
sion of temper long ago.
• • • «
Discomforting for “Celebration” visitors to
Melbourne to know that the police raided a “ two-up ”
school in that unsafe city the other Sunday morning, and
found about 50 criminals, mostly dangerous, among the
lot of 110 two-uplings who were caught on the premises.
These 50 or so birds of prey paid their fines and went at
large again. Melbourne just now is full of evil-looking
faces. All the “wrong ’uns” from all the States are
rallying to the cry of “ York,” and there will be dark
deeds done this merry month of May within a two-mile
radius of the Federal Parliament. Here is a chance for
combatively-disposed patriots to get sworn-in as special
constables.
•'* * •
He recent raid on that Melb. “two-up school.”
First words that struck the raiders’ ears were “ last
round 1 ” Those running the show sized matters up in-
stanter when they heard the rush, and fell back upon
the boxing-match dodge, but it didn’t go this time, as
the sham belligerents wore coats, collars and cuffs, and
the strings of the gloves hung loose ; besides, half-a-dozen
« COpS ” ha<l been there for hours before in civilian
togs.” The same ruse is always ready in Sydney at the
big “ schools,” where they’ve invariably got the boxers
stripped and wearing Boz. gloves.
* * * •
The S.S. Sonoma brought news that M.L. iron-
man Otto Cribb went under to the ’Frisco “Flyin"-
Dutchman, Thurston, on points, and two more rounds
at most would have seen him knocked out. Happenings
during previous meeting between this pair when Oribb
got the verdict should have warned those responsible to
give Thurston a wide berth, but probably Cribb’s over-
weening confidence prevailed against shrewd manage-
ment. Par. herein, 6/4/T, commented on O.C.’s weakness
m this direction, also his remark that he would “ lay
Thurston out this time,” and ventured to foretell that the
“ laying out ” would probably be done by t’other man
This view was based on the fact that in 'their previous
struggle Thurston made things very sultry all the jour-
ney, and had Oribb in sore straits once'. Besides, he
appeared to be a man of exactly the same variety as
Oribb, but heavier, longer in the reach, and cleverer
»*, * .
Details of the second Cribb-Thurston match are
that the local man stood fearful bangs on the jaw, left
jabs in the wind, and steam-hammer thumps under the
heart, but didn’t remain, idle. Claims of foul against
Cribb were frequent ; even the police took a hand but
the referee remained uninfluenced. Thurston’s strength
and fierceness all through were a revelation. Cribb was
tough and strong until 15th round, when he became
shaky, but the Friscan remained heavily charged with
vim. Thurston fought his man to his knees in the third
round and had him tottering badly just before “ corners.”
It was a cyclonic mad .thing from beginning to end. The
twain tripped, floundered, charged, spraw ed and clashed
together, time after time, while thousands looking on
swayed and howled again in their excitement. The sixth
round was all Cribb’s ; but Thurston went to his corner
apparently none the worse-save superficially—for the
awful gruelling. Thurston fought like a fiend in the. 15th
3min., and so demoralised Cribb that the M.L. pug. did
nothing afterwards but dodge his opponent’s tiger-rushes.
• • • ,
Australian top-notch light-weight Tim Hegarty
leaves for ’Frisco next Wednesday, matched to meet
“terrible” Terry M‘Govern for a big purse and kineto-
scopic privileges. ’Tis hard to judge at this distance how
Hegarty will fare, but as M’Govern is a rushing, bustlino-
fighter, the Australian should be suited down to the
ground ; he’s clever enough, game enough, and can hit
hard. Hegarty. is easily head of the best we have in his
class.
* * • *
Once T top-notch pug Mick Dooley confided to
a pressman t’other day that two weeks would be ample
for him to prepare for a match with Tut Ryan. If the
affair is arranged that way writer will look for a very
short go, with Tut much on top.
* * • *
Erstwhile middle-weight Australian champion
Dan Creedon has taken a fresh lease of pug life. After
being banged about by every man he shaped up to in the
last few years, he has made another bid, and accounted
for two Yankee front-rankers within a short space His
latest victim was Billy Stift, whom he put out in five
minutes, at Arkansas, before 3000 people. Reports tell
that Creedon’s in-fighting was terrific, also that he alwavs
got the better of the clinches. All through, his work
was strikingly like that shown by him at first in America.
* * * *
Maori “Ruenalf” and negro “Starlight”
scrambled through 16 rounds at Golden Gate A C (Syd-
ney) on Saturday night. “Old Star,” almost 50 and in
poor fettle, looked promising for several rounds till
tiring to nothing almost, he could do no more than tap
his adversary. Ruenalf, though of good physique clever
enough, and evidently in fine trim, had little or no sting
Starlight, limp and draggy, caved in at the close of
round 16 through sheer weariness. Ruenalf is a clever
boxer, but at the real thing is quite harmless. Gym-
nasium-made pugs, are not in it with the article born to
the business.
• ■* » •
The annual inter-State eight : oar race comes off
on Parramatta River this Saturday. The Vies, haven’t
had as much practice as heretofore, but they will be
cherry ripe as far as condition goes ; having pre-
viously figured in regattas and championships, they were
very fit when selected. All the same the Cornstalks look
like making matters merry, if they don’t actuallv win •
they are a powerful and evenly-weighted lot, and have’
been through a good preparation. Bananaland unfor-
tunately couldn’t send her best team, and S A is in
like case, as some not originally chosen will have seats in
the boat. One of the Vies, is 41 years old, and two are
36 each, which, with the fact that the NSW crew is
thought the strongest raised for years, gives the mother
State much encouragement.
* » * *
Champion sculls this year will be contested by
two States only—Q. and N.S.W. Former sends M. Slack
and J. Lumsden. Slack is present amateur top-notcher
a ll® t , ra ' ia ’ while his pupil (Lumsden) is premier of Q.
I\.S.W. s crack, “ Joe ” Daley, easily accounted for Slack
on the Yarra a couple of years ago, but was unable to face
the music last year. Slack is said to be better this time
than ever, and as Daley is in great fettle, an interesting
struggle should result, albeit home State rowing men con-
sider Daley’s chance excellent. Lumsden, though own-
ing a fine physique, has a crude style, and is not thought
likely to give the other two any trouble. All three will
row in boats built by Chris. Keilson.
* * * *
East Adelaide, the club of which Clem Hill and
his three brothers are the mainstay, has secured the
Adelaide premiership for the third successive season.
Clem’s deeds in local games this season have been second
only to his performances in big matches.
* * * *
Fred. Hack, the lanky batsman who headed the
Australian batting averages in 1899-00, came out top in
local batting and bowling this season. In batting he
averaged 71 and bowling 14. Hack has an undoubted
future despite his partial failure in big cricket this year,
and he is, on present form, the best all-round player in
S.A.
* * * *
Vie. cricket season recently concluded left East
Melb. winners, with the great average of 47 ’23 runs per
wicket lost. Highest av., 103'66, made by J. Howlett in
7 innings with 4 not outs : next come M‘Alister, 69'14 for
8 innings, once not out: H. Stuckey 54, and Laver 44.
Lowest av.—that of bowler Collins—reached 21'25. Laver
got 44 wickets at a cost of 9'03 runs each, Collins coming
next with 19 at 18 runs each. The team went through
the season unbeaten, M.C.O. coming second with one
defeat.
* » * »
Australian champion pigeon-shot, Mr. A. W.
Eales, now doing the Continent, is beginning to show his
best form. At Florence recently he won two big events,
killing 36 in one and 35 in another. Private letters tell
that a very heavy cold handicapped him much at Monte
Carlo.
* * * *
M.L. crack wheelman Geo. Sutherland is in
Australia for Q. cycling events and others still unde-
cided. At home, this season, he appropriated 15 races in
23 starts, was second twice and third thrice.
John Norton thinks of setting out for
England next month.
The first new Federal term—“Feganity,”
meaning an appointment contemptuous of public
opinion ; high-handed Federal patronage; Com-
monwealth spoils to enemies of Federation.
The sanitary arrangements at N.S.W.
Agricultural Society’s Show Ground are atrocious.
Part of the big profit from the recent record
gathering might well be utilised to remove a dis-
gusting state of affairs.
Philp’s flight to S’Africa is now stated to
be as advance-agent for a “ real big ” produce and
cattle trust. A lot of Q. moneyed men are sup-
posed to be in it, and Philp, by virtue of his office
as Q. Premier, would have a few cards up his
sleeve. One thing is certain—he isn’t coming
back to the York slobber, and another is that
Rutledge has his legal eye on Philp’s job.
Review-of-Reviews editor Fitchett’s jour-
nalistic cheek is sublime. Fitchett offered a prize
of £5O for a design for an Australian flag; and
the Barton Cabinet unkindly offered £75 for a
similar object, without reference to Fitchett.
Whereupon F. kindly invites the Barton Cabinet
to lump the competitions and the prizes; which
done, he will raise his prize to £7s—so that the
winning design will earn £l5O, presented by Aus-
tralia and Fitchett —or Fitchett and Australia;
and the national flag will do its first flutter, by
Govt, authority, as an advt. for the Review of
Reviews ! This impudent proposal hasn’t been
answered yet; but Fitchett says he’s hopeful. By
the way, the Govt, competition is to be submitted
to the Imperial authorities for adjudication.
Hasn’t Australia brains enough to choose her own
flag? The spectacle of Barton prostrate on his
belly before King Jingo will have to be seriously
considered ere long.
How a reputation is made for Royalty by
its servitors. From an English paper :
To all those who are lucky enough to be born on the
day that their Royal Highnesses first step on to Aus-
tralian ground the Duchess is giving a charming case con-
taining a silver spoon and fork. The Duke, as a “ re-
membrance,” is giving a sovereign—half a sovereign him-
self and half a sovereign from our King Edward. There
is a somewhat pretty little tale in connection with this
present. H.R.H. asked the King what he thought would
be a suitable memento of his visit—could His Majesty
suggest some little keepsake for the Australian children ?
“ You are half a Sovereign yourself—why not give half a
sovereign?” said the King, good-humoredly. “Well,
sir,” replied the Duke, very smartly, “as I am represent-
ing a Sovereign, why not present a sovereign?” The
King was so pleased with the witty reply of the Duke
that he immediately promised to. give the same amount
as the Duke of Cornwall, and thus the little ones who
first see the light on the day that their Royal Highnesses
land on Australian soil will be presented with a sovereign
and a silver spoon and fork apiece.
“ Born with a silver spoon in his mouth.”
From a N.S.W. civil servant, “Still
Hopeful ”: —
Editor Bulletin, —We are now in May, and the “ re-
grading ”is still anxiously awaited. This “ re-grading ”
is a re-classification of salaries and positions that the
Public Service Act requires the Public Service Board to
make every five years. The five years are now up and
the public servant is waiting in a state of suppressed rage
for the lists. For the financial year beginning Ist July,
’OO, Parliament voted £14,000 for promotions, &c., to de-
serving officers from that date. Subsequently the Board
issued a notice that they would grade the Departments as
from Ist Jan.,’ol, thus doing the public servants out of six
months at the higher rate. But the notice was welcomed
as it seemed to promise the early issue of the Gazette,
which would be something. But that was three months
ago, and we seem no nearer to it. Meanwhile every in-
justice felt in an office, any existing anomaly, all appeals
(and there are heaps) are put back, and have been
for nearly a year past, “until the regrading of the pub-
lic service.” The chief duty of the board, almost the
sole reason for appointing it, was the classification of
salaries in the service, and, with only two months of the
present financial year to run, the whole of the appeals
from the last batch of promotions remain unanswered,
and all the errors made on that occasion are still unre-
dressed. The public service vote, which went dead
against the Reid Govt, in 1898, will be solidly cast against
See this time. Whether rightly or not, the service believes
that its grievances can be settled by the existing Ministry,
and they invariably go against the existing administra-
tion, in the hope that the next one may be better for
them. It can’t be much worse.
Charles Mitchell’s (London) “Newspaper
Press Directory ” is, from an Australian point of
view, the most useful that is published. Because
The Bulletin prizes it, here fallows criticism, in-
stead of perfunctory praise, of the 1901 issue.
Minor points Laura Smith’s article on “Some
War Correspondents of the Year” extols well-
advertised duffers like Bennett Burleigh, and
omits to mention A. G. Hales, and indeed all
Australian correspondents. The article on “The
Impending Australian Tariff” is stupid, perpetu-
ating the fallacy that differences in progress of
N.S.W. and Vic. are exclusively due to differences
of Freetrade and Protection. Major point:— The
whole of the excellent Australian section should
be revised in the light of recent changes and the
1901 census : the standing matter is passing out of
date, or lias passed—some of it has nob been
altered for years.


Ladies’ Watches.
18cfc. GOLD HUNTING
KEYLESS LEVER, £6 ss.
SILVER HUNTING KEY-
LESS WATCH, £1 2s. 6d.
ACCURATE ALL
THE TIME!
High Class. Low PH ids.
Write for our Illustrated
Souvertir Catalogues.
MAILED FREE.
Open Wednesday till 6 p.m.
Saturday, 6 p.m. till 9.30 p.m. only.
ROTHERHAMS and other
ENGLISH MAKES.
American Walthams, etc.
Made in 3 sizes.
Half and Hunting Case. .
18ct. GOLD KEYLESS LEVER.
Plain, £6 ; Engraved, £6 ss.
The Hodern J|rt Jeuiellery Company, 187 pitt St.
£lO 10s
Is the SELLING PRICE of the
' :
of unset gems.
“Fx & R” ENGAGEMENT RING
The five Diamonds are gems of rare beauty.
They are exquisite white lustrous stones.
They are double-cut and of special brilliancy.
They are made in our workshops in Hunter-street.
They have 18ct. gold settings of extra finish.
They are made by imported ring artists.
They are sold for cash, and at London’s lowest prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
viofl-Begai jeweiiera, 23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, dn application to the Depht, 257 G-eorge-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE SEASON. '
TO-NIGHT— WHY SMITH LEFT HOME.
FRIDAY— WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
SATURDAY, MAY 4, PARRAMATTA. MONDAY,
MAY 6, GOULBURN. WEDNESDAY, MAY 8,
ADELAIDE.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
IMPORTANT PUBLIC INTIMATION.
POSITIVELY THE 2 CLOSING NIGHTS
of one of the World’s Greatest and most Costly Spec-
tacular productions ever witnessed on any stage,
CINDERELLA.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;_Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance). 10 to 5.
MPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Magnificent New First Part, THE ROSE BOWER.
New Artists Every Week.. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES— 2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, Business Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
FOURTH WEEK and ESTABLISHED TRIUMPH of
FLOR. OD O R .A..
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manage! 1 .. ~ William Anderson.
EIGHT MORE PERFORMANCES OF
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Famous Dramatic Organisation, headed by Miss
EUGENIE DUGGAN, in the Best of all Nautical Dramas,
MY JACK.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Bex Plan at Elvy’s.
C! 'XT If 7ITT T TT 1 the Unique and Inimitable
HAiHiLIjI!!, Old-time Favorite,
Returns to Sydney with the Most Fascinating Entertain-
ment of the time, WEST AND SON’B
“OUK NAVY,”
A Revelation of Realism which is taking the public
everywhere by storm.
PALACE THEATRE, Commencing Saturday Evening, May 4
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MAOMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N
1C KAROS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SUCCESS OF THE GREAT
MARIE LLOYD,
and the Coster King,
ALEC. HURLEY.
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
LES THEIRES, JOHNSON, RIANO and BENTLEY,
MAGGIE FRASER, and all Our Great Co.
MATINEE SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Great English
Tramp Musician, MR. FRANK LATONA.
Magnificent Reception of Popular MR. AUSTIN RUDD.
Brilliant Reception of Mr. FRANK LEON, Miss
LIZZIE KIRK, Miss LULU ZESCH, DE WYNNE
BROS., ALBERT WHELAN, TED E. BOX, and all our
Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FIFTH WEEK,
THE UNIVERSALLY FAMOUS MELODRAMA,
THE WORLP.
NO WANE IN THE ENTHUSIASM.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL TRIUMPH of.
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA 00.
First Appearance in Australia of ELLA RUSSELL,
The Renowned Dramatic Soprano.
THURSDAY, 2nd MAY, “CARMEN.”
FRIDAY, 3rd MAY, “ IL TROVATORE.”
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tatlis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
NANCE O’NEIL FAREWELL SEASON.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, MAY 2nd and 3rd,
SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
SATURDAY, MAY 4, The Event of the Season,
MACBETH.
NANCE O’NEIL as LADY MACBETH
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s’l Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
FIFTH WEEK. FIFTH WEEK.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Immense Success of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Direct from the Palace Theatre, London, with entirely
new series Of SUPERB MOVING PICTURES of the Latest
and |vents from all PARTS of THE WORLD.
2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
JUST THE WEATHER FOR
OVERCOATS.
GENTLEMEN,— , „
The cold weather (better late than
never) has come to stay, and you will find
evenings and mornings a “bit chilly. *°u
need not wander around looking for the best
House for OVERCOATS, come and have a look
at out . „
GUINEA overcoat.
This is the coat that has been made to please
you, and is selling rapidly.
It has an irresistible richness about it tnat
few can withstand ; aside from this it will give
S Tt d is made of High-class Quality Melton Cloth,
lined Italian Cloth ttirdughdut; Silkette lined
Sleeves, Velvet Collar, Strong Pockets, Hull
Back, with Two Vents;
PERFECTLY TAILORED; all for 21s.
COLORS: Navy, Black, Browns; Fawns & Drabs.
“ A look iri,” then “ A try dri,” and the result
will be that you will walk oiit WELL-SUITED
WITH AN OVERCOAT for 21s.
If you cannot come in, send us your Sije,
enclose a Guinea, mention Color, and we Will
post you one by return.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 206, 207, 209, 211 PITT BT,, SYDNEY.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOB
FOB
am
m
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Oases. . ,
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
orwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
•isk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
TALKING MACHINES!
pr Great Reduction in Prices “W®
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS—
IMPERIAL, £2 17s 6d
STANDARD, £4 10s.
HOME, £6 10s
CONCERT and 12 RECORDS, £2B.
graphophones-
. COLUMBIA, £5
UNIVERSAL, £lO
COIN SLOT, £6
RECORDS REDUCED to 2s Each.
Edison Electric 00. , 1 Rowe-st., Sydney.
N
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTKICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All yon are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
The Talune Tragedy.
The trial of Jane Smith at Darlinghurst Criminal
Court, Sydney, for the murder of Patrick Conway
on board the Union s.s. Talune, on the high seas,
came to an end last Saturday morning about 9.30,
when the jury intimated to Acting-Judge Sly
that there was no possibility of agreeing upon a
verdict. .
As a spectacle, the trial was an interesting
gamble. The case for the Crown rested absolutely
on circumstantial evidence. Patrick Conway died
suddenly and in great agony on board the Talune.
The body was brought on to Sydney, and at first
the Govt, medical officer, on the description of
the symptoms, certified that death was due to a
fit. Later on it was discovered there was some
occult relationship between deceased and Mrs.
Smith, who had come from Maoriland, saloon, in
the same boat on which Conway was a steerage
passenger. Portions of the viscera had been pre-
served, and were handed to Mr. Hamlet, Govt.
Analyst, who swore death was due to strychnine
poisoning swore most emphatically that the
poison had been taken during life, and not in-
jected afterwards. Other Crown witnesses swore
Mrs. Smith had bought considerable quantities of
strychnine in Maoriland, and had given several
contradictory reasons for its purchase. One lot of
30grs. was bought the day before she left Christ-
church to join the Talune at Wellington—reason
given being that she wished to poison the cats
that kept her awake at nights. It was also sworn
that Mrs. Smith bought a bottle of porter on the
night of Conway’s death ; and another witness
testified that he saw her going towards the steer-
age carrying something under a serviette or
handkerchief, saw her sit down on the hatch
beside Conway, and take a glass from beneath
the cloth. Then Conway placed something to his
lips and tossed his head back. About twenty
minutes later Conway was in his death-agony.
The Crown pointed out that peculiar relations had
existed between Conway and Mrs. Smith. He
was admitted to have held a mortgage of £2OO
Over her home, which she alleged had been paid
off a few weeks before they left Maoril'ind. If so,
he must have had a considerable amount of cash
On him, to obtain which, it was suggested, might
have been the object of the crime. On the other
hand, if the mortgage, which was not properly
registered, Was not paid, it might have been de-
sired to remove him in order to escape payment.
Either way, the Crown urged, there was a motive,
but if the jury were satisfied on the other evidence
as to her guilt, they need not hesitate to convict
her because they could not guess her motive. It
was only circumstantial evidence, but to sup-
port it, her actions before, during, and after
the voyage had been, it was contended, most
suspicious. She had bought and handled
strychnine in Maoriland, and yet she went about
Sydney asking people what sort of stuff it was.
She concealed her friendship with Conway, and
described the man she afterwards admitted had
loaned her husband £2OO as a “poor working
fellow whom she and her husband had befriended
with a few weeks’ work in the garden.”
It was a dismal day when George Reid started
his address to the jury. The rain struck the
windows with an angry swish. The atmosphere
of the crowded court was moist and dull grey, and
the only glimmer came from the thin band of gilt
along the cornice. Justice Sly sat writing hard
and quietly. His associate stared fixedly at the
roof, as though his mind were asleep. All around
a sea of faces weltered right up to the dull, kharki
walls, and stared down from the gallery above.
Close to the spikes of the dock a junior counsel
yawned wearily at the ceiling, as though George
Reid were delivering an address on the W estminster
Confession. Behind the green spikes of the cage
sat Mrs. Smith, dressed in a light brown macin-
tosh, with a brown fur boa, a gem straw hat, and
her handkerchief covering her face, sobbing, while
at the barristers’ table stood George Reid battling
for her life.
And he made a great fight for the life of the
terror-stricken, sobbing woman behind the spikes.
He gripped the gloomy-looking case with both
hands and buried it beneath a mountain of doubt.
Where, he asked, was the motive? People didn’t
go about in this work-a-day world slaying others
like the Borgias of old, because they took a sud-
den dislike to them. It was too inhuman and
dangerous. If she had slain him for his money
why did she stay here till the slow-moving officials
had blundered on the supposition that she had
done it? If she had all nis cash but the 14s.
found upon his body would she not have simply
vanished? Instead of which she stayed on in
Sydney and told everyone she spoke to that she
came over in the boat on which Conway had died
so dreadfully, and that, just before his death, she
had given him some biscuits and plums. Why,
the woman was stranded here, and to pay her ex-
Eenses had to raise money from friends and pawn-
rokers. She was actually dependent upon Con-
way, and when he died on board she found herself
penniless in Sydney. Conway had, no doubt,
lost his money in Maoriland, before he left, and
considering that she relied upon him to keep her
it was hardly credible she would slay him. She
had certainly contradicted herself in some of her
stories, but that was in her favour. Any
woman who suddenly sees the SHADOW OF A
HALTER (his shrill voice simply screeched it)
dangling in the distance, not being a har-
dened poisoner with a plausible story ready for
the occasion, would equivocate. Every word she
had said in public had been brought up to H-A-N-G
her. (The shrill, deafening cry with which George
Reid brought out the word “Hang” shook the
building and made the jury leap up in affright.)
When a person’s N-E-C-K I-S I-N D-A-N-G-E-R
she is liable to lose her customary candour and
behave in a contradictory manner. The cool,
hardened poisoner would have had the whole
story thought out to - the last detail, to fit in with
facts that could be easily proved. Why, the first
idea that she had killed Conway occurred to the
police through her own artless prattle. ‘ ‘ Gentle-
men, are—you—going—TO HANG this woman ”
(the house tottered as George Reid said “ Hang ”)
“on her own thoughtless words?” Had she pre-
meditated this crime would she have bought
porter on board to administer the poison in ? Of
course not; she would have taken the means to
administer it, as well as the poison, on board with
her. No doubt Mr. Hamlet was a very able
man, but he didn’t know everything. Another
analyst might have flatly contradicted him. The
Govt. Medical Officer had first certified that
death was due to a fit having something to
do with diseased kidneys. Conway’s kidneys were
very diseased. Truly, that medical officer had
certified something else later on, but who was to
tell if his second certificate was of any more value
than his first ? Both certificates depended upon
what somebody had told him. As for the young
man who swore he had watched Mrs. Smith take
a glass of something to Conway—well, what of it!
Mrs. Smith never denied that she gave Conway a
glass of porter. The only thing was that the
young man swore it was about 20 minutes before
Conway’s seizure. Well, he was a, very young
man. If he really saw someone give Conway a
glass of something just before the seizure it did
not prove that it was Mrs. Smith. This very
certain young man, of course, could not make a
mistake. We are all very confident when we are
young. The youth was not intimate with Mrs.
Smith. He did not even know her name, but he saw
a woman in the gloom—a woman with a light
cloak and a straw hat—stroll forward in the semi-
darkness, and sit down beside Conway, and give
him a drink. Some weeks later he strolled into a
Court and saw a woman in a light cloak and a
straw hat, and was perfectly siire it was the same
he saw in the semi-darkness. He couldn’t make
any mistake —lie was a young man, and thoy never
do. The woman wore a light cloak —so did the
other one. She wore a straw hat—so did the other
one —were they going TO hang (the monosyllable
rolled all the way down Oxford-street and fled in
its wild vociferousness round Paddington and
Bondi) this woman sitting here, because she wore
a light cloak and straw hat, and young men were
painfully confident ?
And the rain swished down ; the woman sobbed
on ; outside the green spikes the junior counsel
smiled softly at his thoughts as though no woman’s
life swung in the balance ; and the shrill voice of
theK.C. rang through the crowded court to the
refrain of hang, hang, hang— death penalty—no
hope of mercy—putting the noose round her neck,
&c., till the horror of the death sentence and the
last grisly scene rose up and smote each juryman
to the heart —and the Twelve shuddered.
Could the jury have retired immediately, judg-
ing by their faces, Jane Smith might have walked
out of the Court a free woman within 30 minutes.
But a tall, black-robed figure rose up in the
damp, cold court, and with a hard, bass voice com-
menced to tear away at the masses of doubt
George Reid had piled up on the Crown’s case
That lawyer, at least, talked as if absolutely con-
vinced of Jane Smith’s guilt, and he pressed the
case against her ruthlessly, and drove home his
points with grim earnestness. The law did not
actually require a witness to prove the mixing of
the poison with the draught, or there would be
few poisoners convicted. If they were satisfied
beyond all reasonable doubt that Jane Smith slew
Patrick Conway, it was their duty to return a ver-
dict, of guilty. And he urged that the circum-
stances surrounding the case were absolutely con-
vincing.
For nearly two hours he pieced up the case
against her, and, strange to say, the woman who
had sobbed so heart-breakingly while Reid fought
for her life was more composed while Wade fought
as resolutely to have her slain. She sat abso-
lutely motionless, with her hands crossed on her
lap, her chin sunk forward on her bosom, the in-
carnation of hopeless misery, quite worn out with
the strain. At 11 p.m. the jury retired for the
night. The trap-door was lifted, and the woman
disappeared down the grave-like aperture with
two policemen.
Next morning, a few minutes before the chime
of 9.30, she was sitting behind the spikes, abso-
lutely white with dread and anxiety. The jury
filed in, and she cast one terrified look at
them, and then her eyes dropped and her face
blanched even whiter. Every seat was packed, and
everyone listened breathlessly to what the fore-
man of the jury might say. He said there was no
chance of their agreeing. The woman’s bosom
gave one convulsive heave, and then she sat
motionless as ever. The jurymen were discharged,
and streamed out; the Crown witnesses were
bound over to appear on May 28th, and the crowd
in the Court melted away. Once more the trap-
door was lifted, and Jane Smith again vanished
down the underground passage with a slight trace
of color in the drawn haggard face that still had
round, plump outlines.


On W. Pile’s Plympton farm, Glenelg,
H.A., there is a pigeon tower 60ft. high, five
storeys, with 1800 compartments for 3500 birds.
Judas makes a valuable suggestion :
Dear Bulletin —Everyone’s tired of that old kerosene-
?K V ?^ P i at ;’ii. lde ab ° ut the salfc of the earth. I propose
that Fat o the earth ”be substituted, and that this be
applied with a soupcon of derogatory enthusiasm to all
walking- ta.low-casks (beer-casks are sacred and not to be
V? vain > wh . ose equatorial girths exceed 45ins
to with naHon?i f ° r ! n . telli & enfc citizens to swell up
ffliSdlwW P AnH’ ? nC ,u et prOWeSS ’ Murray-cod, and
ii w-k /' 7'i' " nd > furthermore, let Fat-o’-the-Earth
Concerning lady-barbers :
Dear Bulletin.—“Nunc dimittis,” I have met her at
last, in sleepy Blenheim, Maoriland, too —of all places in
the world. Was bored to death, went to get a shave, to
pass the time, and there I found her—the lady barber.
No more talk of races, football, pugs, blokes and coves ;
no more beery breath, badly disguised with cloves, no
more clammy cold hands—these "will be amongst the
troubles of the past when the ladv barber, bless her, gets
more numerous. A dainty little lady this, light of hand,
and supple-wristed. Her touch, as she moves your head
this way and that, is half a caress ; her pretty face, as she
bends to her work, is temptingly close, close enough to
feel her breath on your cheek, a breath of new-mown hay
and wild roses. “No ! I didn’t cut the first man I shaved ;
I did the second, though, but he was nervous. I often
came to dad’s shop, and the boys used to tease me to shave
them, and, just for fun, I practised on my brothers and
then dad got sciatica, and, somehow, I took to it m
earnest, and here I am. A little bay-rum ? Thank you,
sir. Next please.” Ah ! well. I shall settle in Blenheim,
I think, and get shaved twice a day.—O.E.H.
Tell your Tailor
that your clothes must be made with
4t
Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of
Sip Titus Salt, Bapt., Soi>s & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
“BELWARPS” can only be obtained from Messrs. LUCCOCK, LUPTON & Co. Bradford-
and their Agents, Messrs, Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
Beanie’s B
THE! FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
ure.
: » ■ mMm JC V-^JUIL
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence S„ff, ■ r» . ... ... , ,
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subiect to Colds on the pwi . nc . hltl ®’ Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, anH nether allows a aS £ effects a . Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated wi”h tis nor Cpnsumptmn to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain. iN ° 110U,Se sllould be wlthout it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BE’WA.nE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVK HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
„,, _ “ Katunga, Vic.
‘Mr. Hearne.—
“ D( ‘ ar Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter tlueS of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“John's. Mortimer.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
- Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain'and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir, ’
“ Yours very truly,
' “M.' MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria. b ’
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
ha<i an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
ana walk into town feeling quite strong.
I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is onlv one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never 'kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
mgnt at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as. I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried •
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest'
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain Sir
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,-Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a Year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment’
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,'
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.**
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS* CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to trvHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three botties of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states’—l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.’’
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: Ho. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562
Small Size, _2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f °r
Infants
9
BENGER’S POOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has,
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
the aged.


/T \'
>\)(ypn
mri
TT7
VS
*y\\\
frjsdres a
«Ha|=fe>y
OM/*go
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
providence. Scientists have'for years be_en endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing, ie , after the teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus” is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERRS AMD SEAWEED.
AUhouvh the discoverers of ‘ Sanoalmus ’’ do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
pqfoj Smiled
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CBAftflPiON FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus” is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right. For
Anemia, Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone may
3 “LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
‘Sanoalmus”
CONSUPtfPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus ”at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat. Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi'l assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote. “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated I renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red,'rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus" contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you, it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells. Strong & Coy. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
THE
‘ PLUM’
/''l ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLEB” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, IQs 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
I’ll Wry It."
The Only Certain
Mount ache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
. Human Hair of every -Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
0
For Preventing’ & Curing* by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL.—" I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease; During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Norse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S * FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION See capsule marled ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
1 WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000. *
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o OjfiSXUY 001V£3F*jti3T , I ,, ±*X03Xr.
WINES “* Be “ B r* onhJ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDMEY.
TH_B
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
hi
L/
Ul
o/
o
■ ■BO
tl
w/
V)
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, tfomsands
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, Freeman
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false t h e v still con-
tvrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon fill special complaint J
t'inue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
S/.
Si
i-fiU
SPECIAL NOTICE.
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALL ACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
person are given FREE OF CHARQE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Everv Fanner. Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FB.EE ON APPLICATION ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGrE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON AII LICATION.
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spina! Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
-
■
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising; is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large s urns of money in studying that- Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
he the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, -outh Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting? Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT,
If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining vour feelings and symptoms as clearly
as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them hut their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Sydoty
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr, Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


J. Gr. Russell, S.M., who began life as a
wharf-hand, and is now S. A, Commissioner of
Insolvency, has been at death’s door recently
through an attack of pneumonia. Russell is con-
sidered a certainty for the next vacancy on S.A.
judicial bench. He has the rare distinction of
never having had a decision upset on appeal.
She Carries It With Her.
When Mrs. Mary Wren is about to start on a
trip to Sydney she always packs in her bag a
bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. Of course, she
is careful to put it where it is not likely to get
broken, as she does not, want to waste the medi-
cine, neither does she want to spoil her things.
So far, I am glad to say, she has carried her
precious bottle without an accident.
And when she gets home to Acacia Cottage,
Bridge-Street, Muswellbrook, New South Wales,
she has always reason to be thankful that she
took the Syrup with her.
For, you must know, that on the 20th day of
Sept., 1899, Mr 3. Wren was 75 years old, and fifty
of them she has spent in the town of Muswell-
brook. She has had fifteen children, ten of whom
are still living; certainly a record of which she
has a right to be proud.
Now, to make this little tale run straight; and
to keep the kinks out of it, we shall have to hark
back to the place where it properly starts. Better
still, perhaps, to let the good old lady tell it her-
self, as she does in a letter dated 21st of Septem-
ber (next day after her birthday), 1899.
“ Most of mv life,” so she goes on, “ I had suf-
fered from indigestion and wind on the stomach.
I have often been up half the night trying, to
relieve the terrible pains caused by the wind.
“ I spent a lot of money on the essence of ginger
and other things, but they all failed miserably.
The essence of ginger would wai'm me for a few
minutes, and then the pains would be on again ;
just as a barking dog begins again after you have
hit him with something. That’s the way it was
with me.
“About five years ago I had a very bad time
with influenza; and when I was slowly getting
over that the indigestion came on worse than
ever. We couldn’t do anything for it, or with it;
no more could the doctors.
“ Then an old friend happened in, and she said,
‘Why don’t you take Mother Seigel’s Syrup?’
I told her I didn’t believe in any of the advertised
medicines. She went on imploring and entreating,
and I said she might as well save her breath, for
she couldn’t move me an inch out of my own
opinions.
“What does that woman do but go and buy a
bottle without my knowledge, and fetch it to me.
Then I gave in and began trying it. That very
bottle helped, and, after taking a few bottles
more, I was as well as anybody wants to be.
“Since using Mother Seigel’s Syrup I have got
rid of all my pains and aches, and to make sure of
keeping them away I carry a bottle with me
wherever I go.”—Mary Wren.
Mr. William John Davison, Saddle and Harness
Maker, of Muswellbrook, writes that he has
known Mrs. Wren for 30 years, and the public
may put full faith in every word she says.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to tlieir advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Government House, Parramatta, the scene
of many historic incidents in early Australia, for
years a sauce factory, for years a boarding-house,
now goes into business as a grammar-school.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Brisbane Municipal Council is lavishing
£4OOO on arches, etc., for the Yorks, what time
the Plague is knocking loudly at the city’s door,
and the Health Commissioner is calling on the
Council to keep the place fairly free from filth.
Some incensed ratepayers are going to see if the
law allows such expenditure of the rates.
“ H.” : The Jook is to take a stare at the
postponed Mclb. Eight Hours’ procession most
likely. It is supposed that the men and banners
of the Trades will interest their Royal Nibses,
but, bless you! they won’t care tuppence about
the honest show. It isn’t in their line.
Q. Minister Chataway, who died the
other day, when he entered politics in N.Q. years
ago, found the hardest part of his task was to
meet puns and jibes on his peculiar name. Mackay
doesn’t grow much original wit, and facetious
people there took Chataway as a gift from Provi-
dence. On several occasions he cut speeches short
owing to the incessant ringing of changes on
chat—chat —chatteraway. He became an indus-
trious local member, and won the respect of most
in Parliament. Premier Byrnes had a high
opinion of his energy. Chataway ran a statistical
sugar-paper, The Sugar Journal, from the
Kanaka point of view. He remembered the time
when the traffic was undisguised slavery, and re-
garded the condition of things to-day as almost
idyllic. He died in a Brisbane hospital.
The psychological moment of the Coning-
ham-O’Haran verdict has been seized by a Mr.
Marcus Beresford for an appeal on behalf of
Melbourne’s excellently managed R.C. Hospital—
St. Vincent’s. He offers £lOOO towards the build-
ing of a new wing, on condition that another
£9OOO be raised by the public, and the offer is not
likely to fall through. Mr. Beresford doesn’t
belong to the Catholic Church, but his name sug-
gests that he is an Irishman, and probably a
connection of the Waterford family.
Edwin Smith, the prize patron of Ade-
laide football and cricket, was a crack rifle-shot 50
years ago. Recently called upon to open a new
butt in his district, Smith took up a rifle and
scored a bull’s-eye with his first and only shot.
He was 70 years old in March.
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
DIRECTORS :
Sir RUPERT T. H. CLARKE, Bart., Chairman.
THOS. RUSSELL, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. J. SMART, Esq., J.P. | JAMES MOLONEY, Esq.
THOMAS SKENE, Esq., M.P.
The SIXTEENTH REPORT of the DIRECTORS Of the COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Sixteenth Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the Bank,
IS6 Elizabeth-street, at Noon on Tuesday, 30th April, 1901.
REPORT.
rnHE DIRECTORS beg to submit to the Shareholders their Sixteenth Report, with a Balance-sheet and Statement
of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended the 31st March, 1901,'duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on note-
circulation, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit, including the balance brought forward
from last half-year, amounted to £16,663 19s. 6d.. which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares £7,601 2 0
To reserve-fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5,000 0 0
Balance carried forward 4,062 17 6
£16,663 19 6
The business of the Bank shows a material improvement for the half-j'ear, and, in view of the increased profits,
the Directors recommend an increase in the dividend on the preference shares from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent, per
annum ; and also that the sum of £5OOO be transferred to the reserve-fund, which will then amount to £20,000.
The Directors paid off the sixth instalment of the deferred deposit receipts, payable from 1904-1905, during the
half-year, leaving a balance of £123,990 17s. Id. outstanding.
During the branches have been opened at Loch and Oobden.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the Ist prox., and at the branches on receipt of advice.
The Sixteenth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the head office of the Company, 126 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 30th day of April, 1901, at noon.
By Order of the Board, SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
Melbourne, 18th April, 1901.
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET of the COLONIAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 31st March, 1901.
Cr.
To capital paid up, viz. :
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 155... £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £1 10s.
per share, £115,917 ; less
calls due and in arrear,
£2,012 ss. £113,904 155.;
calls paid in advance,
£12,592 10s 126,497 6 0
£430,541 5 0
„ Reserve fund .. 20,000 0 0
„ Profit and loss .. .. .. .. 11,663 19 6
~ Notes in circulation .. .. .. 122,538 0 0
~ Bills in eirculat : on.. 120,318 12 10
~ Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£36,607 15s. 2d. ; bearing-
interest, £368,419195. sd. £405,027 14 7
„ Other deposits—
Rebate and interest ac-
crued—Not bearing in-
terest, £819,063 os. lid.
Bearing interest New
deposits, £1,236,212 19s.
3d. .. 2,055,306 0 2
Bearing interest De-
ferred deposits .. .. 123,990 17 1
2,584,324 11 10
~ Contingent liabilities, as per contra .. 34,688 5 6
£3,324,074 14 8
By coin; bullion, and cash
at bankers £485,525 15 6
„ Victoria Government in-
scribed stock, Metropoli-
tan Board of Works and
municipal debentures, at
cost 13,919 16 7
„ Bills and remittances in
transitu .. ~ .. 109,819 0 8
„ Notes of other banks .. 527 0 0
„ Balances due from other
banks 20,989 9 1
„ Stamps 716 3 1
£631,497 4 11
~ Beal estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank .. 191,718 2 2
Other real estate at valuation .. .. 78,975 6 1
„ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or doubt-
ful debts .. .. 2,367,505 6 8
„ Shares in other companies at valuation 17,792 9 4
„ Chattel property at valuation .. .. 1,898 0 0
„ Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. .. 34,688 5 6
£3,324,074 14 8
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT.
To .current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.) .. .. £22,225 0 0
,, Bank-note tax.. .. .. .. .. 1,097 6 8
,, Transfer to reserve-fund .. .. .. 5,000 0 0
,, Balance 11,663 19 6
£39,986 4 9
By balance brought forward .. .. .. £2,946 .6 1
~ Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on deposits,
rebate on bills current, and making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts .. 37,039 19 8
£39,986 4 9
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance .. „ » .. £20,000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
By balance brought forward 15,000 0 0
„ Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 6,000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
m
Wf fifff/ir HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dress ng, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Pa’ace throughout the World.
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, Athens, Greece.
H.RiH« PRINCESS IWARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards'
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
Palace of Prince Royal, A thens.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA requires six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene " for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o, Bnda-Pest.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHSNtOHE writes : Please send me three bottles
of “ Harlene ,l for the Hair by return.
Canea, Crete.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE Of GXWEXLC&- (High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
X/. s 2/0, and (3 times »/6 size), 4/6 pet* Bottle, everywhere.
CHARLES READ & CO.
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
SAVIUG OJF 25 PBB CEUT.^
WALKER & HALL’S SILVER-PLATED
FORKS AND SPOONS.
mw
■: ,f ! ■ .
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
Write for our SO-Paged. Illustrated. Catalogue—POST PRESS.
“Flag Brand”
Table Forks, 25/- doz.
Dessert „ 20/- „
Table Spoons 26/- „
Dessert „ 20/- „
Tea 8/6 „
POMU9BALP
CAPILLA^
The only Hair Restorer on earth that you can obtain a WRITTEN guarantee with. When
all other remedies fail, try it. You will be more than satisfied with it. For Weak, Thin, and
Falling Hair it is Unsurpassed. It Restores Hair to Bald Patches, and prevents the Hair
from going Grey. The Great Dandruff Cure. Call and see testimonials. They will surprise
you. Leading Sydney Chemists and from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt-street (opp. Hordern Bros.),
Sydney. 2s 6d per bottle ; post, 3s 2d. Please mention The Bulletin.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL .. .. .. £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND (of which £600,000 is invested in 2| per cent. Consols at 95, the remainder being
used in the business of the Bank) .. .. 926,000
RESERVE LIABILITY of PROPRIETORS under the charter .. .. 1,600,000
£4,125,000
SIXTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, with the
ACCOUNTS for the HALF-YEAR to 15th OCTOBER, 1900, presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General
Meeting, held on Thursday, 28th March, 1901, at one o’clock.
REPORT.
rpHE DIRECTORS submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 15th October last, with the Profit Account for
the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes,
and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year, including some recoveries from old accounts,
amounted to £151,465 17s. 5d.
From this sum, increased by £12,575 2s. 5d. brought forward from the previous half-year, the Directors have
appropriated £50,000 to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, leaving a net dis-
posable balance of £94,040 19s. 10d., of which the dividend declared will absorb £80,000, and there will then remain
£14,040 19s. lOd. to be carried forward to next account.
The season has been fairly satisfactory, though in some districts, and particularly in most parts of Queensland,
the disastrous drought still continues. The price of wool, which has again fallen to a very low level, materially re-
tards the improvement in the pastoral industry, upon which the prosperity of the colonies so much depends.
The Dividend declared is at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, or £2 per share for the half-year, and will be pay-
able, free of income tax, in London and in the colonies on the 29th March.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 18th March, 1901. LICHFIELD, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 16, 1900, to OCTOBER 15, 1900.
Undivided profit, April 16,1900..
Less dividend October, 1900
£84,575
72,000
Profit for the half-year to October 15,1900, after deducting rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date (£10,607 Is. 7d.), and making provision for all bad and
doubtful debts .. .. £279,938 18 1
Less :
Charges of Management—
, Colonial—
Salaries and-allowances to the colonial staff, including the super-
intendent’s department, and 150 branches and agencies.. .. £78,462 6 8
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c. 22,343 5 9
London—
Salaries 7,985 5 4
General expenses .. _ „ „ .. 3,094 7 9
£12,575 2 B
£111,885 6 6
II. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial.. ... „ .. „ £10,140 7 5
London .. „ .. „ ... .. 6,447 7 9
16,587 16 2
128,473 0 8
151,465 17 6
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
..£164,040 19 10
£50,000 0 0
..20,000 0 0
70,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend ,
£94,040 19 10
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 15, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation £482,985 0 0
Deposits 13,650,831 19 7
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,718,365 9 4
£16,852,182 8 11
Capital .. .. , ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 925,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2} per
cent. Consols at 95,
the remainder being
used in the business
of the bank.)
Profit account; un-
divided balance .. 94,040 19 10
• 2,619,040 19 10
£19,471,223 8 9
ASSETS.' TirC
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. £3,144,841 19 11
Loans at call and at short notice .. 1,202,500 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 977,196 3 3
India and Colonial Government securi-
ties 409,824 13 5
£5,734,362 16 7
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets 13,325,667 11 2
Bank premises in Australia, New Zea-
land, and London 411,193 1 0
£19,471,223 8 9
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the-transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair
Balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by
the books.
WELTON, JONES, and 00., Auditors.
London, 11th March, 1901.


A Masterton (M.L.) barber’s dog strutted
into the shop lately with a roll of seven £l-notes,
which he had found in the street. A poodle that
can differentiate between flimsies and ordinary
dirty paper is a 24-carat dog.
Stated that the Queen of Holland has put
aside a bottle of water from the Jordan, where-
with to christen her first-born. What a glorious
thing to be a Christian child, and not a little
Hindoo, brought up to believe the Ganges a sacred
river! By the way, it has been enacted by the
Dutch Parliament that if the recently-wedded
Queen has no children within five years of her
marriage the marriage is to be dissolved, ihe
Queen’s Consort is therefore a mere probationer.
Victoria hated Queen Elizabeth and sym-
pathised with Mary, Queen of Scots. The word
“Pretender” might never be used in her presence
—he had to be always called Charles Edward. She
writes that, when fourteen years old, she darted a
furious look at a woman who said “ May she prove
another Elizabeth ! ”
Counsel were once arguing a tedious case
before the late Judge Manning (N.S.W.) when a
portion of the wooden ceiling of the Equity Court
fell. His Honor asked what had happened, and
was told by the orderly that dry-rot had caused
the mishap. “Ah ! ” said the Judge—“ counsels’
arguments, of course ! ” An English Judge’s quip
in similar circumstances was better still —“Fiat
justitia ruat ccelum !”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all. Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Found by Accident.
THE GRIP OF LA GRIPPE.
The Expulsion of the Enemy.
The Case of
Mr. ALEXANDER HISLOP.
(For the “News.")
One o! the best known chefs In Mew
South Wales is Mr. Alexander Hislop,
residing at No. 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst. That gentleman has been engaged
as chief cook in some of the leading hotels
and restaurants in Sydney, and also in
several important country towns in the
mother colony. Hie popularity was account-
able for our representative hearing of a
visitation of illness whilst at business in
Albury, the details of which were supplied
in the course of the following interview :
“ A few years ago,” began Mr. Hislop,
“ I was at work on the Albury railway
station, and whilst there I had a very severe
attack of influenza. It came on like an
ordinary cold, and I treated it lightly for
some time; but it eventually got me down
altogether. *The first indications were a
tingling, dry sense of fullness in the nose,
and I used to sneeze nearly the whole day.
The pains in my head I shall never forget—
particularly across my forehead. I could
not breathe through my nose at all, and my
eyes vere red and watery. Through a
harassing dry cough, which came on at
regular intervals, my throat got very sore.
My lungs were quite clogged up with the
cold, and I became so hoarse that I could
not make my voice heard. I was unfortunate
in having aching pains all over my body,
but intensely acute in my back and legs I
was never free from thirst, being always
feverish. My temperature increased every
• lay, and caused me no little alarm.
Whenever I was exposed to air a little
cooler than what I was accustomed to, I felt
lashes of heat and chills one after the other.
£ was always wanting to get near the fire.
My windpipe was inflamed and seemed
swollen, and provoked considerable pain.
During the first stages of my attack I forced
myself to eat a little food, although my sore
throat made the task a difficult one ; but in
& few days all appetite had forsaken me
entirely, and I could only drink large
quantities of water. It was a risky and
foolhardy thing for me to do, but many a
night I got out of bed and tramped the
station platform from end to end because I
was too restless and feverish to sleep.
Luckily for myself I have a constitution
like a horse, or else those walks in search
of relief would have caused my death. I
was too weak to stay out long, and on
eturning to bed I had to lie in a feverish,
irning state till morning. As the disease
dd a firmer hold upon me I had water
aiming from the nose and eyes, and my
ough became a little more moist. There
vas also a slight discharge from my throat.
My pulse had attained a rapidity which I
did not think possible, and I was so reduced
in flesh that the complicated symptoms
-'’casiond me distressing forebodings.”
v“ What did your doctor say ? ” asked the
reporter.
WHe said I had influenza in its most
serious form. I came down to Sydney for
treatment, and remained three weeks here.
During those three weeks I took every care
of myself, with a view to getting better as
soon as possible. My doctor’s directions
were closely attended to, and I did every-
thing that common sense could suggest to
assist in my recovery. I did not waste one
teaspoonful of his medicine all the time;
but at the end of the third week I thought I
might just as well suffer at Albury as in
Sydney. My doctor had not given me any i
relief with his physic, so I went back again,
feeling every bit as bad as when I went
away. I thought I would never be well
again, so depressed and low-spirited had I
fot. However, on returning to the country
engaged a furnished house, away from the
noise of the station, as 1 was too worn out
and irritable to stand it, and I made up my
mind to lie up till I was either killed or
cured.”
“And what sort of progress did you
make ? ”
“ I made very rapid progress indeed.
The taking of that furnished house was the
luckiest thing I have ever done in my life.
Through an oversight on the part of the
previous occupier, a bottle of Clements
Tonic was left on one of the mantelpieces,
and I read the label. ‘Everything else has
failed to cure me, so I will give this a trial,’
I said, and right glad lam that I did. A
few doses eased my chest of a thick, yellow
phlegm, and my breathing became much
easier. The soreness of my throat was
cured simultaneously with my cough, and I
soon had a longing for food, which 1 ate with
a relish. The splitting frontal headaches
went as quickly as they came, and the
pains all over my body left me as 1 daily
grew stronger. I could walk about without
feeling as though my legs would collapse
under me, and without feeling light-headed
or giddy. My eyes, which had looked so
bleary red and watery for weeks, now
look-ed clear and bright. As I continued to
get along so well, I knew I had hold of the
right remedy, so I sent to the local store for
a couple more bottles of Clements Tonic
By the time they were exhausted I had not
a sign of influenza about me. I could eat
well, sleep well, and work well. I had not
been able to smoke for weeks, but now I
could enjoy a pipe as much as anybody. I
do not know what would have become of me
at that time if it had not been for Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of the most severe
attack of influenza when mv doctor and his
medicine had failed.”
“Do you ever feel anv i ll o«ncts of your
illness now ? ”
“No ; none whatever. But I frequently
work long hours at a stretch, and get s
little run-down. I am never without i
bottle of Clements Tonic in the house, so 1
soon pick myself up again. ”
“Do you consent to vour evnerienc
being made known?” _ _
“ Most certainly. I tell all my friends
what I am indebted to for my present good
health, and you are quite welcome to publish
my case in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alexander Hislop, of 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document consisting of three folios
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account 0i
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con
tains my full permission to publish in any way mj
statements—which I giv& voluntarily, without receiv
ing any payment, and I make this S' lemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue -'f the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abo ition
of Oaths and Affirmation's taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Darlinghurst, this. 13th day of Aucus
ons thousand nine hundred, before me, * s s
THOS. J. HUGHES, J.p
Business Announcements.
(Stood Tailoriog-
AUTUMN.
Sough Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAN]) ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUBERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
You
Are probably aware of the
fact -although many peo-
ple obviously never give it a thought—
that there is a strong and intimate affinity
between your feet and the state of your
health. This remark is not made in any
personal manner, but simply with a view
to drawing your attention to the necessity
of exercising care in the choice of foot-
wear. Poor shoes do not keep out damp,
and many a fatal illness has had its
origin in wet feet.
COMMON-SENSE URGES
You to dispense with cheap and ill-made
shoes. They are positively dearer in the
end, and, for your health’s sake, should be
avoided.
The ‘HERZ ’Shoe
Is the shoe you ought to wear, because it
is as near perfection as a shoe can be.
LEATHER. The finest quality pro-
curable.
SHAPE . . Elegant and permanent.
PRICE . . Just right for high-class
goods.
a _______„
Sold by HUNTER’S everywhere
Medical.
AOtiSA
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hvpnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
| gratify your ambitions, and produce
I amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
j ust issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
I t lypnotism, which fully explain!
the mysteries and secrets
of the* Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ : shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply-
Remember this costs you noth-
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
notize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARR ADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdhstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
m
Those
suffering
from weah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
n
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS.
QRUNKENNESS
Positive!}' CURED by Administering
EUCRASY.
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DA V for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announsemsnts
IT WILL PAY YOU TO QO THERE.
Follow the footstep* of the wise and buy the Beit,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING In Australis.
-LINCOLN, STUARTKO.
' PROFBItTAnr LIMITID,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to seleot from.
1
sr
Our Fult to order at 425. la
marvellous value; made from
a 1 wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class « f material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £7*
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
ltding Bre*-ches ( 255.
hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
capital Tweed Suits. 21s. A 255.
Fani us Ballarat Berge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Miits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vents. 19s. (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s. (id. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Bacs.
(is. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d.,4s 9d.,55.(id.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9<l.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (jd.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. fld., all
colors
Hard Hats. 4s. 6d. Caps, Is,
W eriiio Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Bhirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
4s. 9d.. 9s. (jd.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of Dress.’* and
patterns of ail kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
WOODHEAD’S^
ESC, CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &c.
No. 6, 355; No. 0,30 s; No.
7 (Oeillng), 258 eaoh.
If j'our Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS. Ironmongers, Brisbane
Sole Agents fob. Australasia.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
47
V'
&
/
OLD
RNs
SUUBU,
xINg
CHA
os
le. C
y
°\
\^ r, etors .
Hollow Ground
nr
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEe
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLEB.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON, V.


the leadinc house.
NO MIDDLEMEN
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
i
I
B^TcheA
idn-hnrgM-iJsmi
miHiummj
JSILVep
ELLINCTON
No. Fl62s.— Elegant Bird and Heart Brooch,
90. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. 017.—9 c, Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1
No. 231.—15 c. Gold
Locket, set with 3 Dia-
monds, £llos.
No. P976.—15c. Gold and Fine Pearl Brooch,
£1 15s.
No. 015.—9 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £1 12s 6d.
No. FlB62—9ct. Gold Medal, £1 7s 6d
No 018.—9 e. Gold and Fine Opal Fly
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. E6251—9c. Gold Bird and Heart Brooch, 11/®
Single Stone Diamond
Ring, Finest Quality, £B5.
No. E*osB. 15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. 178.—Wedding-
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
No. 171 A.—lBc. Gold,
5 Fine Opals,
£2 10s.
§old Band Bracelet, Set Fine White Diamond,
Lb , 9c. Gold Plain Band Bracelets, no stone, £1 55., £1 10s ,
£1155., £2.
Finest Diamond Half
Hoop Bings, £lO 10s.
to £175.
Solid Silver Match Box.
10s. 6d.
No. EloB6.—Best Silver Plated Sugar Bowl
and Sifter, Gold-lined, 15s. 6d.
No. F3267.—Handsomely Engraved, Solid Silver
Salts Bottle, in case, £1 Is.
No. 347. Elegant Silver-
Plated Gong, llin. high,
£1 10s.
No. 259 A — Solid Silver Cigarette Case, elegantly
engraved, £1 7s. 6d. : plain, £1 ss.
Size, a£in. long, 2Jin. wide.
No. 201 A.—Set Links,
9c. Gold, £ 1 Is.
15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s. 6d.
No. E7478.—9c. Gold Chain Leaf and
Bell Brooch, 11s. 6d.
Solid Silver Case containing Gold-Mounted Amber Cigarette Holdei
j-Jl l
No. P 917. Cut Glass,
Silver-. Mounted Ink
Bo.tie, u s . od.
Smaller size, 12s. 6d.
f.
No. 200 A —Set Links,
9c. Gold, 18s. 6d.
15c. Gold, £1 15s.
Silver, ss. fid.
No. E673o.—Toilet Table Cand'estick,
in best plate, with Sterling* i ilver
Mounts, 15s.
No. FB39.—Silver-plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
mi
h..
No. 381. Magnificently Engraved Waiters, Best Silver i.lated nn c -
We have lower-priced Walters WK JStfSfe g **'<» • 14i "'’ **•
r —Lady’s T leganfc Lizard Skin Purse,
Silver Look a d Corn irs, 14s Cd.
Solid Silver Tobacco Box for,the Pocket,
Nicely Engraved, £l 12s 6d.
No. E5946.—501id Silver-Mounted
Crocodile Skin Purse, 11s. 6d.
No. E3234.—Serviette Clip. A handy
little invention, hooks into Button-
hole, Solid Silver, 3s. 6d.
Best Silver-Plate, Is.
No. 143.—Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet.
9c. Go’d - - - - £2 10 0 15c. Gold --£47
Barger Size, 9c. - £3' 3 0 .. .■ . « ln
Smaller „ --£1 15 0 „ --£3 5
No. E 7075.— Solid Silver-Mounted Toilet Comb, 10s. 6d.
No. K9l37.—With Narrower Mount, 50. 6d.
No. E 9211.— Baby Combs, Silver-Mounted, C 6d.
_ We have a Choice Lot of
Silver-Plated Belts, New Designs at 11s.
6d.
SO'
E 9424.— Cut Glass and Silver
Mounted Salts Bottle, 3s.
No. EP46—Solid Silver Shell Butte-
Dish and Knife, in Morocco Case
■fil 2s. 6d. ; Larger Size, £1 12s. fid.
No. F 249. Solid SilverCedarJined Cigar Box,
No. F 248. Solid Silver Cedar-lined Cigarette
Box, £5 10s.
No. E62o2.—The “ Robin ” Table Gong, Strong
Silver Plate, £llss.
Solid Silver Pocket Knives,
with Best Steel Blades,
4s. 6d., 6s. 6d., Ss. 6d.
m s§
No. EB73B.—Cut Glass Silver-
Mounted Ash Trays, Golf,
Cricket, or Rowing Designs,’
12s. 6d. each.
Jvo. EB2B/.—Morocco Case, containing- Solid
Silver Soap Box and Silver-Mounter! Shaving
Brush, £2 ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
All Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


IMPURE BLOOD, ECZEMA, ERYSIPELAS,
PIMPLES, BOILS,
ABSCESSES, ULCERS, AND TUMORS.
TT 1 P ®WDER purifies the Blood. It rapidly draws out and expels the liquid exudate from Boils,
rumples, inflamed Wands, Ulcers, Erysipelas, and other localised inflammatory trouble, relieves the pain, induces a healthy circu-
lation and is highly beneficial in cases of Eczema. It increases the secretion of the digestive fluids, relieves congestion of the entire
alimentary tract, and rectifies mal-nutntion and mal-assimilation. It fortifies the system against the contraction of any contagious
STRIKE AT THE ROOT OF THE DISEASE.
The advept of spring is at hand, at which period the Stomach, Liver, Spleen, and Kidneys are predisposed to the accumulation
of poisonous deposits which the excretory organs are unable, to expel, consequently they are absorbed into the Blood, which rapidly
‘ r “ e " noxious matter all over the body. The visible deposits then are unmistakeably discerned in the form of congested'puss
Ul^rT 1 ! Wp^« r ’ !. n MT OUS f| rees ’ . sucl r V aS Pini P les ’ Boils, and Inflamed Glands ; these may easily develop into more serious
fr, I!™ 1 ! ’ AU Ma ig nant tumors, lo remove unsightly pimples, repulsive boils, or other disfigurement of the Skin, and
to prevent Ulcers, Abscesses, and Tumors, you must strike at the root of the disease by a thorough cleansing of the entire sys-
em and toning or bracing up of the constitution. Pure Blood is the potent factor against disease, it is the vivifying, nutrifying,
nili f f°r r fL e 1 n ?r1 erm§ P f Wer ’ ie i lqUld , vlfcallty Riding in a crimson stream which is constantly pumped through the vascular chan-
els to feed the hungry tissues. Nature s Great Health Restorative is KUTNOW'S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER,
made from the constituents of the famous Continental Medicinal Springs, in a convenient, agreeable, and inexpensive form
„7 en wealfchy ’ " lth IeISU ™ at command, to dispense with the necessity of a Continental trip, by the more' preferable
neutralried7nYexnStd r f b 6 ' 7 ™ If® S^ ety °l h ® alfch ’ whereb y all the foul, noxious, and poisonous deposits are
neutralised and expelled fiom the system, thereby purifying the blood. The Blood is enriched by arousing all the nutritive forces
ncreased secretory activity giving tone to the entire system, and stimulating cell-life throughout.the various organisms. It is used
y the principal Field and Prrvate Hospitals in South Africa, the leading Hospitals at Home and Abroad, endorsed by the Medical
Profession, leading Hospital Nurses, and the principal Medical Journals. Prescribed to Members of the Royal Family.'
Received the Diploma of Merit, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
older, tte Perfect Organic Cleanser!
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER mav be obtained
SEE THAT THE REGISTERED TRADE ”■'~~ obtained
FACSIMILE SIGNATURE, “S. KUTNOW
GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “ KUTNOW’S
OFTEN INJURIOUS.
WORTHLESS AND
Proprietors: S p KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, EC
Froorldtors US A ! KUTNOW BROS, Ltd, 853 Broadwa,® Nd» y.rk, O.S.a’ ’ ■ V
The War in South Africa
AND
Kutnouj’s pouider.
Tan-y-Bwlch, Chester Road, Erdington,
Messrs. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., London. 4 / 2 / 1901,
Dear Sirs.—l have recently seen your advertise-
ment and offer in the London Morning Leader, and
shall be glad if you will send me a bottle of your
Carlsbad Powder for use in my family. I first heard
?c.r V ° 1 , 1 r l preparafcion from Gardener, R.A.M.C.
(St. John Ambulance Brigade, Birmingham (City)
Division), who has just returned in charge of invalids
from South Africa, He was for some time stationed
at irmcess Christian Hospital, Pine Town Bridge
Natal, and had also served at several other base
hospitals. His first duty on arriving in Durban, in
April last, was to assist in burying four victims from
Enteric Fever. As I was about sending out nine
more men (they sail on the Lismore Castle on the
7th), I asked him to address them. In the course of
his remarks he urged them to lay in a supply of
KutnoW’s Powder. He himself had attended to
HUNDREDS of CASES of ENTERIC, and the only
medicine he partook of was KUTNOW’S POWDER
twice or thrice a week as instructed on the bottle
He had never been “ SICK OR SORRY ” for an hour’
and he attributed this fact to the bi-weekly use of
KUTNOW. In following Sgt. Gardener I suggested
that the men should lay in a stock of KUTNOW and
I trusted they would benefit from the advice given
and would return to England, looking as strong and
hearty as he did. B
Yours faithfully,
J. R. STAMP,
Supt. Sec., St. John Ambulance Brigade
Birmingham (City) Division. ’
Malaria, Typhoid, Enteric
Fever, Dysentery, etc,
The above practical evidence demon-
strates that Kutnow’s Powder, by
cleansing the system, toning ’ and
strengthening the organs, and bracing
the nerves, becomes the absolute safe-
guard against . the contraction of any
contagious diseases.
An Island Yarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The story of Membis, chief of Enoch Island,
New Ireland, translated into English'.
* * * *
You jeer me because I warn you not to go after
the big boar that comes year after year to destroy
our plantations. You mock, and say lam afraid
to go. You ask whether I think the boar will eat
your rifle ? You say that lam only a baby in my
fear, and that any white boy would go out and
conquer; why then should a white-headed warrior
be afraid ? Listen ! white man who boasts of his
strength and his quickness with the rifle. Hear,
scorner, the words of warning from one whose
counsel is not always given, but whose counsel is
never bad. The men of your race are strong in
vigour arid bravery, and laugh at those things they
do not understand ; and you will probably laugh
at my tale, But what I tell you happened when
I was awake and fighting for my life; not when
asleep and dreaming, nor ’ when the demon from
the “square-face ’’ had overcome ifae.
Many, many moons ago, when my father was
chief, and my elder brother was the next upon
whom the chieftainship would descend, I was
known as the best hunter and most fearless war-
rior within many days’ voyage from here. The
possession of the best tusk-pigs in the island, my
marriage with the most beautiful woman eyes had
ever rested upon (the daughter of a great chief in
Aoba), and my fame as hunter and warrior, had
caused a bitter jealousy and hatred to spring up
in the dark heart of my brother. How dark that
heart was I did not know for many seasons.
One season, when the yams were almost; ready
to dig-up, a very large boar came from the bush
and destroyed them, and all the efforts of the
hunters were unavailing. Coming home one day
with a large haul of fish I had speared on yonder
reef, I was annoyed to find that my father and
brother had set out that morning in the hopes of
ridding the neighbourhood of a dangerous enemy.
Greatly hurt and mortified was I at being left out
of an expedition wherein I fancied my fame would
not have suffered; and little thought that my
turn was to come in a future from which the suns
of time would disperse and roll away the clouds of
darkness and uncertainty.
That night the hunters did not return; and,
with an ill-concealed anxiety, I organised a party
to search for them, and, if possible, kill the boar,
should he not be already dead. Picking-up the
boar’s tracks of the day before, we passed through
the bush until we came to an open glade olothed
with grass. But the sight awaiting me
there caused horror and sorrow to almost
overwhelm me. These were the tracks of our
enemy. There, buried a fifth of its length in the
ground, quivered my father’s hunting spear, as
the morning wind swept through the scene of
death. There, too, was the tomahawk cleaving
the soft sward ; and by the side of both, alas ! lay
the old chief, stiff and rigid in death, with an
arrow piercing his neck from side to side. His
blood clotted the arrow and lay in horrible
blackened gouts on the turf, and his white hair,
venerated by all the tribe, was now dyed in
patches of ghastly red.
'But, horrible though this sight was, and start-
ling in its suggestion of treachery, a no less
hideous sight awaited us when our eyes turned in
sorrow from the spot. There, on the edge of the
bush, lay the fearfully-mangled body of him who
had been my brother. No arrow or spear had
killed him; for such ripping, tearing, gashing,
could only have been effected by the tusks of a
boar of extraordinary size. All round the body,
kneading the earth and grass into a mud with the
blood of the victim, were the same tracks as we
had previously seen ; while here and there were
drying flecks of foam churned by the teeth of a
maddened boar.
Sadly and mournfully were the bodies borne to
the village, the whole island summoned to the
rite, and the last respects paid to the venerated
an d his eldest son. The next' day all the
chiefs swore their allegiance to me as their head,
and vowed to assist in punishing the murderer.
But all our inquiries failed to find the guilty
party. No strangers were on the island ; and
there was no one upon whom could be fastened
any word or deed of enmity towards the victim ;
so the matter had, perforce, to drop, remaining a
mystery.
For many moons I inquired and searched fruit-
lessly, and at last settled down in my father’s
footsteps to administer justice and govern with
mildness. Being occupied with the settlement of
the property of my father and brother, you can
well imagine that I had no time for pig-hunting
for a few moons ; and when all was settled the
big pig had ceased his depredations and had dis-
appeared.
Next season, when our yams were just about
ready, lie again appeared, and began to destroy
our crops. Having the deaths of my father and
brother to avenge, my reputation as a hunter at
stake, and the interests of my people to defend, I
joyfully embraced the opportunity offered me.
Bidding my people to form different hunting-
parties, and not to expect me back until the fol-
lowing night, I took some food and started alone
on my quest. Finding fairly fresh tracks early in
the day, I followed them up through the dense
bush —past gigantic banyan trees spreading their
limbs in all directions, from which drooped
their many roots—through clumps of areca
trees upon which the pigeons were boom-
ing in content. Here the graceful bam-
boo leaned its top towards the banyan-tree in
friendly greeting. There the tall spear-grass al-
most blocked my path. Still, on and on I went,
until the sun began to get close to the horizon.
Round one hill, over another, through this swamp,
over that creek ; and when the moon rose, its fitful
gleams shone on the awesome glade where had
been fought the fearful battle of one year ago.
Concluding that here was the home of my
enemy, I decided to wait for him. In this one
thing the islander is superior to the white man—-
he can wait. Famous hunter though you are,
could you patiently wait hour after hour after a
long day’s search, knowing that you had a great
struggle before you ? As the hours slowly crawled
away you would have tired, and either slept or
gone away. Not so Membis. Without moving a
muscle, in case my enemy might be close at hand,
I patiently waited until the moon passed from
there to there [he indicated about four hours].
At last my patience was rewarded, for presently
I heal’d the leaves rustling, and then saw the
biggest boar my eyes had ever rested upon. Slowly
and carelessly he came on, as though unaware
of any enemy, or else disdainful. Choosing my
best arrow, I carefully fitted it to the string, and
awaited in the shade for a good opportunity to
present itself. Apparently ignorant of my pre-
sence, he passed obliquely by me, and, seizing the
chance, I released my arrow when lie was
only a few paces away. Striking him fairly
behind the shoulder, I saw the arrow go
right through him, and I eagerly jumped
forward in the expectation that he would fall
dead. But, as quick as thought, he wheeled
round and charged me with fury. Setting my
spear at rest, I sprang aside and thrust home,
only to fall on my face, for there was nothing to
resist my thrust. Hearing the spear break, I
naturally thought I had not been quick enough ;
so, drawing my tomahawk, I waited for his next
charge. Very little time was given me for
thought, for he had turned as I handled my
weapon. On he came, with head down, ready
for the awful stroke which should disable me.
His wicked eyes gleamed in the cold light of the
moon, and I could just see the blood-stained foam
gathering round his jaws.
Waiting until he was almost upon me, I sprang
into the air and brought my tomahawk down on
his loins. Again, I was foiled; for, to my dis-
may, the weapon struck through the loins without
resistance; and again I fell. Yet again I faced
him witli the same result. With a growing horror
slowly gripping my brain and heart, I faced him
again, and made one desperate effort to cleave his
head. Fairly as was the blow aimed, it was use-
less, and only placed me at the mercy of my foe,
for, as I fell he turned and stood over me. Ex-
pecting to be savagely ripped and torn, I was
preparing a blow, when his awful eyes stopped
me. Looking him carefully over I could see no
sign of wound, although his jaws were dropping
bloodstained foam upon me. Suddenly, the
horror which had been slowly creeping over me
culminated in the dreadful knowledge (how I can-
not tell you) that I was fighting an intangible
substance, but that I should receive no harm.
Then a revelation came to me which made my
hair bristle with fear. I found myself standing in
a shady part of the glade, and saw my father
attacking the same boar. He shot his arrow with
the same result as I had experienced ; he used his
spear with the same result; and he was drawing
his tomahawk for a final effort when my brother,
who up to then had been invisible, stepped out
from the darkness, drew his bow up to his
ear and transfixed my father with an arrow
as we found him. With a horrible snarl of
rage the boar charged the murderer; and,
in spite of arrow, spear, and tomahawk soon
left him the horrible spectacle which
sickened all who saw him in the bright
morning light of a year before. Realising the ex-
tent of the crime to which my brothers hate,
jealousy and ambition had driven him, and satis-
fied that it was no earthly thing which had
punished him, I lost my senses.
When I recovered consciousness, eleven moons
after, they told me they had waited two nights
for my i-eturn, and then, fearing they knew not
what, they set out in search of me. Seeing my
body lying in the same place where my father had
been found, they fled in horror. With a just rage
and indignation my wife drove them back, and I
was carried to my village, and carefully and ten-
derly nursed through the raging fever which fol-
lowed. Ho you wonder at the earnestness with
which I beseech you not to try to kill that boar ?
* * * *
As the old man ceased, his followers looked at
one another horror-stricken; and then, with
almost one voice, they implored me not to attempt
the life of this big* unnatural monster, nor to go
pig-hunting in that direction again. But I did
go, and although I saw some enormous tracks in
the glade where the tragedy had taken place, all
the pigs I shot were very ordinary ones.
TRADER.
“ Peter K.” : “ Carpum rarpound harpe-
yarpere Tarpora, tharpat arpold blopoke barpit
marpee jarpust narpow arpand arpime gopoarping
tarpoo garpive harpim arpay barpump,” is wliat I
heard a youngster say in a crowd, the other night.
The translation is: “ Come round here, Tom.
That old bloke hit me just now, and I’m going to
give him a bump.” The principle of the lingo is
very easy to see when the words are written, but
a sentence like the above, spoken quickly, would
be extremely hard to follow. The language seemed
perfectly intelligible to the youngster’s com-
panions, one Of whom supplied me with the words
and their translation.
Sensations after being shot through the
brain, as described in S.A. Register by *a
S’African scout:—
Suddenly a dullness came over my sight, and all was
dark. My head felt like a nest of minah birds, all of them
on the twitter. After that I felt as though water was
drop, drop, dropping inside my head, and some seconds
afterwards I knew that I was swaying in the saddle as my
horse eased down his speed near the base of our objective.
Almost instantaneously he sank from under me while I
rolled clear, rifle and reins in hand, over his left shoulder.
There we both lay, and I .imagined that I had been half
stunned by his fall. I could hear an occasional 151 b. shell
whizzing through the air, as I lay there, quite Content, if
not happy.”
The scale of seamen’s food allowed by law
on British ships, and usually maintained on sail-
ing-vessels :
Sunday—lJlb. beef, Jib. flour, lib. biscuits ; Monday—
ljlb. pork, Jib. peas ; Tuesday and Thursday—same as
Sunday; Wednesday and Friday—same as Monday:
Saturday—lJlb. beef, lib. biscuits. Sugar, 2oz. per day ;
tea, Joz. per day ; coffee, -joz. per day ; water, 3 quarts
per day (this is for making tea and coffee, soup or pudding,
drinking and washing). If butter or potatoes are given
half the meat is deducted. Most vessels give dry boiled
rice on Saturday—euphoniously known as “strike-me-
blind ’’—and Jib. of meat is stopped. Beef that has been
in pickle seven or eight years is not very uncommon.
Any Australian youngster with yearnings for the
sea will understand the life passed in the lapse of
luxury.
“ Veteran ” to The Bulletin on soldiers’
pay
Me the delusion that to fill the ranks of the British
army it is only necessary to offer more pay. The British
army is already the best-paid—(in fact, it is practically
the only one that is paid at all) in Europe. Despite all
the outcry about the pay of the commissioned rank, an
English lieutenant gets more than a Russian major, or a
French or German captain, and could live very comfort-
ably if it were not for the demands of “ society.” As for
the private soldier, prudential considerations have
nothing to do with his enlistment Either he is in trouble,
or out of work, or he wants to see the world. And, in any
case, no amount of pay will make some men submit even
to necessary, rational discipline. Quite one-third of the
soldiers enlisted in the British Army prove either stupid,
»insubordinate, or in some obscure way mentally or physi-
cally defective. Hundreds can’t, or won’t, shoot well
enough to hit a 6ft. x 4ft. target at 300yds., while others
can’t learn their drill, and spend their whole service as
recruits. You can’t punish men for stupidity, although
in most such cases it is certain that the men are only
“acting the goat” in order to be discharged. The
remedy is—lst, increase the pay to Is. a day clear ; and,
2nd, give the soldier a prospect by opening the highest
ranks to him.


mu CAN PROVE THIS,
Because it Happened Here in Sydney.
ft SYDNEY MAN’S ILLNESS, ITS CAUSE AND. CURE.
11
r
III!
ML'
i
\
m
W‘
i///'/////// f
Wi
I
y<'W.
r.
“Is it your old trouble ivith the Bach and Kidneys?
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the
disorder of these most important organs.
The kidneys filter and purify the blood, : —that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire body is affected, and how
every organ seems to fail to do its duty.
If you are sick or “ feel badly,” begin taking Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
If the following had occurred somewhere else
than in Sydney, you might believe it, but you
could not prove it, and that makes all the differ-
ence. The reader must have seen many such
statements before, but he took very little notice of
them, because he knew neither the persons men-
tioned nor the towns they were supposed to live in.
But here is the statement of a Sydney man,
spoken for the good of Sydney people, and that
is why we say you can prove this. It has the right
sort of ring to it.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s street, Randwick,
this city, says:—“ For years I have been a sufferer
from backache. In my work I have to stoop a
good deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind
would double me up with pain. After stooping I
would be scarcely able to stand up straight again,
but would have to unbend gradually, and get the
kinks out of my back. I used many sorts of
medicines for this ache, but with poor success.
The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I think.
I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and
I am very pleased to tell you that these pills gave
me almost immediate relief. They went right to
the root of my trouble. The pains diminished
after further treatment, and at length totally dis-
appeared. I shall always recommend these pills
for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states: —
“It is more than a year ago since my husband
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for backache.
I am now enabled to say that the pills wrought a
permanent cure in his case. The pains never
returned since. I can speak with conviction of
the marvellous way they acted in his case. He is
very enthusiastic about the pills, and is always
recommending them for such ailments as the pills
are meant for. He had been bad over ten years,
so you can see it was no common remedy that
could cure him in the way Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills did.”
This is only one case, but there are hundreds
more like it, both here and in Victoria, in Queens-
land, South Australia, and West Australia, in
fact, in every town in Australia. The papers in
every town have a fellow-townsman’s statement
every week, very much like Mr. Hibberd’s given
above, telling what this - medicine has done for
them.
Now, there must be some good reason for the
unparalled success of Doan’s Bachache Kidney
Pills in Sydney and N.S.W. generally. What is
that reason ?
In the first place, they are a medicine of great
merit, for Sydney people are praising them every
week in these columns.
In the second place, their whole action is on the
most important organs of the whole body—the
kidneys. In other words, they do one thing, and
do it well.
But why are the kidneys the most important
organs of the body ? Because they filter the blood.
Every drop of the blood goes through the kidneys
many times a day, and it is their duty to filter
out the surplus water and the impurities the blood
has gathered up during its circuit of the body.
These impurities are the cause of your headache,
restlessness, sleeplessness, backache, general de-
bility, rheumatism, gout, urinary disturbances,
pains in the joints and limbs, irregular heart,
stomach troubles, and a thousand and one symp-
toms. Help the kidneys to rid the body of these
impurities, and you can be well. You can be well
in no other way.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d ), or will be posted on
receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking proper
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan's Ointment will certainly
cure every form of piles—itching, bleeding, pro-
truding, and blind piles—and hundreds of lives
have been saved by using this cheap and effective
remedy right at the start, because at such times a
single pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-
seated, chronic cases, several pots are sometimes
necessary before a cure is effected. Here is a case
in point:—
Mr. William G-illiver, of the well-known firm
of Gilliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-Street, Sydney,
Feb. 14, 189 y.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many dootors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Oint-
ment advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use
more than one-half of it, now six months ago—
and lam perfectly cured. You may use this as
you wish. —“Yours gratefully,
WILLIAM GrILLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan's
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gulliver.
He knows, for it cured him.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it; send
a penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention Tun
Bulletin.
The Spirit of the Violin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A nightingale at dawning
Sat list’ning to a lark
His song of triumph singing
Above the meadows dark.
She caught from that high music
Its highest, keenest note ;
And in the haunted twilight
It filled her throbbing throat.
But, ah, ’twixt pride and passe >
Her heart in twain was torn ;
And, in the haunted twilight,
A strange sweet sprite was born. .
It fluttered in the twilight,
Far into the forest deep;
But all the trees were silent,
And all the birds asleep.
And then a Poet’s window
It brushed with pinions frail;
But he was of red lips dreaming,
Though his own lips were pale.
And in the morning early,
When it was cold and numb,
A man came by wha caught it,
And sealed it in a drum.
In many a procession,
At many a parade,
That drum was proudly leading
The Fife-and-Drum Brigade.
And, when the wild, sad spirit
Cried out within the drum,
They beat on the walls of its prison,
And beat till it was dumb.
Then on a day in summer,
With banners brave displayed,
Away to war went marching
The Fife-and-Drum Brigade.
A brave young drummer bore it—
The drum that held the sprite—
And high his heart was beating
As he went forth to fight.
The bold Brigade charged foremost,
And won the victory ;
The drum and the young drummer
Were pierced by bullets three.
Then from the field of battle
There rose two spirits free,
And they became one spirit
All made of melody.
The ancient violin-maker
Awoke at dead of night,
He heard a spirit crying
All in the wan moonlight. . .
What violin of magic
The wondrous story told ?
Was it a sweet Amati —
Or rich Cremona old ?
Its tones by times were tender—
The voice of the nightingale
Spilling her soul of passion
Upon the moonlight pale.
And now, like piercing starlight
Thrilling the silent dark,
There rose, and rang in Heaven,
The voice of the soaring lark.
And then like death in Heaven
Again and yet again
Swept burning through the music
The voice of human pain.
That violin of magic,
And sorrow and delight,
I heard a lady playing
On an enchanted night.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“I made up my mind not to be chaplain
to a cemetery.”—Leo XIII.
The Indian Viceroy stopped some Hotch-
kiss guns, on the way to the Amir of Afghanistan.
Thereupon the Amir made them for himself, just
as good, from the model of one in his possession.
“ China reminds me of the man who had
his watch stolen. He went to the magistrate,
who proved to be another thief. Says the magis-
trate, ‘I must have my share.’ So he took the
man’s watch-chain.” —The Amir of Afghanistan.
The Australian bauble-hunter is, most of
him, about centuries too late. James I, when
“stony,” sold baronetcies galore at £1095 apiece,
and a few years later Charles I, being also hard-
hit, sent commissioners to yard-in those who re-
fused to take up their knighthood at £4O a head.
“ Kirk ” to The Bulletin :
j “My dear fellow,” said my doctor to me, “ you have no
idea what we have to put up with. If I call to see a
patient frequently, I am trying to run up a bill ; if I
don’t, it is shameful neglect. If I manage to get to
church and am called out, I hear afterwards —‘ Working
the Bob Sawyer dodge on Sunday, eh, doctor?’ If lam
so busy that I cannot go, I am sure to be asked ‘ How is
it that you doctors are all atheists ? ’ If my wife calls on
w people, ‘it is because she is trying to get patients for
me ’; but if she doesn’t, it is because she is ‘ too stuck-
up.’ If I cure a patient quickly—get credit, you say ? Oh,
dear, no; the patient ‘ wasn’t half as bad as the
doctor tried to make out; why, he was quite well
in a week ’; but, on the other hand, should the case de-
velop serious complications, ‘ Ah, the doctor never under-
stood the malady; in fact, he was worse when
he was taking the medicine a week than when
we called him in.’ If I suggest a consultation, ‘it is only
because I don’t know what’s the matter ; ’ if I pooh-pooh
the idea as unnecessary, I am ‘ afraid of showing my igno-
rance.’ lam expected, so to speak, to cast a horoscope
on a baby’s life and tell its mother what its ailments will
be. If I can’t do that, I ‘ cannot possibly know much.’
lam alsb expected to foresee all the ills that flesh is heir
to, six months before they come. I once lost a patient
whom I treated for influenza because I did not foretell an
attack of rheumatism which came on three months later.
In all cases, if they get worse, the fault lies in the medi-
cine ; if they get well, it is ‘ the goodness of Providence.'
If I send in my bill they say, ‘He is in a terrible hurry
for his money'; if I don’t, it is ‘so unbusinesslike.’
< But we get well paid,’ do you say ? My dear sir, if I re-
ceived payment for one-half I do, I should die from
Shook."
Our “Bushman.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He turned-up while Watson and I were hard at/
it pulling some sheep out of a Government dam)
they had got bogged in.
Our two dogs were having a lively time trying)
to keep the rest of the mob—a large one—to-'
gether; but he didn’t offer to lend a hand. In-;
stead, he rolled off his nag, sat on the fence, and
gave us gratuitous advice, which Watson resented.
The nag—a fair specimen of the North Queens-
land “brumby”—found a soft spot, rolled care-
fully over on the swag and saddle, and flattened
out the billy in a frantic endeavor to get right
over ; but even this, beyond inspiring a wish that
the quadruped might enjoy eternal perdition, did
not seem to evoke much interest or enthusiasm in
the owner.
“ Good game that! ” he volunteered, watching
Watson and myself struggling with a particularly
heavy crossbred ewe. “ Got a bit o’ weed, any-
body ? ”
I told him that he would find a plug in my coat
pocket. He found it. Watson told him to go and
work for his tobacoo.
“Work!” he said scornfully, “Work!
ibout the only game I’ve never tackled yet, work
is !”
Watson advised him to be careful how he went
about starting it: it might tell upon his constitu-
tion. He said he would.
“Where are you bound for now?” I inquired;
casually.
“Down t’ Hay,” he replied wearily, “I’m
goin’t’ join these ’ere ‘Bushmens.’ I’m chock-full
o’ whalin’ up an’ down the river, year in, year out.
A cove wants a bit o’ change, now an’ agen,
don’t ’e ? ”
I said I supposed he did, and inquired if he
didn’t expect to work in South Africa. The mere
idea of this appeared to tickle him immensely.
“Work!” he ejaculated. “Work be d—d !
Don’t call wingin’ Boers graft, do y’ ? No more
graft about that than sittin’ on that ole ' cow’s ’
back knockin’ possums.” He pointed to the re-
cumbent form of the “ole cow.” “B good
’orse that,” he continued, reflectively. “ I give 30
bob fer ’im out o’ the pound at J’ril’drie, three
year ago. S’pose, takin’ ’em all round, ther’ ain’t
many ’orses goin’t’ S’th Africker like ’im.”
Watson said he didn’t suppose there were, and
inquired caustically what harm the Boer Repub-
lics had done to Australia that two such fine
specimens of her products should go forth to quell
them. Whereupon we heard his opinions of the
Boers, in so far as they concerned him in par-
ticular.
“It’s like this,” he said ; “ere’s me, I’m no
good ’ere, am I? ” Nobody answering to
the contrary, he proceeded: “It’s gettin’ like
this. Nowadays they’re shuttin’ up tight on the
rations up along the river; an’ if me an’ that
there can knock out our crown a day, an’
scranno, I reckon we’d be chumps not t’ take it
on. That’s my lot—an’ I’m no yob.”
Watson remarked that anyone could see that at
a glance.
“Wot’s the odds wot they’re fightin’ about?
S’far’s I can see or ’ear, Boers is no good, anyhow.
Might’s well be buzznackin’ about there as ’ere.
Nothin’ t’ do ’ere but shearin’, an’ that ’ard toil.
Ever bin shearin’ ? ”
We averred that we had ; he said we were
chumps. Anybody that worked for squatters was
a chump, in his opinion. Anybody that worked
at all, for the matter of that. He wouldn’t ; he’d
see ’em all to—somewhere —first. He knew a bit,
he said.
After another hour or so of “ ’ard toil ” we got
the last of the sheep clear, and went into camp.
He reckoned he’d camp with us for the night, and
have a drop of tea (our tea). Watson told him
that if he did, he’d have to stand one of the night-
watches with the sheep. He agreed, and got a bit
of fire together while we bunched the mob for the
night.
For the greater portion of the night he smoked
(our tobacco), and regaled us with Murrumbidgee
yarns, of which he had a great selection. Then
we turned-in, it being arranged that our friend
should relieve me at three o’clock, which he did.
At daylight I awoke. The gallant patriot had
journeyed on towards Fame and Glory. Inciden-
tally, so had my good saddle; ditto Watson’s
bridle.
It took us nearly two hours to get the mot
together again ; and that was the last we ever saw
of him.
One day Watson picked up a paper in a pub at
Bourke, which stated that the derider of work
was now one of a “ mob” (so Wats.on called them)
upon their way to South Africa. He was a full-
blown “ Bushman a “ Soldier of the Queen.”
We’re rabid pro-Boers now, both of us; and
Watson has a picture of De Wet gummed on thf
flap of his saddle.
v.
JOHN LACKLANDS.
,
Melb AKGUS, as usual urging procrastma-
tion in the hope of stalling-off reform, loudly
, , -r, , n . . . . .
demands a xvoyai Commission to inquire into the
long-demanded improvement of the Vic. State
Constitution. In suggesting subsequent legisia-
tion it also insidiously demands, inter alia, (1) a
reduction of remuneration of members : (2) a re-
s.u„ ,i . ’ '-A
arrangement of the powers of the two Houses,
particularly as regards finance, now that the
State Parliament will not tax the people at large,
but only property-holders and income-tax payers,”
and (3) preferential voting and proportional rep-
resentation. All which are very good reasons
v .v u,.;rA;.;., . • „„
. y * he u ,j Ic L g of , tbe ” e . w Constitution re-
quired should be carefully taken out of the hands
of the 2000 property-holders who are alone quali-
tied to sit in the House of 48 Rich Landlords and
p U t i n t o those of popularly-elected delegates of
the whole pe ople. The organ of Fat is evidently
pT* a bold attempt to grab thepotj
lev y taxation for the monopolists of the Upper
House, and the Convention proposal will have to
be fought for hard and long.


Gives Push and Energy
Steadies the Nerves, Gives Tone to the
Stomach, Prevents ill Effects of Extreme Heat
“Puts the ‘Go* Into You.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
HCO
I am a professional cyclist.”
“In training and racing in the extreme heat of a Queensland summer, which
requires a heavy expenditure of nervous energy and often leaves one thoroughly
exhausted, I have found'Ayer’s Sarsaparilla of the greatest benefit.
“It makes you have a good appetite, tones up the stomach, steadies the
nerves, and puts the ‘go’ into you. I tell you, lam a great friend'to Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Mr. F. E. Shaw, of Edward St., Brisbane, Queensland, a cyclist well known in
•onnection with the “ Red Bird Bicycle,” sends us this letter together with a
photograph from which the above illustration is made. This is another reason
why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those who
have to work hard. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces you up, makes
your work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and invigorates, and,
best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S S arsapari ISa
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
AYER’S PILLS cure all forms of liver trouble.
t
m-'i
99
t'r&M
*- -
H
“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection.”
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free-
—^.
fljaoriland: and Other Ijerses
By Arthur H. Adams.
**.* The best book of verses IWaonland has
. produced.
CONTENTS:
DEDICATE ...
Mother o’ Mine !
MAORI LA NO.
Maopiland. -
On the Plains.
The Dwellings of Our Dead.
Rain in the Bush.
The Storm and the Bush.
The Coming of Te Raupa-
raha.
Written in Australia.
The Brave Days to be.
LOVE MOTIVES.
To You.
Lament.
On the Sands.
A Portrait.
After Long Years.
Song.
Blossom of Life.
The Coal. /
Grey Eyes.
Just a Woman.
Lullaby.
Afterwards.
My Love.
The World has Grown so
Grey.
Sataua.
A Woman’s Farewell.
And Yet !
SONNETS.
A.D. 1!) i
The Four Queens (Maoriland)
To My Love
The Stars.
The Girl at the Harp.
Sunset.
The Perfect Present.
Lovers.
China, 1899.
Antagonists.
Sydney.
Morning Peace.
To One Slain in Absence.
OTHER VERSES.
Myself My Song.
The Poet to be Y-
Man and Woman.
Pansy : sotlg-woros. >
Blossom.
Sydney Nocturnes:
From the North Shore.
King Street
In Hyde Park.
The Australian,
Fancies :
From Wellington Terraoe.
The Parade.
The Sculptor.
The Ebb of Day.
The Reaper.
A Child.
The Tui.
Dawn.
The Anarchist.
A Song of Failure. , •<:
The Garden of the Sea.
Bereft.
A Question.
Epitaph.
My Land,
Love and Life.
The New Woman.
Reminiscence. THE MINSTREL.
I’ririted on deckle-edge, antique paper, uniform
with Ogilvie’s and Brady's verses. Bound in
white buckram, gilt top.
Price-. Five Shillings Post Free.
Pair- Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; os.
post free. **.* A charming pre. atutioii
volume.
Castro’s East Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Doriungton (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By RodEkio Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, Is. lid.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckrarn, gilt top; 55.,
post free. * # * Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
.Maoriland verse yet published.
The G-olden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse,' by Bulletin Writers ; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The East of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or Post Pree for P. 0.0., Postal Note,
or Stamps of any Australasian Province.
£ Tlie Bulletin’ Newspaper Co. Ltd.
214 Georye Street, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
4*
€
rr*
THESE ARE
Be NERVOUS
6SM BOXES)
% w
m ? sc
D
w\
S. FREEMAN + SONS L!S*!IES
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (IF- or Square).
BLACK INC. YIN EC WC FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEADjDFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNET.
t '■
® 3 fa W&
- 5 ]gp jp^
-
-- v-v:'
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ox x : o Stomatu,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel • the
safest and most gentle
ihedicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
Sold Throughout the Wond.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Beaming ton’s
and. seetkatvou qet it.


RUBBER COOPS.
Waterproof Coats—
20s. to 70s.
Rubber Boots—
- 17s. 6d, to 20s.
Goloshes—
Ladies’ 2s. 6d., 3s.
Crentlemen’s ... 45., 4s. 6d.
Leggings-
4s. 6d., 55., 6s. 6d,
Driving Rugs—
10s. 6d., 165., 215., 30s.
Hot-Water Bag^s—
Best Rubber, 6s. to 10s. 6d.
PERDRIAU & GO.
rubber manufacturers
And IMPORTERS
270 George Street, Sydney.
(Catalogues Post Free.)
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
HE WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGINAL ... .
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W*
DUPLEX PUMPS ARE UP tq PATE.
BENNIE, TEARE& GO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, GOOLGARDIE,
And carry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W. C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 XOltli STIIKUT, SITDNBY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post trom all the colonies promptly
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
LUNCH EON\
12 o’clock till 2.30. /
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and PINNER on FRIDAYS.
E
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
PPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
OC 0 A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W.
Head Office: HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. JWce Lists and Particulars sent to any Knqiilrers. H. PATESOH, Manager.
■
<@sr,
a
HORSEPOWER . .
. . MINING WHIM
Will raise a load of from 5001bs. to 7001bs. at a speed of
from 60ft. to 70ft. per minute. Pitted with patent auto-
matic safety attachment. Drum will carry 500 ft. of fin.
steel wire rope. Weight 12001bs. .
Price £2B includin S necessary sills, sweeps, extension rods, set of hand levers
X with castings and bolts, and three sheaves.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS—
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS,
And at
San Francisco anc
SYDNEY
< t'-"'-* - -
& CO.
74 Clarence $t. v SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bounce st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BoU >o? ents J« A. FAY & CO.’S Woodworking Machinery.
Largest Stock of Woodworking Machines in Australasia.
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning Machines
Sandpapering Machines
and Moulding Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and Aii Other Woodworking Machinery.
w
m
