

"/v-rv?'
V-i-:
McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London
Absolutely
Pyre,
ĥ
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
107 Kent
Sydney,
Mining
Street,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Mining Requisites,
AVAILABLE.
Over 27 tractors work
WINE!
WIIE ! >
__ WINE!
Bukkuila Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINE'A>
AUSTRALIA.
tW Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° as rut street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS 5 FOR Q ROAD BE NTS HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPAIIE PAItTS STOCKED. Send fo.
Testimonials and full particulars. .
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
• ’ —UH—Mil— m i wnmmm ' II II 111 Will ||H|n.wiiM—^
NOW READY. ** NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR TH¥ COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SXJSC£»JE3-VTCJ J e3 Posted, Ota..
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
*
VO
Ti
k
HEsll
ħ
3E3C O T=* JK. T.
Z%rX
Hadley’s Orient fjote!
==«as:^ss»Eii(aws!iil
TO OTELBOURNTE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Motel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Uuineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA.
RESERVE SPECIAL
S
RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL.
SUPREME.
241 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
X
A U US KM ENT for OLT> and YOUNG.
Wonderful .Value'—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker's Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book * ound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Oonjnrinir Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of lauyhter), Yankee Rubber Baby, (can lie
carried in vest pocket- arid blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of ail), Wizard Fish (srives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be cbaiured as you please,
instructions enclosed). •
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
h
ĥ
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDGWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
BranchesP. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Bnrraek-St., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co,, Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
I7IATTI GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
? 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
ħ
h
’-:v!
ĥ
A MACHINE THAT
: : PAYS ITS WAY.
There is no Concentrator now on the market
more effective and economical the
WILFLEY ORE CONCENTRATOR.
KSUKr*::
SHAREHOLDERS
TRiBUTERS .. ..
You all know the value of j our Tailings arid Slimes.
Do you know the capacity of the WILFLEY?
It is from 15 to 30 Tons per Day.
if you will send or Write
-« CATALOG.
ME LBOURN E?
486 CO LONS ST
ħ
FREMANTLE
m
214 HIGH ST
h
K A LG 00 RLIE
MCDONALD ST
ĥ
DARK TOBACCO.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
“WEALTH OF NATIONS”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne, .
Telephone No. 10hS. -^.CATERER.
‘Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT 01-’ TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to hint.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
11 *•s**;:
•a‘
t
V. ';&*/• ■'
■
SZSfetfBGS
ePlSwan
: . |
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the 15:21 a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Cenlral Buildin s Edwaid-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1104.]
[Saturday, April 13, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d. posted Bd.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0,
for amount stated.
udson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
F
JOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS 'of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED)
jgßptitll
nN ' ' .^Tr* s^
TIMC
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE .
PUZZLED,
I’m a bachelor of thirty and a wild, erratic cove,
And I’m rather sorely puzzled by the number that I love.
I’d marry quick, but, hang it all ! my brain is in a whirl,
For in each one of these places I’ve a true and waiting
girl.
Bnregurra, Burrumbeet, and Badaginnie too,
And Barnawartha, Berrigan, and Bungaree and Whroo,
And Darlimurla, Derrinal arid Dandenong and Dean,
And Toombollup, Toongabbie, Tooradin and Toolleen.
I’ve been a bit promiscuous in loving, and I know
In common garden justice I deserve "a little woe ;
But Pin simply flabbergasted and my senses are at strife—
To which one of these places will I go to get a wife ?
Gheimghap or Goorambat, Goyura or Gritjurk,
Gerangamite, Glenrowan, or Pannooboomawm or Bourke,
Or Moorabool, or Mooraduc, or Montajup, Mcryhu,
Myaniyn or Murtoa, or Mysia or Kew ?
You think I’m only joking, and account my conduct
queer, .- . -
Or put it down to shiftiness, or shallowness, or—beer ;
But you'd do a lot of thinking ere you’d end a rovinglife
If in each one of these places you could find a willing wife.
Natimuk, Nathalia, and Nooramunga, too,
And Nar-nar-goon and Narracan, Nyora and Mirboo,
And Pomborneit and Piggoreet, Purdeet and PyalOng,
And Wooragee and Wycheproof, and Waubra and War-
rong.
The moral’s on the surface ; if you long for wedded bliss
Just take the first girl willing, and a/lot of worry miss.
And a willing maid is winking, and you ’re sure to find a
flaw,
Although you cull the lot from Cue to Boomahnoomoonah,
v. Ben Sun.
The Dear Australian Villages!
niHE critic said in liis haste that no good
I rhymes had reached him ori this topic.
But the rhymes kept pouring in, and
some of them are good enough to print.
For example—
VICTORIA, MY COUNTRY.
Land of coo-ee, damper, bluey, where the air is kanga-
rooey,
Where the myall and his lubra hold their wild corroboree,
How reflection, retrospection, bring up vivid recollection
Of the happy .shearing days I spent, my native land, in
thee,
And the towns that I frequented, again I plainly see, yi
These they be :
Korweinguboora, Wandiligong, Watchupga, Barongarook,
Colbinabbin, Dellicknora, Poolaijelo, Tallangalook,
Dooboobetic, Tallygaroopna, Porepunkah, Kooroocheang,
Pannoobamaion, Warracknabeal, Murmungee, Wulgulme-
rang.
Cut asunder, oft I wonder if again I shall rest under
Shade of mulga, gidya, quandong, bunya bunya, curra-
jong, " .j v
And a feeling, quick revealing tender thoughts, comes
o’er me stealing,
And I dream of camping nightly by a placid billabong ;
And the places that I love so pass before me in a throng,
t Clear and strong :
Binginwarrie, Bundalaguah, Wurdiboluc, Tantaraboo,
Upotipotpon, Yanac-a-yanac, Towaninnie, Pamioomilloo,
Willenabrina", Yackandandah, Tarrayouk.van, Bndgejum,
Tabberabbera; Buckrabanyule, Oonnewirricoo, Reha
Lumb. ",
Though the vision is elysiaii, yet ’tis tainted by derision,
And it flaunts me with its ghost perfumes of wattle and
' of gum,
And I so trow for the morrow, as my paradise I borrow.
For,. O home of buriyip, kookaburra, brumby, and new-
chum.
You, the land I see, are spectral, and the vpice-I hear is
dumb;
But the names of towns familiar, on my .brain strings as
.they eome, '
Like the rhythm of drum !
Thrum and strum.
Bobinawarrah, Darraweit Guiiri, Hinnomunjie, Bullen-
garook,
Kinimakatka, Puckapunyal, Mudgeegonga, Warvabkook,
Burrabunriia, Kamardoka, x ßaddaginnie,‘Gerang Gerung,
Boomahriopmoonah, Dunbulbalarie, Darkbonee, Kal-
pienung.
v.
PERCIVAL C. COLE.
QUEENSLAND BUSH TO TOWNSHIPS
I sing pot to-dav of lands far away,
-Of cities all bowered in green ;
No reason to roam—niv song is of home,
Where our plucky bush townships are seen.
There’s mostly a drought that lingers about,
And shortens the water-supply ;
A bath’s a rare treat—don’t dream of fat meat l
And the bare town-reserve makes one sigh.
At — ' --
Allendale, Adavale, Alice and Annerley,
Alderley, Abingdon, Ascot and Anthony,
Ari'ilalah, Argentine, Asmus, Altken Vale,
. Augabhella, Aucbenfipwer, Ay ton, Avondale.
How the good folk will chat on this thing and that i
And there’s music wherever they dwell :
Aecordeon, flute, Jew’s harp—no orie’s mute,
They can sing, play, and step-dance as well.
Their races and balls, my memory recalls
With happiest thoughts in their train,
But life was a treat, and time all too fleet
Just after six inches of rain.
In
Ballandean, Burdekin, Banana, Birralee,
Bogantungan, Bingera, Bororen, Bingaree,
Bouidercombe, Boolburra, Barcaldine, Bundamba,
Blythedale Bluff, Bloomsbury, Buderinj, Birthamba.
Don’t label me “ cracked,” for sad is the fact
(Here Washington courage affords);
Unequalled my pain—but over-much rajn,
Like the drought, leaves them all drunk as lords!
Not teetotal mokes, but pluckiest folks,
Bright, hopeful, and kindliest towns,
The best mates must part—’tis the wish of my heart
You may prosper’midst Fortune’s worst frowns !
Hound —
Tambourine, Tungamull, Turallin, Torbanlea,
Thargomindah, Tamaree, Talgai and Torquay,
Tangorin, Tewantin, Tiriaiia, Te Kowai,— .
Brave Queensland townships, may you hold your own
for aye I
-Q.
MARY HOUSE.
Alphabetical Verses—the Letter C.
O Love builds on the azure sea,
And Love.builds on the golden sand ;
And Love builds on the rose-wing'd cloud,
And sometimes Love builds on the land.
O if Love builds on sparkling sea,
And if Love builds on golden strand,
And if Love builds on rosy cloud—
To Love, these are the solid land.
O Love will build his lily walls,
And Love his pearly roof will rear,
On cloud or land, or mist or sea—
Love’s solid land is everywhere.
e. 1860-S5. Isabella Valancey Crawford.
Audrey knoweth naught of books,
Naught to captivate the wise ;
But the soul of goodness looks
Through the quiet of her eyes.
‘ She can bake and she can knit,
Handily she wields the broom,
All her pleasure is to sit
In a neatly ordered room. , .
’ *
Touchstone, shaping a career,
Shines at each exclusive house :
“ Such a clever man, my dear,
Tied to just ‘ a country mouse.*
“ Married ere he dreamed of us,
, Ere he knew what gifts he had
St-range that Fate should yoke him thus,
% And very, very, very sad ! ”
Touchstone—(let them mark it well)
When the social round is trod, /
Bored by dame and demoiselle—
Goes home softly, praising God,
T. W. H. Crosland.
Listen to tho water mill '
All the livelong day—
How t he clicking of the Wheel
Wears the hours away !
Languidly the autumn wind
Stirs tfte greenwoed leaves,
From the field the reapers sing,
Binding up the sheaves} j
And a memory o’er my mind
As a spell is. east—
. The mill will never grind
With the water that is past.
Take the lesson to yourself,
Loving heart and true,
Golden years are fleeting by,
Youth is passibg"too.
Strive to make the most of life,
Lose no happy day,
Time will never bring you back
Chances swept away.
Leave no tender word unsaid,
Love while love shall last—-
The mill will never grind
With ; tfte water that is past.
Work while yet the daylight shines,
Man of thought and will ;
Never does the streamlet glide
Useless by the mill;
Wait not till to-morrow’s sun
Beams upon your Way,
All that you can call your own
Lies in this To-day.
Power, intellect and health
May not always last—
The mill cannot grind
With the water that is past.
Sarah Doudney Clarke.
In the Gloaming to be roaming, where the crested waves
are foaming,
And the shy mermaidens combing locks that ripple to
their feet;
Where the Gloaming is, I never made the ghost of an
■> ■ endeavor
To discover—but whatever were the hour, it would be
sweet.
“To their feet,” I say,.for,Leech’s sketch indisputably
teaches '
That the mermaids of our beaches do not end in ugly
tails,
Nor have homes among the corals ; bub are shod with
neat balmorals,
An arrangement no one quarrels with, as many might
with scales. - ' ■ . ..
Sweet to roam beneath a shady cliff, of course with some
young lady, ,
Lalage, Ne<era, Haidee, or Elaine, or Mary Ann :
Love, you dear delusive dream, you I Very sweet , your
. victims deem you,
When heard only by the seaniew they talk all the stuff
one can. •
Sweet to haste, a licensed lover, to Miss Pinkerton the
glover, v
Having managed to discover what is dear Xeiera's
“size”:
P’r’aps to touch that wrist so slender, as your tiny gift-you
tender, -
And to read you Ye no offender, in, those laughing
hazel eyes.
Then to hear her call you “ Harry,” when she makes you
fetch and carry—
O young men about to marry, what a bjessed thing it
is! ’
To be photograph’d—together—cased in pretty Russia
leather—
Hear her gravely doubting whether they have spoilt
your honest phiz !
Then to bring your ,plighted fair one first a ring—a rich
and rare one—
Next a bracelet, if she’ll "wear one,, and, a heap of things
beside ;
And serenely bending o’er her, to inquire if it would bore
her / . ' ;
To say when her own adorer may aspire to call her
bride!
Then the days of courtship over, with your wife to start
for Dover
Or Dieppe—and live in clover evermore, whate’er
befalls :
For I’ve read in many a novel that, unless they’ve souls
that grovel,
Folks prefer in fact a hovel to your dreary marble halls :
To sit, happy married lovers ( Phillis trifling with a
plover's I ■ ■
Egg, while Oorydon uncovers with a grace the Sally
Limp,
Or dissects the lucky pheasant—that, I think, were pass-
ing pleasant;
As I sit alone at present, dreaming darkly of a Dun.
1831-81. Charles Stuart Galverley.
Our “Future.”
STRAY spars still drift to show where the
“Austenle” storm lias passed. Here is
“ J.C.R.” on the topic of This Great (in
the future) Country :
The pessimistic views of “ Onlys,” and others of his
kidney, result from the misanthropic error which dis-
torted the. mental vision of Mr. Godlin. “ When you
played the ghost in the reg’lar drama in the fairs, you
believed in everything—except ghosts. Biit now you ’re
a universal mistruster.” Thus Short to Codlin. “ Aus-
terileJ Ausfertile?” Mere phrases !—conveying, it is
true, some shadow of an idea ; but, after all, only pedan-
tic peddling in the philologin department of visionary
literature. This Island Continent is denounced by one
writer as “ a withered hag, with the ribs of the world
sticking through her skinny sides.” Boor literary Codlin '.
Practically speaking, Australia is fertile in parts, and
the other portions could be utilised for various productive
purposes by exercise of due intelligence. The physical
features of the country are very good. But, at present,
the aspect of much of the country is very bad. Ravished
of much treasure, impoverished by a constant drain upon
its resources, plundered by a long-continued
system of political thriftlessness —or something
worse the infant Commonwealth issues from
the womb of Time suffering from marasmus. The
nation itself the people of Australia has as yet
developed no sane national instincts. It has enjoyed I?)
representative government by suicidally returning to
place and power eorrupt and incapable tyrants like——-no
matter who. It enjoyed peace and howled for war—and
has now tasted blood at the cost of many kicks and much
waste of treasure. The land has been alienated and the
price wasted, and the gold won rests in Bull’s pollers.
The wool shorn is also gone; while our people wear
shoddy clothes, and sleep under blankets that are half
cotton. But though we have received so little in return
for exported wealth, the country is ruined by,overstock:
ing; whole areas of pastoral land are trodden flat by
myriad hoofs; and on every reserve burr, thistle, cape-
weed, and other imported noxious growths' luxuriate.
Rabbits and hares are on the increase ; so ar6 hum
gry, desperate swagmen with boxes of matches to light
fires in summerand still the weed?; increase. Seldom
now are men- employed to wield a hoe, so Ausfertile is
turned into Austerile, instead of the reverse resulting
from intelligent control—which may prevail some day
when, for example, the present N.S. W. State Government,
faces the dawn with its coat-tails; and-“Onlys” and'
others of his literary standing use their faculties to other
purpose than disguising homely truths (or falsehoods) in
ornate phraseology.
The future of Australia depends upon intelligent home
rule. At every risk, even at the risk of menaced
coercion, Australians should endeavour to resist that
dominance of the Imperialistic toady element which has
proved so very disastrous under provincial rule. Not a
river locked,; .not a stream of any magnitude diverted ;
neither irrigation canal, nor other canal; and drought
after drought finds us in the same helpless case, after
lakes of water have flowed down our mountain slopes
tosoak away into deep subterranean channels thousands
of feet beneath the great infrferior plains.
Ausfertile ?. Yes, nq doubt about that I If only the
brains of the coming Federal Legislature prove fertile
with common sense !
“Onlys” shouldn’t blame the county for its impover-
ished condition, its sterility, and the consequent ignor-
ance and misery of some of its inhabitants. He > should
place the saddle on the,right horse—blame those incom-
petent administrators responsible- for the enormous losses
the country has sustained mainly through corrupt
Parliaments.
And “ A.B.T.”—
If Central Australia ever becomes a great mining coun-
try—as in all, probability it will—and carries a large popu-
lation, there is hope for the development of all that is
best, intellectually and physically, in the people who may
settle there. I was awaiting a "train at the Port Augusta
(S.A.) station the other morning when I heard the regular
tread of bare feet approaching. I looked-up and saw six
as fine men, physically speaking, as anyone might wish to
behold —tall, broad, and deep-chested, straight as arrows ;
limbs symmetrical, strong, lithe ; heads haughtily posed,
with a physiognomy far superior to that of the depraved
East Coast blacks ; features pleasing and intelligent.
They were “ niggera ’’who had just completed a term, of
punishment for interfering with cattle up Alice Springs
way. The trooper was physically the worst, man in the
procession and he was.no sloven. Central Australia is a
splendij breeding-ground, 'whether for stock or man.
Geologically, this part of the continent is distinct from
the eastern side. Climatically, it is hot, dry, healthy,
rarely enervating. It does not breed melancholiacs, and
pessimists who write verse and pfose damning Australia
because their "livers happen to be out of order. In the
near--future it may be pro veil’to the- satisfaction of.
“Onlys”, that Australia has astout heart bound in metals
and set in jewels, ready to throbmightily to the tread of
a vigorous, lusty, progressive race of white Australians.
Other remarks from P.B. ;. Zadig: M.G. ;
H.M. ; 0.8.
From a notice of-Hauptmanns newly-printed
four-act play,. “ Michael Kramer ” ’
Michael Kramer is a painter whose strong, pure nature
has overcome his bodily defects and enabled him to de-
monstrate the beaufy of his ,soul in his art. His soil
Arnold possesses the spark of genius lacking to .the
father ; Arnold can create what the other only dreams of,
but he fails because he has inherited the bodily defects
without the strength of mind- and will to conquer them.
This Kramer well knows, and the chief interest of the
drama lies in his struggle against his son’s weakness and
depravity, a struggle only ended by Arnold’s suicide.
Death becomes the great mediator and reconciler who
teaches man to understand life, and the fourth act is an
elegy, as fine as any we know in the world’s literature,
over the dead man, over his ineffectual life.
Hauptmann here shows himself in a new light; he is
not only the keen observer of human nature, the skilful
prober of the human soul, but the proclaimer of the
higher truths concerning man’s destiny. As a drama the
composition is full of technical faults, which caused it to
be doubtfully received by the Berlin public as a stage
play ; but as lofty imaginative literature, as the heart-cry
of the idealist in all ages, in all lands, it stands far above
anything Hauptmann has yet produced.
Pity that the idealist, of necessity, nearly always
belongs to the ranks of the sick-at-heart, who say,
“ Come, let us die quickly.” The bounding pulse
which never says die belongs to the action-man,
not to the dreamer. If only Viking hearts had
the brains to write the Praise of Life as they feel
it, how gladly would we spare the most admirable
elegies !
4
A field for speculation seemad to be opened by
news of the “ Loan Association ” formed by Mme.
Jeanne Robin, in Paris. The business consists in
issuing loans of from 5 to 20 francs to indigent
writers. No security is required, no interest
ciTarged, and no time specified for repayment.
The borrower just promises to pay “when con-
venient,” and the losses were reported as “almost
nil.” An appeal to Bulletin commentators, how-
ever, disclosed a lamentable dearth of ideas and
epigrams. “Edson” objected that “the idea
might kill the gentle art of borrowing, an art
based on the urgent thirst of the artist. No writer
who could borrow fifteen shillings from an Asso-
ciation, established solely to afford its promoter
the delight of lending writers fifteen shillings,
would ever be impelled to bring into operation
those subtle and delicate diplomacies necessary in
successfully playing the emotions of sordid persons
who positively ioathe lending fifteen shillings to
anybody. And Robin is not necessary to the true
artist. I have known one. so accomplished that he
could borfiw money from a usurer.” The remarks
of other contributors were unsuggestive of Crisis.
Only “ J.S.” touched the topic with a gold pen in
the lines appended—
American Book World recently offered a prize
of ten dollars for the best sonnet on America-
moved by some echo, maybe. And the prize went
to a “ sonnet ” beginning—
* America ! Not wielder of a power to wrong,
But ruler of a strength to right:
Thy force almighty, calm, uplifting, yet unseen ;
Thy ways are sentinelled by .Peace;
Thy progress heralded by Truth.
Think of—
Last sea-thing dredged bp sailor Time from Space!
—and exult ! ,
4
Remarks by Frederick Wedmore, who has
attained some critical celebrity in England:
If there is 'one fad in particular that it behoves the
painter,' and-the public to steer clear of at this time it is
the notion that any dramatic interest in a picture is a
diversion from a picture’s legitimate aims ; and that the
first and last business Of the painter is to be decorative;
that it is his function to be concerned only with what
they call “paint.” Paint, however, the thoughtful
person who is outside the studio will at once recollect, is
a medium of expression—does not suffice in itself; or,
rather, when it does suffice, the artist has grappled,
beautifully it may be, successfully it may be,
with only one of the problems with which it
was. his right, if he chose to exercise it, to concern
himself. The truth about the introduction of dramatic
incident in painting seems to me to be that it may add
immensely not only to the width but to the depth of the
appeal which the picture may make. At the same time,
the too great reliance upon dramatic or literary' interest
does obviously open the door for the neglect of qualities
that are a painter’s alone—beauty of line for its own
sake, beauty of colour for its own sake, richness or gaiety
of tone for its own sake. . . . . .
Just what we ’ve been telling you ! “It is n’t the
business of a picture to tell a story.” Not neces-
sarily or exclusively ; nor is it exclusively the
business of a picture to be paint well laid-on and
nothing more. Once again : technique is merely
the means >• th ot.end is the expression of artistic
emotion; and if you can get more emotion into
'your picture by putting in Balzac’s novels or
Shakespeare’s ..plays,- then put them in and
triumph:
PERCHANCE!
When having slain the Charlcote deer
He trudged to London town,
Perchance some- kindly yeoman near
Lent that poor tramp a crown.
The poet in the after years
Repaid that loan so free
With young-eyed Juliet’s passionate tean
For golden usury. , '
Then Portia to the world he willed:
Now, for her sweet appeal,
Poor craftsme-d of his own great guild
Are freed from Shylock’s steel.
J.S.


PRICES
FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort« Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System,
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
A
C B B
\
m
L B »3
58 00
s®
m
SW<-
sM
s£loo
-jt
5f107
i2Z
©ME
Guaranteed nor to breath or fourty
CBB
BRIAR
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. isr Thousands Selling: Daily.
SUOIMIIIS X3IUI
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
h
Rare Books
French Novels
Books S Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OE ROOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
AIL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
m
&
b
&
o
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6o„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. EEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
LEA & PERRINS’
ĥ
ħ
SAUCE.
See that this Signature
<)^&rMviA3
is on every Bottle.
h
THI ORIGINAL WORCESTKRBHIRH.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ... ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bala
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. Gd. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES lust season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. , , . , . ,
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired. f
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ot
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, * Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
ĥ
Send Youk Consignments op .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
STTDKTBY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices .
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 OCONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge r 3 r*er Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers .
Sfi LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
if**-
OUlMld
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Dr. OlarlsaoKi’a ELectric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidney s, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATO It
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
TIIEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaemiu
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £1
ħ
CALL On WRITE- O’WHb
CUT
RATE
DKTJG PTORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
mam
»Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
h
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired v STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness,Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc..
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and ,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and ,
may be worn withcAV the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
attachments ,830
wadies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


Adaress: care geo.
9
yvD AIVTS, Hobart.
CITY TATTERSALL’S H. April 20
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in tlie
above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE C. May 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEESALL.
Please allot me shares in tlic
above.
Name.
Address
TUEP CLUB H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to tho Queen’s Death)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Ellesmere Stakes. About Ist June.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name _
Address
For fiif§ particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tattersail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


fNGIEBS
Petroleum'
'emulsion 1
with KypGPKospuriES,
Cures Coughs
BUILDS UP THU SYSTEM.
IT is foolish to rely upon ordinary cough
mixtures for the cure of a really
troublesome cough. These mixtures
usually contain opiates that soothe and
quiet the cough temporarily, but do not
cure it. They also frequently disturb
digestion and thus do more harm than
good. What is needed is a remedy that
while having a soothing and healing effect
upon the mucous membrane of the lungs
and air passages, will. at the same time
promote appetite, aid digestion, and build
up the health and strength, putting the
system in a condition to resist disease.
Nothing is equal to Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion for accomplishing this result,
ami wo are constantly receiving reports
from all over the English speaking world,
showing its remarkable power to relieve
and cure combs and colds and all chrome
lung affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postnge.
Mention STUNKY BULLETIN.
Do not accept Inferior Imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of ALL CHEMISTS <t DRUG STOKES.
THE AN6IFR CHEMICA CO.. LTD.. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
lIP
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant, beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
kandsomo
you can't find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent bead
ofbair. Is this
tbo kind of
hair you bare?
Is your hair long enough to suit you?
Does tho color exactly please you ? In
a word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, givo it a good hair-
food. Give it
Ayer's Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, rich,
dant hair, and it will stop faking of tho
bair, too. Ayer’s Ilair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all tho
rich, dark color you had when 3ou
were young. If 3' oll ar ® thcro is
no need of looking as if you were 50
Just because your hair is gray.
And 3'ou will like our Ilair igor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
rrepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co.. Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
o*
Jfr
£
>s>
«>
s>
*
e>
v
v
4>
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
A.DTWUUW l—D'l'f 300 Collin* Bt, r Motbourno.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK Ril'd
JVLattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Ilalj-dozen, free in/ post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOIWTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land
ProVidcpt Society-
HONEY TO LEND
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our Ne'v Mortgage ttorf contain, , condition. .living tortowur, the privilege of repajmg
up to“s per cent of the loan during any year without nonce or payment of any hue.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ĥ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108-
H. Hiller,
130 Sussex -81.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bcnt-Sha r t Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Lijfht Vehicles
The ISest and Cheapest.
H. HTI»'LII3 T t. 130 Sussex-street.
WOiks : MKLHOUKNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Envers of Eight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
bv return post. Carriages, Broughams &«•, Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Semi for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Halt the price.
DEUCIOUS to Hum Pud iug.
iilil.l. iOUS to Ste>\ed Rce
UICMC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DKMCIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DKMCIOUS to all kinds of Fruit. _
DKMCIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without strain.ng or boiling, the
packets are complete in themselves in the
fo'lowing flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT Bagot Rd.Sublnco.Perth.W.A.aOS.Mng St.,Melboume
Paris exDibition, 1900-Britis!) Awards
The Only
rand
rix
She
highest
ever mahe!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1759.)
REC
np
Appointment
to
flirnt_\
/Trff
fitr majesty €lx Queen ana 8.R.8. Cl)e Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
INI -S-
-•W. Carringe
Note onr New Address:
Jflr. Saddlery Man f-
-193 to 195 C-eveland-street, Redfern,
(Close 10 Kedieru
Conapaejk.^
SYDN*.*
ltai*wa> ooauioa).
When in town, pav us a visit. I)o you want a
SUIiKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send lor our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, l 5; 2-Spnmr Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, ell.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Biurgies from £9
10s Ladies Phaetons (single and double). Dog Qarts,
an<l everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and StPDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and yon pay in pet
cent more for your requirement?'
OUR SIMCCIMi Xo. 2
£8 18/6
ħ
Polirored at any Wharf »r
JV.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Does 1 lie English Democracy shrink
appalled before the vision of King Edward
through the plate-glass of the State or stage coach,
30ft. long, or does it regard the concern as a Lord
Mayor's show ?
“Eller”: The irony of Fate! Talking
some time ago about the money that was being
raised for the injured Imperial artillerymen, I
heard a man say that he would willingly lose the
sight of one eye for £lOOO. Now (he works in a
foundry) he hus lost the sight of one eye for
nothin<j !
For some time past Vic. Govt. has been
busily prosecuting Hindoo hawkers for perjury,
with very limited success. When, as often hap-
pens, the evidence of the colored gentleman’s
compatriots is depended on for a conviction, the
result is generally a batch of perjury-convictions.
The Hindoo lies from preference, and prosecution
for such a thing is a hopeless mystery to him.
Macaulay (“ Essay on Warren Hastings”) wrote :
What the horns are to the buffalo, what the paw is to
the tiger, what the sting is to the bee, what beauty (ac-
cording to the old Greek song) is to woman, deceit is to
the Bengalee. . . . elaborate tissues ot circumstantial
fiGehoods, chicanery, perjury, forgery are the weapons,
O f.*nsive and defensive, of the people of the Gower
uanges.
And he might have added “ of the Upper Ganges ”
—where the hawkers come from !
T.C.W. : The gay doings on last Q.
immigrant ship recall history. In ’74 (Palmer
time) a mob of male and female immigrants were
sent on from Kockhampton to Townsville and
billeted, the men in a large empty store and the
women promiscuously—very promiscuously. The
men, supposed to be navvies, were all costers and
Whitechapel bird-catchers ; the women were
lydies. They all got jobs quickly, beer-jobs and
queer-jobs, just the sort that would quickly
populate Bobby Towns’s old selection. It’s
like the case when the old woman in Scotland
was running down the Irish harvest hands. Per
crony said : “ But, Elspeth, ye ken they poj u-
late the Ivintra.” “’Deed, that’s true, as oor
Janet kens, three times.”
In Motley Mood!
Tlie deft and downy son of old Japan,
Tlie almond-eye from sandy Pee-chee-leo,
The earnel-drivers’ dour and swarthy clan,
The black gallant from Tanna fair and free,
The lordly Briton fresh from over-sea,
Tl:e Syrian suave, the lean and lank Hindoo
I call the land where these united be,
A motley country with a motley crew 1
lie swears by Allah, yonder rogue in tan ;
While gentle John a gentle Joss must fee ;
The heathen runs the race his fathers ran
And hugs a hideous idol secretly ;
But Europe’s son, a noble shrine hath he,
Wherein he weekly drops the threepence due ;
In varied style they bend a various knee,
The motley country with its motley crew 1
The lingo from Beersheba trips to Dan ;
The liquors range from tangle-foot to tea ;
The ladies vary—like their master, Man,
And piebald is the sorrow and the glee ;
A piebald shadow lies on hill and lea,
A queer concoction is the beer they brew,
In hybrid joy they blend alow-bred spree—
The motley country with its motley crew !
They oped the door and threw away the key,
And so a Speckled Grief they slowly grew,
The scorn of peoples pure in each deiiree —
This motley country ivith its motley crew !
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG.
The Wind on the Hunt.
“ Get up and come out! ” said the \\ iud on the
Hunt,
“I’ve been after the leaves all night;
There’s a rout in the sky as the clouds speed by,
And at sea is a royal fight.
“ It was all so calm that I could not rest,
So, out of my den and away !
llow T've chivvied and raced and hunted and
chased,
You'll learn by the light of day.
“ I met with a lugger just coming to port
And turned her about with a surge.
And she speeds back north for all she s worth,
With a sea at her heels to urge.
“ Get up and come out! it’s the fun of the world
Much bettor than lying abed—
To watch how I lift the roof-trees and shift
The trees by the hair o’ the head.
“ I am playing a game on a dark lee-shore
(Where no man hears her guns),
And with thrust and din I heave her in—
A ship of a thousand tons !
“And one fight more I must fight to-night,
’Tis a pine-tree great o’ girth ;
And with lion leap I shall break his sleep
And bend him to the earth.
“ His roots shall groan as I sway him back,
This ancient foe of mine ;
And the man-world start with a beating heart
At the crack of his riven spine.
“ Ships and trees! ” cried the Wind on the Hunt,
“ And screaming seas on the sand !
I’m a scourge to-night on the seaways white
And a pack o’ wolves on the land.”
N.S.W.
RODEEIC QUINN.


ia»
V
i
w *
S
m
dodgui
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, mdre power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 . » «» wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Price* and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE Hip Co-[td.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
io /-
\
'Mm
Solid Gold with 5 Tur-
quoise, 10/-; or Peart
and Turquoise, 12 6;
5 Opals, 15/- to 50/-
Telephone No. 3642.
12/6
Name or Motto—
9c. 12/6, 15/-, 20'.
15c. 20/-, 22 6, 27/6
18c. 21/-, 25/-, SO/-
15/-
-r
Solid Gold, with 6
Lovely Opals,
Special Value, 15/-.
60 other designs,
from 20/• to £lO.
18c. Gold, 1 Fin#
Diamond, with 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
27/6;
8 Fine Diamonds 50/-
20 similar patterns.
lSe. Gold, set with
1 Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
40/-
Telephone No. 3642
SOTS.
Kindly cut out thi*
Adet. and forward
when ordering -
Art Jewellers, 90 Klng-st., Sydney.
Please send for Illus-
trated Sheet of Rings
and Size Card.
All Goods Post Free
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd*
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
... Yotr Can Havb . . .
h
English Boots it
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/8 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
Ac
Better
Made.
Wo do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
GEORGE ST., near Hunter Sfc.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
iUlenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the Brat three months of Ufa.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Ilia.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over fix months of ago.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use bv tbe
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food Is strongly recommended for Convalescents. Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
\
A
YANKEE dhodi.e
Is well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 IINTCR.EA.SE - 109 397
1899 mCREASE - - JSs
1900 IKTCREASE - - 228,263 113 S.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than during 1899
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY!
CONQUEROR : Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug' and Cut —Choicest Natural Flavor—CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
BONANZA CIGARS 4 for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONO P O L E The ORIGINAL ROTHSCHILD, and above all Imitations.
-***— PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OF ALL KTNRS
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a 'News-payer
Vou 22.—N0. 1104.
SATURDAY, APRIL 13, li>ol.
Pbiob 6d.
Mr NUBBUDDY
mm
Fern the
STATE—
|£t)ISL A T‘JR.E
FfDFRAL ELECHONS
" i ■—■—vur.m i j infra
' CIO SED
~n l l
FURTHER NOIICf
"IF YOU CAN'T GET IN AT THE GARDEN-GATE, GET OVER THE GARDEN-WALL."
Most of the political Fri ghts and other self-advertising nonentities rejected at the recent Federal election, are announcing themselves as candidates for the State Parliaments.


Tn«J„ he T^?“ peranCe Problem an<1 Social Reform,” by
Rowntreb and Arthur Sherwell. London
Hodder and Stoughton, 1901. Price Sixpence- for the
most comprehensive collection of Drink-facts published.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George -street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney.
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maorilartd.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland-
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ls 4. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post ' Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin, will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 21S Sutter-street.
South Africa.— -R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Striet, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa
TZ^SB-aUetzn.
SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1901.
The Theory and Practice of “Drink.”
All “ stimulants ” are bad. To “ stimulate ”
is to lift yourself above your plane of
vitality : it is flogging the sick horse, or the
dull horse, or the tired horse. And for the
temporary gain of energy, not earned by
your physical machine, you surely pay in a
temporary or permanent loss of energy.
The more you flog, the more you pay ; the
“stimulant” doses have to be continually
increased to secure the desired reaction ; and
presently comes a time when brain and body
fail to respond : you have exhausted the
power of the “stimulant,” and probably
wrecked your physical machine.
* * * *
All “stimulants” are good. For the
majority of human beings, this is a very dull
earth indeed—because they are dull earth-
animals, with a dull set of nerves, or placed
in a dull set of circumstances, or among very
dull people. Beer represents to them the
reaction from Bore. Without consciously
reasoning that a short, fast life is better than
a long, slow life, they have an instinct that
a vegetable existence is the very worst kind
of existence a man can lead. Yet their
inferiority of physical organisation, or of
circumstances, or of company, condemns
them for the most part to a vegetable exist-
ence. So they stimulate themselves with
alcohol, or opium, or hashish, or fifty
other things, in order to justify their claim
to Humanity. They understand that, in
their case, Philip drunk has a better time
than Philip sober. And with all their
brains they recognise that the sole object of
living on this earth is to have a good time—
soberly, if possible, but drunkenly if neces-
sary. They are quite right.
* * * *
The only human way of having a good
time is to get emotions, impressions, sensa-
tions—the most and most varied and most
intense sensations that your brain can give.
Every human being tries instinctively to
live the most intensely conscious kind of life
that he is capable of living, and to remain
conscious for the longest possible time. If
Minerva sprang full-armed from the cradle,
a wise man would deliberately set himself to
improve his brain and its attached body to the
utmost limit of the cosmic and hereditary
tether. He would get his sensations as he
extended his capacity for sensations, but he
would always look forward to the time when
his brain would be as keen and full as he
could make it by normal vital pro-
cesses. Then, when his brain was
full, he would start to absorb fully the
world of sensations. Joy, grief, pleasure,
pain, natural beauty, artistic beauty, the
delights of knowledge, the delights of
power, love, fatherhood, war, peace, the
light of dawn and the light in woman’s eyes,
books and friends, music and mystery ; —he
would welcome them all to the limit of his
power to receive them all, when considered
u.her with his mortality, his chance
ot continuing to receive them all in the most
intense measure. Deliberately he would
milk the world of possible sensations into
the bucket of his brain. And deliberately,
if he understood that there was an intensity
of sensation which transcended the normal
power of his brain, he would take “stimu-
lants,” counting the cost, and realising that
he was giving perhaps a day of normal
life for a moment of transcendent life.
Deliberately, a wise man would know excess
and fatigue, intoxication and abstinence—
for the pleasure of knowledge, and for the
pleasure of excess and intoxication. And
his motto would be, not “Nevertoo much,”
but “ Rarely too much”—“ Too much ” ac-
cepted with the knowledge of his power to
refuse if he so willed, - “ Too much ” wel-
comed because, on a calculation of chances,
“ Too much ” paid.
• * * •
Every wise man gets drunk at least once
in his life ; and it would probably do most
men good to get drunk four times a year or
so, if they were sober meanwhile and drunken
deliberately on quarter-day. Several Sydney
doctors recently united to publish a manifesto
on the side of total-abstinence. It was a
very mild manifesto ; and they contented
themselves with declaring, among other
things, that total-abstinence from “ liquor ”
is compatible with perfect health. In many
cases, it may be. But, as has been philoso-
phically pointed out above, perfect health is
not the desideratum of existence. We only
desire perfect health as a means to perfect
life, and perfect life depends upon the quan-
tity and quality of possible brain-sensations—
some of which cannot be enjoyed by a total-
abstainer. And even doctors’ intelligence is
only a relative thing. The number of little
things which the average doctor does not
know about modern science is astounding.
For example, in Sydney the other day, it
was reported that chloroform was adminis-
tered to a woman at eight o’clock in
the morning, and that the woman
died under the chloroform. Very likely
the operators were skilled and careful
as far as their knowledge extended; but
(unless the operation was one which
could not possibly be delayed) possibly
they did not know that chloroform
should never be administered at eight
o’clock in the morning when that can be
avoided. For the simple reason that the
daily rhythm of life in nearly every indi-
vidual is at its lowest towards daybreak,
and gradually ascends till early afternoon—
falling again towards sunset to rise towards
midnight. The time to medically strain a
weak heart or a weak organism is obviously
the time when the vital force is at its highest
point for the day ; and, when possible, the
seasonal rhythm should be considered as
well. Similarly, in regard to “drink,” many
doctors disregard most men’s periodical
need of physiological explosion. In many
cases food, however varied, does not
seem to satisfy this periodical need
of leaving the alimentary rut. Then
the wise man deliberately gives his system
the tonic outburst which it needs. If he
can secure his tonic without alcohol, he is
possibly all the better. If he secures it with
alcohol, und*er those circumstances and with
those reservations, he is probably none the
worse. This, of course, is doctrine for
sensible men, with the Power to Refrain •
not for fools or weaklings.
* * * •
Unfortunately, the average man, when
there is question of “ drink,” is usually a
fool or a weakling, or both. He can be
mistrusted to take more alcohol than is good
for him without philosophical or physio-
logical buttresses of argument. And, as
excessive drinking causes loss of the power
available for national industry, and is a foe
to national prosperity, the more influence
brought to bear on the side of temperance
the better.
* * * *
Australia is not at present a very drunken
countiy ; but it undoubtedly drinks a great
deal more than is good for it. The com-
parative national consumption of liquor is
thus tabulated from the most recent figures
in Rowntree and Sherwell’s book of
“The Temperance Problem all liquors
being reduced to their equivalent in absolute
alcohol.
Consumption of Absolute Alcohol.
Per Head of Population per Annum.
English Gallons.
France 3'56
Germany .. .. .. .. .. 2'oB
Great Britain 2'oB
United States X'OO
Russia '6l
Canada -52
Westralia 2'32
S. A. (Northern Territory) .. .. 1'36
S.A. (except N.T.) -63
Victoria I'l9
Queensland .. .. I'o7
New South Wales -90
Tasmania .. .. .. .. .. -56
Maoriland -73
Considered under the chief liquor-headings
this works out as follows for Australasia
and Great Britain for the year 1897 —
Per Head of Population.
Wine. Beer. Spirits,
gals. gals. gals.
Great Britain .. 0'39 31'4 I'o2
Westralia .. .. 1-1 25 '3 2'l
S.A. (N.T.) .. .. o'4l 3'2 27
S.A. (except N.T.) .. No information B'6 0'35
Victoria .. .. 1-4 127 o'B4
Queensland .. .. 0'52 11-5 090
New South Wales .. 072 9'5 *’*o7l
Tasmania .. .. o'o9 7'2 "*'o'3B
Maoriland .. .. o'ls B'2 066
The figures are probably sufficiently correct
for inference. And the tables show that
people in the comparatively-settled and
civilised parts of Australasia consume less
than half the proportion of liquor that is
drunk in Great Britain. Australia drinks
most “ where the hardest work’s to do, out
where the fires of hell burn through ”
—in Westralia and the Northern Territory,
where “ drink ” is often a man’s only solace
—where there are no theatres, or concerts,
or picture-galleries, or Sundays down the
harbor—no family life and no opportunities
for harmless amusement ; where daily labor
is performed under the most exhausting
conditions with the fewest opportunities for
recreation. And the deduction is the fami-
liar deduction that drink is probably no
more the cause of misery than misery is the
cause of drink. When life becomes as easy
and pleasant all over Australia as it is in
Sydney or Melbourne, this country will be
one of the most sober countries on earth.
* * » *
Even under present conditions there is
room and need for Australia to be much
more sober than it is. The question of
sobriety is a national question, because
over-consumption of alcohol—in addition to
causing crime and other forms of social
disease—directly reduces national productive
energy. But the power to regulate the
liquor-traffic appears under the Common-
wealth Constitution to be reserved to the
States for the most part; though the Federal
power of imposing duties could be used so as
to materially alter the existing state of things.
There are very many reasons why liquor-laws
should be uniform all over Australia—the
chief being that diverse State enactments
would defeat to a great extent anv measure
of reform ; and it may be found desirable to
place the Drink Question, as a national ques-
tion, entirely in the hands of the Common-
wealth Parliament. Since people will drink,
the thing to do is to restrict drinking
within the narrowest limits reasonable and
possible, and to give them good liquor in-
stead of the adulterated poisons supplied at
present to most consumers. Experience
elsewhere has proved that this result can
only be reached by making the sale (and
possibly the manufacture) of drink a National
Monopoly. That is a goal which should be
set well in the foreground of the Australian
democratic vista.
Revenue and Taxation.
The duty of cooking the Commonwealth tariff is
the most delicate duty which has ever fallen to an
Australian Cabinet. When the interests of only
one State have to be considered and placated in
the light of la haute politique of Keeping in Office
the job is difficult enough ; but now that we have
to compromise and harmonise the interests of six
States may the Lord have us in His holy
keeping! J
Let us suppose that The Bulletin readers have
come to the assistance of George Turner : and
that we are all cooking the tariff together.
If we are Freetraders, the thing is very simple
—we are simply Freetraders. That is, we collect
no Customs duties all. But, in revenge, we get
no Customs revenue.
* * * *
If we are Protectionists the thing is just as
simple. We exclude all foreign products that
Australia can produce, in so far as Australian
production suffices for the need of the Australian
community. But if Australian production en-
tirely satisfies Australian need, then we get no
more revenue from Protection than from Free-
trade—since excluded products obviously cannot
pay tariff. And if Australian production only
partly satisfies Australian need, then again we
get no Customs revenue, since we admit only the
proportion of foreign goods which we cannot pro-
duce ; and Protection does not tax goods which
we cannot produce.
So absolute Protection, like absolute Freetrade
means—no Customs revenue.
* * * *
If we are bastard -I reetraders, like George
Reid, we impose an arbitrary Customs tariff upon
articles of common consumption—without refer-
®nee local industries unless (as in the case of
N.S.W. sugar-duties) the industry is big enough
to be formidable to people who want to Keep in
Office. Trade is clearly not free ; but we get
revenue.
* * * »
If we are bastard-Protectionists, like George
Turner, we make a tariff in part designed to en-
courage local industries by restricting the area of
competition—as in the case of the Vic. boot-duty
of 10s. and 18s. per doz. pairs and 15 per cent. ;
and in part designed to raise revenue—as in the
case of the Victorian tea-duty of 3d. per lb. Vic-
toria grows no tea ; and rational Protection de-
clares that the articles which a country cannot
produce are to be imported freely, so that the
community can obtain them at the lowest possible
cost.
* * * *
It is as common for the bastard-Protectionist to
assert that Customs-duties do not raise cost, as
it is for the bastard-Freetrader to assert that
tj KJ absence of Customs-duties lowers cost. It is
the habit of enthusiasts on both sides to waste
gallons of ink in the profitless strife of assertions.
1 hey are both, right, and both wrong. What is
true is that it is the tendency of Customs-duties to
raise the cost of the articles which pay the duties.
Every tax tends to raise cost— must tend, since the
other economic factors of cost remain more or less
constant. Ihe lately-increased rate of Sydney
city tends to raise the cost of rent —because land-
lords other expenses are undiminished; and, to
receive their former rate of interest on capital,
they naturally strive to make their tenants bear
the new burden. The tea-duty in five Australian
States tends to raise the price of tea; since the
growers’ charge and the freight-charge remain
unaffected; and the importing middlemen natur-
ally strive to pass the tax to the consumer. You
cannot raise a.tax without taxing somebody; and
the tendency is always for that somebody to be
the consumer, because trade-competition tends to
fix the other factors of cost. But local causes,
special circumstances, may and frequently do
operate so that a tax shall not in some cases raise
cost to the consumer. Nevertheless, the tendency
remains ; and in a large field tariff-duties unques-
tionably do raise cost to the consumer.
* * * *
Thus, bastard-Freetrade, and bastard-Protec-
tion, are equally indefensible, in so far as they
operate to raise revenue. Because the tendency is
always for the tariff to raise cost, for the revenue
to come out of the consumer’s pocket; and it is
Freetrade that it does not raise cost,
the boast of Protection that it only raises cost in
return for a greater national saving.
Freetrade, Protection ; bastard - Freetrade,
bastard-Protection; they are all economically
condemned if they are used as pleas to raise
revenue.
* * * *
Yet the revenue must be raised. Then let it be
raised by direct taxation, when the burden can be
fitted to the ba.ck. There can be no true Free-
trade without direct taxation ; as Henry George
saw when he espoused Freetrade to secure the
direct taxation of land. There can be no true
Protection without direct taxation; since the
essence of Protection is exclusion, in whole or in
part; and the first penny of duty raised under
I rotection shows that the tariff-wall is either not
high enough—since it does not exclude; or that
it should be taken down altogether to admit
goods which the country is not producing, and
against which, therefore, local industry need not
be protected ; or that it should be lowered just
so far-as to admit the surplus of needed goods
which the country is not producing at the time.
* * * *
There is no reason why the whole revenue of
the Commonwealth should not be raised by a
direct taxation of the wealthy—with the poor
exempted and the wealthy taxed in pro-
portion to their wealth. No reason—except
the resistance of the wealthy classes; the
want of political brains and determination to over-
come that resistance ; and the want of intelligence
among “working-class” voters, who do not realise
that under a system of bastard-Freetrade or
bastard-Protection the most profitable duties are
usually levied on the articles of largest-consump-
tion, so that a rich man pays in no proportion to
his riches, and a poor man pays out of all propor-
tion to his poverty. m
The Cigarette Kid.
The Wesleyan Conference has denounced cigar-
ette smoking by juveniles. Even a Wesleyan
Conference may hit upon a truth'now and then
when dealing with the pleasanter vices. The
cigarette is a growing national evil. The Aus-
tralian youth is getting to consider himself in-
complete without a tissue-roll of alleged tobacco
m his face, and every doctor who has had much
experience of life-insurance work is aware of the
increasing number of “tobacco-hearts” which
figure in the lists of the rejected. In the immense
number of cases this condition is a cigarette pro-
duct, and the up-to-date youngster who smokes
his daily three-penn’orth is laying up for himself a
hideous store of physical weaknesses. Cigarettes
induce chronic tobacco-poisoning far more quickly
than the blackest cutty that ever adorned a hod-
man’s countenance.
* * * ,
The action of the cigarette differs materially
from that of the pipe or cigar. The finely-divided
condition of its tobacco allows tne butt to rapidly
become soaked with saliva which dissolves out
certain constituents. These products are either
swallowed direct or absorbed by the mucous mem-
brane of tho mouth, the “ wet smoker 55 thus get-
ting the effect of a chew in addition. In boys the
salivary glands are particularly active, and a corres-
pondingly large amount of absorption is a natural
corollary. The digestion is thus rapidly affected,
and the physical and chemical actions necessary for
the absorption of food into the system are inter-
fered with. _ Unless this digestive and absorptive
mechanism is capable of doing its duty, food in
the stomach is of no more use to the bodily re-
quirements of nutrition and growth than is food
on the top of the head. During the growing
period of life a large amount of extra work is cast
upon the delicate machinery of glands and muscles
by which digestion and absorption are effected, and
unless this works perfectly the excess of material
required for building new tissues will not be ob-
tained. A boy’s digestion differs from that of a
man in that it is required not only to supply the
actual working needs, but to provide the large
surplus necessary for increase of bone and muscle.
Ihe digestive absorption of tobacco by a growing
lad not only spoils his appetite, thereby prevent-
ing him from taking in proper supplies, but it
interferes with the processes by which these sup-
plies are converted into a usable form.
* * * *
Inhalation is the twin curse of the cigarette
smoker, and from it arise the more definite effects
upon heart and circulation. Few pipe or cigar
smokers draw the smoke into their lungs, but
no self-respecting young cigarette - puffer ’ con-
siders himself up to date unless he can inhale—
thereby bringing the more volatile products of
the smoke into actual contact with the delicate
cells wherein is effected the exchange of refuse
organic matters and carbonic acid for oxygen. The
“residual air” of the lungs becomes charged with
injurious substances and by their absorption the
nutrition-carrying power of the blood is lessened
and the nerve-regulation of the heart disturbed.
The resulting irregular heart action is apt to
throw an extra strain on the heart-valves, so that
there may result an actual and irremediable
organic derangement of the circulatory mechan-
ism. In any case the interference with the excre-
tory functions of the lungs reacts further upon
the starved blood. The musculature grows
slack and puny, the brain is deprived of its pro-
per supply of self-forming material, and the bov
becomes unpleasantly aware of the possession of
a disordered nervous system. By the time he
arrives at adolescence he will probably have de-
veloped into a trembling bundle of “nerves”
with no hopes of life beyond the crocodile sym-


pathies of some “Young Man’s Friend.” This
is no overdrawn picture. The entire list of “symp-
toms ” enumerated in the typical quack advertise-
ment does not range outside the ordinary effects
of a liberal course of cigarettes in the average boy.
The cigarette is the most powerful ally which the
quack possesses, and perhaps 50 per cent, of the
“lost-manhood” business depends on chronic
tobacco-and-paper poisoning.
• * * *
From a physiological standpoint, therefore, the
cigarette must be considered as an enemy to the
mental and physical development of Young Aus-
tralia. Although, in adults, its deleterious effects
are less pronounced than is the case with boys,
the more serious effects with which tobacco in
general is often credited, can almost always be
traced to the cigarette. “Tobacco heart, “tobacco
blindness,” and other conditions affecting impor-
tant organs, are seldom found in the cigar smoker,
and very rarely indeed in the man who sticks to
the pipe. Absorption and inhalation render the
cigarette the danger it is, and when acting at the
very period in life where such interferences are
least tolerated its capabilities for harm are worthy
of legislative consideration. If the growing boy
must smoke, he had better smoke a pipe, but he
had far better not smoke at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cure of Consumption.
Writes a doctor to The Bulletin :
Again does the omniscient journalist assure us that
phthisis is no longer to be feared. Prof. Armand Gautier,
of Paris, is to do the trick this time with his new cacody-
late-of-soda treatment, and the usual vague “ thousands
of cases ” are quoted enthusiastically. Lazarus has been
raised from the dead by arsenious acid !
The mischief about these advertised cures lies in the
fact that they lead away consumptives from plans of
treatment which are actually doing them good. The
spes phthisica is remarkably active in most “ lungy ”
people, and medical men well know the feverish readiness
with which they grasp at any hope of relief from symp-
toms, regardless of consequences. There is not the slightest
doubt that the publicity given to the Gautier “cure”
has already caused scores of consumptives to rush post-
haste to Paris in the depth of winter from every sana-
torium in Europe.
The element of possibility gives the keynote to all the
much-boomed r “ cures.” The tubercle bacillus is emi-
nently tractable when it can be got at with germicides,
and arsenic is a powerful germicide. The only drawback
to its use lies in the fact that arsenic, is a powerful poison,
and that the dose of arsenic necessary to kill the tubercle
bacillus would also put an end to its host. Prbf.
Gautier alleges that he has got over the difficulty
by using arsenic in a form which will not in-
juriously affect the human organism while yet retain-
ing power to kill the bacilli —although cacodylate of
sodium is an active and powerful poison in the doses said
to have been used by Prof. Gautier. In the next place, the
proportion of arsenic, even from such a dose, which would
reach the affected patch of lung would not be of sufficient
intensity to kill the bacteria infesting it with any degree
of certainty. The cacodyl salts, moreover, are unstable
and liable to various decompositions, rendering them
difficult to keep in active form for any length of time,
while their markedly poisonous powers call for the ex-
tremest care in their handling and administration. The
most powerful and rapid of all poisons, a gas of which a
single bubble would kill a roomful of people, belongs to
this group and is known as cacodyl cyanide. Already the
medical journals are publishing letters from various more
or less well-known authorities, warning the profession to
be careful with sodium cacodylate, some relating actual
cases of poisoning from its use.
It will probably die out as a hundred other “ cures ”
have died out. Our best weapon to date against con-
sumption is fresh air of equable temperature, coupled
with a healthily-planned life and plenty of good food.
For the present, antiseptics have not got much beyond
the disinfectant stage, keeping existing lung-cavities
clean and preventing absorption of inflammatory pro-
ducts. Consumption is an eminently curable disease, and
there are few of us who reach the age of 40 years who
have not been more than once attacked by and cured of
it. And the testimony lies in certain little scars or nodules
in the apex of one or other or both lungs, which show
where the leucocytes have killed or walled up the
invading bacteria. Since the majority of civilised
men recover from consumption in this way, their
bodies must possess natural resistant qualities
capable of doing a great deal towards recovery even
when the mischief has progressed much further.
One great difficulty in the treatment of phthisis
lies in the fact that the disease is generally well advanced
before treatment is begun, and the bacteria have had
time to thoroughly poison the system with their products
in addition to the physical damage inflicted on the lung.
And herein is the main example of the uselessness of
germicides.
But the public loves new “ cures ” and runs after their
inventors until a new toy is offered. Here in Australia
we have a special interest in consumption, and yet the
Nationalisation of Tuberculosis never gets beyond the
stage of Talk. We have'splendid sites for sanatoria on
the Nordrach plan, we have an equable climate within easy
reach of our cities, and we have an increasing tubercular
death-rate. Yet with all these reasons calling upon us
we neglect to spend sufficient of the public money to
build a score of such sanatoria. The increasingly artificial
conditions under which civilised man lives are lowering
his powers of resistance, and the raison d’etre of the Nor-
drach method of treatment depends upon the reversion to
a more primitive mode of life. This eternal paltering
with “cures” and “antitoxins” merely delays the con-
sideration of an ever-increasing problem. We have one
moderately efficient means of combating consumption,
and it behoves us to employ it until such time as a
better one comes along. And the “ Consumptive Vote ”
in Australia, if properly organised, would be sufficient to
force a doddering Legislature into a measure which would
advance Australian welfare by the immediate erection of
the necessary sanatoria for the efficient treatment of the
disease.
♦
The State versus Bung.
Editor Bulletin. —What’s the matter with the
brand of Protection that consists of a national
monopoly of any profitable enterprise instead of
the nominal taxation of the private monopolist
through the custom-house? Said private mono-
polist always passes most of the tax on to the
consumer, generally robs him of a bit extra in the
process, and in the case of foods and drinks
(especially drinks) also poisons him more or less
into the bargain. Take the grog trade. There’s
doubtless a big revenue from duties on intoxi-
cants ; but there’s also tremendous leakage, much
watered or drugged liquor, heavy cost of collec-
tion, and futile inspection, and ; lot more ex’s in
inquesting the corpse of the poisoned drunk and
burying his spirituous remains, and so forth.
If we made the importation and manufacture
of spirits, wines, and beer a Federal monopoly
and municipalised their distribution under State
laws, we could have pure liquors for those who
required them and a revenue as large as, or
larger than, at present obtained through the
customs, with less cost of collection and adminis-
tration, besides many obvious benefits the
greatest of all being the destruction of Bung’s
power in politics—at present exercised in an im-
pudently selfish and utterly unscrupulous manner.
No considerations of right or justice ever weigh
for a moment with the organised liquor-dealers.
Their whole political principles begin and end
with the trade they follow, and woe to the im-
pious politician who attempts to touch that!—
Arthur Bae.
—
Re “ Backstaii’s Baker.”
The Federal elections in South Australia have
been more than usually interesting to the public.
It will be remembered that some twelve months
ago Symon, Q.C., found it necessary, in the in-
terests of the Australian public, to whip Baron
Way of Backstairs Passage, Sir Richard Baker,
and one or two other men of that sort men who
are prominent in South Australia by reason of
their unlimited assurance and capacity for
intrigue. Sammy Way’s intrigues concerning
clause 74 are ancient history, but he at least has not
forgotten his whipping, whether sitting on the
Bench or otherwise engaged. Way’s whipping
was by means of the cat; Baker’s rather by
way of the birch—an implement of correction
chosen by Symon as being more suitable for a
less-developed intellect. "Everybody is now
chuckling at the idiotic assurance exhibited by
Barer at that time to hide his uneasiness. The
S.A. Federal elections are now practically over,
and the people, recognising Symon’s services, have
placed him at the head of the poll. He secured
over 2000 votes more than Baker, and it is m this
connection that the ancient history is both
instructive and amusing. On the 19th May, 1900,
the spirit of prophecy descended upon Baker,
and in a letter to the Register, written with the
classical accompaniment of much foaming at the
mouth, he delivered himself of the following pro-
phecy :
“ He (Symon) seems disturbed in his mind about my
election. He need not worry. If I stand for either
House of the Federal Parliament I will be elected ; Mr.
Symon will be rejected.”
Symon, Q.G., in the following issue of the
Register said: —
He (Bauer) is good enough to predict that if he stands
he will be elected to the Federal Parliament, and I will
be rejected. It does sometimes happen that the worth-
less are taken and the worthy left. But the people of
South Australia are discriminating'. They will not forget
that when their self-government and the force of the re-
ferendum was at stake the President of the Legislative
Council played the part of informer to Mr. Chamberlain.
When the Federal Parliament is chosen he (Baker) Will
find I shall happen to be there. I am not vindictive,
so I do not prophesy his rejection. His election will have
one advantage : it will keep before the people the man
who sought meanly to betray them, and, by insidious
backstairs influence, to facilitate an assault upon an
essential part of their national self-government.
It is easy in this case to distinguish the false
prophet from the true prophet— Baker is certainly
a prophet who has no honor in his own country.
The verdict of the people in Symon’s favor is pro-
nounced. It is a verdict recognising his ability,
his outspokenness, and his indifference to those
clothed in purple and line linen.
♦ •
The reason given by N.S.W. Executive for com-
muting the death-sentence passed on Joseph
Baker for the attempted murder of Detective
Toomey was, according to Sydney D.T., “ that
Baker did not kill Toomey.” If that be the
reason, it would, on general grounds, be an excel-
lent one, but with the statute-law of N.S.W. as it
is, it is the assumption by the Executive of a
power outside the law. The N.S.W. Executive
has hanged numbers of persons for attempted
murder. It is, of course, a welcome thing at the
time, when the Executive dispenses with the
savage services of Nosey Bob ; but if the action be
dictated merely by the will or whim of that
body there is danger that another Execu-
tive, or the same body at a different time, will
act in a contrary way, also on will or whim.
Further, those who desire to legislatively abolish
capital punishment, oT to restrict it to murder in
the first degree, are hampered in their advocacy
by an Executive which is whimsically merciful.
It will be said, “ Your legislation is not necessary
as regards attempted murder, for the Executive,,
as in the Baker case, may commute the sentence.”
But the Executive may not. What reformers
want is not a commutation dependent on
the varying sentiments of the Executive, but
such an alteration of the law as will prevent the
death sentence in such cases being passed. Indeed,
it may be held that the shortest way to make the
Executive assist in the alteration of a savage law
is" to insist that while the law remains on the
statute-book the Executive shall observe it to the
letter. In the Baker case, the Executive having
a good reason for commuting the death-sentence
need not have given a had one. The good reason
was that Baker had been recommended to mercy
by the jury on the ground that he believed he
had been grievously wronged by Toomey.
—
Much simnler than the N.S.W. plan of crossing
out from me ballot-paper the names of the men
you don’t want to vote for is the system, first
adopted by S.A., of making a cross opposite the
names of those you do want to vote for. There
didn’t seem so much merit in this plan until a
ballot-paper appeared with 50 closely - written
names, 44 of wliich it was necessary to strike out;
but anybody who saw the bewildering procession
of blue-pencilled strokes was not likely to be sur-
prised to find that in some districts where pencils
aren’t often handled the proportion of informal
votes ran up to 40 per cent. —that is, nearly half
of the electors who did go to the poll disfran-
chised themselves by counting 43 strokes as 44, or
something like that. Gn the other hand, the man
who counts five plain crosses as six probably
deserves to have his vote rejected. S. Australia
had the N.S.W. system long ago—she tried it on
the occasion of the first election to the Leg. Coun-
cil, the whole province voting as one electorate ;
and the mess was so awful—just about as awful as
the N.S.W. mess was on Friday week —that she
promptly adopted the cross system, and hasn’t
seen any reason since to change it.
♦
The fact that Britain is finding difficulty in main-
taining a supply of recruits to make good the war-
waste in S’Africa is an unfortunate circumstance
for the Boers. Britain, when in a tight place, has
never yet hesitated over such a trifle as employing
Black troops. She fought the American colonists
with German mercenaries and Indian levies.
Would the United Colonies have achieved their
independence had the British Govt. had 250,000,000
Hindoos from which to draw fighting material ?
The Yankee invasion of Canada in 1812 was re-
pelled by Canadian militia and Indian levies —and
didn’t the noble Indian play up with the
wounded! Savages, wearing at their belts thescalps
of white men of British descent, paraded beneath
the British flag and fought under a British
general. Over 20 years ago Disraeli had Hindoo
troops in the Mediterranean ready for a leap at
the throat of exhausted Russia had the advance
on Constantinople been persisted in. Indian
troops faced Russians at Kinder’s Siding in
Tientsin (China) the other day. If the position
in S’Africa becomes really acute through the
supply of British recruits failing, rather than face
a conscription, Britain will throw overboard the
promise to use only white troops, and finish a war
of extermination with a Hindoo Army Corps.
By which time the British reputation of being
“bad Europeans” will be thoroughly estab-
lished.
♦
“D.G.” to The Bulletin re the wreck of tha
Rio de Janeiro
It is not quite correct to talk of the “cowardice ” of the
Asiatics. All men are pretty much on a level as regards
courage, or insensibility to danger. Serviceable courage
is the”ability to do the right thing in a dangerous emer-
gency, and that depends chiefly on men’s confidence in
themselves or in those to whom they look for guidance.
The real weakness of an Asiatic crew lies m the fact that,
whether the men are individually cowardly or brave,
they are nob perfectly under the control of the
European officers, who can only communicate with them
through a “ serang.” The system is fatal to discipline.
Take the case of the recent Karrakatta wreck on the VV .A.
coast. The Malay crew seized a boat and left passengers
and officers in the lurch. That was not cowardice, but
pure selfishness and insubordination which would hardly
have been possible had the men been under the direct
control of he white officers. No doubt shipowners will
fight tooth and nail against any attempt to change the
existing system. They think it is bad enough to have to
appoint only approved navigators and seamen to officer
their ships, and if officers were required also to know one
or two Asiatic languages the available supply of qualified
men would get short, and their market value would rise
to a figure that would make the employment of Asiatic
sailors a very questionable economy. You need not
prohibit the yellow sailor. Make him a costly luxury
and you get there just as surely!
The Bulletin believes that, generally speaking,
the white races exhibit more intelligent self-con-
trol in the face of sudden danger or of panic than
the colored races, often fatalistic in temperament.
Particularly speaking, it believes European
crews are more trustworthy than lascar crews.
And, personally speaking, when it has a colored
cat to kill, this paper doesn’t choke it with cream.
♦
Yic. State Premier Peacock, in his desire to save
every possible shilling, presumably to spend on
the Jookoyork, is hard at work baulking old-age
pension applications on every possible excuse, and
has invited the assistance of members of ladies
benevolent societies to “prevent the looting of
the Treasury.” This enlistment of an army ot
honorary spies and gimleteers, who will no doubt
punish independence of manner and alleged want
of proper respect, and on the strength of the invit-
ation swagger and swish their tails, generally, has
moved Edward Findley, State member for Mel-
bourne city, to let fly a few remarks about the
persons to whose mercy the alleged democratic
Premier has handed over his ancient and indigent
electors. Said Findley :
“What are these Charitable and Ladies’ Benevolent
Societies ? . . . . The members of the Ladies’ Benevolent
Societies are the wives and women-folk of professional
ranters, notorious sweaters, lickspittle shire councillors,
sordid upstarts, professional ascetics, rail-sitting poli-
ticians, suave smoodgers, prurient purists, and all the
other rabble and off-scourings of that kind of society
which has been aptly named the World of Cant, lhe
more favourable specimens are usually mere strutting,
posturing and patronising Lady Bountifuls, whose
charitv takes the form of conferring as a favour
small' fractions of the money which their
husbands or fathers have stolen from the
people whom they are patronising. Numbers of them
are women whose sexual nature has withered into what
passes with the unthinking as virtue, and who gain a
sort of consolation in their passional decline from watch-
ing and retailing to cronies the love misfortunes and ad-
ventures of young girls who have, through the neglect of
society, to seek their help. Others of them are those
not uncommon distortions of their sex, who treat lllegiti-
mate children and children forced by circumstances abso-
lutely beyond their own control to become wards of the
Neglected Children’s Department, as if they were non-
human, delighting to brand them to their acquaintances,
and even to taunt the children themselves with what
these hags call their shame. . . . These types of women,
reared on the unwholesome food of compromise with
conscience and forever breathing the unchristian atmo-
sphere of church life, are especially unfitted for any duty
which involves the interests of the poor who refuse to be
hypocrites, who will not kow-tow to the owner of ill-
gotten wealth, and who instinctively rate at its true value
the cant and hollowness of heart of these women.
Melb. Table Talk hopes that the husbands and
sons of these “ ladies ” will remember Findley’s
remarks at the next election. The Bulletin
trusts that everybody will remember them, and
vote for a man who, though his denunciation may
be a bit sweeping, sticks to facts in the main. It
is a long timessince this paper saw the typical
pushing semi-society Lady Bountiful sized up so
accurately.
♦
In addressing a meeting of the British Women’s
Emigration Association, Joe Chamberlain is
reported as “anticipating that hundreds of
thousands of men would proceed to S’Africa after
the war,” and that “ there would be a pro-
portionate emigration of women.” But, in S’Africa
there is a plethora of black-labor, and with
America and Australia competing with it for
population, there is not the slightest chance that
it will be rushed by the workers of Europe. If
Chamberlain doesn’t know that, he is a bigger
fool—and if he does know it, he is a bigger liar
than his worst enemies thought him. As for
what will happen “after the war is over”—it
isn’t half over yet, and, judging by present
appearances, it be won’t for a year or two. Mean-
while Chamberlain and co. have sucked the Aus-
tralian and Canadian oranges pretty dry, and if
the present drain of men goes on much longer
there will be none to emigrate. What then ?
+
“ Sailor-Man ” to The Bulletin
Your remarks (29/3/’01) on the ill-paid shipping busi-
ness call for fierce approval from all classes of “ shell-
backs.” With an average of 50 per cent, (as per official
Board of Trade returns) of foreigners employed in the
British mercantile marine, John Bull, shipowner, hasn t
much to boast about. Young England declines more and
more every year to take to the sea as a means of livings
and small wonder. The result of ridiculously low rates of
pay, combined with increasing severity of examinations,
will be that in 20 years, owners will have to depend almost
entirely on the foreigner, not only for the manning but
also for the officering of their ships. What sea-going
men think of their profession is shown by
the eagerness with which they jump at the
chance of a semi-nautical shore billet, even at
comparatively poor pay. Long hours of overtime in
port (without remuneration) coupled with Sunday work,
and the conversion of private concerns into limited-
liability oo.’s, have completely destroyed any personal
interest owners formerly had in their employes. Nowa-
days, the latter are merely so much machinery for earning
dividends on account of shareholders, 90 per cent, of
whom don’t know the stem from the stern. To these
people, whose mouthpiece is the managing owner (often
only with enough interest to “ qualify ” him for a seat on
the board) the sailor-man is a mere “counter” whose
personal feelings and interests must not stand in the way
of quick despatch and big dividends. Also as the “ ”
sailor-man has no vote, and if he had one would seldom be
at home to use it, no one bothers about him ashore, except
the bobby on the beat (who never misses a chance of run-
ning him in on the d. and d. charge) and the gent who
cashes his advance note, and the seamen’s missions,
which proceed on the assumption that the “ shell ” must
be treated, like a Sunday-school kid, to buns and tea.
And, finally, after a life of hard graft and hard fare, the
only prospect left the seaman is the work-house. If sea-
going is to be made again a profession worth taking up,
the two leading reforms must be the barring of the
foreigner- first, last and always—and a return to decent
remuneration, instead of a wage (especially in wind-
jammers) at which a corporation-dustman would turn up
his nose. —H.B.T.
♦
N.S. Wales, though blessed with a compulsory
Education Act, and though a country where the
percentage of persons who can read and_ write is
high, came near to achieving a world’s record
when over 31,000 informal votes (about 22£ per
cent, of the total) were cast at the late Senate
election. Granting the confusion arising from
the fact that six names, and six only, had to be
selected from the fifty, admitting the Cupidity of
the man who drew up the crowded Senate ballot-
paper (he is apparently used to making out price-
lists for a cash draper), and, giving in the_ novelty
of the occasion, the number of informalities was
grotesquely high. The result must be put down
to the crass foolishness of the sovereign people.
It is strange that, though the people will put a
man like A. J. Gould before such as K. -It.
O’Connor, simply because they are told to do so
by the papers they see daily, and though they
will give a prominent place to “John Norton
and “Dick” Meagher because they hear ot them
every day, they cannot be taught how to vote tor
their chosen candidates. Most persons agree that,
had all the informal votes been counted, NORTON
would have been at least fourth on the poll, -but
a constituency that casts 13,500 votes for a rank
and utterly unknown outsider for the only apparent
reason that he is the namesake of a well-adver-
tised politician is pretty hopeless. N.b.W. is not
proud of her Senate election.
♦
Will Commonwealth P.M.G. Drake kindly
charge a competent and impartial officer to ma.ie
inquiry into the following alleged facts ; publish
the result of the inquiry ; and take suitable action
—firstly, because it is obviously the right thing to
do ; and, secondly, because it will pay the Barton
Govt, to show that it is determined to reform
W.A.’s administrative abuses :
Dear Bulletin. —During the year ended 31st March
last the Adelaide S.S. Co.—in which Brother Alice is
concerned —held a contract from W.A. Govt, for a man
service from Albany to South Coast ports, at the sum ot
£l5OO per annum. ' Throughout the period of its contract
the co. has inflicted on the suffering population of the
districts served some of the least effective steamboats
for mail traffic procurable in Australasia —the last of these
being the Herbert, which possesses power (?) sufficient to
drive her against a moderate breeze at the speed of over
two knots, while with a fair wind she can steam over five
knots per hour. , . ' .
In anticipation of the present contract ending on
31st March last, the South Coast people asked the
Govt, to try and obtain a better boat and service by
calling for 'tenders, to be open to all shipping cos
trading in the Commonwealth. This is how Big John S
crowd did it. The usual notice was printed in the Govt.
Gazette, but was cancelled and withdrawn before the due
date of closing. On asking the reason for this, the
Esperance Chamber of Commerce received a wire from
Siioll, the W.A. P.M.G., which runs like this: “Much
regret cannot assist you, as during my absence
in Melbourne and prior to this department enter-
ing the Commonwealth, the Government cancelled
Public Notice of Tenders from this department, and on
behalf of State Govt, entered into a new contract with
the Adelaide S.S. Co. for 12 months from 27th February,
and cancelled original agreement which stood in my name
and which did not expire till 31st March inst. .As I am
now a Federal officer I fear I am powerless to interfere.
I am strongly of opinion that the obsolete Herbert is
totally unfit for the service and should never have been
allowed to become a permanency on the coast, which I
fear she now is until completion of contract owing to the
rate of speed, etc., having been reduced to her power in
existing contract.”—Yours, Native.
The clear accusation of this is that the Forrest
Govt., in order to profit a private company with
which some of its members are connected, can-
celled a contract before expiry in order to create a
fresh contract for an extended term —thus deliber-
ately evading imminent Commonwealth control,
and putting it out of the Commonwealth Govt.’s
power to serve the public interest until another
year expires. As such accusations are common in
Westralia, is it any wonder that Westralia re-
turned so many opponents of the Forrest Govt,
to the Commonwealth Parliament ?
♦
Melbourne furniture tradesmen having lately
demanded increased wages, the combined em-
ployers, urged by the Argus, rushed to Premier
Peacock and plaintively requested him to rebuke
these contumacious workmen for “attempting to
override the Wagesßoard.” The Premier promptly
told them the Board had fixed a minimum wage,
but had said nothing about a maximum, and he
couldn’t for the life of him see what they
were growling about. The position of these
employers is truly amusing. They wail
tearfully that “they are bound by the
Wages Board and the operatives are not
bound.” How sad ! And even their beauti-
ful law of supply and demand will not help
them ! The one thing that will help them, which
will fix a standard wage —less than which they
must not pay, and more than which the
operative may not demand—is an Arbitration
Act, and that is the very thing they are
always fighting against. The Bulletin pities
these employers—but it has precious little sym-
pathy for them.
4
One has to go far to find a more pitiable exhibi-
tion of petty meanness than that of the five
employers’ delegates on the Vic. Wagesßoard for
the woollen industry. These gentlemen withdrew
because a couple of the men’s delegates were not
constantly engaged in the mills. It is obvious
that in many trades—especially those in the
hands of a few men—the employers might
so harass and intimidate any independent
workman as to force the employes as a
body to choose their delegates from outside their
ranks. It is pleasing to note that Ministers
Peacock and Trenwith, after reasoning un-
availingly with the recalcitrant delegates,
promptly appointed Mr. Justice Williams as
chairman and told the Board to go ahead. And
after the minimum wage is fixed those employers
—of whom a Liberal M.L.A. is one—will pro-
bably be sorry they held aloof.
4
Melbourne Age apparently lost its head over the
partial triumph of its Senate candidates, and, a
day or two afterwards, got upon stilts and shrieked
hysterically for a “ frequent and vigorous applica-
tion of the lash ” to garrotters. Five cases of
assault and robbery had occurred the previous
evening, and this class of crime has been some-
what frequent in Melbourne during the past few
months. Seeing that "most, if not all, of these
offenders remain at large, it is not easy to see
whom the Age wants to castigate so energetically.
Melbourne l5OO miles of streets, of which 90
are in the city proper ; for these 90, there are 272
constables of all"-ranks, and for the other 1410
there are 416 police. The obvious remedy for
a spasmodic outbreldc of this sort is to in-
crease the force, at least temporarily, so as to
make reasonably certain of first catching the
criminals. As for the punishment when caught,
The Bulletin thought the evidence of those who
know most about the subject—Lord Aberdare,
Arthur Balfour, H. H. Asquith, and many
other English M’s. P., as published by this paper
on 26th January last—had proved the utter
inefficady of the lash to abolish or suppress crime
of any sort or degree. Why doesn’t the allegedly
democratic Age demand the lash for the sup-
pression of, say, the defaulting lawyer who melts
away so frequently ? The Age knows well enough
that it is demanding a remedy that has ever been
reserved for the man in moleskins, the unknown,
undefended criminal—it has never been ladled
out to the well-connected, cruel thief or scoundrel
in frock-coat and bell-topper. So much for the
Age’s democracy !
The cable says that Botha and de Wet
withl3,ooo men are combining against General
French. Thirteen thousand men ! Then this
eternal war must be only beginning.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George Street, SYDNEY:
69 Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA.
Your Outfit is not complete without it>
25/- - £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Ocr Addresses j
A
2 ®J* C°Hins Street,
66 Rundle Street,
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
"Vi
1
THE
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought!^*
... OH LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
lull Particulars and Tariffs on application to
Thfi Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tivoi . Rickards Cos.
Lyceum “ The World’s Verdict.”
n “ Why Smith Left Home.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella."
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Cos.
Redfern Wirth’s Circus.
Town Hall Mdlle. Dolores.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s Nance O’Neil Cos.
Theatre Royal “The World."
Buou Rickards Variety Cos.
Athenaeum Hall Genuine British Biograph.
“ Florodora,” fresh from its triumphal
career of 106 nights in Melbourne town, burst
upon a crowded Sydney house on Saturday night,
and from the moment the curtain rose was a
booming success. It is a story of love and swindle
in a gorgeous setting of tropical island and Welsh
castle. The first scene is in the Island of Floro-
dora, where the manager’s cottage has striped
blinds, and the trees are covered with red blossoms,
and through the branches the equatorial sunlight
streams down and paves the floor with an
arabesque of light and shade. Beyond the trees,
past the drooping palms, trembles a glimpse of
sky and sea of clearest blue, a stretch of yellow
sands, and above, low hills, all red with the
blossoms from which the mysterious scent is made.
In the foreground the ordinary packing-case of
commerce with the label, “ Florodora, Cyrus Gil-
fain, Proprietor,” gives the necessary real-world
touch that makes the extravaganza a romance of
the present time.
* • * .
The plot is simple and coherent. Love
and Greed are gods of everything. A number of
nicely-dressed men are mad to marry an equal
number of picturesquely-dressed girls. Hugh
Ward Gilfain wishes to marry Carrie Moore
Dolores, to make good his title to the island he
stole from her father. Manager Brownlow Aber-
coed wants to marry the same girl for cardiac
reasons. Dolores has also got something very
bad, and there is no cure for it but Brownlow.
Lady Palotta Holroyd is after Gilfain and his
cash. Kenningham Donegal and Miss Chetwynd
Angelina Gilfam are hungry for one another, but
Gilfain, having grown rich and bought Abercoed’s
Castle Hall in Wales, wishes her to marry
Manager Brownlow Abercoed and become a
peeress. Later on, the whole establishment of
Florodora is discovered at the Castle of Abercoed,
in Wales. Prof. Lauri Tweedlepunch, who had
been bribed by Gilfain to persuade everybody
in the island of Florodora that his ideas of
how they all ought to marry are correct according
to phrenology, comes along with Dolores and gives
an entertainment at the Castle gates, and para-
lyses everybody with his burlesque of the Dartos.
Gilfain is about to marry Dolores, and make his
title to all his millions sure, when Palotta and
Lauri, as a Ghost and a Druid respectively, meet
Gilfain in a dark room and terrify him into a con-
fession, and hold him to his promise of making
restitution under pain of being interviewed by
The Bulletin.
» * • *
“Florodora” is not only an interesting
story of love and swindle, but a good illustration
of the advantages of being a millionaire. Cyrus
Gilfain travels round with six charming young
Englishwomen, keeps a choral ballet of six in
orange silk and heliotrope, and, later on, when he
takes them to Wales they go about in flesh-colored
stockings—when Palotta Holroyd runs his estab-
ment —and all without a breath of scandal. Even
when he goes in for step-dancing in the face of
the retainers his family physician does not call
in a brother practitioner and a magistrate. The
general effect is one of sparkle, and although
“Florodora” is not cha,mpagne, it is first-class
sparkling hock. There is a charming love-scene
between Kenningham Donegal and Miss Chetwynd
Gilfain, in which Kenningham sings a pretty
loye-song. Brownlow’s song to Dolores struck this
writer as being a trifle long and heavy, although
its receding effect as the boat carries him away is
fine. But the glory of “Florodora” is not in
its principals—barring Lauri, who, of course, is
indispensable. Palotta, although the acme of
grace and vivacity, has no voice to speak of ; and
Kenningham’s song about the English Guardsmen
is not an overwhelming success. All the prin-
cipals might be cut out, and as long as Lauri and
the choral ballet and the six English ladies danced
and sang in full dress with the six fashionably-
arrayed clerks, the thing would still be a raging
success.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, the performance of
Adelina Sarina is full of thrills. She glitters on
a flying trapeze up among the top branches of the
Tivoli bush, with the naked, cruel-looking boards
beneath waiting to smash her if a muscle gives
way or anything breaks. A man hates to see a
pretty woman in apparent imminent danger of
death, and that is how Adelina impresses one as
she slides through the trapeze head-downwards
and comes to a dead stop and hangs by the tip of
her two principal toes. Marie Lloyd struck The
Bulletin as a star of the first music-hall magni-
tude in whose light there are occasional flashes of
brilliant blue. Of the beauty and grace which
her photos, lead you to expect, this scribe per-
ceived only a small percentage, but she requires
absolutely none—she glows and overpowers with
her energy. Her description of how 40 costers
, and their donahs descended on Folkestone and
painted that seaside town 17 different shades of
carmine is a work of art. Her voice resembles that
of Lizzie Kirk and Irene Franklin, and everything
she does is clever and energetic. On Saturday
her turn was run on a sort of sliding-scale : each
particular item being more wildly applauded than
the preceding one, till it seemed likely that
Rickards would soon be calling for tenders for the
construction of anew Tivoli. Rosie Aquinaldo
gives the same picturesquely-dreadful perform-
ance with which she astonished this continent
when with Fitzgerald’s great show. It is not
every day one can see a really handsome woman
standing on a branch by her teeth sitting on her
own head—but Miss Aquinaldo does it every
night at the Tivoli. There are other attractive
items, including Mr. Hurley’s turn, to which
justice will be done later on.
** * *
The Empire still keeps up its reputation
for weekly changes. In the Bower of Roses,
which forms the first part, Miss Eva St. Clair
sings and gestures daintily over “ The Presi-
dential Chair,’' while a mild and amiable person
expresses vocal desires to be a bandit bold,
or something to that effect. Mexican Jack still
shoots a ball off the top of his own head and des-
cribes a crinoline round himself with the common
or back-yard rope. The child phenomenon has
landed at the Empire this week. Maisie Ed wards,
especially in her rendering of the “ London Waif,”
is unusually mature and expressive; unlike the
shrill pipe of most infantile prodigies, her voice
needs toning-down rather than bolstering-up.
During the evening somebody appeared on the
stage and absurdly thanked the people for coming
out to enjoy themselves.
** * *
The Dampiers have farewelled to the tune
“ Robbei 7 Under Arms” and crowded houses.
The eternal popularity of the bushranger drama
is a mystery. Why outside robbery should have
a glamour of romance thrown over it, when the
same crime committed indoors is merely prosaic,
is a psychological phenomenon, and a brave
attempt should be made by some enterprising
playwright to show the burglar in as pathetic and
heroic a light as the bushranger. Meanwhile, the
* l R ? bb ery,” with others of a like pattern, goes to
rejoice the hearts of the long, lean Cornstalks of the
interior.
*****
At the Royal, “ Cinderella ” continues to
ride in majesty in the coach beautiful. That
coach and the gorgeous ball to which it bore the
despised maiden with the dainty tootsywootsy
simply paralysed the Billjims and their “old
women ” from the Big Bush during Easter. It
acted as a sort of Religious Revival, and filled in
the dim outlines of the problematical heaven with
glowing tints. To ride in a coach like that, with
such heavenly clothes, were paradise enough, and
every bush mamma who witnessed it will go back
with a stern resolution to take care of Mary Ann’s
feet and keep her toenails nicely rounded so,
should the opportunity ever come along, that
daughter of the Outside Track will be able to rise
to the occasion. And if George Musgrove has
created a desire for physical beauty among those
who formerly had no regard for it, “ Cinderella”
will not have been altogether a failure.
** * *
A second inspection of “ Why Smith Left
Home ” reveals a serious defect: There is a
grievous insufficiency of Arnold, as the incan-
descent Count who bursts into the flame of love in
the street, and rushes Smith with a wild proposal
for the hand of Smith’s own wife. Fred Lester,
as ze brave Generaal Billetdoux,” is a character
this scribe once knew in real life. Under the
domination of his wife, he is a painful circum-
stance, but, away from her baleful influence, the
brave general is one of the boys—one of the old
guard, who make love to every woman they meet
and never surrender except to their own better-
halves. Writer once knew such a Frenchman in
Maonland, and Lester’s make-up with the thin-
pomted moustache, and his expressive gestures
seem to have been copied exactly from that gallant
son of Gaul.
* * * *
“ Smith ” is a gospel for all men-of-the-
world. Its morals are sterling, and it impresses
several great truths of masculine life on the young
cubs who are just beginning to feel their teeth.
Never illicitly hug a girl in the house you live in
it doesn’t pay. But if you do hug her, in the
name of suffering man never allow her to think it
was by accident or mistake. Always give her the
in ?P ress i° n sb e is being hunted—women
like being hunted, and the shock of finding
out that they are not is likely to drive
them to tragic revenge. Then the great Monroe
Doctrine of Domestic Happiness is hammered
mto the audience all through the piece.
Exclude all relatives from and after the day of the
wedding—once they get a footing bad cooking is
quite powerless to shift them. Nothing but a
meat-axe or laying a strange girl on to hug the
masculine relatives will clear them out. The lady
relative always gets restive if she thinks another
cat is poaching over her preserves. Smith did
not intend to do that, but it was done all the
same, otherwise he would never have got rid of
his aunt and been able to leave home with his wife
for the long-deferred honeymoon.
•** * *
Wirth’s Circus makes a speciality of its
animal rather than of its human performers
Conspicuous among the latter is Fred. El Zobeide
who stepdances on his hands while his feet per-
form similar evolutions up aloft, as described last
week. In days to come, very probably, the
ballet-dancer will double herself in this manner
and introduce a contradictory novelty by whirling
drapery round with her toes while her hands are
performing graceful steps. The only two
boxing ponies in the world perform in rather a
spiffy manner, and the knock-out blow which
reduces Corbett to the sawdust is given by Fitz-
simmons clasping two hoofs firmly round his
neck Ihe performance as a whole goes rather
slowly at times, and there is a large amount of
vague comic element which seems to end nowhere.
But the wild beasts and their various items are
capital, and suit admirably the spot where the
tram-cars all attack one another at various points
and their creator walks fearfully and cautiously
among his own works. ' y
** * *
This paper s bad luck made it go to press
on Tuesday night, whereas Mdlle. Dolores was
billed to open her season at the vast Centennial
Hall on Wednesday; so any stray echoes of her
melody will not be crystallised into printer’s ink
till next week. Still, The Bulletin intends to
be present when the songs of the Crusaders rise
from the picturesque but musty old Past.
#* # *
“The World’s Verdict,” at Sydney
Lyceum, is the usual old melodrama wherein the
marriage-certificate is given by the fool heroine to
her husband’s unlawful mash ; whereupon the
wicked husband and his illegal “ tart” promptly
try to slay the foolish matron in a stone-quarry,
but are prevented, as usual, by the hero and the
funny man. Not learning by experience, the
wife accepts her husband’s invitation to meet him
in the cell of a raging lunatic, who amuses himself
by inventing new instruments of fiendish torture.
The maniac immediately tries to practise on
the silly little wife with all his patents at
once, and she is again rescued with great
difficulty. Some of her imbecility has been
communicated to her husband, as he wrote to
the maniac requesting him to finish off the unde-
sirable wife, and signed his full and proper name
to the screed, which the lunatic left around in a
most sensible manner. The hero who does so
much hard rescuing is the usual peculiar person
who displays great ingenuity in saving undesir-
able wives, but is quite unable to live when the
family estate goes up the spout, and settles down
and starves quietly in a country mansion, while
the faithful retainer hunts the rent-collector off
the premises with a gun. Augustus Glover makes
a good maniac, and Helen Fergus faints in a most
artistic style anywhere and everywhere.
## * *
Nance O’Neil, the large lady who was in-
troduced to Australia a year ago as a famous
American actress, and achieved some astounding
notices from Melbourne pressmen—Nance, “born
to the imperial purple of the stage,” and able to
melt the heart of a stone ” when she wasn’t
carrying her worshippers off their mental balance
with “the ocean-like sweep of her emotion”—
Nance, who was then said to be about to visit
London for the first time, although she had
faced the music in that city a year previously
Nance, the interesting object-lesson in managerial
tactics, and the producer of unlimited dollars for
M‘Kee Rankin, her “ discoverer’’—all these
Nances came back to Her Majesty’s (Melb.) stage
on Saturday. Also, M‘Kee Rankin came back
and was a conspicuous figure in the dress-circle
district, greeting with especial florid enthusiasm
certain lucky pressmen: clapping them on both
shoulders m full view of the audience, even as a
father encourageth his children.
* * * *
Sardou s “ La Tosca,” as some people may
have forgotten, is the story of a prima-donna and
a cantata that never came off. The alleged song-
stress took up a cantata position in the throne-
room of the Court of Rome, but the Queen got
awful news from an Italian “Bobs,” and the
concert was postponed indefinitely, after which
Tosca rushes away to the suburban villa of her
sweetheart, under the impression that he had got
a giddy marquise on the premises. Then the
trouble began. The cantatrice’s unfounded sus-
picions led to the capture of her own best Mario
on a charge of treason, appertaining to a mild
young man with attenuated legs, who took a
deadly dose of poison at the bottom of a well,
and was subsequently hanged by the neck till’
he was deader than ever. Baron Scarpia, the Lord
High Executioner, wrung information from La
Tosca by torturing her Mario in the next room
Every time she said she didn’t know the where-
abouts of the mild young man Scarpia instructed
his myrmidons to make Mario groan horribly,
and the woman capable of keeping a secret which
drills holes in her lover’s neck and forehead does
not yet exist. Nance, as La Tosca, broke dd\vn
m the attempt, like Sarah Bernhardt and Mrs.
Potter before her, but her confession was value-
less to Mario. He met his doom in the last act.
Meanwhile, the sorely-worried vocalist jabbed
Scarpia to his torturous heart with a fruit-
knife for sundry reasons. Later on she committed
suicide. In Nance’s version, she doesn’t suicide :
she gets shot like a dawg. These Bernhardtian
plays, when produced in such a style that blud
and shrieks seem the only thoroughly convincing
items in the entertainment, made one almost sigh
for Shakespeare. A few improving remarks crop up
m every play the Bard wrote. “La Tosca” con-
tains nothing good except good acting oppor-
tunities.
* * * *
Thomas Kingston gives a very first-class
performance of Searpia’s final kicks. Perhaps he
doesrj fc pass away exactly as a surgeon would pre-
scribe the death struggle, but for all purposes of
histrionic deception Kingston’s quitting of this
life is true to nature. Hedies more artistically
than he lives. The Scarpia who tortures and
scowls and revels in his sin is clearly too melo-
dramatic a villain ; otherwise he wouldn’t revive
one’s recollections of Brough as Jonathan Wild in
the burlesque. Ten years ago the gallery might
have called upon Scarpia for a song and dance, and
expected him to pull his fingers with the noise of
a policeman s rattle. Plimmer, as Mario, is pas-
sable ; Atholwood, in two different characters is
effective as usual. The Court scene is caricatured
by a crowd of careworn supers in ill-fitting wigs
who cry Bravo !” to the Queen, Eitzmaurice
Gill, when she volunteers to read a letter, as
though she were a serio-comic at Rickards’s. The
fact that J. C. Williamson doesn’t provide the
company is writ large upon the face of the show
although the scenic fittings are satisfactory!
J.O.W. never would have put that lot of courtiers
into the Palazzo Farnese. Nance O’Neil’s preten-
sions to play a brilliant woman of fashion are
exactly what they were a year ago. She has lost
considerable flesh, and, with it, a little of her
former physical force, which is not to say
that she hadn’t force to spare. But she
has gained nothing of elegance in move-
ment, or speech, or bearing. There are
the same heavy, masculine mannerisms and lack
of refinement. The pit and gallery laughed
boisterously at Nance’s vehemence at times—three
or four times—when a more finished and feminine
artist would have kept the stupidest audience in
thorough sympathy with the character. Nance
trying to express Tosea’s jealousy and tenderness
affected them in the wrong way. The great
scene in Scarpia’s room was darkened unduly,
in the interests of the actress, at the expense of
the play. A soldier has to take certain instruc-
tions from Scarpia. This man’s face should tell
the audience that Scarpia, whilst pretending to
order a bogus shooting of Tosca’s lover, is giving
him the cue for a bona fide slaughter of the
prisoner. In Bernhardt’s production the room
was so well lighted that the soldier, standing on
the threshold of the door at the back of the stage,
revealed all the meaning of the order by his
covert smile and exchange of glances with
Duquesne, the grave and portly Scarpia of the
French co. Present writer remembers that smile
because of its significance. Now, in Nance’s
show, the military minion walks right into the
room instead of stopping on the mat, and even
when (on Saturday night) he stood close to
Scarpia’s table, the light wasn’t bright enough to
tell whether his face was acting the part.
** * #
The new tenor, Barron Berthald, is a
handsome stranger, but a most embarrassing cir-
cumstance for the little crowd of Wagnerians who,
so to speak, have been pulling the strings of
“enlightened opinion” re the merits of every-
thing and everybody connected with George
Musgrove’s opera campaign. For some reason or
other those painful enthusiasts laid down the strange
doctrine that Louis Arens, of the abbreviated nose
and enigmatical enunciation, was a charming
artist. Arens was taken to the bosom of the
Elect. Consequently, Berthald, who is almost as
sweet a tenor as a man can be after singing Wag-
ner’s hero parts for a few years, will have to
receive his full meed of praise by instalments. He
can’t possibly be rated much higher than Arens
all at once. The same difficulty will arise in the
case of Miss Ella Russell, the coming prima-
donna. Being admittedly a mortal, not an angel,
her voice is not capable of immediately out-rival-
ling Madame Slapoffski’s in the ears of that
clever little lady’s persistent flatterers. Mus-
grove’s new people are a severe strain on the
critical faculties of the Elect.
* * • *
Berthald, as aforestated, is a valuable
acquisition to the co. at the Princess’s. He
makes Tannhiiuser an almost interesting sinner
and singer, and when he presently comes along as
Lohengrin the apparition ought to prove a real
dreamy treat for the girls. At time of writing
the Princess’s programme for Saturday and next
week had not been fixed. To-night (Thursday)
the imposing tenor is to Tannhauser again,
and if Miss Lilian Coomber should happen as
Elisabeth in place of the very frequent Madame
Slapoffski, a lot of people will not feel offended by
the change. Madame repeats her bright Mignon
performance on Friday in any case.
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall there was a large
demonstrative crowd on Saturday, in honour of
the “ Genuine British Biograph’s ” return. The
G. 8.8. is unquestionably the best Australia has
sampled up to date. The pictures are larger and
steadier, as a rule, than the works of various rival
machines that made a similar whirrsome noise
m the same building. Also the subjects sug-
gest that the photographers are favored indi-
viduals who occupy points of vantage by order
of the Lord High Boots when royal funerals and
other impressive sights are available. The
Queen’s Funeral on the present sheet is a fine
moving spectacle, but not so interesting as the
big German battleship, which looks to have been
put through a course of target practice for the
special benefit of the G. 8.8.
** * *
Time has proved that George Musgrove
was wise in his selection of the least-experienced
members of his Opera Cos. Their voices have
worn well, and the improvement in their
acting, as shown by the recent “Lohengrin”
performances, is remarkable. Lilian Coomber,
who seemed a mere amateur when she
first appeared as Marguerite, has developed
into a quite charming Elsa of Brabant.
The critics of the Melb. dailies, and their
humble. echoists on the weeklies, who have
all the time been overrating Madames Janson and
Slapoffski, are now bound to admit grudgingly
that quiet little Lilian Coomber in “Lohengrin”
is the star of the season thusfar. With her fresh
young voice and presence, and earnest, natural
acting of the part, she scores a greater success than
the heavy, stagey Carmen of Madame Janson.
Asa vocal artist Miss Coomber is unfinished, but
in that respect she has improved wonderfully
since she came to Australia.
(Continued on page 2/f.)
It is said that some of the Indian servants
at Queen Victoria’s court served Imperial policy
rnu f°y a l figurehead of government.
•The dusky familiars are scholars, persons of par-
ticular importance in Mohammedan society, and
their going to Britain to act as flunkeys to “the
Grown ” made a deep impression on their millions
of co-religionists in India.


Deui york [ife Insurance Co.
Special Representatives IVanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
Apply— THOS. P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
inr h~t" ' ""
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
3*
The Age of 24th October, 1900, writes regarding
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Lilted;
“The results of the investigation of its affairs for the
quinquennium ending 31st December last show that the
Society is in a very sound position.*
* » * *
O. March returns show a big falling off (over
24,0000 z. compared with March, 1900). Towers and
Qympie are both 5000 oz. behind on quartz results, and
Towers tailings and concentrates slumped 50 per cent..
One big Towers mine went from 635., buyers, to 4&s.
sellers, in last five weeks. Things generally a dull grey.
* * * *
A doctor is wanted for Woodlark Island, British
Papua—“ one having a special knowledge of malarial
fevers preferred.” Verbatim from the lips of a returned
Woodlarker, now a patient in a N.Q. hospital“ There
were on the island when I left about 50 or 60 men, not
counting outside alluvial miners. Of these, two-thirds
were sick with malaria. No man there gets a full month 3
pay _if they do 15 or 16 shifts it is considered good. The
medical man was not registered, and he, poor devil, was
run to death, and was left unpaid in most cases, lne
co., it appeared, paid him nothing’, nor was anything
kept out of the men’s pay for advice and medicine. The
country is all dense scrub, and all journeys have to be
done in the sweltering heat and on foot. Of course, the
head and front of all the offending is the mosquito, which
is in swarms —spotted and large like the swamp ones.
There was no house or accommodation for a doctor when
we left. A doctor should get £5OO a month to go to that
God-forsaken place ; and then he ought to have no respon-
sibilities or any care for his life. We engaged for a year,
but left, with shattered health and out of pocket, after
four months. If we had not managed to get away we
would be there yet—underground.”
• * ** *
Mt. Garnet Freehold : The issue of 35,000 new
shares authorised (first to be offered to shareholders),
tonnage increased by adding 2£ to 3 per cent,
coke to the charcoal, smelters now reported
running well. Funds, the directorate remarks,
should quickly accumulate, and divs. follow. Shares,
sellers under £2—about,half what they were a year ago.
Always sell before the smelting is quite as good an axiom
as when applied to the crushing. Latest reports indicate
that the mine is all right, but it is clear they did not cor-
rectly estimate cost of working without a railway.
* * * *
There appears to be no abatement in the number
of contracts for dredging plants required. The Austral
Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne, have completed a large
number of plants, and have still a great number of con-
tracts in hand for New Zealand and Victoria, including a
bucket dredging plant for the Ovens Valley Gold Dredg-
ing Co., whose manager is Mr. Walter Hardie, Pitt-street,
Sydney* ,
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » »
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
• * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and -Chemists.
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * - * *
The completion of the Ohillagoe line brings the
rails within 90 miles of the Einasleigh, and the building of
a tram (2ft. gauge), to connect with the line, is to be
started shortly.
• * * #
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Ina certain far Northern town are two banks, and
they were asked to tender for the local municipal body’s
business. Now, one of these banks was honored with the
chairman’s overdraft, and the manager therefore gave the
chairman two tenders in separate envelopes ; one at about
the rate the other bank was expected to quote, and the
other a good deal lower. These were placed respectively
in the chairman’s right and left breeches-pockets—
the opposition bank’s tender being put in his coat-pocket.
His instructions were to open the opposition bank’s letter
first'and then draw forth whichever of the other two ten-
ders might suit the case best ; the big one if it was lower
than or equal to the enemy’s, the other if necessary. This
little rig came-off all right, and the triumphant
manager boasted of his cuteness to his friends. The
strange part of the business is that he and the chairman
are still walking about.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. flarkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 21 Eagle-street ,
Brisk.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores,
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per oent.
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites),
Candles, etc.
The Wild Cat Column.
Some facts and figures relating to the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States :
Total Total Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Outgoings. Funds.
1894 £9,097,860 £4,056,949 £1,656,902 £5,713,851 £3,384,009
1895 9,228,426 4,076,729 1,692,455 5,769,184 3,459,242
1896 9,657,643 4,609,086 1,803,060 6,412,146 3,245,497
1897 10,363,675 4,455,378 1,778,634 6,233,912 4,129,763
1898 11,301,446 4,987,464 1,819,464 6,806,928 4,494,518
1899 11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900 12,084,819 5,409,583 2,194,402 7,603,985 4,480,834
The total funds of the Equitable, at 31st December, 1900,
were £63,457,930, of which nearly £28,000,000 has been
accumulated in the last seven years. On the usual valua-
tion, which is largely on a 4 per cent, basis, the EquiUble
has the stupendous surplus of £13,778,577, the liabilities
under policies being only £49,679,353, against the
assets (£63,457,930) above-stated. But even if the
valuation was made on a 3 per cent, basis, which
would be more stringent than that of any Australasian
office, there would be a surplus of about £8,000,000. At
present, the interest earnings are at the rate of a little
over £4 6s. per sent., which is a very handsome rate as
interest earnings go in the United States ; and expenses
are equal to £lB 3s. 2d. per cent, on total income. This
is almost twice the rate of the A.M.P. Society, and it
would be regarded in Australia as an extravagant charge
for an office of the Equitable’s dimensions. But a very
large proportion of the business of the great American
offloes is new business, which is the kind that is costly to
procure, and the heavy expense-rate seems unavoidable
m consequence.
With the Equitable, as with the New York Life
Society, alluded to in a recent issue, the only item
among the assets which is visibly objectionable is that of
“ Deferred premiums, £503,334.” This is based on the
idea that, though the society accepts half-yearly and
quarterly premiums, all premiums should be paid an-
nually in advance, therefore if a policy comes into exist-
ence on Ist November and the premiums are paid quar-
terly, so long as that policy lasts nine months unpaid
premiums appear in every balance-sheet as an asset. It
is a clumsy and purposeless idea, and why so many offices
keep this intangible and unproductive asset standing in
(heir balance-sheets passes comprehension. But apart
from this one dubious item—a very small one by com-
parison with the size of the surplus—the Equitable assets
appear to be thoroughly sound, and they are guaranteed by
the rigid Government inspection to which all United States
offices are subject. As to the size and energy and pro-
gressive character of the Equitable, they are beyond
question.
• • • •
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York —
the largest of the three American Giants —closed its 58th
year on 31st December, 1900. The record compares with
j lat of some previous years as follows :
Total „ „ Total Added to
Income. olalms - Expenses. Outgoings. Funds,
j 195 £9,978.939 £4,748,815 £2,135,762 £6,884,577 £3,094,362
J 196 10,421,359 5,262,203 2,107,705 7,369,908 3,051,451
1897 11,312,833 5,316,642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
1198 12,116,267 5,071,029 2,157,406 7,228,435 4,887,832
! .19 12,932,673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856,628
1900 12,440,000 5,413,113 2,686,807 8,099,920 4,340,080
The total assets of the Mutual Life of New York the
biggest life office on earth—at 31st December, 1900, were
£66,889,764, and the surplus of assets over liabilities was
something considerably exceeding £11,000,000. Pre-
Bumably this is on the understanding that future interest
earnings are estimated at 4 per cent, per annum ; but the
Mutual of New York could reduce its estimates of fu-
ture interest to 3 or 2£ per cent, and still have a very large
margin of safety. The expenses last year were £2llls. lid.
per cent, of the total income, or over 27£ per cent, of
premiums ; so the Mutual, like the two other American
giants, is a very expensively managed institution.
(Curiously enough, the S.M. HeraljD declares once a year
that the expense-rate of the Maoriland State Life Depart-
ment, which is 14 per cent, on total income or 20j per
cent, on premiums, is so heavy as to prove that State
Life Insurance is a hopeless failure, yet that paper never
once complains of the privately-managed Mutual of New
York’s 27i per cent, expense-rate as casting any discredit
on private management).
The Mutual Life of New York is still another
American office which swells its accounts by reckoning
as assets half-yearly or quarterly premiums not paid and
not yet due. It varies the process a little by calling this
item “loans on policies.” When an insurer takes out his
policy on Ist November, and decides to pay quarterly,
the close of the year finds that policy with only one
quarter’s premium paid. Nevertheless, the whole year’s
premium is put down as received (though it isn’t received)
and the unpaid three-quarters of it is set down on the
other side as a sum lent by the co. to the insurer on the
security of his policy, though the co. hasn’t lent him
anything on the security of his policy. And this alleged
loan, and similar alleged loans on other policies similarly
circumstanced, appear as an asset as long as these policies
endure. It is a ridiculous and unprofitable way of creat-
ing an alleged asset that is of no possible use to
anybody. In the case of the Mutual of New York
the amount of this alleged asset is about £420,000
a sum which makes so little visible difference
to a co. with £66,000,000 of assets and £11,000,000 surplus
that it is all the more remarkable that the management
allows the dubious and circuitous thing to appear at all.
The Mutual of New York is undoubtedly a very sound
institution, with a splendid surplus and a good reputa-
tion, but its heavy expense - rate and its “ loans on
policies ” item are two misfortunes none the less.
The Eresh Food and Frozen Storage Co. (Mel-
bourne) shows considerable sign of improvement, though,
like most concerns in the same way of business, there is
a grievous falling away from the big profits of former
years. Since 1894 it has progressed after this fashion
_• -j j Total
Dividends. ReserV eg.
Jan., 1894 - Profit £4,214 10 per cent. = £1,997 £16,750
July, 1894 - ~ 1,807 7 ~ = 1,433 17,124
Jan., 1895 - „ 2,606 7 „ = 1,482 18,248
July, 1895 - Loss 2,170 7 „ = 1,541 14,537
Jan., 1896 - Profit 3,258 7 „ = 1,581 16,214
July, 1896 - Loss 452 Nil 16,762
Jan., 1897 - Profit 2,314 Nil 18,076
July, 1897 - Loss 2,544 Nil 15,532
Jan., 1898 - Profit 1,893 Nil 17,425
July, 1898 - Loss 4,347 Nil 13,078
Jan., 1899 - Profit 2,448 5 per cent. ■» 1,035 14,491
July, 1899 - Loss 3,231 Nil 11,260
Jan., 1900 - Profit 4,370 5 per cent. = 1,143 14,487
July, 1900 - Loss 1,942 Nil 12,545
Jan., 1901 - Profit 3,194 Nil 15,739
The years 1897,1898, and 1899 showed a dead loss, and as
1900 produced a profit of £2428 it may be fairly said that
things are looking up to some extent. But the co. has
applied a large amount (nearly £10,000) of forfeited capi-
tal to provide for losses, and if these had fallen upon
earnings they would have practically swamped the
reserves. There is now only £B9 of forfeited capital
available to meet further depreciation, and if there is
any serious additional slump in the co.’s assets it must
be met out of reserves. These are £2509 less than they
were in 1895, despite the passing of eight dividends in
five years, so though things are improving the outlook
for shareholders can’t be regarded as very bright.
* * * *
Borne recent records of the Australian Coffee
Palace Co. (Melbourne), the concern which owns the Aus-
tralian Coffee Palace in Melbourne, and is principal
owner of the Hotel Metropole in Sydney :
Total
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
1892 £3OOB Written off = £2,937 £27,689
i«os ” 395 „ = 434 27,650
1194 ■; .331 „ = 18,355 9,626
1895 594 „ = 10,114 106
1896 ' 976 ” = 500 582
1897 ll 1776 „ = 1,500 858
1898 1310 „ = 2,000 168
1899 ll 6054 ” = 4,000 1,222
1900 .. 4859 3 per cent. div. = £1,500 4,581
The Australian Coffee Palace Co. has pulled through
better than some institutions of its kind ; n ® ve .^ he L mri
has been a long time between dividends, and tne p
in the reserves has been very grievous. Its Me
property is mortgaged for £52,545, and though it *
ducing this burden rapidly it is still a very heavy t •
Also, it is mainly responsible for a £46,000 mortgag'
the Hotel Metropole. These things are a considerable
load for a concern with only £50,000 paid-up capita
Carr *‘ ,
Writes "Asp”: In "Wild Cat” column of a
recent issue you forecast an increase of the div. of a ce -
tain big bank. In ’94 the same bank, in common with
others, reduced its officers’ salaries 10 per cent, owing; t
the depressed state of banking business and the reauc
cost of living, at the time promising that, should times
improve, the first charge of the bank would be to rein-
state its officers at the old screw. Times have become
more prosperous, as evidenced by “profits, ana inis
institution has increased its div. and padded up its
reserves, but never a sign of that 10 per cent, is to oe
seen. The increased price of necessaries of life !8 pitnuiiy
evident when the poor sweatees proceed to pay their bins
at the month end. Other banks (at the mention of whose
names the institution in question would draw its kilts
about its fat legs and shudder) have dealt justly with
their employes, and put them back on the old footing,
though less able to afford it. A bank on this earth has
not a body to be kicked or a soul to be damned, hut on
the other side of the Stygian Stream I trust that the per-
petrators of this cruel swindle will be sifted out, ana, as
a devout Christian, I feel sure that they will not com-
plain of the plates being cold.
* * * *
The wisdom of Horatio Bottomley, dropped
during the stirring of the Westralian stink in London .
“As language was given us to conceal our thoughts, so
share-registers are employed to conceal our holdings.
This was a tip to those who watch registers in order to
get a clue to market movements.
* • •
London Ckitio has at last finished its “ Direc-
tory of Guinea-pigfS.” It extended over 78 continuous
issues of the paper, gave the names of 688 guinea-pigs
directing 9219 companies, the great majority of which
should never have been born, and have since gone into
oblivion. Editor Hess now proposes to issue the list in
book-form, bringing it up to date, excluding therefrom
the names of pigs who have since died, and including
those who have arisen since the alphabetical list
started. Before squandering money in new mining or
other co.’s it would pay the average investor to get the
“ Directory of Guinea-pigs” : the chances are 100 to 1 he
would find in it someone connected with the co. into
which he was about to plunge, and in nine cases
out of ten the same man’s previous company-connections
would act more as warning than as recommendation. Ihe
index to names shows that one Douglas Arthur Onslow
wears the belt as the director of 65 different co s. Ihis
gentleman in a recent issue of the Critic is described as
the champion guinea-pig of the age—what he doesn t
know about reconstruction is really not worth bothering
about. Edward Thomas Bead has been the director of
49 co’s. ; Edmund Davis has controlled 46, and there are
several responsible for between 30 and 40. “ Half the
company directors,” writes Hess, “ are capable of nothing,
the other half are capable of anything.”
• » * • (
“ A man is always known by the company he keeps, ’
They tell you in the copy-books where moral Wisdom
sleeps;
But later, on the Stock Exchange, when studying the
" quotes,”
You find a man is known by the company he floats.
Dodlbv W.
* * • *
One of Victoria’s first batch of old-age pen-
sioners at Stawell invested part of his pension in a kit of
miner’s tools, went out prospecting, and dropped on a
patch of gold. The other day the local Clerk of Courts
got a letter from the old fellow saying that, as the old-age
pensions were meant for those who were in need, “ and
as I have come on ‘ a bit of a patch,’ I don’t want to draw
mine any more, at present.” Australia’s most sturdy and
manly class is the instinctive prospector, the man
who never works for wages if he sees the remotest
show of “ going on his own.”
"On Thames goldfields, Maoriland,” writes
“Weka,” “are many old-age pensioners who prospect
under Govt, aid, thus receiving about 18s. per week.
They seldom put a tunnel far enough in to require a
candle, and often dress the sides like a plastered wall.
The value of their work is mostly nil, and Govt, super-
vision would swallow up the vote. Asked one of these
derelicts how his mine was getting on, and he told me he
was ‘ waiting for the machinery to arrive.’ He had made
a barrow, and was waiting for the wheel 1”
* * * *
Maoriland hasn’t yet extricated itself from the
Midland Railway muddle of 16 years’ standing. Both
company and debenture-holders, having been badly
beaten in the Courts, tried to damage M.L. securities in
London, and lastly the latter “ threw themselves on the
mercy of the colony,” and petitioned Parliament for
“such equitable relief as to your Honorable House may
deem meet.” The Select Parliamentary Committee ap-
pointed to deal with the petition merely recommended
Govt, to refer the case to a Royal Commission. The
Commission was in due course appointed, and, as usual,
was used to reward Govt, supporters with seats thereon.
It is now picnicing through the country at a cost to the
taxpayers of about £5O per diem. On the face of it, there
can be no claim against the public, seeing that the co.
broke its contract and caused three million acres of Crown
lands to be withdrawn from settlement for 15 years.
Nevertheless it is freely stated that something substantial
will be done to placate the debenture-holders, on account
of a supposed influence in London financial circles, which
they might use to impair M.L. credit. It is unfortunately
true that an abject feeling of dependence on London
capitalists has so demoralised Maorilanders that many of
them believe they would have to do without roads and
bridges if the benevolent oversea moneybag did not find
the wherewithal. By playing on this feeling the deben-
ture-holders may succeed in frightening Maoriland into
liberally compensating them for getting off its back.
* * * *
The projected Stratford - Whangamomona
(M.L.) railway will serve a bed of coal estimated at 800
sq." miles in extent—the biggest in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. It reaches from within six miles of Stratford to
near Gisborne, and northward from Mokau to far beyond
Wanganui River. The coal, according to experts, will
produce 25 per cent, more gas than the best Westport or
Brunner. Govt, has reserved 25,000 acres in the centre
of the bed.
* * * *
The first thing the Federal Postmaster-General
should see to when he gets his coat off is that Australia
gets her sets of postage-stamps without delay. We have
endured long enough the inconvenience of six different
sets within the country, where they could be employed
unrestricted neither for remitting, returning, nor for the
many uses where postage-stamps are most convenient.
4 * * •
S.A. Brewing Co., which is partly Melb. -owned
(N. Fitzgerald and Smalcum M'Eacharn are directors),
goes on improving after a rather bad slump six or seven
years ago. Last year's profit (to Feb. 28) reached £33,467 ;
from which deduct £lO,OOO interest on debentures and
£3467 for depreciation and repairs. A 5 per cent. div.
has been paid in two instalments—total, £12,500. The
balance carried forward is £22,614 ; and the shareholders
accordingly scent an early rise in divs. The S.A. beer
biz. doesn’t seem to boom much (the holy city, like most
unholy ones, is over-breweried) ; but the co. has a
brewery at Broken Hill and has a big say in the liquoring
of that droughty part.
* • * •
The Economist has an article by J. H. Curie,
its special mining commissioner, on Oobar main-lode. He
describes it as a remarkable mineral deposit from 40 to
50ft. thick, broken by faults which throw it quite half-a-
mile from its course. Gold-bearing only to a considerable
depth, when copper comes in without the gold going out;
if it were nearer seaboard it would rank with Broken
Hill in productiveness, but is handicapped by distance,
and dryness. Thinks the Great Cobar in some respects
the greatest copper-mine in Australia; developed 700 ft.,
three large lenticular ore bodies. Roughly estimates ore
in sight at 700,000 tons ; ore an ideal smelting proposi-
tion ; present production about 9000 tons per month,
which could be greatly increased, and the monthly profits
are supposed to be £lO,OOO. Of the Cobar Chesney, he
says the ore is too silicious for direct smelting, and 50 per
cent, of the copper contents was lost in the first effort to
make concentration, but if, with the altered plant, it
makes a much higher extraction, the mine will be the
means of opening up a great future for the field ; if it
fails, the smaller mines will have to finally shut-down.
Of the Cobar Gold Mines: “In a colony which has
at present not a single regular profit-earning gold-
mine, the Cobar mine is probably the best.’ Forcible
perhaps, certainly not correct. Of the Occidental, Curie
says little, but admits it to be a “promising show.
Heretofore a mine crushing with 50 stamps from an open
cut over 70ft. wide, 150 ft. deep and 120 ft. long, with a
production to date of over 100,000 tons, paying divs., and
unlimited ore in sight, has been regarded as a performing
property. Quite a mistake, no doubt, now that Mr.
Curie declares it is only promising. Curie once said that
the Associated was the biggest mine in Westralia, would
produce 15,0000 z. per month at a profit of £36,000, and so
great was writer’s faith in Curie that for a long time he
believed him. Curie is a big writer and a big man with
big feet, and when he makes a mistake it is a pro-
portionally big mistake.
Cobar Chesney (N.S.W.): Mr. Greenway, Gen.
Manager of Block 14, reports on this mine that to a depth
of 250 ft. the “ ore bodies are auriferous with little or no
copper, and below that depth are well with
copper pyrites containing a little gold ;” that with
£BOOO the mine can be put in a condition to deal with a
weekly production of 1000 tons if arrangements can be
made for the sale of picked ore from the mine and the
concentrates from the mill; but if it is found necessary
for the Ohesnev to erect its own smelting-works £20,000
will be required for that and the other purposes.”
* * * *
Great Cobar Copper Co. The action by the
minority representing 8000 shares began last week ; when
it will end Heaven knows. Perhaps within the next two
years, and when £2 per share instead of 2s. has been
called up to keep the lawyers going. The first applica-
tion for compulsory instead of voluntary winding-up was
dismissed. An equity suit will probably be the next
stage, and the Privy Council the last.
» » » *
Australia’s Gold Recovery Co. was never a
financial success in Australia, though it missed many a
big chance of making money by buying and cyamding tail-
ings on its own—instead of which it let other people step
in and make fortunes; the co. tried to enforce heavy
royalties, which in the greater number of cases were
never paid. Now the Privy Council decision has upset all
calculations; moreover, the term of the chief patent expires
in Oct. next. Decided to wind-up and reform under the
name of the Australian Mining and Gold Recovery Co.
The original co. took a prominent hand in the flotation
of the Cobar Gold Mines, in which it still holds over
16,000 shares, and at a recent meeting in London it was
incidentally mentioned that, while these shares had cost
them only 65., they were now standing at about par., and
that the enterprise was expected to settle down into a
regular div.-paying concern, and that it was by far the
best mining investment the Australian Gold Recovery
Co. had made.
* * * *
How well miners do stick together. Lately the
Broken Hill managers asked the men of each mine to
appoint two delegates to confer with the Managers’ Asso-
ciation on the mining-apprentice question. The men
met and agreed that the proper body to meet the
Managers’ Association was the Miners’ Association.
Manaeers will not, of course, recognise the latter; so
negotiations were off. Then the manager of the big
m j ne —the B.H. Prop.—tried another way. He said he
wanted to meet his miners personally to find out what
they really thought. “ Take a ballot if you want to know
what we really think;” and he couldn’t evade that.
Then the word was passed round, and “ For apprentices
2, against 826,” was the result.
’•* * * *
The Bulletin publishes for what it may be
worth this letter from the field “Re printed accounts
of close extraction at Gt. Boulder Main Reef, which
writer thinks is verv doubtful. Firstly, the stuff isn’t
half-roasted most of'the time. Next, when it gets to the
vats it is supposed to agitate for ten hours, which it very
rarely does. Also, it isn’t half-treated in the press-room.
When a press is first filled the contents are supposed to
wash with a solution for an hour, but rarely does that
happen ; five minutes is nearer the mark. Then half the
year you can’t get a cloth for the filters ; but keep patch-
ing the old ones, which become hard as bricks, and the
patches keep coming off. So. instead of taps running
clear the slimes come straight through and half-fill the
launders before press is full or supposed to be full, which
former is rarely the case. Slimes in the launders are not
treated again, but are trucked to the dump. Always
noticed when weighing a frame of slimes in press (which
they do very rarely) they pick a full frame. So if they
get their average weight of presses from this method it is
all wrong. In conclusion, all I can say is that if such a good
extraction can be got in such a fashion and the monthly
output kept up on half-empty presses, theG.B.M.R. is a
wonderful mine, and the treatment is better than any on
these fields.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W. A.).—Latest news by way of
London: 700 ft. level driving south on very rich ore.
Stone disclosed on this level is the richest seam in the
mine. Developments on the parallel lodes turning out
good ore, practically making a new mine from the sur-
face downwards and doubling previous estimates of
value. Yet in the face of all this, the market-value of
the mine has depreciated half-a-million in a few months,
and refuses to budge even on receipt of these boomster
cables. The cat has got out of the bag, and cable-lies
have no effect.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Associated, W.A.: Hope is now centred in
bore-holes, of which there are many. It is all up with
this mine if they all find nothing after boring several
thousand feet in different directions and depths. Manager
Hewitson, it is said, threatens to leave at end of year.
Last month’s output, 3000 tons for 2000 odd oz. After
waiting a year, the sulphide - plant is defended on
the ground that 2oz. ore was expected at the mill
and only 14dwt. rock received, and that everything was
worked'in the interests of the bears, but in other respects
the defence is rather weak. The fact is ignored that
tailings and slimes formed a plaster-of-Paris in the cyanide
vats, and had to be chiselled out and that the extraction
was so low that some hundreds of tons of tailings were
run down below for filling purposes to hide the failure.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan W.A. March production, 1538
tons for I7looz. ; average loz. 2 dwt. Another Bewick-
Moreing controlled mine, which has been crushing con-
tinuously over oz. rock for more than a year and paid
one 6d. div.
The Briseis (Tas.) Tin Co. is constructing a 19£-
mile race to tap the Ringarooma River, and increase the
co.’s water-supply by 1,000,000 gallons an hour Three
sections, aggregating 10,000 ft., will be syphoned (38m.
dia.). Said that recent boring has located large areas
of what will be payable drifts when the water arrives.
Estimated that it will be on the ground by the end of the
y ear - ... *
(Continued on page 25).


Complete
Outfits.
ĥ
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To ffleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY
& Barrack Sydoey
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fob? th© Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling E ,nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CKSnRETTES
SOCIETY
w \ /-°° d deal of speculation has been
wasted m trying to find roundabout reasons for
SL m b°L e, r tS ail l d ap ? urtenane ° 3 of the York
V™ explanation (writes a generally
well-informed Bcllcti.n correspondent) is so dis
ing S itsdf y fmTiot\ that th ?. publie will soon be kick-
h- } havil ?g discovered it earlier. An
the l^te 11 ’^,,J olneSt, a e r en - was for eseen by
’ and sl) e is said to have ex
b pro,nise „ from her grandchildren that
it shouid come off m Australia. Said event is
apparently pretty close at hand, and the old
rivalry between Sydney and Melbourne will reach
shortly after the arrival of the Yorks,
°the momentous question of the natal place of
ft possible future hen- to the Crown The auDoint
Xlf* 'vollknow,, Melbourne-oteXEt
physician-extraordinary seems to point to
the hated City of Sewers as the lucky
village, but, as the old ladies are fond
In fact T 6 ’ accidents will occur.
vJill ha oV. aready whispered that neither city
i ab^, e . the suspicion of underhand tricks*
honorfo lll ' tl,ned salut e may win an undeserved
r ' f “ ,” e or other. Herein too lies the raison
if f " e surgeon and two nurses included in
the outfit on the Ophir, of the coldness
evinced towards gorgeous receptions and public
appearances generally by those in authority, and
of the shy and retiring disposition with which the
by 10 Bettor Cre t dlt w m the Jingo P ress as inspired
camStv' t Wallington in his diplomatic
jh, ' y '. lea-gowns and long all-enveloping
cloaks will be rushed by the Nafcest after year!
of obscurity, and—there is just a small chance that
SS'wotS" f * B, ’ io “ blB ■*”«'« A »-
Jingo and Co. in Australia are gradually
ces 0 i ing Th°o7 r ’ a " d . crae hlng painfully in the pro
cess. The foundation-stone of the much-derided
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
PETER : “ You can’t come in.”
CANNIBAL: " Me not bad man. Hob fourteen
missionaries inside.”
PETER : “All right; I'll pass you in as a trans-
port.”
proposed N.S.W. “State-house ” (wherein was to
be engraven on brass tablets a list of the five-bob-
a-days who had been such fools as to die in S’Africa
m the interests of certain avaricious bounders of
.London Stock Exchange) is not to be laid by the
-L)uke of York. In fact, it isn’t to be laid at all.
Ihe proposed N.S.W. S’African national monu-
ment of the near future will probably consist of a
number of peregrinating human wrecks vainly
begging m the streets for work, which thev
would be unable to do if they got it.
And, pray, who is the person that has dared to
knock on the head this glorious project of com-
Ik* I f a f b] ® heroic deeds
SefySlt i 1 % S A% m^bobada^? Why, John
£’in stei i oi °Ft! r Q S n l the Byne Govt., now
l bfhf m Sm r* 0f N ' B , W ' ! John, seeing the
Fl, | jjv l , “P jhat way, has determined to spend
tions F to X ad A?' f m ,° n S y °? much-needed iddi-
this T„ r Alfred hospital, Sydney. After
Jj f Bulletin sincerely hopes that York
will accidentally lose See’s title out of his bag.
* * « »
Federal Premier Barton made a false step
°/f rl ™ e verdict in the Coningham case. First
at 6 i7 P. a P® ra announced that he had congratu-
lahSL? V ? Hamn ° n the verdict. Next day a
labored statement appeared in the press explain-
lug that he had not (personally) sent a message or
gratU a • , t le doctor > but that he had met
®°“ e , on , e . and ?aid something, and somebody had
repeated it, and so it got into the press. The R. C
community, which has taken the Coningham case
rather too seriously, is wild with Barton for qualify-
afLvf !r?? ag ! t 0 th ® iest - The y that he is
atiaul of the bigoted Protestant vote, and that
any apology or half-and-half statement is an in-
kwi f lld their feelings are further intensified
fewness of the Protestant congratulations
sent to St. Mary s. The majority of those
militant in party-politics were cautious enough to
* e J° w °I 6r case ‘ The talk which has fol-
iowed such a trifle as this incident is significant of
Coningham c°L SeCtarlan ***“* toUChed by the
The Bulletin sincerely congratulates Dr.
Haran on the issue of the case. It also con-
gratulates every other man under 98 years of age
and every decent woman possessed of a brother
or a husband or a lover. For, if there could pos-
sibly have been any other decision on the ascer-
ained facts at the hands of a jury sworn to decide
according to the evidence, N.S.W. would have
without defay. “ * g °° d C ° Untry t 0 get out of
* * * *
FlieS.M. Herald’s congratulatory leader
on the Coningham divorce casewiews the whole
matter from this one solitary standpoint: that any-
thing which would cause the public to distrust
their clergy would be a national misfortune.
i on ,V a parsonical way of regarding a life and
death struggle before a legal tribunal !
* * • *
Some of the returned S’African swaddies
declare that one of their officers had a great weak-
ness for works of art, and that to keep in his favor
his men took many fine pictures from Boer houses
even in districts that were not hostile.
¥ * *
A couple of Melbourne plain-clothes police
out on a Sunday-trading raid at Williamstown the
other Sfibbath had a mean trick
played upon them by two depraved
youths. The officers drove up to the
first pub. in a smart trap drawn by a
spanking' pony, and, leaving the
turn-out in charge of two young
men who were festooning the bar-
front, plunged in to beguile the
proprietor into dealing out beers.
When they reappeared their lovely
buggy and their high-stepping prad
had passed from the scene. After a
long wait the disappearance was
reported to the local police, and
some time later the two youths into
whose charge the fit-out was given
by the lynxes of the law were dis-
covered driving wildly up and
down, full of beer and beatitude.
One of them had recognised the
officers and the two had used the
haw s horse and buggy to streak
from hotel to hotel, warning all the
publicans in the place of the ap-
proach of the foe, for which service
they were rewarded with abundant
grog-
* • *
Apropos S.M. Herald’s recent
observation that the men of our con-
tingents were only lent to the Bri-
tish Grovernment. How is said B.G-.
going to return the hundreds who
have left their bones in Africa?—
and what of the other hundreds who
have returned physical and moral
wrecks more or less incapacited for
anything useful. . . .? Will the
Chamberlain crowd pension them
and so prevent their becoming a burden on the
community that has “lent” them? To date
Australia, knows of but one widow who has been
pensioned because her husband, having been
lent,” was killed. 6
* * » *
The unemployed are making things hot
for the Govt, m Melbourne, and seized the
earliest opportunity to attack Excellency Hope-
toun with a deputation, although the business
was nght off his beat. The workless threaten to
be the skeleton at the forthcoming royal feast
and are organising a reception demonstration-“ oA
their own promising to parade before their High-
nesses with tattered banners and all the para-
phernalia of woe. However, the authorities
who are bending all their efforts to the task of
turning the best side out for the delight of the
/ehed upon to see that the unem-
fe? V ion b their demonstrating under the
7 i e i y e, ° r / t ley do lfc wiJ l certainly be over
a dead body of police.
“Scotty W.”
to The Bulletin
on the treatment
of “colonial”
officers in the
British army :
It must be re-
membered, in the
first place, that the
army officer has
always been ultra-
conservative.
Taking my own ex-
perience : I remem-
ber when a cousin
of mine got a com-
mission by bringing
100 militia-men into
the Black Watch.
He led the life of a
dog at first, al-
though there was
not much of the
novug homo about
him, his father be-
ing an officer in the
H. E. O.’s service.
When the latter in-
terviewed the C.O.
of the regt., it ap-
peared that things
had gone so far
that the complain-
ant would have had
to leave the service
for standing too
much bullying.
When Cardwell's
scheme came out,
the first sub-lieu-
tenant to join us
was named Tribe.
He had been ad-
vised not to allow
himself to be im-
posed upon. It was
then customary for
all last-joined subs,
to have an unfair
amount of duty put
on them. Mr. Tribe
bucked and wa
sent to Coventry,
and finally had to
exchange or leave.
I don’t know how
Fruit Salts and
Burton Beer and
Dublin Stout got on,
but I was at a regi-
mental mass meet-
ing at Woolwich
when an ex-captain
of the regt. was
blackballed as an
honorary member
because he had
“gone into coal.”
I never had it oast
up to me that my
father was a whisky
maker, because we
had a lot of our national shopkeepers in the army. But, after
all, I don’t wonder at the army men jibbing- at the forcing
of the Australian commissioned on them, if what is said
about these appointments is true. Have these men been
asked to pass the Woolwich and Sandhurst tests of mili-
tary and ordinary education ? I feel quite sure that
officers and gentlemen ” from Australia will be well
received by the ex-officio “o. and g.” of the most ex-
clusive British corps if they are qualified as sioh, and
do not unduly interfere with the roster.
* * * ,
In Melbourne the daily papers are not
published on Good Friday or on Xmas day, which
are, therefore, red-letter days in the hard-worked
press world. But the Sydney morning papers
come out just the same. On Friday last, S. M.
Herald published the usual sermon where the
leading article appears, and, with its advertising
columns chock full of amusement-announcements
for the leisured public, Granny went to press
with a clear conscience.
* * * .
Sydney wastes no reverence over the day
on which Christians say they believe Christ died
for the world. At the Agricultural Show on
Good Friday, 50,000 (fifty thousand) people as-
sembled {vide cash and turnstile-returns) to
witness the horse-jumping.
- * * * *
The balance of the last.N.S. W. contingent
of troops left for the Cape (where the
plague is now raging) per the ex-plague-
stricken Antilluin on Good ITrid&y. -The vessel
was berthed at the very wharf that the Surrey was
moored to some 12 months ago, when the second
contingent departed. The difference of the
scene ! No scores of thousands of spectators ; no
boats chartered by Govt, or speculating ferry-
companies ; no Ministers of the Crown to make
speeches. Just a few hundred friends and rela-
tives of the outgoing five-bob-a-days, kept in order
by some scores of policemen, a for-the-look-of-the-
thing escort of permanent artillerymen, and that
was all!
* . * * *
So far, printed reference has not been
made to this incident of the Commonwealth cele-
brations m Sydney. Whilst the crowd was await-
ing the procession at Martin Flace, the women in
front were occasionally forced, by the pressure
behind, across the sacred line, guarded by police
and civilian soldiers, who, good-humoredly enough
forced them back again. This mode of keeping
the line, however, did not please a certain
mounted officer, who rode his horse broad-
side amidst the women, scattering them
m all directions, until one irate damsel
smote the warrior’s horse over the nose
with the rim of her sailor-hat, where-
upon the steed reared suddenly up and
threw his rider literally out of his boots, 55 which
remained in the stirrups. Then Martin-place
heard the most joyous cheer of all that day, fol-
lowed by a roar of laughter at the spectacle of the
officer, covered with dust, and encumbered by
much sash and sword, pirouetting around as he
pulled on his boots again. And when the police
helped him into the saddle, and the grand stand
cheered him, it did not reassure him enough
to try any further horse tactics with the gutter
crowd.
* * * .
One good work N.S.W. Premier John See
may be confidently counted upon pushing forward
with dispatch, now that his hands are free, is the
long-talked-of-asylum for inebriates. The Act
and the'Regulations are both, thanks to Dr. Creed,
M.L.C., ready, and the House alone is lacking!
See calls this his own question and there is no
doubt ; that very shortly the afflicted dipsomaniac
will receive the treatment his malady needs.
* « » *
One of the last acts of the Vic. Minister of
Defence, prior to handing the Dept, over to the
Commonwealth, was to frame a regulation open-
mg commissions to “ rankers. 55 Now, a man must
be 19 before he can enlist, and, on the authority of
Col. Bingham, it takes at least five years to
become a proficient artilleryman and sergeant-
major ; few do it even in that. Yet this lovely
HIS ONLY VISIBLE MEANS.
IMPECUNIOUS BUT AMOROUS ONE : “ I could never live without you, darling! ”
SHE (an heiress): “ That’s just what father said, George, when we spoke of
your intentions the other day! ” (Then George suddenly drooped.)
regulation professing to open commissions to
rankers stipulates that applicants must be under
jr' >S<) f' l ? military clique not only tries to con-
fine commissions to its own favored class, but
cheekily refuses «o allow a practical, trained man
to fill the billet that the inexperienced but well-
born hobbledehoy of 21 may be shoved into.
* * • •
David Syme’s Queen Vic. Memorial Fund is
now being slowly increased, at £1 a day or so, per
State school teachers, &c. The general public
which doesnt have to subscribe or collect subs
? ass f b 7 °P the other side. And cables
toil that London s Lord Mayor’s Fund has now
readied £50,000, which isn’t a very gaudy ex
pression of sorrow from an allegedly wealthy and
grief-stricken nation. 1
* * * *
The material of the Commonwealth arch
at the intersection of Park and Elizabeth-streets’
bydney, was recently sold for £2B. That noble
monument, with its pictures fore and aft and a
fowl on each side of it, cost £l2OO to erect-iust
about the sum that would have added another
W i urn on f ° f , tb ? s y dn ey hospitals as a
splendid and everlasting monument of a trreat
occasion. °
• * * *
iv/r V ady in deepest mourning called at the
Melbourne Shipping Office almost hourly the
other week, when the fate of the Federal and the
Hawaiian Isles was still uncertain. She was Mrs
Uhisen One of her boys went down with the
Federal, whilst husband and eldest son—who had
slapped for the run only—were then thought to
ba 7 e found their graves with the “Isles” too
i! or those m peril on the sea ! ”
* * * *
Maoriland is just now chockful of sub-
scnption-lists for almost every deserving (and un-
deserving) object under the sun. The latest is for
a fund (organised by a West-Coaster, of all per-
sons) in aid of the famine-stricken denizens of
Shansi province, North China ! In one populous
suburb in Northern M.L. only 7s. could be raised
for a proposed Queen’s statue, and five shillings of
that was the Mayor s inaugural effort.
* * *
Let not the O’Sullivan make two bites at
a cherry The completion of the tram from North
bydney to Manly— it has already reached the Spit
half way—would greatly quicken local settlement’
and probably yield a large steady revenue from
focal residents within a year or two. And the
through-traffic to and from Manly would be very
big, apart from holiday business ; for lots of Syd-
ney people would permanently reside at Manly
were there an alternative means of communica-
tion.


The PUREST WHSSKFY
in the World . . .
geo. roe & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
ħ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for _ Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map
THOS. COOK & SON,
2 69 Collins-st., Melbourne; Hunter-st., Sydney.
M .K.Z. Bin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on ly —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 - 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
h
Tennis Shoes i i
ALL THESE SHOES
WILL GIVE
DOWNRIGHT
GOOD SERVICE.
With beet f-inch Red Rubber Soles, hand-made
in Russia Calf, 19s. 6d.
The same, in Tan Calf, 15s. 6d.
The Douglas Shoe, for Grass Tennis, in Brown
Canvas, with Tan Leather Toeeaps. Best
quality of North British Rubber Coy.
7s. 6d a pair.
Callaghan & Son,
390 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“C.M.G.”: Where T was standing when
the Hopetoun procession passed through Mel-
bourne, t’other day, public interest was centred,
not on the stem-wound Governor, bowing me-
chanically to yelling small boys, but on an unfor-
tunate horse attached to one of the gun-carriages.
The poor beast had slipped and fallen forward on
the wet block pavement, and knocked away three
of his front teeth, gum and all, and stood in quite
a pool of blood, disregarded by officialdom and the
Law, which, had it seen a cabman’s horse in the
same plight, would have furiously ri n- n the
driver for infringing all the precepts of t' e S iciety
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
V * * *
‘‘Melbournian ” sends an acid letter :
Dear Bulletin, —Doesn’t it strike you that some of the
tales re married-women-doctors and their physical unfit-
ness for practice may have been invented by their male
rivals ? I read in your last issue : “ Still another of Mel-
bourne’s better known (by the way, they are all of them
better known than the average superfluous male straggler
in the profession) women doctors goes out of practice.
Few —very few—risk matrimony and medicine together.
And The Bulletin is sorry to hear that one of the earliest
who did, the philanthropic Dr. Constance Stone, wife of
Dr. Jones, has for months past been compelled to virtually
cease practice through a most serious illness.” You will
be sorry to hear that you have been “had” by a now
quite ancient yarn, for which there was very little
foundation. Rumor-mongers have ascribed all sorts of
incapacitating complaints—from cancer down to nervous
prostration—to Dr. Constance what time she has been
looking after her patients in the ordinary way. Ap-
parently there was malice at work in the matter ; but,
whether or no, the estimable lady suffered more from
these false reports than from any indisposition that
followed the birth of her child some year or more ago.
At the present time she is taking three months’ leave
of absence from the Queen Vic. Hospital, and may be
consulted, no doubt, at Ballarat, where she has gone for
the benefit of the little one’s health, as much as for a
holiday “on her own.” Stories about the sicknesses or
forthcoming retirements of lady-doctors will soon be
epidemic, if the press accepts them without inquiry.
The male practitioners, a good many of whom are always
unfit to follow their profession, owing to drink, or mor-
phia, or the clubbish habit of being never less than two
hours late in attending urgent cases, will see that the
diplomatic lies are worked into print if possible.
• » * »
Those gorgeous Indian troops, with their
officer-princes and retinues of servants, which were
to be asked to stay and ornament the coming cele-
brations, slipped away from Melbourne quietly
la9t week, unnoticed and un-farewelled ; and only
a two-line par. in the papers told the public they
had gone.
* * * *
The first case under Victoria's Amended
Marriage Act (why “marriage?”) happened in
Melbourne t’other day, when a putative father
was ordered to pay up £7 confinement expenses
for an expected little stranger, money to be re-
turned if the infant failed to materialise. Defen-
dant was a constable, of thrifty nature.
* * * •
As much Puppery as fiscal —that divorce-
case.
S.M. Herald wants May 24 made a per-
manent holiday— The Bulletin bets that it won t
be and cites Canada as an _ example. J } n fi°
loyalists are sycophantic imitators. A bell-
wether jumps over a stick, and, though
the stick be withdrawn, the flock jumps
at the same spot. Laurier, the crossbred,
omits no opportunity to prove that his
crossbreed has not impaired his loyalty,
and jumps. Though there’s no question of cross-
breeding, Australian loyalists jump m the same
way. The Victoriolaters will soon get over their
unreasoning fit of adulation : in a very few years
the late Queen will be quite as dead as is Queen
Anne. Also, York’s birthday will presumably
have to be kept as a public holiday, and a very
big section of the Australian people—both em-
ployers and employes—are utterly and thoroughly
sick of the ever-increasing number of public holi-
days.
Plague having looked in again, rat-ra,ids
and rat-exterminators are once more the question.
A very simple and more efficient rodent-killer than
half the bought stuffs can bo made by mixing equal
proportions of pollard (or other meal) and plaster-
of-paris. Leave this near their haunts and put a
vessel of water close by that they may drink.
Dead “sixpences” warranted to be plentiful
within a few hours.
* • * *
Re the vagaries of the great unpaid. An
interesting decision is recorded by a J.P. m the
court register at Alexandria (Vic.). A dis-
orderly” was found guilty, and his sentence is
thus set down : “ Fined ss. or 24 hours, in default
seven days.”
* * * *
In Brisbane Police Court the charge-sheet
bears the previous convictions (if any) of the
accused for the Jay Dee friends and enemies of the
unfortunate to read at leisure whilst the present
charge is being settled. Which gives a nice show
to the poor and friendless.
* * * *
Concerning an orphan :
A high Australian State official has just gone through
an experience to which King Solomon’s baby-act was
child’s play. A woman in the State capital was entrusted
by the proper dept, with the rearing of a three-year-old
orphan child, but certain representations about this per-
son having been made to aforesaid official, he gave in-
structions to have the boy transferred to the care of
another woman residing in the country, say at, A. ine
first woman made a great fuss over losing the child. Peti-
tions were signed, protests made, and finally a deputation
of M’s.P. persuaded the official that the facts about the
lady were not so peculiar as he had imagined. Further-
more the first custodian made an offer to take the hoy
free of charge and bring him up as her own, and, as the
second party was being paid so much per week, the
official jumped at the chance, and despatched a mj rmi-
don to bring the boy back from X. The emissary
was met with a flat refusal, and returned
empty-handed. Then the official was wroth, and
upon a second refusal despatched the Senior Inspector of
his staff to rea-
son with her.
But when the
S.I. reached X he
found the wom-
an, child and all,
had gone hur-
riedly to Y. On
his arrival at Y
she doubled back
to X, and when
he reached X
again he discov-
ered thatshehad
started for the
o ffi c e of the
official to plead
her cause. She,
too, now made
offer of keeping
the child for
nothing and also
undertook to le-
gally adopt him
for good, al-
though the little
fellow had been
acompletestran-
ger to her four
weeks before.
Bound, how-
ever, by his for-
mer promise, the
official gave her
three days to de-
liver up the boy.
Next morning
the woman an-
nounced that
she, her husband
and the boy were
leaving next day
per Mariposa;
whereupon the
official, through
the police, put a
stop to the ocean-
trip, and thus
brought down
on his luckless
head more pro-
tests, more peti-
tions, and anoth-
er deputation of
M’s.P. All this
time the city
lady had also
been making
things pretty
lively; butfinally
the official de-
cided that the
boy’s material
interests re-
quired that he
should remain
with the would-
be mother from
X, as she had no
children of her
own and her hus-
band was well-
to-do. This is
but one instance
of the extraordi-
nary affection
many women get
to feel for the
waifs and strays
entrusted to
them by the
State or by the
different chari-
table societies.
A census-collector relates that when filling
in the census-form for a family in a boiling-down
Sydney suburb he noticed that though the parents
were of “ no religious denomination,” each of the
nine children had a different religion marked
against his name. “ What’s ya rid ear ?” he asked
the mother. ‘ ‘ Oh,” replied that prolific parent,
“me and me ’usbandere thought that we’d surely
git one of ’em on to th’ right religion if we giv
every one a run on their rown. We orta strike’t
in nine chances, eh ? What do you think ?”
* • * *
The census sub-enumerator for a certain
Vic. borough, while on his round delivering
census-papers, called at the house of an elderly
widow, who had no sooner opened the door than
she exclaimed —-“Go away ! 1 don’t want, any
man on my premises ! Go away ! ” “ But,” pro-
tested the census-man, “I must deliver- ”
“Go away I tell you ! I don’t want anything. I
won’t have a man near me. I had a man here
once—and I had three pairs of twins ! I’ll have
nothing to do with men any more.” After much
trouble she was induced to take the census-paper,
but only on the understanding that the male
monster should not come near the house again.
* * ♦ *
From Broken Hill, of all places in the
world, where there is a Labor Mayor and Council,
and Unionism prevails, The Bulletin receives a
“ report and financial statement from Oct. 20,
1900, to March 7, 1901,” of the “ Friendly Socie-
ties’ Medical Institute and Dispensary.” For this.
4| months the “financial statement” shows —
medical officer’s salary, £B6 4s. ; dispenser’s salary,
£3B Is. 5d.; boy, wages, 10s.” The membership
of the affiliated societies is 1056, and the names on
the doctor’s list 809 ; and half of these are married
men with families ! And for 41 months for
attending this crowd the doctor has received
£B6 45., and the dispenser £3B Is. sd. ! In the
circumstances The Bulletin isn’t at all surprised
to learn that in these months no less than
three doctors have been tried. The working-man
is a hard taskmaster.
* * * *
Coming out to Australia, a certain most
charming actress struck up a warm friendship'
with a fellow-passenger, who happens to be a-
doctor, and who, the other day, conducted her over’
a big hospital of which he is an honorary attendant.
During their tour of inspection a nurse chanced to.
glance into the top-hat he had left on the hall-
table. Therein were photos, of the actress in
several positions, and since that day that hospital
has worn a large, wide smile. For nobody there
had ever before seen anything in a bell-topper but
a stethoscope.
* * * *
Vic. Govt, seems to have made a bargain
in leasing the Wagner mansion, “ Stonnington,” at
Malvern, as a residence for the State Governor.
Said to have cost £BO,OOO to build, and £35,000 to
furnish, to say nothing of the 13 acres of land it
stands on. £lOOO a year is the present price.
* * * *
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan pur-
poses to erect a colossal Statue on Pinchgut, a
small rock in Sydney Harbour :
The latest free-postage atrocity that has
struck The Bulletin eye is the Crow’s Nest
Journal. This fearful and wonderful product of
free-postage journalism consists of eight quarto
pages filled with some advts. and drivel, and is
published under the auspices of the “ Crow’s Nest
Literary and Debating Society, North Sydney.”
TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We stood in the Park one day,
Jack Delong and I,
Watching the cavalcade
Trot and canter by.
I was in love with Maud,
Blue eyes and auburn hair,
While Jaclt would give all Tie owned
For Tom Foster’s chestnut mare.
“ The beauty! there she does!"
Said Jack, My heart beat high,
Thinking of Maud. Said he:
“ What a flank! What a fiery eye!
I turned, and hit him■ square
In the face—like an ass, of course;
For I was thinking girl,
And Jack was talking horse.
That Beastly Cat
[FOR THE BULEETIN.]
THE ancient lilac-tree outside her lattice
Its heavy perfumes flung;
I said: “ I wonder where that yellow cat is—
That cat with silvery tongue ? ”
I moved with caution o’er the crunching gravel
I looked above to see
My Mary—after weeks of weary travel
| By land and se&.
Now, Mary's cat—the household pet, the daisy—
Was ever at her side ;
Where Mary was the cat was—sleek and lazy—,
The cat with yellow hide.
I softly tapped—the silence was unbroken.
I pushed the door.
I said, “Of good or ill is this the token ? ”
And crossed the floor.
Ah! she was there—my Mary, fair and blushing.-
Her lips I pressed ;
And, all her anxious questions gently hushing, !
I took her to my breast.
But as she rested on my loving arm
Her dainty head,
I noticed with a start of wild alarm,
A HAIR op RED !
Of fiery red ! —a coarse-grained hair—a twister !
I cried, “ Why, that’s 4
Been left upon you by a man’s red whisker ”
“ No—'tis the cat’s ! ”
j “ Ah, Mary, no ! you cannot thus deceive me.
Oh, woe is mine!
iThat long hair never grew, false maid, believe me,
pv On hide feline.
“ It did! it is! ’’—and thus in wrath we parted ;
But on the mat
I paused a second, e’en though broken-hearted.
• To kick that blessed cat!
SQSUIB.
“ AUSTRALIA FACING THE DAWN."
O’Sullivan, Esquire,
Dear Sir, may I inquire
Whether you still desire
That we should face the dawn—
In bronze —from that forlorn,
And periwinkled hummock,
Whose name suggests a straitened stomach?
Remember —our Nation,
Knew nought of starvation
At the celebration
•Of Federation :
When the cry of our birth
Was drowned in the mirth,
Of picnics and spreads,
'Champagne, and swelled heads.
If your Statue’s come to stay,
Do revise your theories, pray,
Of poetic unity,
And let it reel away
Further down the bay
'To stand —as best it may—
On the greasy “ Sow and Pigs”
Where the sea foams round like shandy,
And a “ Bottle and Glass ” are handy,
And the light-ship lurches and jigs.
PEDLAR


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Bydney haunt FOY*B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’s!
For the fun of the thing l
mrrk Foy, sypNEy.
Buna prices and attsatlan as If you bought amongst ths daily crowds at tha oountars.
I
I
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE T6flS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Mt Dear Mtee, — »J d W. April 9,1901.
Our Easter Week’s gaieties are marked with an
?> r , Prehuiinary canter, preparatory to the
xtoyal stakes oeing run for, as it were.
At the Agricultural Show the crush has been a
record, but otherwise it is the same old show as
ever. There isn’t anything half as amusing to be
seen out there as you will find in our Young
peoples Industrial Exhibition later on, judging
by the Gazette of the latter. I find chronicled
among the interesting Plain Needlework events
of the latter: “Patched Seat Boy’s Trousers—
Holes to be ivorn, not cut.” Who is going to wear
them, I wonder, and how little do their unsus-
Itar them’ rkn6SSeS gU6SS what ’ s being got ready
L ?§ er <f a y at the A.J.C. races was dressed
with subdued gaudiness—black, white, and grey
costumes keeping up the correct impression of
fashionable regret. The prettiest woman on the
lawn was a last year’s bride in heliotrope voile,
much tucked and softened with inserted lace.
Her younger sister, who has not debuted yet
also bade fair to keep up the family reputation for
complexion and good looks, in a girlish grey
frock, with a big white hat. Another youthful
maiden particularly well dressed was Miss
Queenie Levien in a pale blue crepe-de-chine and
string-colored lace with long black gloves and big
black velvet hat. Mrs. Philip Morton was in
leaf-green voile, tucked over green glace, with a
toque of shaded velvet leaves. Miss Irene Marks
wore a smart cream-cloth costume, with a little
bolero over a swathed vest, and a big cream toque.
Among the black-frocked women I noticed Mrs.
Pilcher, Mrs. Herbert Marks, Miss Carter (from
Melbourne), Miss Marie Nacelle, and Mrs
Levien.
But Monday was the scene of our really well-
considered fracking. Mrs. Ted Rundle’s straw-
berry pink cloth dress was made en Princesse at
the back, while the front was pouched and
strapped with ribbon velvet. Mrs. le Poer French
(Miss Nellie Cox, who is back on a visit to her
people in Sydney) was smartly frocked in mauve
frieze, with an Eton coat and the newest of hats—
white felt, crunched up with black glace ribbon
and a wreathing of violets. Miss Grace Palotta
already well “aegised” by Sydney society
paraded the lawn with a thin, straw-hatted
was under the tender cynosure of
the very Nicest eyes. She was frocked simply in
a black foulard blouse, inserted with ecru Irish
lace with touches of gold about it, a black skirt
and big, ecru straw hat with black feathers. A
squatter’s family was extensively represented—
the newest from ’ome wearing an ivory coat and
skirt cut in London’s latest style.
Flowing dresses were even more of a flow than
ever, trains and trails cleaning the lawn at great
length. Mrs. Ernest Davies’ frock was a pic-
turesque creation of quaint chine silk, inserted
With Irish lace, worn with a wide basket-straw
hat trimmed up with big bows of pink panne
"bbon. .Mrs. Burdekin was in lacey block.
Miss Muriel Marks’ coat and skirt was of lavender
frieze with gold buckles on the little coat, the
toque of blue satin making a snappy contrast.
A London lady, married into fashionable
Sydney society, was curiously hatted with
her hair on her neck and her hat over her
nose, and frocked in grey. Also from London
(perhaps) was a large lady in a black evening
dress with an unhappy frock-coated courtier
walking alongside her with a long white evening
cloak over his arm.
Florodora’s first house was even more of a crush
and a glitter than anticipated. The dress circle
was lined three deep with standers, and every
square inch of step had an occupant. The gayest-
lookmg box was the one that held the manager’s
wife and friends, and lots of flowers. Mrs. J. C.
Williamson, gowned in a magnificent pink frock,
farewelled her friends during the interval in the
green-room; she left Sydney on Sunday by train
to lorn J. O. W. in London, waiting first to see
what sort of a reception “Florodora” would get
from Sydney, and carry the news to its proprie-
. What an invaluable thing a little foreign twist
is to an actress’ lingo! Grace Palotta takes one’s
fancy by storm with her Viennese accent. Her
voice is otherwise quite harsh, almost cracked in
some places, but the accent mends it up and
carries it through brilliantly.
Her first dress is a lace gown over rose chiffon
with a rose-pink vest, and an enormous vivid pink
toque, toreador-shaped and trimmed across the
front with large roses in different shades of rose
Her serand creation is of nasturtium-yellow silk
the skirt tucked—if anything so small can be
called a tuck—downwards all over, bodice tucked
sleeves tucked, and heavy cream lace appliqued on
skirt and bodice. With this was worn a big yel-
low hat with two brims ; I presume the legiti-
mate purpose of two brims would be to get in a
double amount of trimming, and this hat succeeds
beautifully that way. It is heavily-trimmed with
orange-colored flowers, a paste buckle and velvet
folds. A little rosette of black velvet, with a dia-
in the centre, appears on the corsage
of both Miss Palotta’s gowns.
Maud Chetwynd is a distinct surprise to idyd-
ney. Last time we saw her she was dancing
nicely enough in the “Gondoliers,” but was very
much of a beginner. Now she has blossomed out
into a dashing, dainty little actress, in white mus-
lin, with a big white hat turned up off her face.
She moves with verve, but doesn’t do herself jus-
tice in a bright sky-blue frock and hat, that some-
how remind one of a Sunday-school picnic.
Clever little Carrie Moore taking-off Madame
Darto is Carrie at her best—so far. The dancing
dress is green velvet &la Darto, with roses round
the bottom; her shoes have white heels, and her
skirts parody the brilliant Darto underfluting.
~ A s as Saturday’s audience goes the biggest
r 1". 1 .? the was not made by the “principals,”
ut by 12 minors, including pretty Cecil Engle-
Esdaile, W. B. Beattie, Fred Young
ana Mr. Mozar among others. The female frock-
mg of this double sextette is delicious—black accor-
aeon chiffon flounces, long and flowing, topped
with polonaises of black-spotted in big white dots,
with tucked white chiffon yokes, black hats and
shoes, and visions of fine white lingerie under-
dor ” J-hese are the prettiest frocks in “Floro-
The same night saw Marie Lloyd starting her
first turn at the Tivoli to a “standing-room-only”
She is very plump, has a jolly expression,
and brims over with “go.” She wears first a pink
brocade with a wide tunic composed entirely of
pink roses oyer a brief pink skirt, a smart coarse
straw hat, trimmed with pink and red roses, and
a , chlffon parasol. She thrills her points
at the house, and looks like scoring one of the
biggest successes at the Tiv. Peggy Pryde, Lottie
Coffins, Billie Barlow, Marie Lloyd, they are all
more or less alike, but the latter is more so. Her
songs abound in what she describes as Cayenne, but
her air of bonhomie, her long white teeth, and
her clear snappy voice are irresistible.
Marie Lloyd, the top star of the London music-
hahs, m her dressing-room at Sydney Tivoli. As
she takes her make-up off she talks, she effer-
-esces, she rattles, she buzzes, she never stops.
When she isn’t talking to anybody else, she talks
to herself in the glass. “ Marie-Lloyd-you-don’t-
look-a-bi t-pretty-to - day-as - you - usually-do-on-an-
Laster - Monday— I - suppose - you - haven’t - had-
enough-Hot-Cross-buns.” Her long, white teeth
won t let her mouth shut, her merry, audacious
brain won t let her tongue rest; the result
is that off the stage Marie is as good an
entertainment as on. “See that hat -my
word, what a temper I was in when I trimmed
j\ ha V It was m Hull. I was a great success in
the hall, but I didn t know anybody in the town
and started trimming that hat to save me from
going to bed at 10 o’clock. I jammed it here and
jammed it there, and squeezed it and put all the
trunming on in a rage, and it wouldn’t go right
u™nt know the back from the front, and
d « ld " , Ca / e ’ , and next ni S hfc 1 Put it on and—
Jf hat a lovely hat! Where did you yet the shape ! ”
She holds it up on her hand, and it looks like the
middle of a bad dream. She puts it on and—
fans / 1 can only tell you it’s a battered-looking
cream straw. b
Of its kind Marie Lloyd’s wardrobe is the finest
ever seen in Sydney. Her dresses are in dozens
and dozens. She was packing them steadily for
weeks,, and wonderful but true —she makes
them all herself, and trims all her own hats. “ I
find time because I don’t go out,” says Marie.
Don t like it; like sewing. Have a big work-
room at the top of my house at Hampstefd, and
when I want to go out, I go up and open all the
windows and sit down and spend the day making
dresses. My mother helps me. You might see
mother and me sometimes driving in of a night in
our brougham, stopping in desperation under the
lamplights to finish off a buttonhole in the
brougham, as we couldn’t trust to Providence for
the pins, me being such a slender little thing ”
i heSe ravish " lg fro , cks of hers there are
glittering on my memory a little shimmery gold
skirt covered with two flounces of gold chiffon
and above them a tiny polonaise of black net, em-
broidered in gold, and looped at one side with a
huge yellow silk poppy. And a long turquoise
g ace flounced skirt, covered with a heavy Silver
polonaise, long sleeves, composed entirely of
silver sequins and three long tabs of silver falling
over the front of the little turquoise bodice ; and
all the silver sequin work done by Marie Lloyd’s
own needle. Then an adorable little gown is that
of golden-tinted tabac silk, embroidered in panels
L worked with gold. And a magnifi-
cent testimony to the wearer’s industry and
smartness is a Geisha gown of pink satin,
fiowl-s Thp rd8 ’ /"I 1 a, V en ° rmous basket of
bowers. Ihe wardrobe glitters iridescentlv nil
rosc g t ‘s] Wall ° f • tl j e dr essing-room with pinkfand
rose, yellow violet, turquoise, and sequins
enough to make a new (stage) firmament. q
Cabled: “Princess Beatrice, while walking in
her ankle 6 ” ThSi Eu f T’l 7®*, sprafned
ner ankle. lhi S is the sort of thing we have in
take with royalty, and be glad of it Don’t you
shudder to think of the dear little home cables
here I™ 1 amV6 when the royal circ us is really
i2e , th ,?, Yorks ’ Societ y is having a very mauvais
quart d’heure while the invitation question ro
mains unsettied ; and the rumor gains ground
that the most awful fastidiousness is goinf to be
manifested regarding Trade. The questfon is
what will be left in the Sydney social area if
trade-marks are to be counted against one.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
The snap-shotters are never to be found when
they are most wanted. A picture of the crowd
of representatives packed in the special enclosure
of the railway platform, waiting for the HoDe-
toun arrival last Tuesday, would be a sublime
study m Anticipations. Mayoress Gillott with
gratification wnt on her broad face; the Chief
Justicess with , a faint smile at the corner of her
she U smffed i . g t 1 u 1 fl n |, im^ ed , iate ., tho^ ht to the salts
sne sniffed, the Premier’s wife, beaming in ad
vance upon the place where the carriage waTore-
seiitly ro draw up; the fascinating relict of Clarke
H, Mrs. Robert Harper, Mrs Bingham-all
iAg for°th S o iate f and Smiles P rofuse > Gently wai !
mg for the joy to come. J
scarlet foff a tii &1?d the B P ecial strips of
scarlet felt, the State carriage pulled up short of
the mark, and the front bunch of choice blossoms
missed aim altogether. Speaker Mason, prompt
and fussy as usual, got to the front, tip-toed along
the side of the carriage, and returned with the
bland expression of a Missionary Father at the
head of the party. Then he went along the line,
and made introductions: Lady So-and-So, ‘ Mrs.
Gillottthe Mayoress, ‘My Wife’ (where was
Court etiquette when Mr. M. introduced a lady
to the Gov.-General as ‘My Wife!’) ‘Mrs.
Leakin ’ —and so on. The Gov.-General bowed
arid smiled, and pump-handled where he could ; so
did the Countess. Only Wally smiled, and dropt
his all-seeing eyes—as he followed. The Countess
gave her most cordial hand-shake and limited-
liability smile to Mrs. Oeakin—the tall, slim wife
of the oratorical Senator—who, on account of her'
most recent acquaintance with Her Ex. in Eng-
land, and probably of her rare appearances in
Sassiety, was given a special place in the crowd.
To the rest of the smiling matrons, Her Ex. mut-
tered a staccato ‘How-de-do?’ and gave the
elevated finger-shake. There was just time to
take in the pale look of the Countess, the tired
smile, the quiet black outfit, the scarlet button-
hole, and she had passed through the floral
arches, and was sitting bowing (from the waist) in
the carriage. The mechanical bend is undoubtedly
an improvement on the Countess’s head-duck of
years ago.
“The Gov.-General was equal to the occasion,
and made himself genial. He laughed outright at
some of the old officials who cut their way through
the crowd for a hand-shake. * Thanks ! Thanks 1
1 hanks! he answered one after another of the
gushers’ greetings. Capt. Wallihgton, whose
whole attitude still suggests the lamented Girard’s
Of course you can never be like us—but be as
nke us as you’re able to be,’ found time as he
picked his way in the track of the Exes, to mur-
mur gently in the ear of President Zeal, and a few
other top-notchers—‘ Congratulations.’ The long,
eloquent nose dipping towards the shrimp-like ear
of the ancient bachelor seemed to actually pro-
nounce the word. The eternal Jenkins waved a
fat hand to Wally, and the astute pair exchanged
a friendly. smile. ‘ Let us be moral—and pro-
per, was insinuated in their telegraphic sign of
camaraderie.
. Mrs. Corbet, whose part in such proceedings
is tame for one so full of strong character-points,
caught her train from under grovelling heels, and
tui ned her large, handsome eyes with an indifferent
expression to the carriage. A fashionable air
ciowns Mrs. Corbet’s figure, and her admirable
black outfit, with its white-spotted panne collar
and large chin-frame of white tulle, made smart
frockers think of their local laurels.
“ Ex-Mayoress McEacharn, plump and golden-
haned, made one of her first public appearances
since her return, and looked her very best in sad
array, leaning back in her landau. Unless deport-
ment arid carriage are strings to a comely Person-
age s bow, she might do worse than develope
weak ankles and drive through life. Miss
McEacharn, who came from ’Ome with her
mother, was a pretty, fragile child ere she went
to school in England. If she has grown up as
expected, she should have a fair chance
ot tulftling the soaring hopes ascribed to her
ambitious father A pretty daughter with money
is an ideal foundation for parental castles in the
air.
“ Black becomes most women, each of them for
a different reason. Its sombre setting shows up
the beauty of one, tones down the vulgarity of
another, emphasises the refinement of a third
softens the garishness or enhances the dignity of
others. Readers are warned against putting on
caps that don t fit them, and taking offence when
I hereby add that Mrs. Turner, Mrs. Gillott, Mrs.
Vallange, and her sister, all showed to advantage
in gloomy Welcome gowns. Judge Madden’s
married daughter wore a white chiffon boa with
ners.
“Lady Hopetoun rides much in Melbourne;
almost every afternoon she has been here she has
been seen out on horseback. On Good Friday
afternoon St. Kilda esplanade and pier were
crowded with people, when the haughty lady
came cdattenng along with a couple of aides in
attendance. Dress, as plain as possible : just a
black riding-habit and black jacket, with a white-
straw billycock hat, and a black band round it
Wfie was recognised by but few people.
“ ‘Stonnnigton,’ the Wagner mansion at Mal-
vern, rented for the State Governor, has a fine
hall, verandahs and grounds, 20 rooms (exclusive
of bathrooms, pantries, &c.), and, altogether, will
be a snug nest for the Havelocks. The Grices’
bntMlTf' d^° r m. a? in , the runnin o for a time,
but fell behind. This place, remember, was the
scene of a tragedy. A young man killed himself
on Ins. sisters wedding-day, the alleged reason
being inexpressibly sad. Their father, who was
bed-ridden with a mortal complaint, died a few
days later, and the postponed marriage has never
taken place. Mrs. Grice, ’tis said, declares she
will never live in the place again.
“ The Ramsden mansion at Studley Park Kew
another competitor for the State Governor’s pat-
ronage, is a big red-brick building made of rough
bricks, unglazed tiles or sich. I am not sure
onR « Cr ‘M Sa ‘9 Ue °“ Besd ’’ a ‘Queen Anne,’ or
only a Mary Ann i.e., an architectural mix-
UP- Anyway, it rejoices in a lovely view.
-vr" • Fo . r tl) ® F °l° Gymkhana on Wednesday all the
Nmcest rallied to Moonee Valley course-fn tones
w , hl * e > grey and violet. S’Rupert’s wife
bneakedoutof mourning-tones, and radiated in apo-
hpgfrf fawn ~ a shade that made believ e P to
with “fj Thls r '« wa * further enlivened
übUu bU °a Punctuating a fanciful Eton
jacket About the neck more ornaments took on
a dazzle, and an Indian chain of uncommon de
sign reached to the waist. Of all the gold purses
flounshed on the course Lady Rupert’s was the
nrf nsh ' A + . bla ?k and white mushroom hat
took on conventional tones. The face beneath
spelt radiance and joy.
rs - To ui Fairbairn, back from frisking on
the Continent, might have been mistaken for a
country bnde at the Gymkhana. A steel-grey
silk frock of old-fashioned build had gold furbish-
ings of an ancient mode, and a flat, grey felt hat
noted m a feather or two. Another returned
tourist whose trip ’Ome has not improved her was
Mrs. C. Vallange, who looked cheerless and
rather wan in a cream serge costume and black
toque.
Both Mrs. Vallange and Miss Lesly Madden
snowed gaudy silver-buckle shoes as they tripped
*ij S high) over the course. All the
Maddens wear fancy shoes at all kinds of day-
shows. Even the serene materfamilias takes care
that her dainty shoe gets noted. At the
Gymkhana she was absent, but Miss Ruby
•i° i. on a set kled down heavy air of respon-
sibility. Then there was the big, bloom-
ing Miss Hilda Cumming, the freshest
hgure m the world—perhaps too much of the full-
blown beauty, but can you have too much of a
good thing ? Both the Clarke girls helped their
mournful frocks out with immense cut-steel
buckles. When demure Miss Mary put on her
long white macintosh she looked spruce and
sporting-like, and her white-cased glasses slung
over her shoulder emphasised the swagger splen-
didly. The second stripling, Vera —who is a real
fenodgrass is not yet at home in her long frocks,
and has a tendency to be putting back the lank
locks that, till a week or two ago, hung round her
, . is reckoned in Melbourne that Syme’s
friend Zeal is bound to be the first President of
the Senate. If he is elected he will (from a
. society ’ point of view) do the thing well. He
is rich, very hospitable, and good-natured. You
rarely see his name in a public subscription list,
yet few men are more benevolent. His fault is a
fierce temper. Years ago Burt called him in Par-
liament a ‘short little carrot’—he is red-haired,
so far as he has any hair. In the Convention,
Ceorge Reid used to bait him mercilessly. One
a |*P'y scene between them was erased from the
official report; but there is a very hot quarrel
reported in Vol. 11, p. 2408, of the Melbourne
sitting. It finished up by Zeal saying that Reid
had insulted him, to which Reid retorted, ‘You
are beneath insult,’ and Zeal added, as a parting
shot, ‘ You are a contemptible fellow.’
“Politicians’ female relatives are relieved that
the elections are over. Candidates themselves,
kept up by the excitement of the struggle, feel
the strain less than home-staying wives and
daughters, the latter seeming especially sensitive
to skits and caricatures directed at political kith
A/r 7?' Among local sufferers from this source,
Mr. Best’s two school-girl daughters palpably
wilted under what seemed to them the scorching
ferocity of their father’s press critics. Now
they re jubilant again, and, for the present, have
left off bewailing the folly of men in trying to get
into Parliament.
Since Marshall Hall and co. have burst their
bonds and gone on their own, they seem as joyous
as a flight of Shelleyan skylarks. The hymner
himself nas composed an opera (music and words)
described as joyous and Greek. His colleague
Mdme. Wiederman (Mrs. Pinschof) is arranging
an operatic entertainment in aid of the Alfred
Hospital, Hubby guaranteeing all expenses. The
Pmschofs, who recently outbid the Gallery
trustees got Mackennal’s Circe for their
mansion at Kew, are also the fortunate owners of
a delightfully picturesque chalet at Macedon.
“ According to Marshall Hall’s Herald article,
Tannhiiuser was an impulsive sort of flounderer—
seemingly not unlike the Hymner himself. Local
German women set Wagner’s Lothario on a pedes-
tal as a high-souled hero wrestling vainly with in-
herited flirtatious tendencies. Australiennes
apparently feel less lenient towards the musical
philanderer, summing him up as ‘ not too bad in
opera, but horridly squalid in real life.’ If Wag-
ner meant I anny to represent ah average ordinary
man he needn’t have libelled this poor old world
by peopling it only with such extreme female
types as Venus and Elisabeth. Life is bother-
some enough without making it out worse than it
is, as it certainly would be if all women were
either prudes or prodigals.
“How easily the illusion of the stage is
destroyed, and how careless some actors are about
the little things that go to preserve it ! In
‘ Tannhauser,’ Wolfram has several numbers to
Sing ii accompanying himself, by pretence, on a
small harp. The harp music really comes from
the orchestra, of course, and all Wolfram has to
do is to hold the small harp and move his fingers
across the strings. One night last week, all
through the opera, Max Eugene, who played
Wolfram, held his harp upside-down. When'the
instrument in the orchestra ran up the scale from
bass to treble, Eugene’s fingers ran down his
dummy harp from treble to bass. So persistently
did he do it that it looked positively perverse.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
To add to the horrors and troubles of the
war, bubonic plague is now reported among
British troops at Capetown.
Who is the “ R. Clive Teece ” who de-
fends the Kanaka traffic and otherwise cavorts so
Torily in Sydney Telegraph ? Is this A.M.P.
“Dick” Teece’s stripling son; or is it “Dick”
himself blossoming-out with a middle handle, after
the manner of J. Handle Carey ? Anyway the
name of “Teece” at the foot of a black-labor
manifesto won’t do the A.M.P. any good. Look
at all the thousands who t’other day voted for one
D. R. O’Sullivan for the Senate because they took
him for the other O’Sullivan.


HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
Popular “ PREMO D.”
h
PbotograpbU M€rcha«)tS
.... Carry a Full Stock of the Reputed ....
PREMO CAMERAS
in various Grades, Styles, and Sizes suitable for
Ladies, Gentlemen, Boys or Girls,
At Prices from 255., £2 10s., £3, £4, £4 10s., £5, £6 10s., £7,
£8 155., £9 10s., 10 Guineas, and so on up to 25 Guineas.
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
where every
description of Photo. Goods and Novelties are
.... Open for Inspection ....
HARRINGTON AND CO., LTD.,
King Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
in every Colony.
pizeilS’Pelssurance Company limited
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Policyholders exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Casticreagh Streets,
Sydney.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The retirement of Lyne and Abbott from
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly will leave Mat. Harris
the sole representative of knightly nobility in that
chamber.
“Senator” is a grandiloquent title. For
instance, “ Senator Neild.” Conjure up a mental
picture of the man, and you will perceive no flies
on his newly-acquired handle.
Mile. Dolores (Trebelli) owns a set of
curiously-carved chessmen made out of the bones
of a departed chess-enthusiast, who bequeathed
his skeleton for that purpose.
Woollnough, M.L.A., the only parson in
politics thereabouts, lost his £25 deposit trying to
get a Tasmanian seat in the Senate —and yet he
was the most cocksure of all the aspirants.
Presbyterian parson Ronald, now M. H.R.
for South Melbourne, was born on Governor-
General Hopetoun’s Linlithgow estate, and some-
where about the same time as His Ex.—in 1861.
Yictorian solicitor Grey, so long absent
without being missing, has been arrested _ at
Suva, where he was running a sugar plantation.
What “sugar” he planted, if any, remains to be
found out.
How will members address one another in
the Federal Lower House? Will Kingston be
‘ ‘ the hon. member for one-seventh of South Aus-
tralia,” or King O’Malley the ditto for a fifth of
Raspberry-land ?
A fitting wind-up of the Federal-election
fight as it was conducted at an over-the-water
Sydney suburb was the spectacle of one defeated
candidate blubbering in full view of the crowd
when the poll was declared.
N.S.W. offered one Knight (Manning) for
a seat in the Senate —out; Victoria offered two
(Zeal and Sargood)—in; South Australia three
(Symon, Baker, Downer)—in; while Queensland,
W. A. and Tasmania offered none.
Veteran Dr. Morrison of the Scotch
College, Melbourne, now close on 80, has had 10
years added to his life by the return of no less
than five of his old boys to Australia’s first Par-
liament. Best in Senate, and Knox, Skene,
Winter-Cooke, and Carty Salmon in House of
Representatives, ai*e all Scotch-collegians.
King O’Malley to a persistent and beastly
personal interjector at one of his meetings: “I
can tell by the length of your nose that if all the
brains you have were scooped out, dried in the
sun, placed in a quill taken from the wing of a
little cock-sparrow, and blown into the eye of a
flea,’twouldn’t make the flea wink.” Collapse of
interjector. Almost vigorous enough, but too
cumbrous to be quite original.
'pld N.S.W. Agent-General Saul Samuel,
who was brimful of good stories, used to tell one of
“the Royal memory,” about which much-adver-
tised institution he entertained grave doubts. The
veteran knew the then Prince of
Wales, now Edward VII, rather
well (much better than any other
Australian who had not paid scores
of thousands for the pleasure of
Tummy’s acquaintance), and hap-
pened to meet him officially one
day at the opening of some
“ colonial ” exhibition or other.
Taking Saul slightly aside, the
Prince inquired in a low voice,
“Who has come to represent
New South Wales?” “Mr.
Edward Combes, sir,” re-
plied Saul —“ he had the
honor of meeting your Royal
Highness at Paris Exhibi-
tion.” Presently the Agent-
General presented Combes to
the Prince. “ Glad to meet
you again, Mr. Combes
with a most ingenuous air.
We have met before, I think
—at Paris, was it not ? ” And
the old Agent-General used to
chuckle over the ecstasies of
Combes about “What a wonderful
man the Prince is ! He remem-
bered me at once.”
Queen Victoria met Brown-
ing once only —at the tea-table of
Lady Augusta Stanley. She made
no reference to his own writings,
but she told him she had read his
wife’s “ Aurora Floyd,” and liked
it much. The story throws no
light on the question whether Her
Gracious had really read Mrs.
Browning’s “ Aurora Leigh,” and
made a slip of the tongue, or was giving the
poetess credit for Miss Braddon’s “ Aurora
Floyd.”
Bachelor Zeal, the rough terrier of Vic.
Leg. Council, aspires to the Presidentship of the
Federal Senate, on the strength of his experience
as warder of the Yarraside political dead-house.
If the Senate is born dead it will elect him.
The late Archbishop Vaughan, when at
St. Mary’s, Sydney, never allowed a woman to
interview him unless in the presence of a third
person ; and in his residential quarters at St.
John’s College there was no woman on the pre-
mises.
It is said that Woodfall, of Grenfell
(N.S.W.) branch of the Union Bank, the other
day convicted of embezzling £4OOO or so of bank-
funds, was a married man, and was
live honestly in the responsible position of accoun
tant on £l3O a year. ,
Righteous Wrixon, the K.C.M.Gd hus-
band of a wealthy wife, threatens to publish „
new book on Democracy “ as viewed from wUtun
in the form of a “ novel.” The Democracy that
Wrixon is capable of regarding from within seem
bound to take a novel form.
There are rich newspaper-proprietors out-
side Melbourne and Sydney. It is said that last
year, S’langdon Bonythons S. A. Advertise
dividends were £22,000 ; the year before, £20,01X1
At this rate, it is financially better to own t
’Tiser than to govern India.
Hugh Mahon, old Sydney D.T. reporter,
afterwards owner of Gosford Times, la or e
feated candidate for the Wollombi, has just gone
under in his M.H..R. candidature for Coo gar .
Mr. Mahon was once an active spirit m irisn
Nationalist affairs, and for a time acted as private
secretary to Parnell. ,
It is proposed to name the Jookoyork s
second son Prince of Australia :
We want Australia white, we know,
From Hobart to the northmost track
But there’s a reservation, though—
We much prefer our Princes black.
Recently “passed out,’' aged 69, old
Australian journalist R. P. Whitworth, of h pan-
gles and Sawdust ” but possibly better known as
editor of various Australasian gazetters. 1
worth was for a time associated in society jour-
nalism with Garnet Walch and John Conway, tie
was a Bohemian of the spontaneous type— not tne
factitious.
Australia’s only clerical Federal legislator
—the hon. and rev. the member for Southern
Melb.—promptly resigned his charge on being
elected, thus setting a bright example to certain
other dualists ; but with Scawtch canniness cai -
fully took thought for the morrow, stipulating
that it should not take effect till he began to draw
his parliamentary salary.
Flowers of oratory, the very latest, from the
tongue of Sydney’s champion, Dan’lSpeaking
of the Cardinal, he referred to the ‘ Magnificent
fruitage of his intellectual plumage. With re-
gard to a recent R.C. function: “It would have
been more appropriate if the foundation-stone ha
been laid by the Minister for Works and blessed
by the direct descendant of St. Peter.
“Great opportunities await Vic. railway
Commissioner John Mathieson (writes The Bul-
letin London correspondent) on this side. Lie
him onlydo well with the Midland, and he can nave
any position and salary on any Lnglish railway
co. Capable railway - administrators are sad y
lacking here—waste, irregularity, and backward-
ness being the prevailing habits of nearly all. J •
M. made an exceedingly good impression in rail-
way circles when here recently by his grasp and
keenness, and it was expected that another and
more important co. than the Midland would have
secured him.”
NOT WHAT THEY SEEM.
IST.: “Figures cannot lie, you know.”
2ND.: “ I know some figures that are most
deceptive.”
Mr. Eden George announces that the large
vote polled for him in the Senatorial election has
moved him to run for N.S.W. State Parliament m
the forthcoming elections. No doubt he’ll get
there if he runs hard enough. Had the people of
N S.W. been fully acquainted with the history ot
his brilliant and energetic career in Christchurch
M L they would doubtless have placed him at
the very top of the poll and relegated Just-ice
Gould to second place.
Dr. Ohas. Nicholson, who was a prominent
member of N.S.W. Leg. Council 60 years ago, is
hale and hearty, at the age of
93, in his pretty home near Tot-
teridge, Herts, England. He
is the sole survivor of the mem-
bers who represented Port
Phillip province in the Parlia-
ment of N.S. Wales.
THAT DIVORCE-CASE.
LADY IN ’BUS (to fair companion): “ Well, if it was true, it was real mean of her. If it had
been me I wowd never, never have given the man away.
WICKED GENT (at far-end of ’bus, and, perhaps , tired of discussion): “Madam, would you
kindly give me your name and address?
Henry Neville Montagu, whose death was
chronicled the other day, did a mass of literary
work in his time. Probably his latest. definite en-
gagement was as dramatic and operatic critic to a
paper founded by Harold Stephen. He was a fine
linguist, and a keen critic of concert and other
music. For years he fathered Sydney Punch.
Forty years ago he was a literary leader in the
Sydney of that date.
Verily, man is a creature of circumstances.
While John Norton was absent from Sydney
during the first hearing of the Coningham case a
well-written descriptive literary sketch of the
proceedings appeared in his paper. Read be-
tween the lines, it was taken by many people to
indicate that Coningham was coming out top-
Anyhow, it didn’t please the R-.C. authori-
ties'; and, to make a long story short, John might
easily have been a Senator but for that free-and-
easy sketch-
Died, lately, at Williarnstown (Vic.), Cap-
tain H J. Draper, since ’B9 examiner of pilots for
that State. Deceased had been blind for years,
but his wonderful memory enabled him to carry
out his duties up to the day of his death. Draper
was mate of the Nelson when, in 1852, 22 ex-con-
victs stole aboard her, lying, off Williarnstown
overpowered and bound the few hands aboard, and
got away with 81530 z. of gold-dust. Most of this
was sold at 30s. an oz. to a receiver who got clear
ff to England.
The Duchess of York—another version,
rom the S.M. Herald’s London lady correspon-
dent :
The Duchess is undoubtedly a handsome woman,
worthy to be “ mother of our king to be.” Of fine height,
with a good carriage and fresh complexion, and sunny
blue eyes, she is sure to be much admired as she does the
round' of our countries across the seas. Once the Duchess
breaks through the iron ring of shyness which is her
bane and her trouble, she is a bright, clever, amusing
woman. But her shyness, people who know her well tell
me, is very trying ; it makes her awkward and difficult
with strangers.
Changes in the constitution of the Im-
perial Court of Final Appeal will involve the
merging into one Court of the House of Lords
and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Coun-
cil All the members of the new Court will be-
come Lords of Parliament. For the purpose of
adequately manning this Court eight new Law
Lords will be created—one from the Australian
Commonwealth (who?), one from Canada,
S’Africa, and India respectively. Of the remain-
ing four two will be English, one Scotch, and one
Irish.
Be Haddon Chambers’s new play, “ The
Awakening,” lately produoed at London St.
James’s. A Sketch critic, who professes to be
very intimate with Chambers, says that, although
he has a bland child-like expression of face, he is a
most desperate and pugilistic person, and that
this is perhaps caused by his life m Australia, tor,
proceeds this genius, “many is the duel he has
had to fight with the wild freebooters, and he has
had many dangerous encounters with the wild
animals which frequent the inland parts of Aus-
tralia.”
Chief Justice Madden is very angry that
he has not been appointed State Governor of Vic-
toria. He has worked so hard for the ]ob, and had
so many live wires at work for him, that he
thought it was as good as his. His failure has
broken him up, and in consequence he is giving
Premier Peacock a bad time. The O.J. has a
servant-girl’s passion for tinsel and showy flum-
mery ; and nothing would have given him greater
pleasure than to have been able to frill around m
the fine clothes of a Governor for the rest of his
Retired Yic. County-Court Judge Casey,
when a young man in Amerio^aa ™J>loyed
occasion to arrest
comedian Sir Wil-
liam Don. The
pair met at Ben-
digo in ’6O, and
exchanged re-
miniscences.
days. This is not to be, and His Nibs, in order
to break his fall, will take a holiday for a few
months when new Governor Havelock comes
along.
Demise: Attorney Winfield Attenborough,
somewhere about the last of the Romans, in the
way of Melbourne’s old-school lawyers—a type
very different from the crack attorney of to-day.
The port-wine firm that survived the longest was
Taylor, Buckland, and Gates, in Geelong. If we
round up the big Melb. attorneys of the present,
such as Gillott, Maddock, and the rest, the differ-
ence in type is observable at once. Law does not
seem to go in such big gulps as formerly, when
the banks, squattages, and mines were always at
it with momentous cases ; the attorney was more
a general man of the world than he is now.
Attenborough was of the jovial sort, holding Ins
own well with Dick Ireland, Dick Goldsbrough,
and the stout old generation.
An ordinarily staid Fat, returned to the
Federal Parliament by the misguided Vic. elec-
tors, was utterly overwhelmed by his success, and
went off his dot publicly in Collins-st. when at
length triumph was assured. First he shook
hands with his friends tremulously and with much
dramatic flourish ; then, becoming more and more
dominated by emotion, he embraced all and sun-
dry round the neck : then he shook hands wildly
with anybody that offered, and large tears coursed
down his nose, and “ Gor bleshers” were freely
distributed. But the happy man’s most touching
manifestation was his lachrymose but happy
babbling of the phrase: “Oh, my Eliza will be
pleased—she will be pleased !” It was only when
the crowd made a song of “Oh, won’t Eliza be
pleased ! ” that the great man’s chums bpre him
into a pub. and braced him up with whiskies.
Superintendent Camphin, who in the
Coningham case professed to give friendly and
not police advice to Dr. O’Haran, has been 43
years in N.S.W. police. He joined the detective
branch close on 40 years ago, and has had a hand
in most stirring criminal events since. It was he
who unravelled the Parramatta River mystery,
and brought to the gallows Nicholls and Lester.
He also solved the mystery of the headless bodies
at Deniliquin. The only ignominious adventure
he relates tells how in a search for bushrangers in
the far back he was locked up as a bad character
by one of his own constables. The constable
would listen to no explanations, and treated his
prisoner’s assurance that he was Detective
Camphin as an attempt to hoax. The Sydney
authorities had to interfere before Camphin was
released, and even then the constable followed
him about with grave suspicion.
Surprise was expressed in some quarters
at the high position John Norton occupied on the
N.S.W. Senate poll. As an explanation. Duringthe
campaign a young girl called on the accountant
of a Govt, department. She alleged that she or
her family had a claim for a few pounds against
the dept, and could not get satisfaction. The
accountant explained at length the position of
the case, and with the idea of giving an object-
lesson in politeness to his listening staff, excelled
himself in attempting to arrive at a satisfactory
conclusion, winding up with a definite promise to
settle up one way or the other by “Tuesday week.”
The damsel thanked him and withdrew, but on
reaching the door she stopped, and, turning round,
drawled out in a most matter-of-fact tone, “I’ll
give you to Tuesday week, and then we 11 put
Norton on to yer.” Many people’s idea of
“Norton” is something of the panther tribe,
which roams round the Domain, and can be “ put
on” to anyone in a high or official position whose
ways they consider refractory.


THE . .
FEDERAL
SPIRIT . .
wolce’s
"schnapps.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
In Georgetown, N.Q., t’other day, a drover,
passing through to Herberton with a mob of
cattle, was married to a full-blooded lubra. The
lady was attired for the occasion in pants and
shirt. No church in Georgetown, and the Mining
Registrar tied the knot. White women are
scarce up there, and the lubra is very much in
evidence.
The old adage, “ Dog won’t
eat dog,” does not apply to the Australian dingo.
As an instance, the case of three dingo pups,
which, upon being taken from their mother’s lair,
were placed for the night with the pups of a tame
slut. In the morning, the dingo pups had eaten
the head off one tame pup, and the legs off two of
the others.
* * * *
He was new to shanty-keeping, but didn’t
like to own-up, so when the traveller asked for
“ brandy and curaeoa,” he planked down a bottle
of chain-lightning, and, after careful survey of
the shelves, said, •“ Oi can’t give yez any karrisin,
mishter, unless Oi take a dbrop out ov the lamp ! ”
After pouring a little of the liquor on the counter
—and quenching the consequent conflagration—
the traveller “ passed ” brandy, and thought he’d
have some dry gin. Another prolonged search,
and the landlord gave in. “ It’s d n sthrange !
Oi had a big packidge ov it undher the counther
yisterday, but the missus musht hev taken it fer
salts ! ”
* • » »
“Jack” : Re “ Dunnarg ” oil the wild
state of some back-block families (8., 2/3/’l). I
once knew of a family on the Macquarie, about
half-a day’s tramp from Hill End, who were all
(bar the old man) as wild :is warrigals. Lived by
getting a little alluvial gold, and the old man took
tlie bit of “dust” to Hill End monthly to ex-
change for rations. On one of these visits he told
the local publican that he would bring a couple of
his daughters up and have them “ broken-iu to
service.” Next trip the old man started with the
daughters, but when they caught sight of the
town they bolted. Some time afterwards lie did
manage to get one up to town, strapped-down,
in a cart ; and she was eventually tamed. Many
such families can be found even now in N.S.W.
If you want any information from them you’ve
got to run them down or log them in their huts.
And yet we send missionaries to China !
* * * *
“ Louis M.” : The dance discoursed on by
“ Alick ” (B. 2/3/’01) was indeed an exceptional
one. Bush “hops,” as a rule, are lamentably
“proper” ([ refer to those occurring in back-
block townships). There are generally about six
different “sets” represented —and intermixing,
even at charity balls, is rarely indulged in. All
present appear oppressed with the responsibility
of maintaining the barrier. Should Mr. A dance
with Miss B, Miss C will decline him as a partner
for the rest of the evening. Should he then stand
“ALAS, MY POOR BROTHER !”
A Westralian version.- With apologies to “ Bovril.”
up with Miss D, his “cake is. dough” as regards
both Miss B and Miss C, and; so, on. Before en-
tering a bush ballroom one needs just as much
coaching as for a swell soiree. Sometimes, how-
ever, etiquette is rather lax. An instance : A
gent (lately up) noticed a young lady performing
the “ Duke of Argyle ” wriggle against a con-
venient post, and allowed his eye to rest on the
fair contortionist longer than necessary ; where-
upon the lady, with asperity—“Yer needn’t look,
it’s only ther prickly ’eat ? ”
* * • *
A tragedy in a nutshell. Inscription in
large deep capitals on one side of the cutting
ABSENT-MINDED.
RECENT PURCHASER (leading pitiable moke, to auctioneer): “Look ’ere, mister , didn' ya tell me
yestiddy this ’orse ’ad done two miles in six minutes? Why ’e couldn’t do one mile in
a whole hour!”
[?] CTONEER (blandly): “Oh—er—I forgot to mention that it was in a railway-truck!”
at Mt. Victoria (Blue Mountains) Pass : “ Bridge
men left in the lurch.” On the opposite side in
similar letters are the names of five men, then a
large roughly-cut figure of the traditional “Old
Nick,” bearing above it the title “ The Boss.”
This resolves itself into the story of five men who,
after weeks of hard work at bridge-making, were
left penniless by a levanting boss to beg then-
way to Sydney.
• * * *
“A.C.H.” : Be cat sagacity (8., 29/12/’01).
A family which lived on the west side of Port
Augusta (separated from the town by the Gulf—
at that place from quarter to half-mile wide) had
a cat which they wished to place in another home.
So one evening puss was put in a basket, rowed
across to the township, and left in a friend’s
backyard. An hour or so was spent in the Port,
and when home was reached, the cat was sitting
in the kitchen carefully drying herself. Have
often heard of cats swimming out of water, but
never before of one voluntarily entering it.
“ D. 8.” : The high ground in
Peak Hill (N.S.W.) district is, during
the .summer months, dotted with
small heaps of clean seeds —about a
handful in each heap—laboriously
collected by a slow-moving black ant,
whose nest-entrance can be found a
few inches away. The closest obser-
vation fails to disclose the object of
so much industry, as the seed simply
lies there untouched by the ant, to
be either eaten by birds or blown or
washed away by the first storm. A
notable instance of objectless
“ thrift.”
* * *
Just before last shearing a
well-known N.S.W. squatter engaged
a new bookkeeper, and seemed much
afraid that the latter did not know
enough to charge the shearers- a
remunerative price for stores. So
the boss kept popping his hoary old
head in at the door of the store now
and then with such instructions as
“Charge 2 bob a pound for tea,”
“Sixpence a pound for sugar,” &c.,
&c. But he reached the climax with
“Don’t sell ’em any stamps. Can’t
charge any profit on those.”
* * *
“E.H.M.” : In a recent Scien-
tific American a writer—referring to the wanton
destruction of animal life —states that the ’possum
feeds extensively on “grubs, beetles, and other
insects.” Can any of your readers verify this? I
never heard of it. [The reference was probably
to the American, or true, opossum (Didelphys) a
creature differing considerably in habits from the
Australian ’possum.]
* * * *
“ Spinifex ” to The Bulletin, >from Perth
(W.A.) ;
The lately-murdered J. J. Durack did -mat belong to the
firm of Connor, Doherty, and Durack, of Fremantle. He
was, however, related to a member thereof. Durack
knew well that the blacks had a grudge against him—as
indeed the E. Kimberley niggers have against all white
men, especially squatters, who, they say, are taking their
country from them. Durack never travelled unarmed,
and had loaded firearms alongside of him when murdered.
He was a typical bushman of the pioneer stamp, and the
blacks on his stations were better treated than on any
others up that way. The blacks have for years past been
wantonly spearing hundreds of cattle and horses in E.
Kimberley country, and the Duracks have been great
losers. Ask any half-civilised nigger why he spears cattle
and he will mostly reply, “ Squatter take my country.”
* * * *
“Peter K.” : Be cat-intelligence. I once
knew in Lilydale district (Vic.) a large tortoise-
shell Tom which would follow at heel and
fetch-and-carry like a dog. Also would retrieve
small birds or young rabbits shot by his owner.
Had other more common accomplishments, such
as “begging” and turning somersaults at word
of command.
* * • .
Another touching story of the affectionate
and faithful dog. Toby was bought a month or
two back by a South Melbourne man who was a
martyr to the attacks of a local push, and desired
to have a companion-in arms when he sauntered
abroad after nightfall. The dog was sold with a
certificate of character and a guarantee, and his
new owner spent three weeks winning his canine
affections, and attaching him to his person
by bonds of self-interest and sympathy.
Then he started walking the animal out, and
on the fifth night three of “the Flying Angels’
swooped on him in a dark place, and began kick-
ing his socks off. This.was Toby’s opportunity,
and he laid back his ears and dug in ; taking a
mouthful of the nearest leg, he held on and
tugged, worrying with all his energy, quite re-
gardless of the screams of the victim. And when
the pushites had fled, and the police drew nigh,
the anguished victim discovered, to his great
mortification, that it was himself the faithful
animal had got hold of and was chewing.
* * * *
“ Ryan 1 ” said the man with the pint.
1 rom Ballarat ! I thought so. Call ev’ry bloke
you meet up there Ryan, an’ you’re right nine
times out o’ tin. All the Ryans this side o’ the
divil live at Ballarat—except a few at Bungaree
an’ Creswick. I went into a pub. up there one
day wid a pal—one of the clan of course—and
said to ’im, ' Wotchavin’, Ryan ? ’ There wuz 12
men in the bar, an’ they all ordered whisky except
one bloke—and they called him ‘ Deafy ’ Ryan.”
• * * *
“Via”: Be Mandevilles “long-apple”
(B. 12/1/01)). Doesn’t this fit in better with the
custard-apple of the tropics and its full brother
the Delicious Monster ? ( Anona reticulata). This
fruit ripens an inch per day, rots ditto, and if cut
open, down or across, shows the true Maltese
Cross.
* * ♦ *
Maori pahs in the North Island are being
gradually stripped of their native curios, the
owners giving them away or selling them at a
price far below their value to travelling pot-
hunters who ingratiate themselves with the brown
people for the special purpose of making such
deals. Gov. Ranfurlv, who already has a fair
swag of curios., was recently, at Tokaanu, given
two very ancient whalebone meres , a number of
pieces of greenstone, a large stone axe which
eight generations ago belonged to a celebrated
tohunga, and a famous stone chisel which was
long ago used to build a noted house called Hau-
hauterangi. The Duke of York will find the
Maori region the most interesting part of his
tour, and will get cartloads of almost priceless
articles laid at his royal feet by natives.
* * * *
A snake-and-man story from Lilydale,
Vic. The man was porter at the local station,
and it was part of his daily duties to attend to the
lever for working the points, situated about 50yds.
from the platform. The end of the lever was
boxed-in in the usual way, and sometimes the
workings got clogged with dust. Putting his hand
in to clear away this dust on a warm afternoon
the porter was bitten on the finger by a black
snake, which escaped after striking. The porter’s
life was saved with difficulty, and in a week or
two he went back to work again. A few months
later he put his hand into the same box exactly as
on the former occasion, and was bitten again,
dragging out the snake hooked to his finger this
time. That porter is still living, so is the snake,
but the former had so narrow a squeak that he
now makes it a rule to dust the points with a
stick. Live and learn !
The*re has been a curious controversy in
London Daily Chronicle and the Athenaeum re
the orgin of the name of Bendigo. The Chronicle
tells the old story that the place was called after
a prize-fighter, but the other paper holds to the
bandicoot theory. The AthkN/EUM comments
“The most interesting fact about the place is that
when it grew respectable, it became ashamed of
its name, and changed it; and lately, thinking
that the earlier name was, after all, racy of Aus-
tralian life, deliberately reverted to it.” Curiously
enough, there are no members for Bendigo in Vic.
Parliament. The representatives of the place are
called members for “Sandhurst.”
* * * *
“Myrtle” : Be the murder by blacks of
Bishop Patterson at Samoa. The Bishop, when a
lad of 18 at Eton, held the world’s record for
cricket-ball-throwing -120yds. His record was
afterwards eclipsed by an Australian aboriginal.
Pie seems to have been destined to be beaten by
blacks.
* * * m
“ J.A.C.” : Met about a dozen Kanakas
the other morning near Yeppoon (Q.). The usual
way is just to say “ Hullo,” and pass on, but this
time I was greeted with “Goo’ morning mistah
C , what you say, it stop holiday to-day.”
“Yes,” I answered; “it looks like it by your
clothes.” They were dressed up tip-top—starchers
and loud ties, black suits of clothes and shining
boots. “Oh yeh, nice clothes, my word,”
smilingly returned one dusky toff. “To-day we
be Australyan larrah-kin.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“A.H.C.”: Once had a bull-terrier that
was a terror for killing poultry. Also had a fine
collection of pigeons, and one morning found the
lot missing. Couldn’t learn anything about them
although the local bobby wasted much of his
valuable time pursuing clues. Some days later,
however, I was idly watching the dog rooting in
a potato-patch, and presently saw him unearth a
pigeon. Investigated and found them all—buried
at intervals over the patch.
Scene : A woolshed in the N.YV. Shear-
ing stragglers. Enter newchum manager just up
from the South. Manager, to one of the shearers :
“Look here, my man, you are leaving half the
wool on. Shear that sheep again ! ” Shearer :
“Which blooming sheep?” Manager, after pul-
ling sheep out of pen : “ This one—see the wool
you have left on!” Shearer: “Why, that’s
one that was shore three months ago at general
shearing.” Exit manager disgusted.
* * * *
A Capetown paper tells how certain Aus-
tralian shearers, who were watching Kaffirs take
the wool off sheep, were so disgusted at the way
the heathen hacked off the wool in bits and
stowed them in a bag, that they collared the
shears, took off the wool in workmanlike fashion,
and presented a decent fleece to the owner.
Probably sheepowners in S’Africa are firmly of
opinion that white men can’t shear sheep, and
that the handling of wool is an employment only
fitted for Kanak—we mean Kaffirs.
* * * *
A M.L. poet was so indignant on hearing
of the proposal to change the old Dutch-sounding
name of “ New Zealand,” that he called as fol-
lows on the spirits of the dead contingenters to
rise and resist the outrage
New Zealand ! By thy sons inurned,
And wreathed in fiery flame.
O, never by thy sons be spurned
The glamour of thy name !
“ Wreathed in fiery flame.” He is the first Jingo
poet to suggest that the departed Boer-slayers are
in Sheol.
* * * *
A couple of Hindoos recently leased a
disused produce store in a N.S. W. northern town,
and started therein an ice-cream and confec-
tionery factory. The building has only one room,
30 x 15, which serves as factory, store-room, cart-
shed, stable, kitchen, and dwelling for the manu-
facturers and up to a dozen lodgers, the horse
being kept to his corner by means of a few boards.
Yet the stuff made in this den finds ready sale.
* * * *
Drought-stricken Central Queensland ap-
parently means to grow prodigies of a unique
order in place of grass. T’other day, during an
insolvency inquiry, a lad of 15 was sworn to as the
landlord and proprietor of a hotel and store.
He had earned the money in a casual way in his
spare time, and all since leaving school.
EVOLUTION.
Iletmdg'ed behind the plough and steered the share
Through ample fields of rich, red, loamy soil,
Or reaped with shimmering blade the crops it bare,
And carted to the mart his fruits of toil,
i ear in and out his day was drear and long,
tt i- S u was his couch nofc one of down ;
lie lightened labor’s burdens with his song*,
And craved not Fortune’s smile nor feared heFfrown.
Begrimed he fought upon the sodden plain,
In tatters clad, his heart and body sore ;
He heard the shrieks of dying, saw the slain,
And learned the bloody horrors of a war.
Where harvests once had thrived and homesteads smiled,
Where full contentment reigned a year ago,
An army through the smoking ruins filed,
And left a hapless people to their woe.
And now, on his return from fields afar—
His kharki outfit all the worse for wear—
He tells his tales of prowess in the bar,
And lubricates while stupid yokels stare.
But nevermore returns he to the farm,
To till and sow and reap and garner in.
For Peace’s vict’ries have no farther charm
For one whose ears have heard the battle’s din !
“F.”, in WINDSOR (N.S.W.) GAZETTE.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University —
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted zvith a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
“ Alohar ” ■ We had been down the
river fishing—four of us in a boat—and when
within 30 yds. of home, in the dusk of the evening
m noticed something (all from thewharf whore
some youngsters were playing. Pulled over ana
girl sinking for the second time. Every-,
body except Smith, who was hideously and won-
derfully drunk, grabbed her and pulied her out
While we were doing it Smit.i fell in. The s
of Smith has been already mentioned. He was a
heavy man, and the toil we had in fishing Smith
ont was like unto the numerous labours (I forget
ho v many) of the mythological person whose
name I can’t remember. Brown carried home the
little girl who wasn’t much the worse. Johnson
and I laboured up the street
dragging a great mass of
soaked, drunk, limp, help-
less, unpleasant Smith.
Never in all my life did I see
so much water run off
man —or even six men. Near
home we met Smith s em-
ployer, who indicated the
streaming object with the
end of his walking stick, and
asked in a contemptuous tone
what that might be. To save
Smith’s billet we had to say
that, he was suffering from
prolonged immersion, in an
effort to save a fellow-crea-
ture. Smith has the Humane
Society’s medal now, and has
been mentioned in the
papers, and thanked and
presented with a purse of
sovereigns by the mayor at
a crowded public meeting.
Also he is looked on kindly
by a nice girl with property
—the elder sister of the
child we rescued. And as
the result of one ill-con-
sidered and well-meant pre-
varication we have no medal,
no purse of sovereigns, no
fame, no public meeting, no
nice girl—nothing but the
damage done to our clothes
where Smith dripped on us.
We haven t even the satis-
faction of knowing that
Smith is aware that he is an
impostor, for he really thinks
he did it. Language fails
me. It also fails Brown.
Certainly it hasn’t failed
Johnson yet, but even he is
likely to run short of adjec-
tives soon.
* * ♦
u '• Got fi lot-
ter once at the local P.O.
addressed to a neighbour
Took it over and found Tim - ,
(who doesn’t know A from a bull s tail) m tne
milking-yard. He looked at the envelope and
said, “ Yes; it’s from me son Mick.” Asked
him’ how lie knew without opening the letter.
“Sure, can’t I see the two stamps on it ? Only
the head-guards and them high officials puts two
stamps on a letter.” [The letter had two penny
stamps on it. Son Mick r- a railway-guard.]
(One development of military rule in
3’ Africa. The Rhodesian Times (Salisbury) ap-
pended this footnote to a 15th Jan, telegram that
General Carrington was going to England from
Capetown
[Our correspondent is obviously in error, as we under-
stand that Sir Frederick Carrington has not been at the
front since his disgraceful failure to relieve our men at
Eland’s River. He has been at Bulawayo looking after
horses.—En. R.T.]
On a following Saturday night, when “Ed. R. T.’
had finished setting the universe right for that
AFTER THE DIVORCE-CASE.
“ Othello’s occupationgone.”
week, and was putting his boots out with a weary
expression before turning-in, “ Capts. Nesbit,
V. C., and Munro ” arrived at his bedroom door
with a note from “ J. Flint, Lt.-Col. Commanding
Troops, Salisbury,”—which said that unless a
full and unreserved apology was printed in the
next issue of the Times, the issue of the paper
would be stopped and the offices closed. The
editor refused apology; and there was no more
Rhodesian Times. It’s a typical instance of
military autocracy ; for (mark) the statement of
fact was not characterised as untrue, and the
statement of opinion was within anybody’s right
of nonimnni-
Mackennal the Australian.
Sundry people and personages—Mrs., Cora Potter
among them—have been credited with the “dis-
covery” of Bertram Mackennal. Obviously the
paragraphists in these cases didn’t know the
sculptor they were talking about. He belongs to
the order of geniuses who start by discovering
themselves, and keep themselves well in view for
ever afterwards. Mackennal has the strong
artistic brain in the hard, business head, whereon
Tweedlepunch, the phrenologist, would probably
find the bump of destructiveness sticking out like
E. BERTRAM MACKENNAL , the Australian Sculptor.
Photo by Humphrey & Co., Melbourne.
a watermelon. One thinks of all sculptors as
destructive image-makers, though, in truth, it is
not they, the artists, who attack blocks of marble
with mallet and chisel. And one feels that this
sculptor, anyhow, is exceptionally virile.
The eye which looks after Mackennal’s interests
is keen and hard, the mouth firm and straight.
Somehow the clean-shaven face suggests a fighting
curate, and yet “young” rapid Mackennal is a
pleasant reminder of his late father, who was the
gentlest of gentlemanly modellers in clay. The
creator of “Oirce” is pure Scottish-Austrahan.
His mother, a shrewd lassie, came frae the land o’
cakes ; his father had a Scotch father who went
through the family estate with a most un-Cale-
donian carelessness and was an artist in naught
but spending money. The practical, brainy
bohemianism of Bertram Mackennal is explained.
He was only 18 when he got away from Mel-
bourne to London. Entered himself as a student
at the Royal. Academy, and presently decided
that Paris would suit him better. At 20 he had
the audacity to open a studio, though still a mere
struggler in the school of adversity. Mackennal
doesn’t talk much about his early career, but he
appears to have mentioned casually that he owes
a debt of gratitude to a trustful restaurant-keeper,
and has eaten at tables where the chinaware—
plates, dishes, and things—were the work of his
own hands.
Happy is life in Paris when the world is young
and Fame is understood to be always hovering
near with a laurel wreath waiting for a convenient
opportunity to crown her elect, and every aspirant
is of the elect. London offers a larger assortment
of attractions. All good Americans |nowadays
go to London when they die, whereas they for-
merly sought the banks of tb'j Seine. London has
a community of 250 artists, one kind or other, at
St. John’s Wood ; altogether things are less insu-
lar than of yore. But for the young bohemian
the charm of Paris remains unrivalled. One
can drop into a cafe, say the Cafe Versailles,
and always find interesting fellows at the
tables, men for the hero-worshippers to silently
adore—such as Rodin, the great sculptor, in his
working blouse ; Francois Coppee, the poet, writ-
ing, with his glass of absinthe in front of him ;
Dubois, the medallist—anybody and everybody.
Mackennal couldn’t have been more than 22
when he met his matrimonial fate. She was an
English girl, student in Paris, and he was an
Australian boy, so they agreed that long engage-
ments were a mistake. When Longstaff came
along on his travelling scholarship (that was in the
eighties) he found his compatriot, the sculptor, to
be a husband and a father—father of an only child
who, by the way, is now a tall girl with a well-
grown talent for drawing and decorative design-
ing.
In ’BB, or thereabouts, Mackennal returned to
Melbourne. Those were the piping times of
bank overdrafts, and at the Cafe Anglais in
Collins-street —a feeding-place which rose and fell
with the Boom—one used to meet old Macken-
nal’s son oftimes. His studio was in Swanston-
street. He didn’t benefit by the Boom. The
busts that men went in for at that period were
not of marble, or bronze, but booze. He sculped
a pair of panels for the front of Parlia-
ment House, and got a few small commis-
sions. It seemed he had made a mistake
in bringing his talent to Australia. I hen
Bernhardt struck Melbourne for a month,
and the Divine Sarah, who dabbles m clay,
herself, wanted to know what ze gifted Mac-ken-
nal meant by wasting his time on this desert land,
Mon Dim ! Why did he not fly back to the home
of Art ? The trouble was to get feathers to fly
with. Frank Stuart, and a few other admirers at
his instigation, provided the necessary plumes
(witness the charming bronze statuette ot irutn,
which the sculptor presented to them some years
later) and early in ’92 Mackennal was modelling
his famous “Circe” in the studio next to Jack
Longstaff, who then had his “ Sirens picture on
the easel. Australia was about to get known to
Paris through these two works.
Mackennal was advised by Bernhardt to assert
his nationality toujours. “Be the Australian
said she, “There are many English sculptors, but
Australia has only one.” And she talked to her
Australian friend of the value of the personal
paragraph which people read m the newspapers
how much more interesting it is than the huge
poster which stares at them from the street
hoardings ! , , ,
Circe was exhibited at the Royal Academy and
the Baris Salon. Salon critics pronounced it
Great—an Inspiration. The modelling of the
statue was not more admired than the pedestal,
so notable for its clever frontal figure of womanly
despair. It is hard to believe that the same
plaster-bronze Circe which caught Pans an
Brussels, and subsequently went the round ot
a dozen or two of British cities-the Circe now on
view at Melb. Art Gallery—did actually make its
first appearance in London with a cloth over that
same pedestal. The Royal Academy suffered
from doubts concerning
the moral character of the
bas-relief work. The com-
mittee thought it better
not to expose the public
to the possible risk of an
impure ‘impression, con-
sequently there were
some who gathered around
Circe and feasted their
imagination on the sup-
posed lewdnessof the cold,
chaste work they couldn’t
see. The sculptor got a
valuable advertisement
from those managerial
scruples. The personal
paragraph is all the better
for a little mystery, espe-
cially if the mystery is
spiced.
Whence came the story of how the Australian
met Queen Victoria in a corridor in Windsor
Castle, or somewhere, and was astounded at the
dignity of her deportment, the silvery quality of
her voice, the splendor of her artistic sympathies.
&c., See. ? The narrative represented him as
having been summoned by royal command to
submit a model of a statue for the approval of the
Sovereign, who approved in such brilliantly cr’+i
cal terms that be thought he must have told her
beforehand exactly what a critic ought to say.
Mackennal never saw the august Lady m a cor-
ridor, or listened whilst she soliloquised. Cer-
tainly he was required to forward, in the ordinary
way, photos, of the Queen’s statue for India,
and the more recent one for Ballarat, to an
officer of the Household, as per official regulation.
A public statue of the monarch must be duly
passed at Court, to prevent the possibility of a
ludicrous “ duffer ” work inciting ridicule against
the figurehead of the State.
Circe has become tiie property of Mr. Pinschof
(husband of Madame Wiedermann), who outbid
the Melb. Gal Ary trustees by planking down
£lOOO for a bronze reproduction of the model.
The present plaster-bronze goes to London to be
re-cast in metal under the sculptor’s at
a cost to himself of some £3OO or so. Herr Pin-
schof has a fine room, 80ft. long, where the
Sorceress can stretch out her arms to the best
possible advantage, which fact helped in inducing
the artist to sell to the private person rather than
the public Gallery. Besides, the importunate
private customer had previously written out a
cheque for all the smaller bronzes Mackennal was
showing. No to that Melbourne’s one enterprising
patron of art just now is Pinschof, the Austrian.
Under the circumstances it was only a fair thing
for the sculptor to make his voyage out and home
by the German boat—Fredrich der Grosse. Why
does Mackennal, the Britisher—for every Austra-
lian who lives much among foreigners is forced
into Britishness by racial feeling—why does he
patronise the German line and yet look for con-
solation in the evidences of British workmanship
marked upon steel girders, patent portholes, and
what not? Because, he says, the Friedrich der
Grosse is managed as a floating hotel, with all
due regard for the boarders.
Mackennal will probably pay another visit to
Melbourne next year. The Clarke statue is to be
erected next year, and. well the Queen V ictoria
memorial is not a commission as yet. Meanwhile
he has work waiting for him in London. All sculp-
tors of any reputation have their hands full just
now. Twenty years ago they were nowhere ; now
they are everywhere. Twenty years ago the old-
fashioned houses of the wealthy were hung with
pictures in nearly all the rooms—pictures two and
three deep, placed frame against frame for the
full length of the walls. But the architect came
along (Oscar Wilde hastened the architects
blessed appearance on the scene) to reconstruct
old houses inside, or build new ones altogether, on
a plan that created a necessity for sculptors work
whilst diminishing the market for easel paintings.
The modern oak-panelled dining-room may have
one painting, let into the wall over the fire-
place The marbled hall has none. Pictures
are shown only in the gallery—few town houses
have a gallerv -the library or the smoking-room.
Sculptor’s work is wanted in all directions. The
up-to-date door-handle even is a work of art.
Costly metal furnishings require strong designs,
and manufacturers, of course, have awakened to
the fact that the difference in cost between a first-
class design and a bad one is not worth consider-
ing when the reproduction on a wholesale scale is
the same in both cases. Painters look glum, the
. new century delights them not. But the sculptors
wear orchids in their buttonholes —occasionally—
and carol tra-la-la all the time.
MELBOURNE.
EDMUND FISHER.
One of the Cunards, when asked why their
steamboat line enjoyed such an immunity from
accidents, replied—“ Because we never employ
cheap men.”
“ Coronclla ” : The Vic. Govt, granted
£6OOO to Melbourne Working Men’s College, for
the building of new workshops, to enable the col-
lege to start new trade-classes. Now that the
workshops are built-they were finished some
months ago—the Treasurer can t find monej to
fit them up, so they stand empty and useless
whilst hundreds of students await the opening.
Meanwhile, Premier Peacook is fitting up a palace
for the Duke of York.
Dear Bulletin.— The statement (8.,
2/3/’01) that no Anglican parsons have opposed
the Boer war is not quite correct. In Maoriland,
no one protested against it more vigorously from
thebeginning than O’Brien Hoare, the most original
and, next to Bishop Julius, the cleverest Anglican
parson in M.L. But as no clergy have less influ-
ence —even with their flocks—than the Anglicans,
their views about the war, or anything else, don t
count much. —Pokaki.
Said an old Victorian railway-ganger re-
cently up for medical examination: “I got on
fust-class till they asked me to read some prmtm
at 20ft off. ‘ That’ll do for me !’ I says— gi me
compensation and I’ll clear ! When I came into
the Department they wanted workmen, not
scholards.’ Dashed if I know what the Railways
is coming to,” he continued energetically ; 1 see
the ganger on the next length to me with a pen
behind his ear and Cole’s Book-Arcade m his
pocket. He’s got a bit of a cowshed wot he calls
his ‘offis,’ and bli’ me if the men amt got to
knock and take off their hats when they come in.
I’d knock at his blessed offis ! ’’—and the old man
drove his beater about 4in. under the sleeper-.
BERTRAM MACKENNAL’S “ CIRCE."
Photo, by Henry Dixon & Son, London.
S.A. has been lately in the midst of its
grape season, and in several districts the crop has
panned out better than any since 1887 ; besides
which prices are good, ranging from £3 15s. to
£7 10s. per ton. The principal vineyards are
on the slopes of the hills south and east of Ade-
laide ; hundreds of acres are being every year
added to the land thus used. One grower, who
buys about as much as he grows, has just brought
up his fermenting tanks to 35,000-gallon capacity,
and lie expects to make from 100,000 to 120,000
gallons of wine this season. There are at least
three others who will make as much. A labora-
tory has now become part of every decently-
equipped vineyard.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has,
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.


CaRROTERS at work.
OUTRAGES IN THE CITY.
►VICTIMS SEVERELY MALTREATED-
f Several outrages were committed in the
city and its immediate outskirts on Satur-J
day night by gangs of garroters, who had
no hesitation in resorting to violence uiicte
they found it necessary. Five people wer*
attacked, three in the city and one iri
Carlton, before midnight, the fifth some
hours later in the city
if" the
treated by Government in this
Stous manner they would be reduc * i J£
despair, and. he said, with regret, when
the Duke ot York visited Melbourne they
Wouldhave to demonstmte and show b.
Boyal Highness the misery existing in
yiotorta.
<H*r a,cf
0 P ° (
r(?or ,
I tMy
; 'GooA- (?/*>, A<!2* vi f^
d u'ty $ c«\H I i£®"7s?
-f]c ci'ly *6 «S**J.
2\*7<J 1 ~
Vi|c (Ijysferichly] ;- j)of7't~ lose
<& h7e
cl] i U k«,v7 wi II 1/e j) fzy i
jj'oK -you • d*wn).
*— ~C&-Q-|qv»)4 ujK^
fellow , \*\
i. Cot>;cs '^/oi'Ks
—lll ly "to
g’-f' rid of
k. So»,eV»^.
V V <S/.% %y °.y J /,%> <?
€o
___ X . ])’ — ''Justice
v e p k ' | "ti?e
m%M 'jL i
HPT b*>%u.K."
ĥ
I \
II W wj^Kiv7P
(?en/ mlk
is ouHf.
The vacancy caused in the Ministry'/ by
the election of Mr. Isaacs. Attorney-Gene-
ral, to the Federal House of Representa-
tives, will be discussed at a special meeting
of the Cabiuet, to be held on 11th inst.
This, however, v■ >ll be purelv a formality,
for it has been practically agreed upon that
Mr. Gillott. Mayor of Melbourne, and Min
ister without otiiee, shall succeed Mr. Isaacs
as prinedpal law officer of the Crown. Con-
sideration will have to be given, however,
to -the question whether two honorary
'members should be appointed in place of
Mr. Gillott and Mr. Phillips. M.L.C.
THE STATE GOVERNOR.
HIS FUTURE RESIDENCE.
MR- WAGNER’S MANSION TO BE
LEASED.
The Cabinet decided yesterday to secure
a ’ease "of “Stonnington," Glenfcrric-ioad,
Malvern, as a residence for the State Go- i
vernor. The mansion, which forms part
of the late Mr. Wagner’s estate, was
furnished with great taste by its late-
proprietor, and the Government considers
that the rental of £lOOO per annum, at
, which the place has. been offered to it, is a |
I very reasonable one. The only draw- .
..back arises from its inaccessibility
to the general public, as it stands
apart from either railway or tram.
'•’j ijjj '&" v»i V\for!t *l*7l ’ \
y fy*M'^* r "Kt I 1
1
% ?*a/o, ani , "7 M el boor- D U , VV V<
"’<• r° p,^n e l? b Xt '! UN '•■ '
\ y»h«to.V b °‘ Sl; P>™ IB .
\ f e, ''ted t • XCe^eoev, «, ne °£ fA P r"' /
\ & Aaafu J*e shied r '*« 1 CfTTTTW
\ cli^ S u °hurt Ar ‘f l A l * ol 'ed’ - na Un * I 111
\ r e/i£/ n ? regain VA-, bnt ■l° VPit r<ia'. 111‘tT
|l\ \\\yM/
O r ce i
t "7 11
1 1
1 ll i I
G'ce " [wijly \Jj
% Wo*iaVr 1
/ 50
7V N N l '" l) •Cfeytt
CT/
mf Qur M\i< I7 tc \
t)o AvJ<*er itp/Hed fcoKfcKwj, '
°*7"7 e v/ivy 'to 2\.
MELBOTTBNIANA.


LONDON. April t., 3 p.m.—The German Empe-
ror has congratulated the Sultan upon the exem-
plary bravery and coolness displayed by him dur*
ing the recent earthquake at Constantinople. The
Kaiser continued: “G-od manifestly protected a
precious life, and I pray that the Lord would
continue to hold the Sultan in His gracious and
holy keeping."
London, April 6, 2.5 p.m.—The
Spectator says that tho recent
speeches and telegrams of .^*s
the German Emperor have
•shaken public confidence
in him, and there are
whispers in Germany that
a Regency may be neces- Ifflar/vi
sary.
s ’ While the Mo-
hammedan festival
of Bairam was being
celebrated at Constan-
tinople on the morning
of- Saturday, March
30, a severe earth-
quake shock was felt
In the Sultan’s palace
portions of the ceiling
and the chandeliers
fell. A panic ensued,
and the musicians
rushed to the doors.
Abdul Hamid, however, retained his
presence of mind..
Special to The Bulletin, Tues-
day “ Allah be praised,” ex A
claimed his Serene Nibbs, “ it
has frightened away the / 1
fiddlers anyhow, and I X
can now have a few
minutes peace ! ”
|j|w Tuis moniimitN T is ERcrrso
yj&K To rue memory Tue Vnj
■ FIRST MAN W
• W mo eVEK OBTAfNFO A VfRDfCT
/ /AfHFttE THER f WA s
f A WOMAN 1
.. cr i l 11 "
in the case. ...
Desi^nfd 6/ ftv ASTOMISHFP VUjMfIH
He deserves it.
“A KING CAN MAK’ A BELTED KNIGHT"
—AND VICE VERSA
It vtas suggested, prior to his leaving England, that the
Duke of Cornwall and York should be created Prince of
Australia.
It is not difficult to see the fine Italian hand of
the N.S.W. Agent-General in this “suggestion.” .
Which “ suggests ’’ to the tired brain of our
Artist a picture something like this • ASS
Copeland : n Arise, my.noble Juke, Prince of
Australia 1 ”
ijk k
ii Some of the relatives of the men
who perished have been endeavoring
to ascertain how the vessel was lost
by means of spiritualism. It is
alleged that several of the spirits of
the dead responded. One spirit, it
is reported, declared that
“ There was not the
ghost of a chance for
anyone.”
This throws doubt
upon the genuineness
of the “ manifesta-
tions.” A typical Aus-
tralian spook would have
said : “Not the y
ghost of a y chance,”
etc., etc.
REDUCTION OP STATE PARLIAMENT.
Who’ll chop his own head off first 1
According to Professor Rankine,
of- Edinburgh, the way to take
whisky is not to drink it, but to put
it in your boots.
All Hop can say is, that if the Professor ever comes to Australia he
must be careful not to leave his boots about promiscuously.
CARTOONLETS.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A. SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT,—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and aooeptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
II
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, ‘2os and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.— Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, Iss; larger sizes, 20s, 255, and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, 15s 6d ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
TO ?-Y T 7, E ?\~ I > e Si,ver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
er
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
-J UTTER. Beautifully Chased and Orna-
iented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, ±2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showroomc.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. BAUNDERB.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner ORUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21g. Similar Styles, 25b, 80s, 35a.
A. SAUNDERB.
IJAKK DISHES. —The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s fid, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s Od. Lxtra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.-Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 l()s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
ħ
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
MllMlii
Himnm ►
“Just What Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. BAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Artlole.
. EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
B OVALU f “ r “ k '' 1,1 « h * l '-
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article DINNER
Spoons or Forks, Is half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice rresent.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other stvles, 7s 6d
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK. —Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA IPOTS. Pure Silver Electro-plated, on W'hit>
Metal, ag pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
n
to
JOB!
- :
WSI
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and t 4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, All.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand,' 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
h
-Jeweller & Silversmith,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Xlatimates Griven.
OLD PLA.TJE3 MA.I3S EQXJA.L TO 3XTEW.
Send Your Addreaa.


IMPORTANT I!!
Everyone
Can Secure
Interesting
Photographs
Of the
Royal Visit
With a
KODAK
No Previous Knowledge
. . OF . .
Photography Required.
KODAKS AT ALL Prices from
ss. to £7 15 0.
Write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LIST, Post
Free, and Mention this Paper, to
KODAK LIMITED
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
And of all Photographic Dealers.
Publications-
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
Her. Theatrical and
j)u;.. stic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza, —.
913, G-P.0., SYD
BAIftOND SONG BOOK,
COO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one n° patriotic
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRrOlIC
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old
lime favorites long since out' of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6a., posted
2s°10d from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
wd other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
A RATIONAL REFORM IN TEACHING
FRENCH.
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.)
Therefore use PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d.)
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to P A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent
32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC
MIRING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NOW ON SALE! NOW ON SALK!
The Suppressed Book,
The Gonningham Divorce Case.
A Full History of the Celebrated
Coningham-O’Haran Trial.
AND LEGAL FEATURES.
It is the only Complete, Absolutely Fair
Proceedings yet published.
and Unprejudiced Account of the Whole
PRICE SIXPENCE. Seven pence.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-St.
SYDNEY.
OUR WINTER SPECIAL.
YKe “FEDERAL”
niIINEA OVERCOAT
tall but PERFECTS
ALL FOR 21s.
COLORS— Navy, Black, Browns, Fawns & Drabs
A “look in,” then a “ try on,” and the result
will be that you will walk out well suited
with an Overcoat for
One Guinea.
(If you cannot come in, send, us 2/our size,
enclose a Guinea, mention color, and we will
post you one by return.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
federal clothiers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE WORD . .
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worsted
Coatiit
&
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure 3nt)igo.
As the result of many years of ex
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the test
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard clcths are
stamped e.ery two yards on the
fcciclsi •* • • •
FOX'3 PURE INDIGO,
and without this st rap a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £t3.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths! Contractors to th 9 English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000_ yards jf
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
G
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Q
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
.. AND ..
422 George St., Sydney.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Will Ogilvie has given what Victor Daley calls “the
most charming book of verses yet issued in Aus-
tralia ” The second edition is considerably enlarged
and improved, and the publishers have been informed
bv a happy lover that “it makes the beauiifullect,
present.” The price is 4s. 6d. post free.
(r<7 MIT ED),
OAPTO (Xinlse lilawarra),
SYDNEIT .
MAKERS Of
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
pjIODU CBRS
OF
fine silver.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARB. A”
..BRAND OF>.
SOFT LEAD.
, . . BOLD SILVER LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SEANS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BOLLi
Purchasers of all classes o , HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES, PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc.,
apply to P. 9. Mqksb, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAP TO, N.9.W. ; or Margin Plage, 9YDNLY.


FRESH ASA ROSE !
3v
ADD A LITTLE
[CONDY’S FLUID
toyour Bath or Foot-Bath,
TheCooling,lnvigorating
and Health-giving
Effects are Simply
Magical. *
Of all Chemist* <fc Store*
Insist on having “CoHDYB FLUID.”
The name Condy Sc Mitchell, oi London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
Beware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
ħ
GrO TO HBX.Ij-
« IGOJjANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real' good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
© liste gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
The Difficulty of Teaching.
Everyone engaged in teaching is aware of the-
difference there is in the capacity of pupils to ac-
quire knowledge. There is the bright child whom
it is a pleasure to teach, and the child who, no-
matter what pains are taken with him, seems to
know as much to-day as he knew yesterday, and
not one iota more. Adults are constituted in just
the same way. There is the sharp man who takes
notioe of everything and stores the information
for future use, and there is the dull man who goes
through life apparently learning nothing. ' In
fact, some people never learn. In twenty-one years
the proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure have spent
hundreds of thousands of pounds in proclaiming
the fact that there is no necessity for anyone to
suffer from Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Blood Dis-
orders, Rheumatism, Biliousness, Anemia
Gravel, Gout, Neuralgia, Debility, or even the
dread Bright’s disease, as these diseases, one and
all, arise from a disordered condition of the
kidneys or liver, or both, and Warner’s Safe
Cure will, in every case, restore the diseased
liver and kidneys to health. Therefore a person
who continues to suffer from any of the com-
plaints enumerated either does so from choice or
belongs to the large body of people who will not
learn. Here is a letter, however, from one who did
learn, and we print it, hoping it may instruct
others :
“Balmoral House, Frankston, Vic., 2nd Feb-
ruary, 1900.—1 have much pleasure in giving my
experience of Warner’s Safe Cure. I was a
sufferer from the kidneys for over two years un-
til I tried Warner’s Safe Cure, which effectually
cured me. I can recommend it to all sufferers
fronffkidney complaints. (Signed) Edwin White
Manager, Gas Works, Frankston.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
uvnituve dttd Fine A.vt Anictioiieevs,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
£3®*"’ Sales Meld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM^
V.
:v
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The canker of militarism. Premier Seddon
now has an artilleryman sentry outside his house
at Wellington. Has any Australian Premier yet
gone so far as this ?
It must, indeed, gall the Jingoes to see
how many openly-declared opponents of the
S’African war have been returned to the Federal
Legislature. In Queensland and Victoria the fact
is conspicuously noticeable. ••
“ Wait for Queensland,” Sydney Tele-
graph demanded, “the natural ally of N.S.W.”
We waited accordingly, and Q. has loudly de-
clared in favor of the party which the Tele-
graph declares is to be the ruin of N.S.W.
Simon Fraser’s position oil the Victorian
Senate poll is partially accounted for by
the fact that he is Vic. Boss Orangeman. In
Brunswick, where the Y.P. barks very loudly, he
polled the highest number of votes yet recorded in
a local election.
Premier Barton expresses doubt as to
whether it is necessary to have both a Sergeant-
at-Arms and an Usher of the Rod in the Federal
House. Members should easily push him into a
negative. Use, not show, should be the reason
for employing men. And Black Rod is not even
a show.
The democracy is slow to learn. Zeal and
Fraser, the personal pals whom David Syme has
just been allowed to pitchfork into the Senate,
are the same two politically-bigoted nincom-
poops whom he shoved into the Federal Con-
vention. And* what an exhibition they made of
themselves there!
London Daily News, which lately left the
ranks of papers which denounce the Boer Republics,
prints an auditor’s certificate, showing a most sub-
stantial increase in circulation since the change of
policy. An effective answer, among thousands of
others, to those who pretend the English feeling
is all on the war side.
The Maoriland Contingenteering Bill is
expected to amount to about a quarter of a
million. The loss of men is being felt much more
than the expenditure of the money, most of which
has stayed in the country. Public works are in
some places suspended, simply because the neces-
sary men cannot be found to carry them on.
SYME’S VICTORY!
David gets a knock or two, but comes up smiling
on the general ticket.
Mr. “Jim” M‘Glowen, who, beaten for
the South Sydney Federal seat, will still sit in
N.S.'W. Assembly, has during his nine years Par-
liamentary life been claimed as a supporter by
Parkes, Dibbs, Reid, and Lyne. Premier See
now claims him as “a loyal supporter.” “ Jim ”
says that it is Premiers who tender him loyal
support.
Melbourne pressmen characterise the ac-
commodation for the craft at Parliament House
as disgraceful, even vile, in contradistinction to
that provided for members themselves. Just so !
And it is quite in accordance witli the treatment
meted out by the Daily Suppress to legislators
when they don’t happen to belong to their own
particular party.
Ex-Speaker Abbott, whose health shows
no sign o f permanent improvement, has intimated
to his Wentworth constituents that he will cease
esent af , ter the coming dissolution,
hii i . S’ <- lfc IS , Surely an absurd arrangement to
S’™ a electorate of Wentworth at one
lie W - and a Federal electorate of
>» entuoith at the other extreme.
Either many of the Senate votes in the
mnpr^elections were wrongly counted, or invalid
nhS '; ve been fitted. In four of the States
plumping was prohibited, but dissection of the
returns shows that it would require a Reid-like
mathematician to make the totals for manv elec-
n dlv if lble L by six; e.g. (in Victoria
Delatite Caron S ° Uth ’ Ilichmond - Kyneton,
N.S.W. Premier See doesn’t worship Jns-
tice Minister Wood as ex-Premier Lyne did. So
\ ood will likely not be included in his recon-
wi™°w d Ministry. Which fact explains
” /, Vood tried to sacrifice his State portfolio on
the altar of a £4OO-a-year seat in of
Reps. His opponent, Austin Chapman, is the ideal
roads-and-bridges member and general commis-
sion agent, and beat the Minister by miles.
Kingston is never ungrateful. S.A.
National Ass. dropped Symon because he sup-
ported Kingston over the memorable Privy
Oouncil dispute, whereupon Kingston secured the
eminent counsel’s inclusion in the Labor ticket, a
coup which gained Symon thousands of votes. The
latter was, therefore, in the happy position of re-
ceiving all-round support, and headed the Senate
poll. S.A. National Ass. hasn’t had such a knock
tor years.
Baden-Powell, Alfred Milner, and pushful
Joe Chamberlain, after a lot of clandestine nego-
tiations to have their recruiting agents let loose
in Australia, ruefully back down. There is a
limit even to fulsome loyalty. If the Boers are
to be policed, let Bull and his syndicates do it.
lo their disgrace the Queensland and Tasmanian
Govts. assented to the Imperial scheme, but the
objections of the other Govts, were so strong that
the flunkey States will not be troubled.
A curiosity among election returns was
supplied by White Cliffs, the opal mining camp
in far-west N.S.W. The “gougers” voted solid
tor the two Labor candidates for the Senate ; their
other four votes they bestowed with charming
impartiality among Brown and Fealy and Flynn
and all the other impossibles. And so the figures
ran like this!—Macdonell, 326 ; Smith, 301);
S O , 51; Fealy, 57; Moriarty, 74; and so on.
<<u ’ 7 Connor got 71, though the others in the
bunches ” were nowhere.
A favorite argument with the N.S.W.
anti-Federalists of two years ago was that undei
1 ederation the Mother State would lose her penny
postage within the metropolitan and other favored
areas in order to keep her in line with Victoria.
This silly prophecy was repeated by some of the
candidates in the recent campaign. Yet one of
the last acts of the Turner Government was to
decree that on Ist April, 1901. penny-postage was
to be introduced throughout the State, thus giv-
ing to Victoria a more liberal postal tariff than
N.S.W.
The Commonwealth elections in Tasmania
brought out some lovely specimens of
splenetic parochialism. For instance,
Mines-Mimster Mulcahy, who ought to
know much better, speaking in support of
M.L.C. Piesse, on the eve of polling-day,
referred to one of the candidates as “an
adventurer and political mountebank from
the mainland.” The Mercury’s report
of the petty Minister’s concluding sen-
tence: “ Surely we can select eleven men
of our own breed and generation to repre-
sent us.” Let it be noted to Tasmania’s
credit that the audience promptly resented
Mulcahy’s sentiments, and cheered for the
“ adventurer and mountebank” all it knew.
And next day King O’Malley nearly topped
the poll, running seoond to Braddou, and
beating Mulcahy’s pet candidate “of our
own breed and generation,” out of sight.
The ancient fossils of the Flyspeck
have at last got a shock, and are going about
dazed. Keating and Clemons, two young-
sters from Launceston, ran first and second
for the six Senate seats, beating Dobson
disastrously. D. O’Keefe, ex-journalist
and publican, who got the West Coast
Labor-vote, also beat Dobson. The latter
has. to b 6 contend with fifth place, the
military Cameron being ahead of him. The
sixth seat is being battled for by ex-
Attorney-General Urquhart and a new
man ca’ed Macfarlane, with the odds in
favor of the latter. So Dobson is the only
old-time politician of Tassie’s six senators.
Nothing so dreadful has happened in Tas-
mania since Adye Douglas was a very small
boy.
About S.A.’s Commonwealth legislators :
Of S.A.’s seven representatives four —Bonython, Kings-
ton, Batchelor, and Poynton—are Protectionists, and the
balance—Glynn, Solomon, and Holder—Revenue Tariffists,
with a Protectionist reservation for Holder. The Sena-
tors are equally divided, Symon, Baker, and Charleston
being- Freetraders, and Playford, Downer, and M‘Gregor
ranging as strong Protectionists. Of the delegation five
are lawyers, three of them being in the Senate. Bony-
thon is the only one who is not an old politician. So far
as democratic legislation is concerned, eight of the 13 are
certain to vote with the people on all occasions, but
Baker, Solomon, Downer, and Glynn are hopelessly
Tory.
The average Vic. elector apparently yields
with equal readiness whether he be assiduously
seduced or disdainfully flouted. Simon Fraser
advertised lavishly and addressed electors all over
the State; ffm. Zeal advertised but meagrely
and didn’t trouble to hold a single meeting. They
PRESIDENT ZEAL, of Vic. Leg. Council,
the political troglodyte who, without having held
a meeting, was sent into the Federal Senate by a
democracy grateful for past indignities.
came in first and second on tins Senate poll.
Johnny Wallace followed Zeal’s load, but hadn’t
the luck to be included in Byrne’s batch. Purves
neither spoke nor advertised —just stuck his name
on the ballot-paper and asked to be returned “ on
his face and 17,000 of the free and independent
actually acceded to his demand.
They do say that W. C. Goddard, had he
stayed in Sydney and refrained from visiting the
Hume at all, might have beaten Lyne. It is
stated that at one big meeting, addressed by the
N.S.W. ex-Premjer’s opponent, the audience,
though much bored, listened with the patience
characteristic of country-hearers. Presently, during
a pause in the Goddardian address, and when
things were so quiet that you could have heard an
elephant drop, an old cocky, with a deep bass
voice, ejaculated out 10-ud, but apparently for his
own sole benefit: “ Well, lam d—d ! Long
Bill’s got cmother soft snap ! Talk about luck ! ”
Sydney Daily Telegraph, remarking on
the mental calibre of those returned to the Federal
Parliament, concludes that S.A. has the best lot
in the Senate, and N.S.W. in the Lower House.
For the latter State, the D.T. selects as “strong
men” Barton, Lyne, Bruce Smith, M’Millan,
Reid and O’Connor—the last-named being ap-
parently the only first-ranker in the N.S.W.
Senate representation. Which, considering that
the remaining five Senators are the Telegraph’s
own choice, and were rammed down the people’s
throats for weeks as saviours of their country, is
pretty rough on the Great N.S.W. Freetrade
party.
To the Labor Party in S. Australia the
most riling thing about the election results was
not that it got only one of the two seats in each
House that it tried for, but that places were found
for the two ex-members of the party whom the
National Ass. supported. The National Ass.
doesn’t really love either of these two, Charleston
and Poynton ; but it did want to be able to sneer
at the party’s impotence, and it succeeded fairly
well. (Also, by the way, it badly wants Charles-
ton’s Leg. Council seat —and it has a man already
selected to run for it.) But by Symon’s topping
of the poll the Ass. got a bad kick itself; for it
had left its old idol’s name off the list.
Nowhere has the force of one-man-one-vote
been felt more than in Tasmania. The fossils had
no idea the Commonwealth Constitution would
cause such an upheaval; yet they ought to have
known it was loaded. Five new men, mostly
young and vigorous, have slipped into the Senate ;
and for the House of Reps, such unfashionable
persons as King O’Malley and Norman Cameron
have the pleasure of seeing their surplus votes
counted for salvation to the fallen Fysh, the
plaintive Piesse, and the Hawful Hartnoll.
Braddon topped the poll, though at one stage of
the first count O’Malley was leading. Truly
the old order changeth. The result shows a
vast increase in Tas. democratic sentiment.
Cabled that when Judas Chamberlain was
asked from “influential colonial quarters” to
have the Jookoyork made “Prince of Austra-
lia,” he replied that “if titular dignities are con-
ferred on the colonies, Canada has the first clami.
Titular dignities on the cawlinies? Why, the
t. d. would be conferred upon York ! Brumma-
gem screwmaker’s “ front” is indeed stupendous.
If it comes to claims, what is Canada’s claim on
England compared to Australia’s? Which sent
most men to S’Africa, and which could best spare
them? Fact is, that Judas is sure of Australia,
but Canada is an uncertain factor in the Empire
game, and needs tender handling. Canada must
be placated with baubles. Australia may be
safely snubbed. That’s all 1
The Sydney Herald and Telegraph have
sized up the result of the Federal elections, esti-
mating that of 111 members 59 are Protectionists
and 52 are Freetraders—quite regardless of the
fact that in three of the States the fiscal question
was never raised, and that in no two of them is.
the public idea of Protection v. Freetrade identi-
cal. Those papers’ method is to label each mem-
ber P. or F. in some patent way of their own,
then to take off a couple or so from the Protec-
tionist total for luck, and add them on to the
other side and announce a pronounced victory for
Freetrade. The momentous issue is really—Can
the Barton Govt, carry on ? And as the Govt,
has a big majority in the Lower House, though a
somewhat smaller one in the Senate, it no doubt
can.
Among utterances of successful Federal
candidates on the declaration of the respective
polls, two stand out. Higgins, at Northern
Melb.: —
The Argus and its allies have made the most they could,
of their cry of Pro-Boer and anti-Federalism, and our
opiKuients have dragged from the slime the monster of
bigotry and sectarianism. They have made a ghastly
failure. . . You radical electors have administered a
well-deserved rebuke to those narrow and miserable souls
who thought that a man ceuld not be loyal to the Crown
without ceasing to be loyal to his ideals of truth and
justice.
Ronald, at Southern Melb. :
It was an epoch-making election, for it had shown that
dictatorial journal, the Age, that its power had gone by.
The people had risen in their thousands to protest against
the blackguardly journalism by which he had been
assailed.
The Argus reported Higgins in full, but the
treacherous Age, while giving its rival’s castiga-
tion in extenso, carefully burked the slating it got
from Ronald.
“Civil Servant” to The Bulletin:—
.1. Lionel Fegan, M.L.A., Minister for Mines in the
N.S.W. State Ministry, has been appointed, at the insti-
gation of VV. J. Lyne, Federal Under-secretary for Home
Affairs. Not ten years ago Mr. Fegan was a working
miner, and his attainment of a permanent Govt, billet at
some £lOOO a year is a remarkable tribute to his ability.
His political promotion is a peculiarly apt illustration of
the success of the turn-coat. Elected’in 1894 on the solid ;
out-and-out labor ticket, he soon kicked away the
ladder, arid was next returned as a Reidite, pure and
simple. In ’9B-99 he threw ail his influence among the
miners against Federation at each Referendum. For
Reid’s latter-day adherence to the Commonwealth Bill,
Mr. Fegan “ratted” from his party, and was the framer
of the fatal resolution which put Reid out and
Lyne in. For his apostasy Lyne rewarded him
with a portfolio, and now, while B. R. Wise cannot be
allowed a seat in the Federal Legislature, an anti-
Federalist like Fegan comes in for a prime permanent
billet of £lOOO a year. The appointment will make a,
great row ; first because the system of political “ re-
wards ” is abhorred by most Australians, and also because
the thing smacks of the Lyne-See idea of “ arranging ”
matters for personal ends regardless of public
interests. Especially will Barton incur the dis-
like of the various Public Services of the Com-
monwealth. During the Federal campaign both
Barton and O’Connor assured the public servants, in set
speeches delivered for their benefit, that in making
appointments to the Federal service, those men who had-
long and faithfully served their State Govts, would
naturally be first thought of, and that the status of
public servants would be raised by the fact that a higher
and better sphere of duty would open out before them.
The single fact of the Fegan appointment kills all these
beautiful theories. A few more rewards for political
“ foresight,” and good-bye to the hopes of a better tone
in Australia’s public life, and a higher ideal for Aus-
tralia’s public men.


Come One
Com© Aii
AND INSPECT
PALING’S
Magnificent Display of
PIANOS
ORGANS
And every Known
Musical Instrument
f
All are Specially
Selected and direct
from the best
Manufacturers in
the World.
(Illustrated Catalogues <§ree.
Estey
Organs
%
F
b
v
<1
Band
and
Orchestral
Instruments
with
Strings
and
Fittings
at
Lowest
Prices
o
b
O
<1
b
<5?
*
*
C
O
*9
Sole
Agents
... FOR ...
Belling Pianos
Paling Pianos
Victor Pianos
/ Uebel Pianos
/ Feurich Pianos
/ Lipp Pianos
/ Crors & Kallmann
/ Ecke Pianos
/ Brinsmead Pianos
/ and
Steinway Pianos
a
CV
v
s
e
s
y?
r Easy
Time
Payments
All tb? Latest MGSic Catalogtigs FREE . .
Tirpgly
Wari)iO
If you wish to keep pace
with the times , do not hesi-
tate, go to . . .
Paling
s
where you will get every-
thing the latest and best.
We are determined to
maintain the LEAD. We
are therefore very particular
to send out none but first-
class Goods.
Every Piano we sell is
continually sounding our
praise and sending us new
customers.
W. H. PALING $ CO., Ltd.
338 (a€orge St, Sydosy
BRISBANE. NEWCASTLE.
RBA-D WHAT
VITADATIO
IS 3DOING,
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED BY VITADATIO.
UFA!) this testimonial.
158 Point Piper Road,
Paddington.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l am pleased to say that I have been
cured of Hydatis by Webber’s VITADATIO. I
had suffered for years with a severe pam in my
stomach. Not one of the doctors whom 1 cp n-
suited did me any good. After taking a few
bottles of your VITADATIO the Hydatids began
to pass from me, and now I am quite a new man.
I am so well-known in Sydney that I know my
numerous friends will be glad to hear of my won-
derful cure. I shall be glad to answer any ques-
tions about my case to anyone who may inquire.
I have been treated in two of the best hospitals in
Sydney, and it is all the more wonderful to me to
know that VITADATIO has done for me what
the best doctors in Sydney have failed to do.
Yours faithfully,
P. MAG-NUS.
I certify that the above is a true and correct
statement. —P. Magnus, jun.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials^^
Government Notices.
Chief Weather Bureau,
Chief Secretary’s Department,
Brisbane, March 29, 1901.
ALL persons requiring advices or information of any
description from the above office, or from the
Government Meteorologist personally—whether forecasts
for any part of the Commonwealth and surrounding seas,
or otherwise—are now required, in the case of telegrams,
to pre-pay the replies ; and, in the case of letters, to en-
close stamps for answers. Otherwise, it is not guaranteed
that requests will be attended to.
CLEMENT L. WRAGGE,
Govt. Meteorologist of Queensland.
, By instructions from the Chief Secretary.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World- Ren owned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
4
11
v
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. NOBLESSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Go-, LcL London-
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
m
.
YOU GET
THE BENEFIT
of the few extra shillings you pay for a
pair of Roadster . ; ,
h
when you have ridden them for twelve
months, and upwards, without them
giving you the slightest trouble.
It’s then that you appreciate the advan-
tage of riding these speedy and reliable
tyres.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS!
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co* 8f Dus. [td.
150 Clarence Street, SYNDEY;
Mcmwrnc, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z,
and at
“A list of the names attached to the
Funeral wreaths was duly laid before His
Majesty.” In its mind’s eye The Bulletin can
see that list alive and crawling.
The last one hears of Queen Victoria, she
was caressing her dog. Pitt’s last words, in the
history books, are, “801 l up the map of Burope.
His actual last words are said to have been, Bet
me one of Bellamy’s pies.” Bellamy was the
House of Commons caterer.
“Miles”: Bloch, the man who says
weapons are to kill war, wrote shortly before the
S’African trouble began that surrenders would be
'more plentiful in future wars. He said that a
loss of 60 per cent., spread over a week, might not
stop an advance, but 10 per Cent, in a few minutes
would be too much for the human animal.
Magersfontein cowed the Highlanders. It is like
the "torpedo coming at % shipload of brave men.
Says Macbeth : “What man dares, I dare; who
dares do more is none.”
One Kinnear, M.P., or ex, is the author
of a chatty vol. on the Commons, up to date. He
has a deal to say about the shoal of women always
gadding about the Houses of Parliament nowa-
days, in its function of the Social Club, for genteel
females —no common women being allowed in the
precincts, though they can pay taxes for the
sweetness and light. When the Thames steamers
are passing the Terrace people shout to the mem-
bers, “Why don’t you go inside and attend to
your business?”


_ Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
ĥ
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3Xr.S,^7V.
[l|ont depieteo^|Do.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7Q. CASTLEHEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling- Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
t LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,835 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C.;
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. 0. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager.: J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Baymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
fleui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian (Qitnalfire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DCYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
eto. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
file Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Uwerve Liability of Share-
holders 250.100 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
VVest& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat,, Aprii 13, 12 Noon.
■ Buninyong, Tues., April 16, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 20,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonjar, Tues., April 16, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., April 16, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON |
BUNDABERG I
Tyrian, Saturday, April 13,12N00n.
Konoowarra, Tues., April lti, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., April 20, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACIv AY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, April 13, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat,, April 20,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GKRALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Caryo
booked throuirh.
Lowest. Current Fares ami Freights to all Ports
Keturn Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Olnces Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, €*€<;CitorS,
AND
Con?pai)V Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED..
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
ami Clients, 31st December, 1900
£160,000 0
4.90,000 0
£150,000 0
£8312
0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L
trustee.
10,326,343 0 0
I. Barker registered
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Coll ins- street, Melbourne.
Bank of ]STew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Bank of New Son fit Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund - .. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office Old Erond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INCUR CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to insurers— £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M ‘Earlaxe ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-eased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAiR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows:
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-elass passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd..
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
3NT. 13. X_«.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 401,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000; Over 3j million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Sydney
1 p.m
May 4
.June 1
June 29
July 27
Aug. 21
-ep. 21
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
May 11
June 8
July 6
Aug. 3
Aug. 31
Sep. 28
Oct. 19 Oct. 2d
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO HONGKONG, via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
The fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S S. NUEN TUNC, 1341 tons,
Captain Gosewiseh,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL 24th NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Sp ed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN&CO., 7aud 9 Ilridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIEBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States.
Europe,
Canada.
ħ
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
hut will do jfood
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
redncinq as desired. It
is a v< tv pretty Addition
to the toilet table."
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
-Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. 1 believe it the beat of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. Eor Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia —
J. TIMERS.
229 CollinS'Street,
Melbourne.
ill
The “Quakes*” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 257-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DON'T POISON
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System
Lame Back, Sciatica,-Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fas, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagdi-st., Sydney.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
h
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
2Bl GEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
-HEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De-
XJ bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
"*■ Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MMITICD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and trom
West Australian, South Australian;
Victorian and Queensland Forts.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p ORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS
esperance bay
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Fiiday,
April 19.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
April 12.
Rest and Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. LT.S.N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and \V.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and OOOKTOVVN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bos
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
bYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weeklv.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passent/er A eeotnniodulion, A tteudanee, and
Oil is i ne. an vi vat led.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
Sftport between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
tor Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and OO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMJPANY.
Ihe Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney,
Noon
. [April
... May
... May
... June
...'June
tin ilGlldi b.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
_ , I)^. t,O l Uitto Return t7l 10sto tl2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pons
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
/'-D'yARI) TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
trahajtxciiange Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELB'oUBNE. ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
-—- —iu jjuiiiiHLv, inuia, unina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everj r assistance
m landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. ‘
Huddart, parker & Go’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Faresand Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns Commander. Leave Sydney
AIRLIE ... 2500]St. John George May 4
AUSTRALIAN ... 3000!P. T. Helms " May 25
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur June 22
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis 'July 13
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Atrents
- EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO LD
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Qilaraith, ffl'Eaeharn & go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
4500 TONS,
OOOXjGt-£I.IE?/IDIIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MHLWRAITH, IWEACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents —BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, arid Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautufying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AW AHREE,
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund_
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
m
m
m
m
HERR RASSMUSSEIM,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
-WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone o/'imitatmij the
Aljaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S EREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSeiI)
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSeiI.
APVICC FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago, Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent tree.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts " Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter
RASSMUSSEN,
HEAD
OFFICE
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
HiELBO URNE: 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE ; 154 Handle-street (near York Hotel).
N ~z77wELLIN GTON : 1)1 Lambton Quay.
VERT.II : 4SI Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE ; Hannan-street (neoct Lindell’s),
BO ULI)EIi CITY : Piesse-stTeet.
FREMANTLE : Ilenry-stveet.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per bo*. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ĥ
FRINGES,
Saturn] Curly, from 3/s eadk
PLAJTB and TAILS.
£Wn. long, fi/u. oil real hofs.
CUTTINGS A CGUBIB«3
wortted tip, t/d per oz.
\V« are the chcapeStln s-&»
t'Olla lor all Hair Worts.
Send Color of Hair. 1
W. N.wiczcfl,
>lO Willi am BT#BeT.
•or net of Paltner-elrcet,
SYDNEY. ....
Cable Trum will stop at Door.
Semi stamps for fill) Prioo I.lst
*T*nry* atteuhion giy/in to Country
ħ
Dr. BoxwelVs PILLS.
N ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— -Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
COMMON SENSE EAII EIiUM.”
ItHei
BEAF
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mona. Gronrauti’S
FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT BUT SURE REMEDY. Universally used
by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies—wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
Medical.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLiS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
(A
Always
useful.
Keep
them
bandy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. ad. each of all Drug
Stores. I *
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
tpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
DEAF
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable,
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
DDR.ESS . —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“The labor member must not dress like a
waiter, or spell like a Duke.” — John Burns.
H. Y. L. Brown, S.A. Govt. Geologist,
lately returned from a 700-mile ride on camel-
back into the heart of Australia, searching for
mineral phosphates. This unassuming official has
travelled over almost every foot of S.A.’s drought-
country at different times. He practically dis-
covered Tarcoola goldfield, and declares that it is
the most promising show S.A. has yet had.
Invalided Fred. B. Norton tells some droll
yarns of his sojourn in the Alfred Hospital,
Melb. In December he served three weeks as a
“ paying guest ” at the Alfred and was not very
happy. Lots of other people speak coldly of their
experiences at that fashionable curing establish-
ment within the last two or three years, but their
tales lack the descriptive humour of Norton’s.
He depicts the casualness of the attendance from
a comedian’s point of view, and perhaps he drew
on his imagination for the story of how a wardsman
came along one night with two glasses of physic.
“ Barton ! Barton ! Are you Barton?” asks the
visitor. “ That’s me, if it’s Toby Barton you’re
looking for,” murmurs the sick joker. “No, not
Barton, but another name like it,” says the glass
bearer, who is grasping them from the top. ‘‘ If
you mean Norton, that’s all right,” says Fred. B.
“Which is your medicine, Barton?” asks the
wardsman. “ The one you haven’t got your finger
in,” says Norton ; and he swallows the chosen
dose. Three minutes later comes a nurse
into his' ward crying, in an undertone—“ Norton,
you’ve taken the wrong medicine ! ” “ Well, don’t
bring the stomach-pump,” says F.8.N., “ for that
was the first drink I’ve enjoyed since I came to
the hospital.” On another occasion a nurse dis-
turbed his day-dream by excitedly ordering him
to shake up his pillow, smooth the counterpane,
smuggle away the newspapers and books that lay
on his bed, and prepare for a visit of inspection.
“Lady from Sydney going through the wards,”
explains the nurse. “Don’t let me offend her
royal eyes,” moans Norton ; “just pull thesheet
over my face and pretend that I’m making a
beautiful corpse.”


Apropos of the attempted white-washing
of Major-General Oolvile, it may be noted that
new Queen Alexandra’s Lord Chamberlain is
Baron Colvile of Culross, who is placed next to
Viscount Wolseley, Gold Stick in Waiting, at
Court functions.
Melb. Women’s Hospital benefited lately
in the sum of £6 10s. 6d. through the decease of
the beneficiary by the will of E. M‘Carthy, said
beneficiary—one Paddy—having died without
known heirs or assigns. “Paddy” was a much-
prized fox-terrier, and was life-tenant in the
estate.
There is another way in which the dual
vote was worked in Melbourne for the greater
glory of Smawlcum. Hundreds of fatted electors
who had votes for the city and for Kooyong
paired, and thus contrived to work both ballots.
The difference between Knox and Fink for Koo-
yong did not greatly agitate the Portly People,
but that between Labor-member Maloney and
Money M ‘Eacharn distressed them greatly, so
that the Stouts residing in Kooyong who wanted
to vote for Fink paired with Fats who desired to
vote for Knox, and the lot left Kooyong at that,
and rushed the city with eager votes for the
gilded ship-owner. The effect of this manoeuvre
and the dual votes that flowed in from uncon-
tested districts, like St. Kilda and the Ports, was
a mighty majority for M'Eacharn in the Lonsdale
and Latrobe divisions, where the ex-Mayor scored
2116 to Maloney’s 436.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Depot, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
STILL UNBEATEN.
G. Sutherland, the New Zealand champion, on
ħ
h
HAS PUT UP the UNAPPROACHED RECORD of having- NEVER BEEN BEATEN in a Scratch T?,™
DURING THE WHOLE SEASON. nr Adelaide Wheel Race won on a MASSEY Bace
It is the speed of the easy-running MASSEY that tells when the last-lap-bell rings.
—SYDNEY DEPOT; 385 GEORGE STREET.
A Fatal Spider-Web.
When a fly gets accidentally
caught in a spider’s web, the
spider calmly goes about the
work of securing his prey.
He doesn’t hurry particu-
larly ; he takes his time, and
binds first the fly’s feet, and
then his wings and his entire body. That is the
way with the dread enemy of mankind—disease.
It has a web —the web of trivial disorders neg-
lected. When a man heedlessly stumbles into
that web he must be careful. The stomach is
most liable to get out of order. Hence how im-
portant that no diseased matter clogs its opera-
tions, which would cause nausea and distress by
the taking of food. If not attended to, a thou-
sand ailments are ready to arise, caused by
impurities being carried through the whole system
by the blood. What you want is something that
will keep the digestive organs in a healthy con-
dition, and unclog, or carry away, all impure
matter. That something is Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills; they cleanse the stomach, make the
appetite healthy, the digestion perfect, the liver
active and the blood pure. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills cure Biliousness, Indigestion, Consti-
pation, Dyspepsia, Headaches, Liver and Kidney
Diseases, Boils, Pimples and Blotches. They
are unlike other medicines—they do not weaken
—and as a cure for Female Ailments they
are unequalled. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, Is. l£d. per bottle, or six bottles,
6s. 6d., or same will be mailed, post paid,
on receipt of price. Sole Proprietors, The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Dep6t) 58 Pitt Street, Sydney. There is another
web, and not a spider’s web, but the web of so-
called “nerve tonics.” Look out for that web;
do not stumble into it. Cunning weavers, they
would bind you. Once you start their use
then there is danger ahead. They may appear
to do you good while you are taking them (so doe 3
whisky), but stop their use, then comes the
re-action. They would have you bound to their
use like the spider binds the fly.
ĥ
A MILE in lmin. 34 l-ssecs.
31 MILES 1390 YARDS in 60min.
These are the new Austra-
lasian Records captured
by W. Martin’s
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Two Australs, the A.N.A., the i
Could a bicycle secure these ij
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
Miles Australasian Championship, and all Records from 2 Miles up.
it was not a highest grade Bicycle ? OUR TERMS ARE EASY.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISHT
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co. t
Sydney.
The World,” after a rest of 12 or 14
tSi ° r S °,i 13 ™ llin ? 0n again at Melbourne
“Thi’Worli 0 ” practical guidance.
° f sce » er y andsi n> and the
, leading man doesn’t happen to be
ofie r J S aker , for even the most indefatigable
ThZriTJT* a ho . llda y at Easter, it seems,
nf ah! Pictures in violent colors the sufferings
of Albert ISorman, who looks trim about the
shoulders and legs, and turns his moustache up at
Albert d tbA V to^ ei ! ° f n hlS P revailin g innocence.
Abiert the Goodl has been driven from home to
S Africa through his mistaken chivalry in
Wafsonf *\v ln f vltable younger brother 7 (W.
biw;? a ) Vord comes that the exile has
inherited a baronetcy, so he boards a ship with-
out a change of clothes, and leaves for ’Ome
because he wants to travel over the same keel as
governess (Frances Ross), a passenger in the
first saloon No one seems to prevent Albert’s
daily arrival from the steerage to court the first-
s iooner. He breathes his love without mention-
ing his baronetcy, whilst she suppresses her
responsive affection because of a prior betrothal to
the bad younger brother, concerning whose early
impiety Albert says nothing. He makes it a rule
to never damage the chances of a rival in love.
t n 1 /7, < f uumhine, placed on board by a
.nd Holt) explodes in mid-ocean, and
Albert pistols the chief steward, &c., to keep them
from jumping the boats reserved for ladies only.
Ibe other stewards and stewardesses are the
staunchest creatures possible. They go down with
the wreck, staying the passengers with life-belts
and comforting them with basins to the last.
Albert, after the ship goes down, is seen on a raft
with a small boy, ruffian Styan, and a pint of
drinking water ; and there is considerable trouble
over the distribution of that last pint.
•*, * *
When the castaways get home, the poor
Bart, is unwelcome owing to his brother hav-
mg jumped the title. Also, he discovers to
his sorrow that the usurper has a lawful
wife already, but is nevertheless preparing to
marry Frances Ross with bigamous intent. Now,
the baronet is fond of Frances, as before related,
and for her sweet sake, one would expect him to
be annoyed with the'bad young brother. On the
contrary, he merely remarks, “So Harry has
brought a stain upon our name,” the stain being
due to irregularities in the lawful wife’s Past.
Other things happen to Albert before he
arrives at his inheritance, notably forcible
chloroforming and confinement in a private
lunatic asylum ; but at last his luck turns, and the
principal villain falls down the lift-hole at a hotel.
Harrie Ireland looks well and behaves with
fortitude as the bad brother’s wife. She even
bears the news of hubby’s violent, death pretty
calmly till Frances Ross glides forward and pro-
mises to be a sister to her, whereupon the pat-
ronised penitent expires casually. The prospect
of being a widow with a Past, and a sister-in-law
to remind her of it, is too much for the poor thing.
* • * *
Bland Holt’s wily, witty Jew and Styan’s
Bash ford are a pleasing pair of rascals; Charles
Brown’s defaulting solicitor is also engaging, and
one wishes him nothing worse than a trip to Fiji.
All the characters are-more or less well done
(rather less than more as a rule), and the staging
will keep the drama in robust health for some
time to come.
** * *
The bill at Melb. Bijou is not too bad in
its weakest spots. Moreover, its weak spots are
few, and its strong ones are numerous, and the
confiding visitor from agricultural parts, who has
put his trust in Rickards without preliminary
inquiry, gets rather more than his usual
comfort and joy for the cash investment.
Austin Rudd, a comedian of abnormal funniness,
or plain ordinary humor, just according to how he
strikes people, has returned from London and
elsewhere with anew set of songs. And Lottie
Collins is back at the Bijou for 12 nights only.
These are understood to be the positively last
nights of the red-lined Widow, so anybody who
has not yet met a relic of that description is
recommended to go and consider Lottie’s crimson
effects.
. Sydney Cup was San Fran’s first win, but pre-
vious performances indicated the likelihood of Monday’s
achievement. He was second to Lancaster in A.J.O.
irial stakes last spring l , having Barbarossa, Australian
Colors and eight others behind him ; he also ran third to
Baul Pry in Wycombe Stakes, and third to Dreamland in
recent Australian Cup. Good judges who saw this latter
event came away convinced that San Fran should have
won, and that he only had to strip in the same form to
appropriate Sydney Cup ; but Wakeful’s track-work put
atowi tl ? em *? ff - San Fran was bred at Tucka Tucka
•) by his owner, whose racing name is “A.
Williams.” He is by Gozo from Procella (the dam of Ohio
and Woodlark), by Grand Flaneur from The Auk, by the
Marquis (imp.) from Seagull by Fisherman (imp.) from
Omen (imp.) by Melbourne. Gozo must now be great
property as a stallion.
• * * *
„meeting punters who had fifteens
the two \\ akefuls ” were felicitating themselves on
their position after the Doncaster. Threes were freely
taken that night about the Cup. “ Oxy ” got a bio-
ainount.so did one or two others, and business ceased at
6to 2 offered. On the course next day a sustained rush
lasting hours gathered in everything down to 6 to 4,
though money kept coming freely for San Fran and
Clean Sweep. Wakeful was perhaps the hottest thing
that ever started for a big race with a hig field. This,
too, in face of the fact that she had never been tried
over the distance (2m.), but her l*m. performances in
private satisfied those most concerned.
* * * *
There must be something radically wrong with
the conditions of a rich prize like Sydney Cup, when a
mare of the quality of Wakeful can easily win two high-
class and vajuable stakes like the Newmarket and Don-
caster Handicaps after the declaration of weights—and
yet only have to carry a 101 b. penalty. Evidently a
blunder somewhere. J
* * • *
<< ‘;?, un ” : Seems abundantly evident that the
stable got home with the wrong nag in A.J.C. Don-
caster. Both Aurous and Wakeful were hacked in the
right quarter, but former would have gathered in the
bigger crop of coin. Despite the fact that sto 2 was the
oest available against Wakeful previous night, sevens
were plentiful in “the room” Saturday morning. A sort
of mild panic resulted among holders of Wakeful money,
who unloaded ” freely at fours. One plunging Vic. ex-
jock had £6OO worth, and got rid of it all on the course.
* * * *
Wakeful’s Doncaster time (1.39 J) equals the
Australian mile “ best ” created by Djin-Djin in Epsom
H cp. two years since, and is Jsec. better than previous
record-shared by Paris (7.10) and Delaware (8). This
possibility was suggested herein 6/4/’Ol, as was also Ferry-
man’s second.
* • • *
. latest Doncaster was the first to go to Victoria
in. 13 years. Ben Bolt (in ’88) was the last previous
winner.
• • . .
First and second in Sydney Cup—San Fran and
Australian Colors—-(both 3yr.-olds) were maidens until
Monday. Australian Colors notched his win in the
Maiden Stakes an hour or two prior to the big thing.
Clean Sweep’s Leger at Rand wick on Saturday
time Vic. triumphed since Newhaven scored
m ,)7. Backers laid sevens on the Zalinski—Benzine nag,
who won with a heap to spare in 3.12, which, though the
record (Cobbitty’s, in ’95) stands at 3.7*, isn’t at all slow
tor this particular event. Others have failed to get within
many seconds of Clean Sweep's feat. Last year Parthian
occupied close on 14sec. longer in putting Merriwee down.
• • » *
N.S.W. owned Ibex, by Gossoon from Angora,
scored the easiest of wins in A.J.C. Champagne Stakes
on Monday, which, considering the quality of the com-
pany, was remarkable. Grasspan was second, and Mr.
Bailey s (Ballarat) fine colt Hautvillers third. Favoritism
was shared by first and last named at twos, while sevens
were available about Grasspan. Ibex, since running
away with V.R.C. Maribyrnong Plate, hadn’t again
shaped in public, otherwise he would have perhaps car-
ried much more money. He first saw light at Kirkham,
and went (with his dam) for 40gs. at the stud’s dispersal.
His victory, with a 101 b. penalty up, equals the perform-
ance of Coil, Aurum, and Bobadil, but none of these won
with anything like as much in hand. Ibex’s time (1.141)
!& only Jsec. slower than Bobadil’s record (1.13}), accom-
plished three years since. All winners—Victoria’s rep.
(Hautvillers) included—were bred in N.S.W. Peculiar
occurrence all seven starters finished as their names ap-
peared in the book.
* * * *
Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.) stud was much in evi-
Ce ™ flrst anc * secor, d days of A.J.C. Autumn meet.
Of Saturday s winners Alfonso is by Metal, while Gozo’s
get (Ferryman, Robato, Gallina, Gauleon, and San Fran)
were second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh in Doncas-
ter Hand’cap. Three of Monday’s winners—Bange (Far
NienteJ, San Fran, and Fighting Mac (Gozo) are also by
Tucka Tucka sires.
* * * *
The Scobie grip seems to be on Adelaide Cup,
down for decisiqn May 1. That stable has accepted with
Paul Pry, Clean Sweep, Malster, The Bride, Dreamland
and Miltiades. Malster is an unlikely starter, but the
pick of the others should prove a “ cert.”
* * • •
Branxton (N.S.W.) races, t’other dav, were res-
ponsible for a curious happening. Two nags* (Nicodemus
and Coree) ran three dead heats. They humped 9.12 and
6.7, as named, in Branxton Handicap (7fur.), and couldn’t
be separated. Subsequently the two came together again
(Nicodemus 10.10 and Coree 7.8) in the Final Handicap
(6fur.), and a second dead-heat resulted. Later, they
were saddled-up to decide both dead-heats in one go.
Nicodemus, as in previous two struggles, made the run-
ning, and was loudly hailed winner, but Coree, sticking
well, finished upsides with his bigger opponent. Respec-
tive owners halved the total prize-money—£ls.
* * * *
Dan O’Brien has thoroughly sickened of his
Australian-bred and other galloping nondescripts, and
is invoking the services of an auctioneer. The veteran’s
luck has gone a-missing, and he intends quitting the
game in M.L. for a spell and tripping to England shortly.
* * * *
Maoriland trotting authorities have hitherto
barred feminity from the race-track, but Otahuhu Club
has now licensed Miss Ethel May Abbott, aged 16, to ride
in races. The ambitious young lady affects bloomers and
rides astraddle. She is a follower of hounds, and has won
prizes in riding and driving competitions at shows.
* * * m
Chows’ proverbial betting luck is due to the
fact that they always plunk their money on long-price
outsiders.. At Grey (M.L.) trots recently a man refused a
ticket —said he had called for another. Noting that it
was an alleged “ no-chancer,” a grinning Chow annexed
it, and notched £34 10s. div. In another event he divd.
a “ fifteener.” Chinese bet on the principle that one good
win will more than cover losses for (say) a couple of
meetings.
• • * *
Cabled that Australian nag Australian Star,
owned by M. L. sportsman Gollan, won London Cup
(£2000), with N.S.W. hig bookmaker Oxenham’s one-time
property—Sailor Boy—third. Mark Foy’s Australian
Colors (winner of Maiden Stakes and second in Sydney
Cup Monday), by Australian Peer—Colors, is a full
brother to Australian Star, and was bred at Duckenfield
Park by Messrs. Eales Bros. Australian Star promises
well now. After a long spell of ill-luck at 'Ome he has
credited himself with big things over hurdles and on the
flat.
• * • •
Water-jump at N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s
Show was interesting and exciting. Ten lined up. The
Angel and Skylark survived. Both cleared 29ft. Bin. in
the final and whacked the money. Skylark (ridden by
V. J. Tarlinton) was bred by Mr. J." Smith (YVolumba) and
belongs to Mr. Jas. Gilbert, jun. H. Richardson was up
on The Angel, owned by Miss B. Robinson. Greygown’s
31ft. 4in. (put up in ’97) is the show-ground record water-
jump.
* * * *
In response to appeals to the “ gods” to supply
places of absentees in Sydney Gaiety A.O.’s bantam tour-
ney, t’other night, a couple of newsboys came along. One
(sans all but shirt and pants) faced the redoubtable and
stocky “Tibby” Watson, and gave him a hot tussle
throughout, while the “ nooze ” lad experienced a bad
time, albeit he served up much stoush himself. In the
seventh round the “ pick-up ” stopped, limp and pumped-
out. “Look ’ere, genTmen,” said the artful youth
between big gasps, “ I ain’t givin’ up because I’m full—
me wind’s gorn, and I’m too weak. I ain’t had a feed to-
day ; I’d’ve won only fer that.” This brought down the
house, which showered enough coin into the ring to
supply three feeds a day for a month or two.
* * « *
“Jab”: The spunky, decent little “Kaffir”
should give bruising a rest. He doesn’t improve with
age, and is too manly a fellow to form a chopping-block
for the class pitted against him now. His go with Tur-
ner, at Sydney Golden Gate A.O. on Saturday night, evi-
denced beyond question that he has much deteriorated.
Still, ’twas his fight, for, with two or three exceptions, he
led every round. “ I declare it a draw,” said the referee,
but the crowd wouldn’t have it, and hooted, howled, and
shrieked its disgust.
* • * *
Lightweight boxer Sturgeon runs a great busi-
ness in his boxing tent at N.S.W. Agricultural Show ; ad-
mission sixpence, to see three or four three-round spars,
the whole programme lasting about 15 min. Writer
hears that £6O was taken at the tent on Good Friday.
The most unequal pug. match made among top-
notchers for years was between black Tom Mitchell and
Jack M'Gowan, at Melb. Democratic Club t’other night.
Mitchell, tall and lank-limbed, stood over the dwarf giant
M'Gowan, whose abnormally short reach had no chance
with the Negro’s gorilla-like length of arm. Were they
evenly matched in point of skill, Mitchell’s natural advan-
tages would have proved a big handicap, but Jack isn’t an
extra-clever boxer by any means, while the other man has
few if any superiors on this section. Again, though the
battle was announced for the “lightweight champion-
ship of Australia,” it is extremely doubtful whether
either scaled under the limit (10st.); Mitchell certainly
did not, and writer doesn’t think it possible for him to
get inside 71b. of it. Yet backers beforehand laid Gto 4
on M'Gowan ! Mitchell was top dog from the jump, and
never gave the S. Melbournite a chance from beginning
to end of a most one-sided struggle, wherein all the
punching and pummelling (heaps of it) went one way till
the close of the agreed-upon journey—2o rounds.
M'Gowan has weathered many a heavy battering and
weathered the latest one too, but he never had so little
say before. No man conversant with the capabilities of
each principal would have suggested the match, and how
the public came to lay odds on M'Gowan is a puzzle.
* * * *
News from ’Ome tells that Australian Jem
Richardson was recently matched with a Belfast pug
named Quinn. Richardson has been in London for three
or four years,jand is referred to always as “ of Honolulu.”
Why ? Luck has never come his way once in England—
everything has gone against him.
* * • *
Latest anent Griffo shuts him out for good as a
factor in pugilism, and leaves nothing ahead but the
lunatic asylum again, gaol, or, at best, the poorhouse.
At Chicago (March 4), Griffo was gaoled for a series of
bar-smashing breaks, and is reported to have said : “I
can’t work, am through with fighting, and so don’t know
where to stow myself.”
* * * *
Late U.S. files have little reference to M.L.
bruiser Cribb’s doings or prospects. Projected match
with welter champion Matty Matthews was abandoned
till after the Yank got through with other pending en-
gagements. An attempt was made to bring Otto and the
tough ’Friscan, Thurston, together again, but induce-
ments offered were insufficient. Probability of Oribb
and another M.L. pug—Tom Tracey (Dan Oreedon’s
foster-brother)—getting to it looked strong.
* * * *
“ The calling in of the services of Sandow,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “to pick
out the muscular flaws in the Cambridge eight, has
allayed considerable curiosity as to what the strong
boater’s system would be. It certainly had the prime
athletic merit of common sense, and if Eugene Sandow
will give up feats of strength with his tongue—in fact,
chuck ‘ skiting ’ and stick to his muscle manufactory, he
will win confidence. The Cambridge crew was excep-
tionally beefy this year (only one man is under 12st.), and
Sandow when told the rowing faults of a man prescribed
for him thus : No. 3 was slow in ‘ dropping his hands and
getting them away.’ A course of special wrist and fore-
arm exercise was allotted him and he rapidly improved.
Another one, weak in the shin and ham muscles, did not
‘recover his slide’ quick enough; a particular exercise
likewise removed his weakness, and so on. Sandow is
really a capable anatomist with a belief that most, if not
all, faults of style in rowing and kindred pastimes, are
caused by lack of development of, perhaps, an appar-
ently insignificant muscle; and this is shrewd horse sense.”
* * * *
Hammer-thrower Policeman Skinner threw a
161 b. wire-handled hammer 158 ft. 9£in. at Auckland
Hibernian Sports, or 4ft. better than his previous Austra-
lasian record. He took a 9ft. run. Skinner says he will
cap this when in tip-top form. The same day lie won the
wrestling-match from an opponent 3st. heavier than
himself.
* * * *
At a Taranaki (M.L.) sportsshivoo recently, the
winner ran half-a-lap short in the steeplechase. Second
man ran full distance and protested. Incomprehensible
decision—each man to get £3, the amount of the prize!
* • • *
Last lot (11) of Mother State’s contribution (14)
towards the bowling invasion of England, left per Omrah
Wednesday, this week. Anticipated the full team will
total 60. Letters convey that the visit isn’t creating
much enthusiasm “ down under ” —isn’t even awakening
more than ordinary interest, which makes it appear that
those going in anticipation of a comparatively cheap holi-
day and much dining will find themselves badly left, par-
ticularly as most of the ’Ome clubs are not too well fixed
financially, and entertaining 60 visitors is no small matter.
* * * *
Swimmer Fred Lane’s win of Bananaland fur-
long supremacy at Brisbane, though meritorious, wasn’t
up to his best. Time (2.40 2-5) is 2 l-ssec. slower than
Lane’s Australian record, which is nearly 4sec. less than
the world’s fastest—jointly held by Britisher Derbyshire
and Lane, and put-up last year in the English champion-
ship at that distance, when the pair swam a dead heat
* * * *
“Otter”: Bulletin par. (6/4/’01) anent that
bungle over 500yds. swimming supremacy of N.S.W. pre-
vious Saturday. Surely it was no race if the full distance
was not traversed. 495 yd. 2ft. 2in. is 4yd. lOin. short,
therefore the event should be re-swum.
* * * »
The tragic death of the popular R. Lord
Hodgson, on the Caulfield railway-line, removes one of
the best of Victorian chessists. Several times he has
been champion of his State, and once he aspired to the
title of Australasian champion. But he was hardly first-
class, and was decisively defeated by E. N. Wallace, of
N.S.W.
* * * *
When playing crib, in different
parts of Maoriland .always hear two pairs called “ Mor-
gan’s orchard.” Do you know how that term originated ?
Plugger Bill, unmindful of his years and a lame
leg, girded up his loins at the Melb. Druids’ annual out-
ing and pedalled his Red Bird first past the post in the
10-miles Austrilasian Championship and Druids’ Wheel
Race. Don Walker and Gudgeon each won a race on Red
Birds. Thus putting up a record, as every Druid event
was never before won by one machine.
* • * *
At the Agricultural Society’s show, Sydney,
Massey-Harris bicycles were awarded the special first
prize for excellence of manufacture in new ladies’ and
gentlemen’s mounts.*
“N.Q.” : The victory up here is that of
Bamford over Brown for the House of Reps.
Consider the contestantsVilliers Brown,
a shrewd business man, good speaker, with plenty
of money, smd Bamford, unknown to 50 per cent,
of the electors, middling speaker, poor except in his
desire for a White Australia. Brown st imped the
division for months. Bamford just fl tted here
and there, and then beat the Kanakaphile vote
for vote; and in Townsville (Brown’s head-
quarters) headed the poll by 300. All in the'hot-
bed of the smellful Islander. If this doesn’t con-
vince the Black and-Tan crowd that they have a
lost cause it will need a brace and bit to force the
argument in.
It is obvious that Sydney Agricultural
Show-ground will soon have to be much altered so
that a large part of the assemblage shall not be—
as at present—debarred from seeing some of the
ring-attractions, such as trotting, jumping, &c. As
things are, thousands (many of them women and
children) have to stand immovably fixed in a
dense crowd for 3 or 4 hours at a stretch, unable
all the time to see anything other than the sudden
bob-up of a rider’s head as his mount flies a fence.
The large space that might easily be used to
obviate this state of things is, at present, taken-up
by advertising-pavilions, &c. In the pony com-
petition—-jumping and otherwise—were to be seen
dwarf thoroughbreds, as well as genuine ponies.
Now a thoroughbred—though it may race as a
pony and be of pony height—is not in the true
“Show” sense of the word a pony, and should,
therefore, be excluded from pony competitions.
Other notable points were that the judging in
many of the equine events was altogether too pro-
tracted ; that the newly-erected jumps are per-
pendicular on the take-off side, instead of being
sloped-away; and that the fat cattle exhibition
was the finest yet seen in Sydney. At the com-
mencement of the trotters and pacers contest, just
as the horses were being let go, a string of about a
score of bulls was led right across the running-
track, but thougli the starter’s attention was called
to this he gave the word to go—and go they
did; luckily without a mishap, but at a
fearful risk that should never have been taken.
The trotting contests were splendid, and most of
the jumping was first-class, some of the ladies
giving highly artistic exhibitions in the saddle.
The motor-cars formed a powerful attraction,
especially to the fair sex, many of whom were
picked up and literally “flown” round the ring
at rates varying from 20 to 50 miles an hour.
Some horses were exhibited in an all but tailless
condition, and it would be advisable for Agricul-
tural Societies throughout Australasia to agree to
refuse entry of any thus closely “ docked ” horse.
The practice—which is simply a foolish copying
of an English fashion —is a cruel one in an insect-
pestered climate like ours.
SPORTING NOTIONS.


THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3490.
The Watch for the Million.
Our Cun Metal Collegian Lever
Watch— Price, 21i.
The Cheapest Reliable Watch yet
produced.
Manufactured on sound principles; »
Strong and Accurate Timekeeper.
Write for . ..
Illustrated Souvenir
Catalogues.
Sent Post Free.
Our Own
h
Make.
Our Cun Metal Non-Magnetlo Lever
Watoh.
Adjusted and Guaranteed Reliable
Timekeeper —Price, 16s. 6d.
Cold and Silver Rotherham Watches.
Silver Hunting Cent’s Keyless
Rotherham Lever—Price, £5.
Cold and Silver Waltham Watches.
14ot. Cold Lady’s Keyless Waltham
Watch—Price, £6 15s.
Notice.
Open all day Wed-
nesdays till 6 p.m.
On Saturdays from
6 p.m. to 9.80 p.m.
Large Buyers
Buy best —especially when they pay cash
against delivery and get the cash discounts.
Our London Buyer pays cash against
delivery of Goods by the manufacturers.
Again, Large Cash Buyers are offered all
the latest Novelties before others.
’Tis by the money saved that a business
is made and enabled to sell cheaper and
better. Every London Novelty will be
found in our stock at London Cash Prices.
fk
s
Sf
Pearl and Turquoise, 27/0.
flew
PkAiN Figure
Cash Prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Rose Out Diamonds, £5 5s to £lO 10s,
Brilliant Out Diamonds, £2O to £27 10s
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
..23 Hunter Street, Sydney...
FOR the person who ?s not a millionaire, there Is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Offloe.
Proprietor • • GEO W. KLLIK
The Rand mine-owners. The S’African war,
as Tiib Bulletin has often anticipated, is going to be a
gorgeous thing for them. Cabled that Kitchener has
allowed a number of mines to. re-start operations “ sub-
ject to certain defined conditions ” —that each is only to
keep 50 stamps at work, no matter how large the battery.
(That seems a good thing for the comparatively small
Band mine with a 50-head mill; and a bad one for others,
such as the Simmer and Jack, with at least 400.) That
the miners employed shall receive the same pay and
rations as irregular troopers ; the balance of their ordi-
nary wages to be devoted to a fund to provide for the
families of Band residents killed during the war;
Johannesburg Chamber of Mines to accept these terms
and to await restoration of normal conditions. If this is
all Kitchener wants it is a monstrous tax on the miners,
while the mine-oWners are allowed to go free. The Bulle-
tin expects the proposal to be defended by the news-
papers of Australia on the ground that the Boer war was
started, and is being prolonged, entirely in the interest
of the Band miners, and the Band mine-owners had noth-
ing to do with it from start to finish ; that having started
the war they should pay for it, while the unhappy million-
aire mine-owner should not have his divs. in any way
diminished.
* * * »
If there be any Trades-hall shareholders in any
of the Melbourne banks —say the Bank of Victoria, for
instance—they might benefit their poor black-coated
brother, and at the same time demonstrate the compara-
tive dignity of manual labour, by enquiring into the
salaries question at next half-yearly meeting. Publica-
tion of the Bank of Vic.’s pay-sheet with particulars as
to age and service of each at the head office
would certainly deter a good many parents from enlist-
ing their sons in the cuff-and-collar brigade. Here are
some gruesome details. Eight distinguished officials, in-
cluding General-manager Law, who draws £2OOO a year,
are on the right side of the £3OO mark. Fifteen get
from £2OO to £3OO ; whilst seventeen other old servants,
who have served as youth and man a full 10 years in the
Collins-street sweating den, are now remunerated at the
average rate of £123 10s. per annum. The lowest salary
at present for a ten years is £7O per annum.
One middle-aged clerk is paid at the rate of £6 a year for
every year he has passed under the Bank of Victoria’s
roof. Eight junior clerks, who have devoted from sto 9
years apiece to the gentlemanly occupation of casting up
figures, are drawing £6O or £7O apiece for their twelve
months’ trouble. And some thirty other misguided
youngsters are now engaged in working their weary way
towards the £7O haven of rest. The bitter cry of the
uninfluential bank clerk deserves more sympathy than
it gets from the working classes, considering that it can
expect none at all from Fat Man in general.
* * * *
Sydney D.T.’s .London correspondent is much
shocked at a suggestion of Arnold White, M.P., with re-
gard to bankers’ unclaimed balances in the United
Kingdom. The subject is a fairly familiar one in Aus-
tralia. What has often been argued at this end of the
world White repeats, and urges that bankers should be
obliged to disgorge to the State balances not operated on
for a certain number of years. The correspondent says :
“ Mr. White’s proposition is briefly this: He would by
retrospectively suspending the operation of the statutes
of limitation with regard to bankers only extort from
them vast sums of money which at the present moment
belong to the bankers themselves. Of the disturbance to
trade which would be caused by crippling the bankers,
Mr. White recks not at all. Mr. White estimates that a
sum of 90 millions sterling could thus be raised, which
would go in relief to the general taxpaj'er. The whole
project is impracticable and iniquitous, and much as the
general taxpayer would appreciate relief from a shilling
income tax, he is not likely to give a moment’s serious
consideration to a proposition to legalise wholesale thefts
from a section of the community.”
The prevalent English idea is that these
balances are when “ the period required by the statute
of limitations has expired,” the property of the bankers !
This view has been held since the time of James 1., and
bankers, it seems, have boldly acted on it. Whatever the
legal aspect of the question may be, the social and moral
aspects are obvious enough, and these latter should, and
must certainly at no remote date, prevail. In Australia
men place their money in a bank, go to the diggings or
otherwise on the wallaby, and find a resting place where
“ the dead men lie.” It is true they ought to dispose of
their effects in due legal form. As a matter of fact,
they don’t. Most don’t. Then, as a matter of fact,
the banker grabs the pool. The man may have
relatives, but the banker makes no inquiries. It is the
dead man’s money he wants and holds. Whatever law
supports him in that, whether it dates from James I. or
Egbert, must be swept from the Statute Book. It is
mere spoliation, robbery. When, then, balances remain
untouched for a term to be fixed by Parliament, the de-
positor should be supposed to have died intestate, and
the funds be paid over to the Govt. The Govt, would
give an indemnity to the bank, so that if the depositor
reappeared the banker could have all the protection an
honest man wants. Legislation should be easily attained
on this subject, and as England seems so shocked Aus-
tralia should show how simple the reform is.
Stewart, now Q. Senator, spoke his mind
during the Boer war frenzy, and was refused a
hearing later on at Rockhampton North (his
electorate). When the Senate poll came along he
scored over all contestants. They’re cooling
down.
The Victorian Govt, did a mean thing over
the reception of the Governor-General. They
particularly wanted to get a good muster of
Mounted Rifles to form an escort, so they offered
every mounted rifleman who attended a free rail-
way pass, available from the day of the reception
to the 9th—that is, a week. They got their good
muster by this inducement, and then, immediately
after the reception, issued a countermanding
order, saying that the pass would only be good
until the following day, when all the men must
return home ! Many of the men swore and—went
back ; others swore they wouldn’t go, and didn’t.
If the Govt, wants a good show of troops when the
Yorks come they mustn’t play mean tricks of this
sort. It seems to have been done because the
Railway Dept, didn’t wish to carry any dead-
heads in Easter week; but that should have been
thought of before.
The Coningham Case.
Of course, the verdict in the Coningham case
was the only possible verdict on the evidence.
When there is no clear proof that an accused
person is guilty, the custom of affirming his legal
innocence is rooted in wisdom. A juryman
may make his own presumptions, retain his
own beliefs; but unless his presumptions and
beliefs entitle him to say that he knows, he had
better always admit his ignorance with a verdict
of “Not Guilty.” The Coningham jury’s some-
what irregular and unasked-for rider (the matter
dealt with might easily have been left for the
consideration of the Attorney-General) seems to
show that some of the jurymen were still
personally undecided. When the jury went
out of its way to add a rider stating (after
seeing all that documentary evidence) that,
in its opinion, the Coninghams were guiltless
of conspiracy, the jury showed —that is appar-
ently the only interpretation of the rider—that
some of its members were making a compromise
between belief or prejudice and reason. The
most obvious inference is that the co-respondent
had failed to entirely convince some of the jury-
men of his innocence; but as petitioner failed to
entirely convince them of guilt they took the pro-
per course by returning a verdict of “Not Guilty.”
The rider was no doubt a sop to some jurymen or
one juryman who leant to Mrs. Coningham, but
did not sufficiently believe in her to take the
responsibility of contending to the end for the
right of exercising his power to wreck; a man’s life
on the strength of an uncorroborated theory. As
petitioner failed to prove his charges, there was
nothing for it but to say “Not Guilty.” But
some juryman’s belief that the co-respondent
failed to prove his innocence beyond the shadow
of a possible doubt was apparently voiced in that
compassionate rider.
This view reflects neither upon respondent nor
co-respondent. The offence charged is essentially
an act done in secret, and might be committed in
circumstances which made it utterly impossible
for any human being apart from the two con-
cerned to prove guilt. It might be falsely charged
in circumstances which made it impossible to
prove innocence. And, upon anything short of
reasonable proof, a jury can only return a verdict
of “Not Guilty.” •
The legal practice affirms that when you can-
not prove your case on the main issue, you should
try to confuse it with a side-issue. The average
jury does not think clearly, and mixes its cate-
gories in a wonderful way. If you allege that the
adversary is a pot, and cannot prove him a
pot, the average jury will be much impressed
when you show conclusively that he is a
kettle. The side-issue at the first Coningham
trial was Mrs. Coningham’s character. It was
strongly relevant to the case, but not essential,
since the offence charged could have been as easily
committed whether Mrs. Coningham in her
youth was an angel or a demon. That side-issue
failed ; in fact, as a weapon, it inclined to turn in
counsel’s hands. The jury realised that Mrs.
Coningham might have been more sinned against,
than sinning, and they disagreed.
So at the second trial a second side-issue was
found—the issue of the letters. In the strife over
the authenticity of the letters the actual charge
was lost sight of ; and the battle went against
Coningham. That was all that was needed to
turn the first jury’s practical verdict of “ Not
Proven” into the second jury’s verdict of “Not
Guilty,” with the lingering doubt or prejudice re-
presented by the compassionate rider.
The Bulletin views the general result with
satisfaction. It is quite sure that the co-
respondent (whose general credibility was in
no way shaken during the trial, whereas
that of his opponents was effectually shaken
over and over again) could not possibly
be condemned on the evidence, or rather
on the lack of evidence; and when the
evidence is insufficient it thinks that legally and
socially a verdict of “Not Guilty ” is always to be
preferred to a verdict of “Not Proven.” The
worst feature of the case was the fact that it
ranked as a religious feud; and that numbers of
adherents on both sides showed themselves care-
less of truth or justice, guilt or innocence, so long
as their own religion won.
What was at first blush the impressive circum-
stantiality of Mrs. Coningham’s story has wilted
sadly. Men of the world who in the beginning
swallowed her “confession” whole, now quite real-
ise that the entire fabric could possibly have been
erected by any ready-witted woman of experience
possessed of Dr. O’Haran’s personal acquaintance
and autographed-photo., and enjoying for a year
or two “ the run of ” his church premises, to the ex-
tent to which it was apparently enjoyed by any of
the numerous members of the Cathedral guilds.
And when you come to coldly recall
all the circumstances, it is really wonderful
how so much time and money could have been
spent over a case where, had the pursuing woman
been in quest of a verdict of 7s. 6d. a week for the
maintenance of an illegitimate child, she could
not have got a verdict on the evidence from
any Police Magistrate who knew enough law
to be aware that under the Statute no man shall,
in bastardy, be adjudged the father of a child on
the mere say-so of the mother alone.
At Poverty Point.
Dear Bulletin, —Sydney is reputed to have the finest
organ in the world ; and while M. Wiegand played, writer
believed that it was. But when the local man climbed up
to perform he often felt fully convinced that some one
had tied a rooster in the pipes. Since Wiegand’s depar-
ture a gentle squeal seems to have settled in the
high solo-pipes, to break in upon Mendelssohn’s sweetest
harmonies on the slightest provocation. Present Town
Hall recitals appear to be run for the advertisement of
the Massey-family. A short Easter programme is filled
with no less than six compositions by the Massey-family.
Pretty rough on musical folk who come from other States
during the holiday and get Massey compositions blown at
them from the finest organ in the world:—Albert Dor-
rinoton. P.S.—I attach the programme as a curiosity: —
PBOGBAMME.
Town Hall Organ, Sydney, Easter Monday, 1901.
1. Piano and Organ Duet—“ Huguenots” Meyerbeer
Messrs. O. and T. H. MASSEY.
2. Song—“ Lovely Spring ” .. .. Coenen
Miss FLO. AABONS.
3. English Airs .. T. H. MASSEY
4. Song—“ Galway Bay ”.. .. .. Hoben
Mr. BEGINALD GOOUD.
6. Prifsre Mr. J. MASSEY
6. Graceful Dance .. .. .. Mr. A. MASSEY
7. Song—“ Beloved, it is Morn ”.. .. Alyard
Miss MAUD DALBYMPLE.
8. “ Storm ” Mr. T. H. MASSEY
9. Song—“ My Sweetheart When a Boy ” Elliott
Mr. BIOHABD MASFOBD.
10. Andante E. T. MASSEY
11. Military Fantasia .. .. ..T.H. MASSEY
GOD SAVE THE KING.
(And if he had been there, he would have felt he needed
saving.—A.D.)
Mr. ROBERT CLARANCE NEWELL, Pianist,
who accompanies Mdlle. Dolores during her
Australian Tour.
Haddon Chambers’s new comedy seemingly discounts
the assumption that he was assisted by Oscar Wilde, or
some other brilliant “ghost,” in his previous success—
“ The Tyranny of Tears.” Defunct Oscar surely had
nothing to do with “ The Awakening,” which scored a hit
at the St. James’s Theatre last month. London Eeferee
says of this :—“ An interesting story is told by a
dramatist who has mastered the cunning of his craft.
The dialogue is witty and polished, and, in thought and
form, proper to the characters by whom it is spoken.
The play has been ‘ lived.’ It is life. Not, perhaps, the
very best of life, but human flesh and blood all the same.”
And the denouement, as in “ The Tyranny” aforesaid, is
bright and hopeful. “ Mr. Chambers has found his in-
spiration in the manners of the day, but he has not
drained his subject to the very dregs, and he does not vex
the playgoer’s mind by working out his problem in the
way which would please nobody but a half-a-dozen revo-
lutionary critics, and the strong-minded ladies and weak-
minded gentlemen who follow their lead.” The small but
not unimportant part of a butler in “ The Awakening” is
played by H. H. Vincent, who was stage-manager for
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove at the time when Had-
don Chambers left Australia to make his fortune.
The Trebelli family is fruitful in names. Madame
Dolores’ mother, the perhaps greater Trebelli, was ZClia
Gillebert, born in Paris, 1838. Her musical name
was formed by knocking off the G, and then spell-
ing Ulebert backwards. Then she married Signor
Bettini, and tacked on his name. Disraeli and Glad-
stone once joined in complimenting her at a party.
Said Dizzy : “ The only thing Monsieur Gladstone and I
can agree upon is admiration of your beautiful voice.”
Her London dCbut was in '62, at Her Majesty’s, as Maffio
Orsini, in “ Lucrezia Borgia.” An unfortunate pecuniary
disagreement between mother and daughter, published
over a court case, led the daughter to be not particularly
fond of the name of Trebelli.
A la Madame Dante, Haidee Heller carried on Heller’s
business.
Through the fusing of an electric wire recently at an
Australian theatre the “ snow ” on a roof caught fire.
Billee Barlow and her hubby have gone to S’Africa. It
is announced in the press that it is their present intention
to be back in Sydney in August, to pursue the appeal
they have entered against the finding in that libel-action
against The Bulletin. Meanwhile, The Bulletin has to
pay its own costs in the libel-action, which it won before
the jury, and look forward to being reimbursed at
the happy time when Billee Barlow returns. That is the
N.S.W. libel-law. Yet, if Billee Barlow had won her
action, she could, after taxation of costs, have at once
gaoled The Bulletin manager for 12 months had he
failed to pay up to the uttermost farthing; also,
she could have made him bankrupt and got his certificate
withheld for ever until she was paid. Also, if an ordinary
person owes to another £5O, and lets it be known that he
is about to leave the country, the creditor can stop him
from leaving, until he pays up or finds security. But if
you issue a writ against a newspaper and get beaten after
putting the newspaper to £lOO or £lO,OOO expenses, as
costs, you can on spending two or three guineas in filing
notice of appeal say ta-ta and sail over the sea. It is a
queer law. And this we say without imputing to Billee
Barlow any intention of not returning. But why should
The Bulletin have to trust Billee Barlow meanwhile ?
Veteran Australian basso, the brave old “Tom” Bain-
ford, who was 71 on 2nd April, is possibly the oldest
vocalist in the world still exercising his profession. He
originally came to Australia as principal bass (and part-
proprietor) of the first Christy Minstrel co. which visited
these shores, and made his first appearance here at
Sydney School of Arts. The other leading members of
the co. were Nish, the violinist; Joe Brown, jig-dancer ;
and Chas. Stewart, tenor. They were shipwrecked, en
route, at the Cape of Good Hope, and spent 72 hours on
the beach. Bainford was one of the first Dick Deadeyes
“ Pinafore ”) in Australia, and a very good one, too.
Demise : Our old friend Alfred Maltby, original of
Joskin Tubbs, in “ Pink Dominoes,” and Tutor Dawson,
in “ Betsy.” A highly-cultured man, reminding one
somewhat of Haskett Smith. Maltby’s theatrical line gave
little indication of his capabilities, and seemed to have
been determined only by his quaint face. He could stage
an archaeological sort of play as effectively as Lewis Wing-
field, being a great student. In Australia, I last remem-
ber him acting Professor Justinian Babbett, in “ A Night
Out,” at Melb. Princess, with Anson as Brutus Snap, a
crushed tragedian. Titheradge, Agnes Thomas, and the
late Annie Taylor were lesser lights in that notably
humorous performance. During his stay in Australia he
did some creditable oil-painting, and wrote the “ book ”
for the “ Firm’s ” panto, at Melb. Boyal.
Cora Urquhart Brown Potter, the actress of many
angles, is said to have slipped George Musgrove and
taken a London engagement, despite the fact that G. M.
had made “ all arrangements ” for an Australian season.
We have heard several stories of this kind lately, and if
they are true managers must be growing very lax in
the matter of agreements. It used to be the commonest
precaution of a business manager to tie up his star
with a stiff document before taking any risks.
“ Melb.” : Rodney is somewhat thin, in humor, but
pleases the audience. I did not see him at the best, he
being rather catarrhal, and not borne up by a large house.
He is evidently accustomed to rouse a good deal of fun,
and is not warmed up by a merely simpering people. His
exits seemed abrupt and almost contemptuous. Doubt-
less, he would go off with a roar at Pretoria or Durham.
Apparently, he has been awhile away from great centres,
and contracts that inexplicable provincial tinge which
mosses on the best performers under such circumstances.
He is not the born entertainer, like Bussell, Parry, or
Thatcher, the man who seems to have more in reserve than
he ever gives out; but Bodney is of the Maccabe order,
the manufactured. Mimicry is his forte. Extremely
good in Cockney, Scotch, Irish. Why no Dutch? His
changes are too few. He ought to go to London and get
one of the clever fellows there to write him an entirely
fresh entertainment.
The widow of the late W. G. Barker, the Melb. basso,
acknowledges, with gratitude, the receipt of £523 from
the Barker memorial concert, which amount includes,
presumably, a few subscriptions to the fund apart from
actual concert takings. What about the extra concerts
which were expected to produce another £5OO ? The
Bulletin hopes that the cause of widow Barker and
child has not been put into the shade by Jookoyork pre-
parations. At the present moment Melbourne needs a
lot of urging to raise money on account of anything not
connected with York’s visit.
Eleven plays are listed for the present six-weeks’
dramatic season at Melb. Majesty’s. The plays won’t run
—they’ll simply gallop.
The picturesque Kyrle Bellew is again in Australia with
an eye to his N.Q. gold-mining interests, which are said
to be promising. In his mining capacity he affects a rich
region too long neglected—the Palmer Biver. Bellew
would be worth a massive salary as leading-man with
Nance O’Neil. His Scarpia was a fine, lean, venomous
villain—it would be a lovely foil to the fair, round Nance.
“Cockaigne”: Deceased Harry Monkhouse was just
Paul Bedford over again, minus Paul’s singing capacity,
but the same Toole-y street comedian, suited to lazy Lon-
don, with a sort of Prince of Wales veneering of oleaginity.
Australia or America, or even the English provinces, dis-
rate such men amazingly. They are perceived to be
humorous lecturers, not artists to endue themselves with
a character, like Elton, who was Caliban to Monkhouse’s
Prospero in a Gaiety burlesque of the “Tempest,” which
first evinced that bluff Hal had the proper birthmark for
Lud. Harry got a good, original thing as Bouillabaise, in
“ Paul Jones,” but Snazzy had to educe the fun out of it.
Monkhouse’s best chance, however, was as the original of
Penny-in-the-Slot in the “ Mountebanks,” with Aida
Jenoure as his Carrie Moore.
“Haresfoot”: B. P. Whitworth, just passed away in
Melbourne, had a good deal of connection, off and on,
with the stage of yore. He even did utility business with
G. V. Brooke, and once corrected an impression of mine
that Brooke generally ranted. Then he showed me how
remarkably quiet Brooke was as Shylock. Whitworth
brought over a Maori co. to Australia, appearing in a
drama called “ The Pakeha Maori,” which he wrote. He
took leading characters in performances by the Melb.
Press Amateurs—Sir Harcourt Courtly in “ London
Assurance,” Anthony Absolute in “ The Bivals,’.’ Triplets
in “Masks and Faces,” and Hartmann in “Helping
Hands.”
Again the usual lie about the most popular actresses of
the moment going to the races and backing the winners for
large amounts. A regular advertising gag, played off at
race-time to gobemouche journalists and sycophantic
pen-women.
Nance O’Neil intends putting up another Ibsen play
during the present Australian season, but it is not to be
the Ibsen of our time—the Ibsen of the furious contro-
versies. She has chosen one of Henrik’s earlier efforts,
“ Lady Inger of Ostrat,” a drama written about 1855, and
one exhibiting Ibsen’s quality as a conventional dramatist,
although containing the promise and potency of the Ibsen
of “Ghosts” and “Peer Gynt.” The ordinary theatre-
goer will find “ Lady Inger ” quite intelligible, and, sav-
ing perhaps for the bedroom incident between Nils Lykke
and Elina, eminently moral, as morals are misunderstood
by the crowd. Nance has chosen this drama for the sake
of Lady Inger, a character that should suit her down to
the ground and all round; but one is saddened with
thoughts of Kingston and his effeminate methods in the
role of masterful Nils Lykke.
From the poster of a waxworks concern now touring
N.S.W. —“ All the Notable People of the Day. The Bree-
long Blacks —Jimmy and Joe Governor. ' H.M. Queen
Victoria, H.B.H. the Duke of York.” Further down—
“ The Bight Hon. Joseph Chamberlain. Ned Kelly,
bushranger.” Quite so ! Arcadians both.
Some musicians were railing against the ex-musical
critic of a newspaper. “Yes,” said one, “and I have
it on the best authority that he has been deaf for a long
time past, and hardly heard a note of my last perform-
ance, which he criticised so harshly.” “Happy man!”
murmured a brother musician.
“F.C.” : Snazelle must do some hard thinking if ever
he happens into Melb. Gaiety Theatre on a Sunday even-
ing. In ’95 at the demolished Opera House he ran a
Sunday sacred concert with limelight illustrations—a
first-class return for the silver coin admission demanded,
but the dour Melb. Sabbatarians stopped him. T’other
night I dropped into the Gaiety to see Parson Edgar’s
lantern-service. Half-an-hour before starting, the place
was crowded. Pretty well every denomination seemed
to be represented, even the larrikin with the Kitchener
button and the red neckerchief, whose churches and
chapels usually wear chimneys. Many of the audience
conversed pleasantly during prayer, and most of them
remained seated during the hymn-singing. The at-
traction was a brass band of 18 instruments and a French
horn (which is a weapon, not an instrument), and some
limelight illustrations of amusing and edifying incidents
in the life of a Jew, named Daniel—a lion-tamer. These
views were primitive—to put it mildly. The lecturer— or
platitudiniser —gave some original renderings of Bible
texts, one—“ the sword hath slain its thousands and
jealousy its ten thousands ’’—being an unfair aspersion
on the character of the late lamented David. Summed
up, the crowd manifestly rushed the place to escape the
eternal monotony of walking the streets and to elude the
soul-destroying deadliness of the Melbourne Sawbath.
Yes, Snazzy should arrive at some interesting conclusions.
Henry’s dramatic co. is doing the northern towns.
Tasmania to follow.


Modest fidvb. : —“Handsome, dashing
young lady desires correspond rich man, view
matrimony, etc.” “Etc.” is good. It covers a
lot of things—from diamonds to babies.
Clip from Philadelphia, U.S., Record
Immense salt gardens have recently been established in
the neighbourhood of Geelong, along the Bay of
btingaree, in Queensland, Australia.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
“PRIMUS
99
Kerosene gath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL.
From 755. Each,
L
2i
&
m
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOJRSELF.
Costs Half the Price of Gas.
. . . Send for Catalogue . . .
BRANDT BROS.
236 Pitt St., Sydney;
AND . . 9
4-22 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
h
THE SMARTEST MAN
ON EARTHS
Can’t keep count of every detail in a business which
has a dozen, six, or even three assistants, but the
NATIONAL
CASH REGISTER
ĥ
Will do it for him, and do it
thoroughly, Keeping Record
every hour, Year in, Year out,
never getting sick of
“DOING A LOAF.”
ft enrns its own Cost in
for yon.
Natiofyal CaSb Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If. A. LI A GUAM, General Manager for A utralasia.
w
/.
The Most Wonderful Tonic for Ziadies,
Children, and Delicate Gentlemen.
FISHER & COMPANY’S
PHOSPHERINE.
AN INVALUABLE AND UNEQUALLED TONIC FOR
THE NERVES, BRAIN, AND HEART.
THE ROYAL ROAD TO SOUND HEALTH AND
SOLID COMF'ORT.
ESPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR DELICATE
GENTLEMEN, LADIES and CHILDREN.
A CERTAIN CURE FOR HEADACHE, AND “ THAT
TIRED FEELING.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, Is per bottle.
TOST FREE (excepting Queensland) to all parts of
Australia.
FISHER and CO.’S PREPARATION has been on the
Market for SIXTEEN YEARS.
Particularly see that the name *' FISHER and CO.”
appears on each bottle.
PHOSPHERINE
is an UNFAILING REMEDY for Neuralgia, Nervous
Dyspepsia, Anaunia, Brain-fag, Depression, Impoverished
Blood, Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza,
Nervous Headaches, Debility, and all Disorders conse-
quent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
Is. -per Mottle.
FISHER and COMPANY,
The Leading Homoeopathic Chemists
of Australasia.
PHARMACY ....
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P.O.
Advice Free on All Complaints.
Pub.ications.
TRICOCOQy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
iitl their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
m
1 mi mm iii
Price Complete, Net £6 Cash.
RECORDS, Extra, 2s 6d each, Net Cash.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4lss, £6, £7, £B, £lO, £lO 10s
GRAMOPHONES.
ħ
'*^^C^T^I J OC3-TJ"ES FZESIEJF WITH :F\A.:M:F OF OTXIR, UEAEEST
JIG-JUJSTT.^^
A GRAMOPHONE makes a capital
present. Welcome everywhere and by
everybody. Endless amusement for
the festive season. Pleases your family
and friends. It more than takes the
place of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or
cornet, for you hear not only one, but
all these instruments, and many more,
as they are played, not by amateurs,
but by the most celebrated artists. No
matter how remote your habitation, it
brings within the family circle the
actual voices of orators, singers, come-
dians, and story-tellers, who perhaps at
that very moment are delighting
Metropolitan audiences with the same
eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gramophone
in the quiet of a country home
hundreds of miles away.
_ X ‘ 1
jt
-
„ '
- . • ■* - : ■
'->i r -■ irsi
, ; ;
•-•. : • ■
'•'■■•- ’; ■ ■■ •*' * r
•"•■•- ■•' -•• • - - r • - ‘
.* iV * r - : ' ' •
mm ‘
-
HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
[imit to Selections
There is practically no limit, either
in number, quality, variety, or fresh-
ness. For instance, no sooner does an
artist become a popular favorite than
he or she is invited to sing or play for
us into a Gramophone. As many
reproductions are possible from one
such performance, we can secure the
very highest talent, and what costs us
originally £2O to £lOO can be sold for
2s. 6d.
GRAMOPHONES can be seen,
heard, and put chased at all Music
Shops, Fancy Healers, Stores,
A'c., all over the country.
Manufactured
and
Guaranteed
by the
6RAtyOPNONE CO. Ltd., fVfaidgi) Laos, Straod, Loodoo, W.C.
Wholesale Pepot iij Australia : 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


h
A
/1 / v "
Ensures a
«Haf»|ay
0!d A|e.
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
providence. Scientists have for years been endeavouring to discover some .really le ss
healing, ie„ after the teaching of nature. “ Sanoalmus >' is this remedy, being nothing more nor
than an extraction from
FLOWERS FRUIT. HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although the discoverers of • Sanoalmus ” do not profess to have found thereby thei secrett of perpcUia
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of healtn nas ueeu
estabUshed. WIR£LESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working “ Sanoalmus ”is equally simple,
taken'from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignoiance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
voiir Nerves Liver or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right for
Anemia, Blushing', Weakness ’and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into t e
system that anyone may LOOK THE W ORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoalmus
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you-under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache Ear-ache. Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat, Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and legular working to the
bowels Last but not least ‘‘Sanoalmus” must.be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
thfs “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “Sanoalmus” (as before stated! renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin , a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
vm it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong A Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
BALDNESS.
ĥ
A GUARANTEED CURE.
To those who are sceptical we are prepared to give a written guarantee that CAPILLA will
do all thatis claimed for it. Those who have used C A PILL A are amazed at its wonderful effect
n ‘ 4-he Hair and Scalp. It gives renewed life and vigor to the hair, and gives to it that lustre so
much desired by persons troubled with Premature Blanching, Greyness and Breaking Hair etc. One
ot two applications arrest the fall and clear the Head of Dandruff. It makes thin Hair thick and
weak Hair strong. Testimonials from Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business Men, Internationa
Footballers, Cricketers, Actors and Actresses, etc etc with each Bottle. CAPILLA is registered
under the provisions of the Trade Mark Act of 1900.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. 2/6 and 5/- per bottle, by post 3/2 and 5/8.
Leading Sydney Chemists and from the Proprietor
W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
th
THE
‘PLUM’
ri ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ,
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM
“RAZOLES
RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
A
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wig makers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Jgip” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ftsrroßs to the old country;
ħ
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfKiTOfL
LOHDO/S.SW.
Under Kqyal Patronage.
HOTEL
r
THE NEW LOUNGE.
One of the FINEST examples
OF MODERN OAK CARVING EXTANT
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
*'
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COPUNG,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING
AND INVIGORATING.
ALT.’
THB
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-Mcdical apd
SOrgical IpStitQtg—•
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all f tlorah lv m therear \vhile thousands
—Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so dep J , ’ The Freeman
BraSßraMHßMMge**
j i
! -
* ft jay
■ ; ~
■j
v i x v *
,i 0,«*%
|W '-* S :! o'-
*.*€'«■<.•• ■ 1 -jujOsS
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and
consultations either by letter or in
Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
t —<& ss jssa OOPI ' °' 13
Heart Kldnev Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Sl™ Snd Bral™ Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Cout.
Ruptureand Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
wm
■
. . . *. ,'r
■
i 'Rpnause Advertising: is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
WHY WE ADVERTISE ! ® acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a.mantas a
*• BB . , , ~ ,„« 1S«„ oirnAtidod larirfi sums of money in studying- that- Speciality and m
this advertisement and °f the mea s Qf . rne( jical advisers, our method of treatment may
however opposed to your own preconceived .. j ver i fle d by the thousands of testimonials received from
he, the fact still remains that it is su ° c ® ss ™, * , . „ tice We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
grateful patients. We make no secret of oui P ‘ ' listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
way the result of scientific research andlongP ter if allow the disease to run not in your system, you
•*« . „ .
Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
N Boards of New South Wales Victoria, toouth Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
-If vou live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a treatment it .Provided for. Scarpa day
it we wifi be*able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
.... ~ c „ maTlv niiacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
When there are so maicounsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
audacity, sufferers cannot be too ireful whom they consult
altViouo-h liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE IREEMAN AND
WAT T AOE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that thej shall
receivethe advice of those fitted by superior skill and education the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to .youi confidence.
Medicines forwarded to ail parts of the World
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION-
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N b.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallaco
in Brisbane is in no way connected with inc Institute
ttome treatment.


If Premier See will call N.S.W. Parlia-
ment together he will have ample time to fix up a
.rational Sunday Observance Law, a reduction of
members of Assembly, and a reduction in the
number of Ministers. These are pressing needs.
As to a Local Govt. Act, a sure way to get it in
next Parliament is to reduce the number of mem-
bers in this. Next Parliament will then be anxious
to throw the burden of local touting off its
shoulders.
I A pretty little story of virtue triumphant
' concerns an amorous Australian legislator. Said
legislator’s wife has for admirer a gaudy civil
servant who endeavoured to strengthen his posi-
tion by pointing out to wifey that hubby’s name
was not in the division-lists for 3 nights on which
he was supposed to have been at the “House.”
Wife injudiciously pointed out discrepancy to
husband, who, however, was able to prove that
he Was in the “House,” but engaged on special
committee work. Wife penitently “gives-away”
her admirer as the source of her information, and
the legislator (who is stertorous and has three
chins) passes the story on to wifey’s athletic
brother. Result, a badly-damaged civil servant,
and resumption of domestic felicity.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Justice Owen, who presided over the
Coningham-O’Haran divorce-case, is nearing his
fourteenth year on the Supreme Court Bench,
and is expected shortly to retire. He was called
to the Irish Bar in 1859, and has been 41 years in
N.S.W. For a while he gave up law and accepted
the post of Under-Secretary in the Colonial Secre
tary’s Office, but changed his mind, and appa-
rently for the better. Which of the Judges, for
instance, could have more efficiently conducted
such a trial as the Coningbam case?
The eight-year-old granddaughter of
Charles Absolom, one of the best English slow
bowlers of Grace’s early days, is being exhibited
in Melbourne with a view to impressing the
Yorks with the capabilities of Australia. The
child poses not as a cricketer, but as a well-deve-
loped specimen of the native-born. She weighs
19st. 71b. ; and possesses a 68in. waist, a 24in. calf,
and a 22in. arm; and her name'is Beatrice Maud A.
The Maorilanders must be awarded the
championship for all-round level-headedness. By
soundly-progressive laws they have made their
fertile country hum with prosperity ; and—this is
the final test —their favorite brand is D.C.L. The
whusky of the wise. In Maoriland —the Para-
dise of Scotchmen —the brain capacity of the aver-
age male citizen is judged by the brand upon his
bottle. The whusky doesn’t make the mon alto-
gether, but it shows what manner of mon he is,
and a very little experience of business life in
Dunedin, and throughout Maoriland, convinces
one of the fact that the D.C.L. mon is the best
mon.*
What position will those members of Leg.
Assembly who stood for seats in the Federal Par-
liament and were rejected occupy at the next
local election ? They did their best to get away,
were beaten, and now creep back. Several have
already learned that their reputations are damaged
in the eyes of their old constituents, and there is a
general uneasiness that all the defeated candidates
are worse off than they would have been had they
stayed “ true to Poll.” Other men have edged in
between them and the voters, and show unwilling-
ness to draw out. These members will strongly
resist dissolving Parliament for some time to come.
They will try to hold on till they recover some-
thing of the old relations with their constituents,
if a successful recovery be possible.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“S.S.”: Simon Fraser’s Federal Senate
success is only another proof of what Money can
do. The horde loves a cheerful giver, and Fraser
has been bumping down lump sums for charitable
and patriotic objects quite recklessly of late,
figuring for thousands on several of David Syme’s
little lists. Simon’s return is not so amazing, if
you consider his outlay. Money talks, and the
power of its eloquence in the Vic. Senate elections
gives one a moral sickness. Fraser, Zeal, Sar-
good, the stupid contingent of a stupid House, at
the head of the poll, and then—close upon 17,000
votes below the lowest of them—the first demo-
cratic candidate gets a.look-in! Best, who has
the highest democratic vote, gets a little over
61,000. Simon Fraser has over 83,000. Who’d
believe there were 80,000 Bore-sympathisers in
Victoria?
Publications.
The Coningham Case-
DR. O’HARAN’S VINDICATION, AND HOW IT
WAS BROUGHT ABOUT.
Illustrated with Photographic Facsimiles of the Docu-
ments quoted in the Case, together with many others that
did not appear in Court.
TO BE PUBLISHED IMMEDIATELY!
THE GENUINE HISTORY OF THE CASE.
Introduction and General
Survey.
The Abigail Episode.
The First Trial.
The Waddy Episode.
A Game of Euchre.
The Relief of “ Burilda.”
That Agricultural Expert.
Those Documents.
The Romeo of Glenmore
Road.
“ Stout and Oysters.”
“Beer and Boots.”
The Shadow of “ Zero.”
A Belated Wedding.
Dill-Macky’s Revolver.
Coningham’s “Bodyguard.”
u Zero’s” trysting with
“Conny.”
The Second Trial.
Foiled !
“ Conny’s” Collapse.
Triumph !
THE WORK WILL BE PUBLISHED THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AT
5 /- a Copy ; Post Free, SJC.
ORDERS should be addressed to
D. COOPER,
Box 265, Gr.f’.O., Sydney
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION of NANCE O’NEIL
in
LA TOSCA.
NANCE O’NEIL as FLORA TOSCA
(For the First Time in Melbourne).
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENyEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
RETURN of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Mr. H. C. Wyld wall arrive per R.M.S. Victoria with
New and Varied Pictures, including Vivid Reproductions
of the QUEEN’S FUNERAL PAGEANT.
PRICES---35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
SNAZELLE,
with WEST AND
SON’S
“OUR NAVY”
A.ustralia,xi Tour.
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, Three Weeks from March 15.
CHARLES MACMAHON, Manager for Mr. SNAZELLE.
CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
NEWMAN’S
SPECIAL
DEPILATORY.
For Removing:
Superfluous Hair.
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St, Sydney.
Write for our 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
A
B«"<NC
Or
25
PER
CENT.
Charles Read & Co.
6-Stone Diamond Bine,
£5.
Charles Read & Co.
Solid Silver Teaspoons, 6 in Case,
16s; 6in Case and Tongs, 225.
Charles Bead & Co.
Silver-plated Teapot, holds
4 Half-Pints, 20s.
A
BAVING
OF
25
PER
CENT.
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce Comedy,
the Great Anglo - American Success,
THE GLEEFUL PLENITUDE,
WHY SMITH LEFT HOM€-
Box Plan at Paling’s. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Mr. C. M. RODNEY,
THE SOCIETY ENTERTAINER NOW
TOURING VICTORIA,
WILL OPEN IN SYDNEY,
S_A.TTJLaiD-A.Yr, 13.
OTILL BOOMING! STILL BOOMING!
WORTH BROS.’
Royal Circus and Menagerie.
SIXTY ENGLISH AND CONTINENTAL
PERFORMERS.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
AFTERNOON PERFORMANCES EVERY WEDNESDAY
AND SATURDAY at 3.
Location — OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
PRICES—3s., 2s, and Is.
RESERVED CHAIRS (Is. Extra) at Nicholson’s.
J. A. MARTIN, Treasurer.
A. MIDDLETON, Business Manager.
HE A T R E ROYA L, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 7.46.
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Gorgeous Operatic Fairy PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SPECTACLE EVER SEEN
ON ANY STAGE.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance), 10 to 6.
EM PI RE THEATRE, SYDNE Y.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Magnificent New First Part, THE ROSE BOWER.
New Artists Every Week. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES —25., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, Business Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
“A GAIETY SUCCESS.”
FLORODOR. A.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
qi q "W 3XT HAL L.
THE WORLD-FAMED SOPRANO,
Mdlle.
Antonia (Trebelli) Dolores.
FIRST SONG RECITAL, assisted by Mr. ROBERT
CLARANCE NEWELL, Pianist.
THIS SATURDAY EVENING, 13th April, and on 16th,
17th. MATINEE, 18th and 20th April.
PLAN and TICKETS at PALING’S. Accompanist, Mr.
J. ED. SYKES. JAMES TAIT, Manager.
THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
RECEPTION MOST BRILLIANT.
Tlie World’s "V erdict.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Famous Dramatic Organisation, headed by Miss
EUGENIE DUGGAN.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHIT,LING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
piCKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THIS SATURDAY, at the MATINEE, GIGANTIC
SUCCESS of the Great
MARIE LLOYD,
and the Coster King,
ALEC. HURLEY.
TED BOX, SARINA, AQUINALDO. Re-appearance of
Albert Whelan, Alf. Lawton, Maggie Fraser, and all Our
Great Co. MATINEE SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS in AUSTRALIA of the
GREAT and ONLY
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
Re-appearance in Australia on Saturday Night of Mr.
AUSTIN RUDD. Brilliant Reception of Mr. FRANK
LEON, Miss LIZZIE KIRK, Miss LULU ZESCH,
DE WYNNE BROS., ALBERT WHELAN, TED Ji. BOX,
and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE UNIVERSALLY FAMOUS MELODRAMA,
THE WORLP.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FAREWELL SEASON, FAREWELL SEASON,
of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA CO.
Thursday, April 11, TANNHAUSER.
Friday, April 12, MIGNON.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
Tub Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d ; Posted Bd.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
1 ° n f tce wIU be taken °f communications insufficiently
s amped. Name and address must appear on MS.
Ao liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
A. Macrae: Had Holman been nominated to
the Senate, and nominated early, by N.S.W. Labor Party
he would probably have been elected. His manful atti-
tude on a recent memorable occasion would have gained
him 30,000 votes. =-... Censor: We don't want long yarns
descriptive of the plot of an opera so often staged as
“ Mignon.”... .Heretic : Unmitigated blather, in grievous
English Fosko : Would like to see you.
A. M‘G. : On the contrary, The Bulletin is always de-
lighted if a country editor takes the trouble to send
along a news or literary clipping from his own paper to
which he wishes attention drawn. And, tell us—when
did we steal anything from a country paper without
acknowledging it? .. .0. W. : The military transport An-
of NSW 8 ” 0 A°M b T named after Major “Jack” Antill,
A.M.L. (Dunedin): Ah, weel, yon was a
an f d new to us, but we have jaloused syne that
it "as a chestnut. Forbye ye are verra Scotch and seri-
ous, ye ken.. Fancy : The Dry Dog and the Yellow Pup
do somehow chum in together in N.S.W. The reason?
Well, it is to be sought in the history of Parkes Vik-
*ng • We weep tears of blood at not being game to print
that lovely yarn about the half-caste baby and the pas-
son s wife. But we’ll go round telling it for the rest of
our life It will make us very popular in our old age
t : ,„ ros ® 18 go . od ’ if lurid ! verse lurid and not g00d....
o.r. : Want to print .vou ; but all too vag*ue. One precise
fact as to the state of prisons is worth many opinions
A.M.O. : Say the Transvaal war costs Britain 100 millions
before it is over—it will probably cost 150 millions—what
an Old-Age-Pension System could have been founded with
tne money . But the poor are only counters in British
politics—mere animals for use or slaughter C.O.S. :
One thing if the little man died to-morrow thousands of
men would leave work for a half-day to follow his body
to the grave out of gratitude for his disinterested
benevolence. Which is at least as much as, and perhaps
a little more than, can be said for any other Australasian
politician Another Mac. :We are now told that war-
correspondent Donald Macdonald was born in Fitzroy and
if he has any religion at all it is Presbyterian....
Oambo : Why should the rev. gentlemen have unpleasant-
ness with officer or private? Have other chaplains had
any ? The suggestion is that some of these clerical per-
sons have been led bv their absurdly inappropriate titles of
“ Captain " or “ Major ” to put on airs which do not suit
their “sacred” character. A country without a State
Church has no business to pay chaplains for its soldiers.
C.W. : A stupid printer’s error. It should have been
Southampton to Toulon, not “London.” Alao: So
far as can be seen, Dr. Maloney succumbed to M’Eaeharn
in Melb city chiefly through the influence of merchants
and their clerks, who, although living in suburbs, are
rated and voted in the city. An election at St
Kilda might have made all the difference Canopus :
For instance, in Melbourne Public Library there are now
upwards of 25 books relating to the Boer war, most of
them merely pot-boilers, without literary or historical
merit...-Thos. B. (M.L.): No use in prolonging the dis-
cussion. Also, the Highland regiments are “ Line regi-
ments.” Thus, the Black Watch is the 42nd of the Line.
W.G. : The family-name is properly Wettin, though,
as the first of the line to reign in Britain was Elector of
Hanover, the designation “ House of Hanover” is appro-
priate enough Susie M.: You think we are wrong. No
Susan; you only think you think we are wrong...’
C.C.O. : Bulletin, anyhow, is* not addicted to printing
and gloating over filthy court-cases in the name of
Morality Llewellyn F. :Goto 1 Your “ two verses of
poetry’’are from Tom Hood’s famous pun-poem, “Ben
Battle”—and badly mangled at that J. A. Clubs:
Nothing in that. We often get sketches or suggestions
from different persons bearing on the same Subject
Veritas : Seems to have been only the usual departmental
bungling Spikey : Can’t acknowledge all paragraphs.
And was the wedding-account of any interest to people
apart from the Mr. Smith and Miss Jones immediately
concerned? Were there any particular “points” about
it? N.T. :Be witty if you can’t be clean... Scotty:
Suppose it s a matter of opinion whether democrats
should decline chicken and champagne sweated out of
the taxpayer ;or cynically accept and denounce. Bulle-
tin thinks they should refrain for sake of example
E. J.R. : Sorry it hasn’t quite “go ” enough for “ B.”
Novice: Can’t make personal references like that!..’.'.
Betrayer: Some of it funny, but bulk uninteresting....
Inezam : Humoi-ous one the better, but neither up to
mark R.A.K. : “Simpson” yarn flimsy and rather
feeble Casp : But you don’t name story enquired
about Vincent N.: Better write in full; con-
tractions are an extra strain on our atten-
tion and comps.’ intelligence W.A.M. : Not
a bad idea, but it’s unusable Constant Reader:
We’d have that sort of criticism in Australia also if we
had that kind of play here A.O.T. : Your comments
on that case would do the editor no good M.B. : Pos-
sibly one : but you are very wordy W.M. wants refer-
ence to a Bulletin verse titled (?) “A Royal Exchange,”
commencing “ The earth is the Lord’s and the fulness
thereof.”... .P. Me. : Thanks F.H.F. : Very old gag.
. ...E.L. : The Victorian Factories Act Commission of
Inquiry will have to consider the administration of the
Act quite as much as its effect on wages and prices. The
fool honorary-magistrate still makes afarce of the Act as far
as in his power lies P.L.: “Plesents” feeble Hilary:
Weak Vic-W. : Noted Harry W. : Write shorter
sentences and shorter stories ; and make a paragraph
whenever you can Lecklands : “Bushman” better;
considering. Don’t want “Spirit.” L.M.D. : It will
about do Ben Sun: “Threshing” right; “Fire”
wrong J.W. (M.L.): Old topic, and no new humor
Yarrum : Considering “Good Times.” Pedro: Will
do T.H.M. : Sorry unusable Iconoclast: We are
weary of moral reflections Vulcan : Tired lines buried.
Pryo : Learn to put your pars in one-fifth your space.
Tess: Not up J.R.L. : Hate echoes E.N. :
Worthless F.C.H. :So dreary ! Ivanhoe : Yes, it is
acceptable—if of quality F.W. : Not ill-done, but
hardly enough in it A.G.W. : Might have been made
much more of Yarrevah : Too slight for print
Pototo : Good material poorly put together. J.J.H. :
Not badly told, but such race-yarns are stale from fre-
quency Quilp N.: “Thackman” not quite up
to mark Champagne: “E.P.,” as applied to
tents in India, means “European Privates.”
Yarrum: “Why” won’t do as told Jack Rue: Only
story-material; no story Van: “Grovel” declined.
E.P. : Far below publishing-mark Tony: A truly
dreadful production 1 Yarrum: But the blunders of
the yarn turn upon your blunder of supposing that the
names of the approved candidates were to be struck-out.
Hard C. : Much shriek and little meaning Suva:
You prance a lot, but don’t get ahead an inch Meg
W.: Thoughts good, but you don’t seem to have any
rhythm-ear—a fatal defect for verse M.L. : Sorry
can’t do anything with it J.L. : “ Shades ” unusable.
And, as to “ Boxes,” we don’t print mysteries, and have
no time to unravel conundrums... .F. L. Mac.: Bern-
hardt story already printed in Bulletin. Don’t write on
both sides of the paper Kiwi : A rather silly sugges-
tion., . .C.H.M. : The wood-grub delicacy was extensively
discussed in “ B.” some time back “ Jerry S. : You’re
nearly as lugubrious as the other Jeremiah... .B.G.A. :
But such commentators forget that, though cheapness
must Have simplicity of a sort, simplicity is not neces-
sarily cheapness. Also, the “ Saul ” Dead March suffers
from being over-familiar. Its first effect was overwhelm-
ing Beetle : Squashed with alacrity Chas. Morgan
(N.Q.): Will print W.J. : Feeble Miles: Not bad ;
but idea is moth-eaten E.R.W. : “Away! and away!”
you begin—and we finish Steff Cas.: “ Maree ” weak.
.... Albar : Well told ; will try and use C.J.H. : Poetic ;
but spoilt by incongruous phrasing and rhyming
F.F.T. : Have read it all 1000 times before....“ Tot ” :
Doesn’t tot-up satisfactorily, though not without merit.
E.J.R. : Not enough in it Nell Cook: Fairly well
written, but lacks interest Will J. : First verse good ;
others empty of either poetry or sense. Stick to
simplicity, and always yourself know what you mean
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jay Jay : May use one R. Don: Ditto W. 0. :
One may possibly serve as suggestion 0. P. :
Good subject for Phil May—fit for no other artist....
W. Feti: Funny, but unprintable Unavailable,
Karnie, M.A.R., Adam Ph., T.G.F A.H.W. : Don’t
see any point W.G.K. (D.): Nice little drawing, but
egend unimpressive.
A Blot on the Democracy.
‘ One man one vote ! ” The placing of Simon
Fraser, William Zeal, and F. T. Sargood at the
top of the Vic. poll for the Senate by 20,000 votes
more than was recorded for any other candidate,
is an ineffaceable blot on the democratic record.
For years past the great democratic mass in Vic-
toria has shaken its grim fist at the members of
the House of 48 Fatmen, and savagely cried
“ Wait till we get you in the open ! ” They were
in the open on Friday week, and the masses tore
their clothes in their eagerness to hoist into the
Senate three of the most ignorant, arrogant, and
uncompromising Tories in the House of Fatman.
A populace guilty of such idiocy deserves all the
48 Fatmen have ever done. That the men with
the grimy fist and the menacing cry have done
this thing is clear from an analysis of the voting
in the working men’s constituencies. Taking
Trades-Hall secretary Barrett as the class of
man the masses ought to have voted for in these
constituencies, this is how the voting works out:
Albert Park.—Barrett 976, Fraser 1194, Sargood 1100,
Zeal 1037 ; Carlton and Carlton South —Barrett 1699,
Fraser 1351, Sargood 1306, Zeal 1216; Coding-wood—
Barrett 2164, Fraser 1521, Sargood 945, Zeal 1237 ;
Brunswick—Barrett 3702, Fraser 3557, Sargood 2445,
Zeal 1915 ; Emerald Hill—Barrett 1042, Fraser 777,
Sargood 655, Zeal 633 ; Essendon and Flemington—Bar-
rett 1540, Fraser 2012, Sargood 1024, Zeal 1820 ; Fitzroy
—Barrett 2016, Fraser 1874, Sargood 1429, Zeal 1662 ;
Footscray—Barrett 1369, Fraser 1093, Sargood 680,
Zeal 760 ; Melbourne North —Barrett 1233, Fraser 947,
Sargood 876, Zeal 762 ; Melbourne South—Barrett 1052,
Fraser 813, Sargood 650, Zeal 656; Melbourne West —
Barrett 1199, Fraser 713, Sargood 640, Zeal 599 ; Port
Melbourne—Barrett 732, Fraser 571, Sargood 451, Zeal
398 ; Richmond—Barrett 2428, Fraser 1823, Sargood
1516, Zeal 1537 : Williamstown—Barrett 1050, Fraser
1101, Sargood 997, Zeal 873.
In each of these constituencies it ought not to have
been possible for Fraser, Sargood or Zeal to
have polled more than 200 votes each. That the
workers did not do their clear duty is plain from
the fact that all three obstructionists were well
up, and in some cases beat the Labor man.
It is safe to say that Sargood, Zeal and
Fraser, in the order named, have done more to
block liberal and progressive legislation than
all the rest of the 48 Fatmen put together.
Sargood is the recognised leader of the House of
Fat, while Fraser and Zeal are always to the
fore when he wants any assistance in holding
Democracy’s throat. There is no reasonable ex-
planation of the action of the Vic. workers and
Liberals in this instance. Even Trenwith, on
the night of the poll, had to admit that the vote
had astonished him. It is true Fraser and Zeal
were on the Age ticket, but the fact that they
were also on the Argus ticket along with Sargood
and several other of like kidney should have
opened the eyes of Liberals. It is ridiculous to
altogether attribute Fraser’s success to the fact
that he is the Pope of the Orange crowd. Orange-
men are not so strong in Victoria that they can
put a man at the head of the poll, with 77,000
votes to his credit. Then, neither Zeal nor Sar-
good takes any part in the color controversy. It
is equally absurd to say that money is responsible
for the result of the poll, because the workers in
the city and suburbs could have decided the issue
as between Labor and Fat had they stuck to their
own side.


Three Years
Liver Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURE.
The Case of
Mrs. KATHERINE GARLAND.
(BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
“ Your visit has come as a pleasant
surprise to me,” was the remark with which
Mrs. Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hiili, greeted the reporter from this
journal, as it saves me the trouble of
writing to you about my bad attack of liver
complaint-, from which I suffered terribly.
I am a very poor correspondent at the best
of times, preferring like most members of
my sex, to receive letters rather than write
them ; but I am so conscious of a deep
obligation to Clements Tonic for restoring
me to health that I made up my mind to
write expr<sung my gratitude, and as you
have obviated that duty 1 will gladly give
the fullest details.
“ How long did your liver trouble afflict
you ? ” asked the reporter.
“ For fully three years, and I hope it will
never come on again. Do you know, I
believe I would rather be dead than
continue like I was then. The first sgn of
my failing health was an unaccountable
fastidiousness regarding my food. I some-
times felt like eating a little, and as soon as
it was before me I should turn right against
it, and do nothing but mince and turn it
over, then finally leave it alone. There
was always a sickly, sour taste in my mouth,
my tongue being so dry and rough,
particularly in the morning, and I was oLen
seized witfi a fit of vomiting, which was
invariably followed by the act of belching
distasteful gases from the stomach. The
operation of ridding myself of the bile and
so >r w.nd from the stomach caused me no
end of discomfort and pain, and blinding
headaches were frequently experienced
after I had been retching. Heavy pains in
the shoulders, and sometimes in the chest,
often paid me more attention than was
agreeable, as they made me form the
opiniou that I was slowly falling into the
clutches of some dreadful disease. Indeed,
this idea was made all the moie likely by
the yellowish hue of my skin, and my eyes
became a dirty green colour. Liver spots
also came out on my chest. Besides the
p dns in the chest and shoulders, I would
have severe attacks in the side, and they
vere so excessively tormenting that I had
to apply hot fomentations, but they only
gave temporary relief, and made the next
attack more acute. It was next door to
impossible to ever get a brief respite from
my many ailments, for 1 could scarcely ever
get to sleep, and the little repose that did
occasionally come to me was marked by
unpleasant dreams and restlessness. On
awakening it required a great stretch of
imagination to believe I had slept at all,
so weary and fatigued would I feel. My
limbs ached with sheer weakness, and I’m
sure I was an object deserving compassion
when crawling about the house in my vain
efforts to do a little housework, only to sit
down quite exhausted and fret for hours.
When I wanted to stand up I had to do so
carefully and steadily, otherwise a fainting
giddiness would take charge of me, and my
head would whirl round like a spinning-
wheel. These faining sensations left me
dreadfully depressed and low-spirited, and
I sat or lay brooding over mv misfortunes
till I got very melancholy. There was not
an ounce of flesh on my bones. So weak and
debilitated had I become that I was almost
afraid to look in the glass.”
“You look remarkably well now, how-
ever, Mrs. Garland.”
“ Yes, thank God, I am like I used to be
bef >re my three years’ sickness But you
have noc learned all my troubles. The
worst and most terrifying thing has yet to
be described. I have not yet mentioned the
anxiety my heart used to cause me. You
do not think I look like a woman whose
heart is diseased, do you ? No ; I’m sure
I dou’t. But I was almost worried to death
with that thought when I was so ill. My
heart used to start suddenly beating with
such violence that I dreaded it stopping or
easing off, in case it would stop for ever.
But it would quieten down after nearly
scaring the life out of me, only to start
again with renewed rapidity. I have since
learned that palpitation of the heart occurs
in liver disease cases when they are very
serious, so mine must have been a very bad
case.”
“And what treatment did you receive
from your doctor?”
“ Oh, the usual—medicines and pills, and
I don’t mind telling you that the liquids
they termed medicines did me no end of
injury. Why, I used to loathe the thought
of swallowing it; the smell was offensive
and the taste was disgusting. But I
persevered with them for three years’ all to
no purpose. Then a friend told me that
Clements Tonic was the best thing for me to
take, which I did, and you can see the
result for yourself. Clements Tonic seemed
a little bitter at first, but I could soon drink
it like water, without any reluctance what-
ever. But even if it had been gall I would
have drauk it, because it brought about my
convalescence in no time. I told my doctor
I would rather have Clements Tonic than all
his stuff, as it was doing me good, and his
physic had completely failed. He replied :
* Well, I’ll not make much out of you now.’
And he spoke truthfully, for I can be
independent of all doctors now. rapidly
experienced ease from puns in the stomach,
chest and shoulders, and the easing of pains
in the head brought delightful, soothing
sleep. My appet.te came back, and I did
not notice any discomfort after eating. The
liver spots were eradicated, and my skin
recovered its usual colour. No more fears
of heart disease worried me, as the palpit-
ation disappeared with the other disagree-
able symptoms. To be as brief as possible,
I must candidly admit that C ements Tonic
is solely responsible for my cure. When my
son-iu-law was up in the mountains he wrote
saying he was sick, and I sent him a couple
of bottles of Clements Tonic to Katoomba.
He subsequently thanked me, stating that
the medicine I had forwarded had cured
him. One of my daughters has been under
treatment during the p'st twelve months
for asthmatical bronchitis (another doctor
says it is heart disease she has got). They
have not done her the least good with their
phasic, so lately she has been taking
Clements Tonic. She has had three bottles
up to now, and she is making good progress
in the right direction. I believe Clements
Tonic will make a woman of her again. My
faith in it is without limit, and I am so
grateful for its effect upon mj self and
relatives that you can publish my testimony
as much as you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Kathbrink Garland, of No. 4 Denhamstreet,
Surry Hills, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five and that it contains and is a true ard faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
wav my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
tiue, an 1 bv virtue of the provisions of an Act inside
and passed in the ninth year of the reign of her
present Majesty, intituled “An A t for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the mppre-s on of
voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
<u K— eL.
Declared at Surry Hills, this 11th day of August,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
A. DAVIDSON, J.P.
MOIR’S
PURE PICKLES.
Assorted kinds in Pint Bottles.
Manufacturers i *
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Price 6e.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rude.”
Jfow
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
PRICE 60, POSTED BD.
Business Announcements.
(Hood Tailoriog*
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGB, &o.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
h
A Good..
Understanding
Should always prevail where
boots and shoes are concerned.
There's a shoe on sale in
Australia which deserves care-
ful attention because of its
intrinsic merits. That shoe is
The “ HERZ” Shoe.
It Is the Shoe to buy because:—
The leather is of the finest
quality.
The shape is elegant, and
is never lost.
For such high-class goods
the price is just right.
It is easy and comfortable
always.
Ask for ‘HERZ’ Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
Medical.
note
Reader, why not be able to use the
fnost mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can 1 arn
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with*
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
| that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
| amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
I Hypnotism, which folly explains
the mysteries and secret*
of the* Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in \ A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-j
Do f ize. It ‘s a chance of a’
lift-time. Address—
ĥ
ħh
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
j NOTICE
' To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
| Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
i The Old Reliable English Remedy.
' PATERNOSTER S PILLS.
' Prepared by Poingdestkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
i efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
> . -
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOI.D IN TWO SIZES, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
1 N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poixgdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Sore Eyes 2 Blight I
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT,”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
It can be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DA V for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Fn'low the footstep! of th» wise and buy the Be’t,
Cheapest, and Most :it\lish 0 OTHING in Australia.
STUART&^O.
' PH PKItTAY I.IMITBD,
861 & 264 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 piece* of Woollens to select from.
.r
1
Our suit to order at 4?®. is
marvellous value: mad.- from
A 1 w*>ol 'I woods Vicuna*, or fast
Col rForges; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finish d
A splendid Suit to order frow
any class« f M aterial £.l Ih. T«
measure, capital Trousers, verj
goo! patterns fg*. ttd.
Kress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Fuits. to measure. £J»
K ding Bre ches. £s®* *
Hiding II .hits. <kc.
We supply ready made. Men'®
capital T\\ ee l Suits 'il». & JWs.
I Fani us Ballarat Serje Suits,
Indigo dye.s2 s.
All-wool, fawn, g rey, or brown
Serge ette suits. tt«a.
Excellent tweed or Sorgo
Trousers J»s. ||d.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and l9s ttd.
lien's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s ttd. W iiite Krill
Sacs and Trousers, 10 s. ttd.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. ltf® ttd.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
tts. 9d. White and Brown Krill
Trouser® 3*. 9d.,4* 91.. s®. ttd.
Travelling Trui ks. Ba,> and
Bugs in great variety
Men’s White Sliiits, colored
front and cuffs ?£s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirt®, now
designs. s*. ttd.
Wuite Mat e Shirts, collar and
pocket 3s. tt‘f*
So t Alpine Hats, 4®. ttd., all
colors
Hard Hats 4-. «d. Caps, f®,
l e»ino Undershirts or Pants,
1® 9d. ,
Neck ties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Fhirts to measure. Gents - splendid Balmoral Boots,
®*Weliii?to*writ* letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our honk, “the Philosot by of I ress ’* and
patterns of a 1 kinds and self-tne snrenient forms posted free
Write for ill m
WOOD HEAD’S^*
S"
CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &c.
No. 6, 35s; No. 6, 308; No.
7 (Ceiling), 268 each.
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Brisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS'
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and ena-
blingih. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL .-“It hat all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth”
«01 l> BY CHKMIUTS *ll. THr WOBf.D OVFB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
GOUT
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prodt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n}brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioi).


h
.1
I
■I ate
m
l'uoio iroin L.ife.
Original may be seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
w
biiuisr Royal t-atronage.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
111 is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
I luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
I o f youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
11 cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
||| for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
I | new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
||| because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
IN makes the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
hi ns a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
11' that may be desired.
CHIL DR EN LIKE IT,
111 because it keeps the hair and scaln cool nnd clean, allays irritation, and
|i* keeps the hair in " hatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
. because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
| substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
; not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
I produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
j other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
1 colouring matter or dve.
ĥ
ħ
KOKO is sold in 1/ , 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Koko Maricopas Co. I Ad., 14, Castlereagh
Street. Sydney, N S.W.
CAUTtnN —See that thisEegistered Trade Mark is on every bottle
h
ĥ
th e FAMOUS REM EDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICTNE IN AUSTRALIA.
who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ' have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sullicieiit,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BESWA.RE3 OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE lIIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. TTearnp. —Dear Sir,- I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine lias effected in
my case. About three years ago 1 began to couirh. At
first the cough was not severe, hut it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. 1 had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to he Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, hut without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced takinir it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment front different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
it once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
*nd “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
'lxree Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OK VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost iter voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to E:in-
land to ntv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night fora
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked info
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’and distr ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M.‘ MORTTMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John IS. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was attain successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite si rone.
“ 1 must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a botile to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me io
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as 1 could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so had she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband ttiat there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent, her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but. I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Ilearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
smid 1 hottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Ilearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—'Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he statesl
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Qffi ce . jj 0 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Font to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
-
%
BENGER’S FOOD Is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and Is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Be., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.
According to a Vic. trooper recently re-
turned from S’Africa, amongst the ration biscuits
served to the troops were some which had been
years in store at Durban, yet were perfectly
sound and good. Edible granite !
A poser for piety. According to S.F. Call,
f, Chinese lately asked an American missionary
.'' ' ia t for you want me in your heaven and not
in your country?” The scoffer’s answer, of
course, is that the Yankee man only pretends to
believe in Heaven, but his belief in his country is
all-wool.
Compare the time-loss through strikes and
lockouts with the time-loss through such a war as
that in S’Africa, and what a wretched little total
the former amounts to ! Last year, according to
British returns, the former loss was 3,785,000 days
(2,516,416 days in 1890); while, allowing 200,000
men on service, 50,000 in transporting and equip-
ping them, and 20,000 thrown idle in S’Africa, the
time-loss through the war in the 12 months (work-
ing days only) amounted to 83,700,000 days.
This war has played the deuce with
Kipling’s reputation as an authority on swaddies.
Really Kip.’s experience of soldiers was very
limited, but he darted into the subject with such
assurance and so convincing an air of omniscience
that the British public was bull-dozed, and it took
its Rudyard for granted, and at a gulp. Kipling
has simply drugged his public with the idea that
earth holds nothing to resist a regiment of British
soldiers officered by “English gentlemen.” But
the most pertinent and convincing teaching of the
Boer battles exposes the sawdust stuffing of Kip-
ling’s grave, calm, reticent, god-like young Eng-
lish official of good family, by gad, and we find
him too often a rabbit-toothed, chinless, scatter-
brain dude, without wit enough to lead a hungry
ammunition-mule to a bag of carrots. Who from
this out will read of those inspired sucklings in
11 A Conference of the Powers,” for instance,
without grinning b ick to his ears in bitter deri-
non ?


UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
h
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS CF SPARTA.
h.r.h. princess hohenlohe.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High ConimissiQuer oj Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
99
FOB
THE
ĥ
w
§
At
Hi
fa
Photo d specially for the ** Harleue '* Co., by Langfler, Bond St., W #
Haymarkit Fheatre, London •
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
•» / am at present trying your ' Marlene' for my
hair , «tmT / find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / ever used, and / A<iw tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey! Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustacie.
The World Renowned y Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Slrengt ening»
.and Renderin? the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Remcvirg; Scurf Dandruff,
also for Restoring Grev to its Original Colour.
H.R.H. PRINCESS
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
MARIE OF GREECE
wr itw»—“Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. 11.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene' sent as soon as pcssible.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALNIASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘lfarlene,’ as T am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Dottle, 1/-« 2/6. and (three times 2/6 size! 4/fi per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
w/
Fboto'd specially ior tlie •• Harlene Co., by Bond St., W.
Gariick Theatre . London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
w) ites —
“l am verv pleased to test ifv to the excellent
qualities 0/ • .Harleneit is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
" P S.—l hope 'fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, High Holborn, London, W.C
The Expiation of Ralph
Lnttrell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sawmill in the he:irt of the ran pros, the air
resonant with the cracking of bullock-whips, the
g-r-r-r of the huge circular saw, the jerking jar of
the “ vertical,” the rheumatic panting of the
steam-engine, the whirr of machinery-belting, the
clanking of log-chains and cant-hooks, the distant
rhythmic echo of the feller’s axe, the cling-clang
of bullock-bells, the jangling of iron upon iron,
and vocal with shouts and objurgation ; the land-
scape vivid with red shirts and blue, and the color
of cattle and salmon-hued sawdust. It was a red,
fervid day of dust and smiting sun-glare—a blis-
tering, smoky afternoon, when the sky hung in a
dense fog about the tops of the eucalypti, and
far-away bush-fires blurred the blue over-head and
made the air dance and quiver like the fierce breath
of a blast-furnace. The westering sun seemed
suspended like a huge ball of glowing copper
above the panting earth, and cast a myriad fire-
suns into the slush-pools left by the short, sharp,
tropical storm of the morning—pools which had
been churned up in the timber-yard by the jug-
gernaut wheels of the ponderous bullock-waggons
into viscid chocolate-coloured lakes. The scent of
burning timber was in the air, mingling with the
dust of the day and the various odours of eucalyp-
ti and heaped damp saw-dust, and the port-wine
bouquet of freshly-sawn messmate. Amid such a
scene, and on such a day was Sal Gardle’s good
name and fame re-established at Wyndabit, and
Ralph Luttrell chained for life to the expiation of
a passing folly.
Now Ralph Luttrell, or, as the hands employed
at the Wyndabit steam sawmills called him, with
ironical emphasis, “Mister” Luttrell, was the
bookkeeper, manager and “boss” in general of
his uncle’s mountain estate, and an undying object
■ of curiosity and speculation to all who lived and
were maimed and died there. A city-bred young
fellow was he, of some four or five-arid-twenty
summers, as strong, tall, stalwart and well-knit as
any bush man, possessing a handsome enough face,
with determined, regular features, and a firm
mouth, brown, curly, hair, and a masterful, dare-
devil, somewhat supercilious manner —particularly
efficacious with the other sex. He was rather
respected than liked by the men, but regarded
with unbounded admiration by the girls and
the women of Wyndabit, while the schoolboys
looked up to him as their ideal of a possible
“Captain Starlight”—that hero so dear to the
hearts and fancy of the bushranger of the play-
ground.
But young Luttrell was in disgrace, and the
bush sojourn was one of probation, not of choice.
His master and employer was also his uncle, one
Richard Bradshaw, owner of the Wyndabit steam
sawmills, and also of three other great timber
depots in different parts of the country, a mam-
moth farmer, a squatter, a merchant, a member of
the colony’s Upper House, a man who fared but
seldom into the tree-clad ranges whence much of
his wealth was reaped, where men were slain and
crippled, and women left husbandless and soilless,
and children fatherless, in the ordinary course of
a day’s work ; where the metal sisterhood of
the huge saws played havoc with life and
limb; and where, moreover, his nephew,
Ralph Ruttrell, languished on hard fare,
and scant amusement, and stifled curses,
raging furiously in a reticent solitude, eating Ins
own heart out. No, the great Richard Brad-
shaw’s place of residence was a, mansion in a
suburb of the great metropolis, his nominal place
of business a palatial office in its chief commer-
cial thoroughfare, his place of recreation m its
senatorial halls ; while his reputation was just
sufficiently good to bear public auditing m the
cold print of a hostile press.
Ralph Ruttrell was the onlv son of a favorite
and favored sister of the millionaire magnate,
who designed for his nephew something pompously
announced as a “career,” and by whose nepotistic
offices the lad had obtained a post and continued
advancement in the Civil Service of the colony.
Some act of wildness, or worse, had put a summary
stop to young Luttrell’s intended course of glorj,
and lie was now tasting all the bitterness to one
wholly town-bred of exile in the bush. Rather,
to be strictly accurate, he had just completed
his two years’ term of penance and of
purgatory, and was already awaiting, with much
expectation and many plans of Spanish architec-
tural evolvement, his manumission from .Nature
and saw-mill Man, and his rehabilitation in a
society that speaks bad English only when it is
sanctioned by Fashion—and at this juncture,
when all looked so bright and fair, he was about
to receive Iris coup dr. <trace from the redoubtable
“ Bronze-wing ” (Ruttrell-christened), queen of
saws, and slayer of men and destroyer of castles
prematurely budded in Spain.
The young manager’s two years of probation
had been two years of dolor and ennui, modified
to some small extent by flirtations, clandestine
and discreet, with the prettier of the maidens ot
the bush, with almost an affaire du cceur of the
more serious kind with Sally Gardle, the prettiest,
and sister of Bill Gardle, stalwart sawyer,
strongest and smartest henchman in the ranges ot
Wvndabit, flitch-master, prime-minister to Her
Majesty, “ Bronzewing,” Queen of Saws. A
mighty man was Bill Gardle, huge, broad-
shouldered—a splendid specimen of bush virility.
Much handling of heavy flitches had given him
the biceps of a Cyclops. His spreading chest ex-
cited feelings of irritation throughout three
districts of timber-men, and his great laugh echoed
loudly in the mill eaves above the clang of the
saws. Few dared face him in a fight, and his
temper was as short and as crisp as the black-
brown curls that clustered on Ins sun-tanned
forehead. Big of limb and loud of voice,
bronzed and hard as the gums he handled, swart,
muscular, and bushy of beard and moustache.
Bill Gardle was the envy of man and the admired
of woman in all Wyndabit and its neighbourhood.
In the days of his youth lie had achieved some-
what of reputation in the role of bush Lothario.
But all that was now passed. Bill had settled
down, and could leave his tale of three orphans,
like any other timber-man, when his end came—
for the life of a benclunan is not statistically re-
corded in assurance life-tables as one of longevity.
Being now a bulwark of busli respectability, Bill
Gardle could hardly be expected to look with
kindly eyes on the faux pas of youthful folly ; in a
case where a sister was concerned it would be safe to
prophesy of him speedy action and vehement ven-
geance, and Bill was beginning to suspect. Not that
young Luttrell had given him cause for suspicion.
Richard Bradshaw’s nephew was much too clever
and acute to publish his amours for the benefit ot
the Scandal-mongers of the hamlet. Nevertheless
Bill had surprised his sister in tears more than
once—tears not to be accounted for m the kindly
home of her brother and his wife, and of the chil-
dren, upon whom the girl doted. And the burly
henchman brooded in silence, and wondered,
ilis wife, however, and some of the gossips of the
place noted what Bill did not, and heads were
shaken, some pleasurably —as will always happen
when the victim is passing pretty —but fear, so tar,
had tongue-tied comment.
Poor Sally was no bride for Cultures wooing.
Her speech was the slang of the bush, and her
accent its nerve-jarring twang, ller manners were
irritatingly brusque; her voice was loud, her
tattle interminable ; her love of scandal and small
gossip fitted with painful precision her circum-
scribed environment, and she had all the large
vanity of the lilliputian r-oul. To set against her
faults, she had charms and virtues more than
enough for abstract appraisement; but not enough
for Culture’s wife to wear in a drawing-room to
Culture's gratification, and the wife of one who
100 Its forward to a career must be able to wear a
coronet when emergency is claimant. It was not
enough that Sally's heart should be a depthless
well of truth and constancy ; that Sally should be
a sunburnt Dian, tall, lithe, graceful as a fawn ;
that she could swim the creeks like a water-nymph,
run like an antelope, climb like a dryad, and
dance like the daughter of Herodias. bally, poor
girl, like many another country girl who yields
her heart to the gay cavalier who loves and who
rides away, was foredoomed— Ralph Luttrell was
on the eve of departure for the city. Ho awaited
only the summons from his uncle. Winter lodged
in Sally’s cheerless heart —and it was summer-time.
• • • *
The sun blazed redly through the angry glare of
dust and low-hanging smoke, and licked up, here
and there, patches of moisture left by the morn-
ing’s tropic storm. Presently the mill-boys were
running with buckets of water, wherewith to
extinguish fires in the log-yard caused by sparks
from the engine igniting the fluffy bark stripped
from the messmate giants. On the mill s shingled
roof, too, was a constant splashing out of incipient
flames. The corduroy smoked and steamed
in the heat, but the timber-yard was well-nigh knee-
deep in mud and drainage, and the rutted road-
way was passable only by tender-footers. liaipn
Luttrell, vehement embodiment of energy, was
here there, everywhere —directing, commanding,
rushing from mill up to office, writing out timber
dockets, supervising the cutting of logs into their
necessary lengths, serving out oil for engine-
drivers and “vertical” foreman, and tallow tor
benchmen and tailers-out, making up _ orders for
the bullock-teams clustering in the timber-yard
and anxious to draw out well on the road before
sunset, and performing the thousand-and-one
functions that pertained to his complicated office.
One thing, however, he did not do ; he never
went near the bench presided over by the man
whose sister he had wronged, whose sister lie in-
tended to desert. .
In some saw-mills hangs a blackboard, just
above the circular saw-bench, and on this black-
board is written in chalk, after consultation with
his order-book, the clerk’s list of lengths and sizes
for the henchman’s direction during the days cut-
ting. There was such a blackboard in the null of
Wyndabit, but since young Luttrell’s liaison with
Bill Gardle’s sister it had been his wont to write
out his order-list prior to the henchman’s advent
and thus avoid speaking to the man Sometimes
with the rush of a sudden order that has instantly
to be attended to, the blackboard s d.rectioua
to the henchman are supplemented by chalked
requirements on the ends of tie '
but apart from all this, it is an understood
thing that all good, sound messmate logs, from
10ft kto 20ft., sliould be cut only into weather-
boards—for the weatherboard and the arris-rail
are things apart, the culture-productions of the
hardwood saw. A magnificent, sound
10ft. messmate, Oft. through at the butt, without
knot, or bole, or gum-vein, or shake, flawless and
impeccable, had just been ripped into flitches by
the vertical, and canted on to the greased skids
that feed the trollies that feed the wturnng cir-
cular, swiftly revolving m its wel -greased bench
Benchman Gardle was absent-minded to-day-■
was thinking dully of Sally, whom he had found
in tears in the back-kitchen as lie hastily passed
through from his dinner. Bill Gardie was brood-
ing. lie gave a short glance at the flitch trolhed
over the bench to him. “ A ten-foot. bawled the
tailer-out, and without thinking of the quality
of the flitch he was handling, with a
tailing corner-wise the black-board and catching
an inconsequent entry relatmgto ten-feet three-by-
two oblivious altogetner of weatherboards, Bill
Gardle began to slash out century-enduring
“ quartering.” Ralph . Luttrell. exercised with
the conduct of the entire mnl, knew nothing of
this eccentric behaviour on the part of the hench-
man, but went on splashing through the mud of
the timber-yard, ordering, shouting, swearing
as is the use and wont of timber- bosses the
wide bush over —the heavy water-tight knee-boots
a-cake with chocolate-coloured slime, his belt
buckled tightly about '‘is waist his red
shirt unbuttoned and open at the neck, lus hat,
broad-leaved, pushed backward from his open
brow on which the brown curls glued themselves
in the trickling sweat, lus whole body tense with
masterful energy. It was almost a .quarter-of-an-
hour ere his business led him into the mill, in time
to find the yard-man pushing away a truck of ten-
feet “quartering,” and a sudden rage shook him
at the wanton waste of Weatherboard messmate.
He bounded down in great strides, snatching from
an astonished mill-boy a piece of chalk, and mak-
ing towards the bench with white anger m his face
-and there is not an inch of room to spare
between skids and tram-track on which the
trollies run, though space enough for sudden
death. High and clear rang the song of the saw
in a cold metallic tenor, with a temale malice m it
too, and the belting with ceaseless wlurr hummed
a subdued accompaniment.
* • * *
“ Bronzewing ” was a five-footer, with a rip-cut
of twenty-seven inches. Her color gave her this
name of Ralph Luttrell’s bestowal, but she had
christened herself “Siva” vyrth much spilth of
men’s blood and some orphans tears. Baby
“Ringer,” who whirred in the sawdust pit, was a
pigmy in comparison, used only for pointing
pickets and cutting firewood for the maw of the
“ Circular ” engine ; but even the Baby had a, man
to her credit. He was merely a “ cocky, who
had brought a rheumatic-legged horse and ascrew-
pingly-ricketty dray, while the mill-hands were all
at dinner, to get him a load of face-cuts where-
with to erect a skillion. He backed his crazy
vehicle right on the crest of the saw-dust ridge,
whence to skid sheer for some twelve feet down,
where the Baby clicked and clanged at the bottom
throughout the dinner-hour-Bob, the engine-
driver, being too lazy to unslip the driving-belt.


California Sprup of figs
NATURE’S
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE.
Whilst possessing remarkable medicinal
properties, California Syrup of Figs is so
delicious in flavour that the word “ medicine ”
would seem less descriptive of it than the word
“luxury.” Its action is as gentle as its flavour
is delightful; and children, to whom the admin-
istration of medicine is usually a source of distress, will take
California Syrup of Figs as a great treat. It does not gripe, nauseate or
weaken as pills and purgatives do, but gives relief pleasantly; and its use may
be discontinued as soon as the system is so relieved and cleansed. There
is no discomfort or inconvenience, and its results are healthful regularity and
total freedom from dangerous impurities in the system.
ħ
California Sprup of flas
AGREEABLE,
MILD,
And sure.
Indigestion, Biliousness, and Flatulency
arise in uie majority oi cases irom constipa-
tion. Headaches, depression, heaviness alter
meals, dizziness, squeamish appetite—all these
everyday ills can be traced to the same source,
and call for immediate action, lest they should
lead to more serious disorders. California Syrup of Figs, by its un-
obtrusive laxative action, will at once dispel these disagreeable ailments. Just as
the delicate mechanism of a watch needs cleaning and regulating', so the
human mechanism, with its ceaseless activity, requires cleansing and putting to
rights. California Syrup of Figs performs this duty surely and effectually 5
h
California Spmp of Figs
is a positively reliable, and at the same time, the most
agreeable remedy for
CONSTIPATION, SLUGGISH LIVER, HEADACHE, BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, FEVERISHNESS, DEPRESSION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
and all other complaints arising from a disordered con-
dition of the Liver and Stomach, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy, and good spirits.
California Sprup of yigs
THE TRUE
AND
ORIGINAL
REMEDY.
unlike other articles offered to effect the
same resu t—does not require to be taken in
closes ot constantly increased strenglh. The
ordinary dose is always effective, because
while relieving the weakened organs of their
tr. iible it strengthens them against recurrence
• . . - , *“ e disturbance. Because of these merits
physicians everywhere recommend it. There are v ... 4 .
P|enty, but they all omit the essential quality-v?/ the curaUve ut ? ? ID
absolutely necessary to insist on beim* served with thn * * Jt , ls therefore
that is, with California Syrup of Fi S Inhfnmi genuine and original-
used, as they are pleasant to thf taste hf/fhL of ,. n ? an 1 ufactunn ?* fi S s are
remedy are obtained from an excellent rnmhinai™ 1 properties of the
medicinally laxative and to act most beiieflcially b * ° f P aats ’ k,low l ° be
Remember the full title. ASK FOR CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIOS, and look
for the Name and Trade Mark of the
ĥ
California fig sprup Co.
Oi all chemists and stores, is. ifd. and is. gd. per bottle.
Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C.
the good it does is permanent.
ħ
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL—PARIS EXHIBITION, 1300
FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS:
MELON’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELON’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOLLIN & Co., 172, Clarence Street. Svdney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELUH’S EMUL&mM
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets o be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarejiao Streat, Sydney.
Dobbi f Went ‘° Blee P. a* is the
H i' orse ? when rest is seemingly eternal
andh« h hnTV S near the meridian,
ri,ni ed in his dreams of oaG
d ™ Pr °TT lder “>« chocks went-and
rin? i d *r en Crash down 'hill of horse and
strancdln so ; mtl,n S’ ai ? d a weird howl quickly
j f 7, . ’ of a man pumed to a saw-bench and
111, l6 »£thwise by serrated teeth of a Baby
>. ° , y , ts if te mortal’s blood hitherto had
i ■ ne rash fingers of Male Fourteen’s trepida-
f \ , v * eu *'[ le mijl-hands returned from dinner
to Slash forest giants into weatherboards and
quartering, on a pabulum of boiled beef and home-
lule e nf lhl ’p° n ,f Slde ° f , a fellow man lay each
V . e *^ je sawdust around bore
richer tints of tragic red than its own aesthetic
salmon-hue.
''JfY’’ wit t- a , t'n-dipper hum of metallic
mediocrity peculiarly Ins own, had little to boast
of in the way of slaughter. He was mainly a
wedge-pitcher and finger-pincher of small pretln-
we I‘ti 11 v ed m. allll y f° r slicing flitches into battens,
weatherboards, and whole timber-yards of “two-
inch stutt. A manned hand or so and a cracked
forehead about summed up the list of bis appren-
ticeship achievements. He was only one of a
triplet set of fellows, named by Ted Clinch, facile
princeps n among saw - dentists, “ The Queen’s
hi°hW ° f , tb6Se “ The Vi xen” was too
highly-tempered for mastication of anything more
close-grained than swainp-gum (the anathematised
ot every timber-yard), and “The
iin elder was cursed with a constitutional warp of
character winch made him flexile on hot days
wnen the dew-sweat clustered on the noses of
working-bullocks, and sent lolling tongued dogs
asleep under the meagre shade cast bv a “ buggy ”
pole, and “The Buckler’s” aeolian tremolo was
heard mainly in sad, green twilights of dreary
drizzle, when the fogs climbed down the chimney-
stack and throttled the lires that wrought vainly
to convert the stored energy of face-cuts of green
sap into driving-power.
The lion of the saws was, of course, “The Mas-
todon as “ Bronzewing” was the tigress; but he
was a lion guiltless of violence save on messmates
ot Gargantuan diameter, which had to he guttered
with a squaring axe before 1 1 is frame could com-
pass them. He was called also, indiscriminately,
Ihe Vertical” (his specific name) and “The
Breaker (his functional attribute), and his meri-
dian of levelled tu ks made one think involun-
tarily of the gigantic barb of some ante-diluvian
sword-fish. There were, of course, other saws
and other sets of saws in use and abuse at Wyn-
dabit, but these be the names of the chief of
them, and the queen of these was “Bronzewing”
—the tigress of them all.
* * * •
Close behind the tailer-out and his mate, the
flitch-man— along the narrow-gauge tramway
which carried the flitch-troll v, impatiently pushed
Ralph Luttrell, chalk in hand, a thunder cloud
lowering on his brows, his mouth trap-clamped,
and an ice-cold fire glinting in blue eyes that had
heated to steel-grey. The flitch was pushed
across the bench along the side of the saw, which
was clicking and whirring and singing and hum-
rnltig .its fateful solo, the while it threw at
the vision only an ungraspable picture of a
disc of blurred motion. But heeding no-
nothing, forgetful of danger and of “ Bronze-
wing,” forgetful of the mud - encased boots
that allowed of no leg-bending between ankle
and knee, holding in thrall even the tendons
of the hock ; forgetful of everything save anger,
Ralph Luttrell sprang upon the bench, and leant
sideways to write in mammoth letters the word
“ WEATHERBOARDS ’’—with 27in. of relentless
serrated metal disc whirling death and eternity
between his outstretched, hoot-hampered legs.
And as he leant, he slipped, and was held over
the edge of Hell by the strong hands of Bill
Gardle, the benchman, who kept his giant’s grip
firm till the engine could be stopped and “ Bronze-
wing’s ” maw cheated of the choicest morsel of
human food that ever happened on her sacrificial
altar.
• * * »
Renunciations are to be measured by the moral
and intellectual stature of the renouncer. The
Great Renunciation was a small thing to the great
soul of Gautama. Ralph Luttrell conquered his
ambition and destroyed his future and his life in
a brief moment of intensest agony, more horrible
to bear than the fear of fearful death when he
trembled with blanched cheeks and a blood-for-
saken heart over the cruel teeth of “Bronze-
wing.” The struggle lasted during one ghastly
second of keenest pain, and was attributed by ail
the terror-stricken men who surrounded him
merely to natural causes—but it wasn’t. Grasp-
ing in a grip of iron the large palm of the huge
benchman, he gasped in a husky, broken voice
only the words, pregnant to him with pathetic
meaning, ‘ ‘ I’ll marry Sal ! ”
N.S.W.
F.J. BROOMFIELD.
The late Queen’s good health and conse-
quent longevity were largely attributable,- it is
stated on high medical authority, to her remark-
ably simple daily regimen. Plain beef, it seems,
was her favorite article of diet, and whisky-and-
water her only stimulant. Beef and whisky-and-
water, and sound health into the 9th decade !
Invercargill (M.L.) is getting an un-
savoury reputation in connection with the small
girl with a story. The latest instance is that of a
man charged with rape by a nice little female of
12 or so. A young relative of hers was put in the
box, but under cross-examination confessed that be
was the real offender, and that the nice little girl
had proposed that the blame should be put on the
man. Moral as usual.
“New Century Permit,” now being circu-
lated :
This is to certify that I,
the lawful wedded wife of
do during the first twelve (12) months of this century
hereby permit my husband to go where he pleases, drink
what he pleases, and when he pleases, and I furthermore
permit him to keep and enjoy the company of any lady
or ladies he sees fit, as I know he is a good judge. I
want him to enjoy life, as he will be a long time dead.
(Signed)
Demise : Last week of January, Baron
Wilhelm Von Rothschild, universally known as
“Baron Willy,” grandson of the founder. One of
the family has always stuck to Frankfort, and
this devolved on Willy. Very much the most pious
of all the Rothschilds, who are mostly inclined to
scepticism, partly from a family taste for allowing
the Jesuits a hand in their education. A great
man for charity. While he would quietly give
away enormous sums, he was most exact' about
the pence. He cut off a household item of milk
for the cat. Says Willy : “If the cat gets mice,
she don’t want milk. If there are no mice, we
don’t want any cat.” King Ned, as Prince of
Wales, and his sister, the German Empress
Dowager, were very partial to him. He would
never do a fraction of business on Sabbath. He
was the great pillar of the Orthodox as against
the Reforming Jews, and it is believed the
Reformers will now taka a great start.
The Faded Flame.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the years has gone
The Yellow Light
That set red haloes in our hair,
And lit the wide way we might fare
Into Christ’s sight.
Oh, blinding, burning Light of Gold and Graces
Shining up paths for eager, springing feet,
What subtle gold thy nightly masking was,
And was there ever morning wand as sweet 1
Out of the years has gone
The Mystic Light:
Christ’s face is hidden, and the Cross hangs dim,
Hangs dim and shadowy, void of him,
All day, all night.
Oh, early years of utt sr passionate Faith,
Oh, tender heart strings, ever tremulous,
When Goodness was our beckoning Morning Star,
And Christ and Paradise hung over us.
Wait ! and the years will bring
One smile, one face,
A little earthly human smile ;
And Earth will dream she holds awhile
The Perfect Place.
Ah, little earthly human smile and eyes 1
The yellow Light has gone, but Heaven is here.
Ah, earthly hands that cling, and eyes that bless,
And lips that cling and bless, the way is dear 1
And soon there must return
The Golden Light,
Gone silver where it once was red,
And crystal where the gold is dead,
But very bright.
And even if Christ comes not as of yore,
And that dead faith can never more arise,
Has He not flamed His Message through that
smile,
Those eyes, that surely have seen Paradise ?
Wait, and the years will bring
Their high white light—
One that will never fade or fail,
A torch fed from the Holy Grail,
By day, by night.
And then, because you worshipped in the green
And early leafing of your days of Prayer,
Out of the long sere seasons there will spring
Meanings for Grief, and Hope for all Despair.
EASTER, 1901.
LOUISE MACK.
Waiting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was eight o’clock. The streets were half-
emptied by the theatres and hotels, and people
hurried from the noisy trams eager to begin their
night’s pleasure. There were half-a-dozen persons
waiting at the corner. A middle-aged, worried-
looking man, two brightly-dressed women who
chatted together, a couple of dowdily-clad women
pacing wearily up and down, and a smartly-
attired young man who fidgetted with his watch-
chain and darted his head about like a shy bird at
the edge of a cornfield.
A bright moon hung with serene contempt over
the city. A cold electric light illumined the
corner and threw darkly-defined shadows behind
the waiting figures. Two noisy - voiced men
jumped off a tram and joined the gaily-dressed
women. The young man pulled out his watch,
and then glanced uneasily at the Town Hall clock.
He dug his hands deep into his pockets and
kicked impatiently at a verandah-post. “ I
wonder if she will come,” he thought, and then
his eager eyes sought with a start of hope a
woman strolling down the street. His heart
withered as the middle-aged man went briskly
forward to meet her. “She won’t come to-night.
I’ll never speak to her again. I won’t be treated
like this.”
The thought of the pleasant night on the beach
that was slipping into the purgatory of might-
have-been delights frightened him. He walked a
dozen yards, tried to engage his mind with ashop
window, and returned to look at the clock. If
she did come he would be cool and distant. His
heart went out to the two lonely women, and his
eyes ached with searching the street for the well-
known figure. He would never speak to her
again, and he went suddenly hot to think that
she might be with another man. To-night would
end everything. A vision of the cool beach, the
girl, and the pleasureof it all, swept over his brain,
and he felt his face moist with anxious sweat.
One—two—five women that might have been
the girl passed him, and he hungrily followed
them with his eyes. Their steps, as they passed
away, sounded like funeral-beats at his heart. .
She was not coming. . . . He would go away and
get drunk. There were other women, and he was
sick of deceitful love. He hated the poisonous
city ; the clanging tram-bells tortured his brain
and the people who passed seemed to look
strangely at him—the deserted, the outcast 1 Why
should he stand there to be made the mockery of a
woman ?
It was all over—a great sense of gaping loneli-
ness, and a vicious hatred for the chattering fools
who passed him, possessed his being. Another
minute and he would go—anywherd—do any-
thing—
A girl touched him on the shoulder. “Good-
night, Jim. You can’t be angry with me to-night!
Look at the clock—why, I’ve only kept you wait-
ing exactly three minutes.”
VIC.
ONLYS.
The ignorance of the Tory jingo gets
wearisome after a while. A M.L. specimen writes
thus, in an alleged poem :
For they’re tempting us to stay, with good billets and
good pay,
And grants of veldt and bullocks by the score—
Not your everlasting lease, fit for socialistic geese.
But freehold land which Britons all adore !
Ivrugeroo-geroo-geray !
Be it barren sand or clay,
Better own it any day,
Than slave for rent. . . .
This is supposed to be a really nasty knock at the
Maoriland land-settlement policy. But think
of the Briton—the only man left'in Europe bar-
ring the Portuguese who allows Bis country to be
owned by a few dozen huge landlords—the man
from a country where practically the whole nation
slaves for rent —being so particular about his free-
hold that he must shout out “ Krugeroo-geroo-
geray !”


Unable to Sleep, Could Not Eat,
Nerves Upset, Joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
1
*
■w--/
« Not lon* ago I was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. My hear;, 'w;.«.d throb
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
could, hardiy take a step
;h<
It cured him
effects.
A 1 ft h@doetora '(ailed to cure me and I was completely discouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Ur. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health.
“ My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the’greatest benefit,
of indigestion, general debility, and purified bis blood when he was suffering
“ I have given Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to my children with the most
It keeps their blood pure, builds them up, and makes them strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
water, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Guod for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
The cure is hastened by taking AYER’S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
If
u
“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection.”
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free*
— — + ——
<* *
*
By Arthur H. Adams.
The best book of verses xWoriland has
produced.
CONTENTS:
DEDICATION.
Mother o' Mine !
MAORILAND.
Maoriland.
On the Plains.
The Dwellings of Our Dead.
Rain in the Bush.
The Storm and the Bush.
The Coming of Te Raupa-
raha.
Written in Australia.
The Brave Days to be.
LOVE MOTIVES.
To You.
Lament;
On the Sands.
A Portrait.
After Long Years.
Song.
Blossom of Life.
The Goal.
Grey Eyes.
Just a Woman.
Lullaby.
Afterwards.
MvLove.
The World has Grown bo
Grey.
Satana.
A Woman’s Farewell.
Arid Yet !
SONNETS.
A.D. 19- r
M.CLand.
Love and Life.
The New Woman.
Reminiscence.
The Four Queens (Maorilaod)
To My Love
The Stars.
The Girl at the Ilarp.
Suuset.
The Perfect Present.
Lovers.
China, 1899.
Antagonists. ,
Sydney.
Morning Peace.
To One Slain in Absence.
OTHER VERSES.
Myself—My Song:.
The Poet to be Y»
Man and Woman.
Paiisy : song-words.
Elossom.
Sydney Nocturnes : ,
From the North Shore.
King Street
In Hyde Park.
The'Australian.
Fancies :
From Wellington Terrace.
The Parade.
The Sculptor.
The Ebb of Day.
The Reaper.
A Child.
The Tui.
Dawn.
The Anarchist.
A Song of Failure.
The Garden of the Sea.
Bereft.
A Question.
Epitaph.
THE MINSTREL.
_• c
Printed on deckle-edge antique paper, unifc
with Ogilvie’s and Brady’s verses. Bound
white buckram, gilt top.
Price: Pive Shilling's Post Free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Xiast Sacrament and Other
Stories:
\ By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s, 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”): With
about eighty illustrations by Mali on y,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher- and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. %* “ The j oiliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose pf Regret:
Verses by James Hebbletuwatte ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.,
The Circling Hearths:
By Rodf.ric Quinn. ' No. 11l of The
Bulletin- Booklets, Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. ***• Australia’s best took of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published,,
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
-The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or Post Pree for P. 0.0., Postal Note,
or Stamps of any Australasian Province.
‘The Bulletin’ Newspaper Co. Ltd.
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
17OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pam m the Stomach, Sick Headache
r Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold ChiUs flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Cosfiveness, B lo tches on the Skm,
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. LHL flKbl
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no. fiction Every sufferer vs
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to he A
GU BEECH^M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the ke^dge These
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy^ Ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society and one of the best
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeeham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medie
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St.' Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is and —s 9d each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
SPIRITS.
27ie Best Brands Only of
~v &c f
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“ON OUR SELECTION.
J 5
Price, Six: Shillings (Post Free).
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
I
POWDER.
&
'
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE,: WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
>: -.7
mi
— ■ - ? —'
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or t**e Stoinacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDf
h
.
FOR
Sold Throughout the
DINNEFORD’S MA6N
0
S'
❖
ĥ
BOMN»NGTON*S
IRISH MOSS
«^J^»auK2
ħ
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
SLEEPING.
Coughs and
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRTG A L ENGINEERS,
M AN UE A CT [JEERS
amb . .
contractors.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Bi o okmau’s Building. Adelaida
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the clashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's
and wharf-men’s life which IS. J. Brady has contributed
to Tub Biidlutin and the Sunday Timbs, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse*
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
‘ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing ; and the price is Os.,
post-free.
THE WORTHINGTON
. ... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON vUvi^OUND,
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WO RTHIN GTO N
TRADE MARK.
and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney,
h
SPOOIS & FORKS
ĥ
' =s ?Pl!3ft!p
<She JJbbot
J. & J. MAXFIELD. Piiofhs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
■
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
eo
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- O. & GO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS, '
40 V OK K siillvKI’, S4YDNI3V
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout iruiu all tins colonies promptly
attended to.
CEORSE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
LUNCHEON)
12 o’clock till 2.30. /
T»/T2r
D
5.30 till 7.30.
ISn% W '"i it
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine anti First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
ħ
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD
Fish a.Bld Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where G©OCS Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town inhT.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY. J ’ rin ,nl<l sent to any linga-iren. H. PATESON, Manager.
-
Will raise a load of from 5001bs. to 7001bs. at a speed of
from 60ft. to 70ft. per minute. Fitted with patent auto-
matic safety attachment. Drum will carry 500 ft. of fin.
steel wire rope. Weight 12001bs.
h
y sills, sweeps, extension rods, set of hand
castings and bolts, and three sheaves.
levers
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS—-^.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS,
And at
San Francisco and London
60 Clarence St., SYDNEY
&
mm
■ -
ms?
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bourke st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
j. b & GO- ! S Woodworking Machinery.
Jjiii'tjest Stock of ffooclivovltiny J.i athines in A ustratusia.
Baud Saw M.
Circular Saw
Tenoning' MacM
Sandpapering 7.
Planing and Moulding Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
of
p spiies
yrnas
*' V:’kf:wL\bi
and
All
Other
Every Description for above
mg Machinery.
■
'■
