

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
VA Jm*. - -SL
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet .
jE®. G-. WA.TK.IItfS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, SycXney,
. FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sfasf
INSIQE BEARINGS*,
PitUfig.No* TO6 for Fast Wheels.
ends, rivette
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.— posted Bd.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amount stated.
VISITORS. TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KIL.DA.
rriHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
i Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,.
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- „ Kt t Stee t, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’a
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steer Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
—STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES—
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTIOC & OQc jC.it cl., Sydney.
■
Hadley s Orient Hotel
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
s-ato. Pitt stzeues-est, si'srmxraES'sr.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Banitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Telephone 274.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
BHPfe PIONEER
LEATHER
LTI
NG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAHESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftns Street, Sydney.
“ON OUR SELECTION.” ■■■we«**,
OIARB-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
mm
m
PROOF
-<f.f
mi
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HOME,
POE, THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND POR EVERYBODY,
BOOMERANG BRANDY
THE BEST ***
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1063. -^CBTERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING F
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €fi)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.
m eie hr eye eh
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol 22—No. 1125. j
[Saturday, September 7, 1901.
Peg-istered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s, 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Full wood ; 6s. post-free. *** “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
.r. ir Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
0113 Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
-VTaoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
A Hose of Hegret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.
post free.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
-By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
Now Ready. Price, 6d. ; posted, Bd.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
Sole Distributing Agents for the Trade :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents for the Trade :
New South Wales .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
South Australia .. .. E. S. Wiaa & Son.
Auckland and district .. Wildman & Lyell.
Others to be appointed.
Send Id. Stamp for “ The Bulletin Book Circular."
For the
the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THB . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis 1
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes oi a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot • 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED RAGE.
THE YEAR OF THE SOUL.
The hollow crystal of my winter dream
and silences, where thought for worship, white,
shimmer'd within the icy mirror-gleam,
vanishes down the flood of broader light.
The royal weft of arduous device
and starv’d with strangest gems, my shadowy pride
and ritual of illusive artifice,
is shed away, leaving the naked side.
No more is set within the secret shrine
a wonder wherein day nor night has part ;
my passing makes the days of earth divine
with the wild splendours of a mortal heart.
A whisper thrills the living fringe of green
on my retreat : tiptoe the silence stands :
the breathless morn waits that her step be seen,
my summer bride, new life from distant lands.
The hidden places of her beauty hold
the savours shed o'er wastes of island air :
and her crown'd body’s wealth of torrid gold
burns dusky in her summer-storm of hair.
Her breasts, in baffling curves, an upward hope,
strain towards the lips pain'd with too eager life :
and the rich noons faint on each lustrous slope
where thunder-hush in the ardent brake is rife.
I cannot tell what god is in her gaze,
such depths of slumbrous magic drown my breath .
but where the charmed shadow clings and stays .
fate cowers before that high disdain of death.
O take me to thy bosoih’s sultry beat,
steep , all my sense in thy long breath of flame,
oppress me with thy summer's heavy heat,
consume all me that wears an uncrown'd name!
burn this my flesh to a clear web of light,
send thy keen airy spirit to search each vein,
that the hard pulse may throb with strong detijjf
o'ermastcring life, and life's divinest pain l
Then, then we twain will seek each farthest tear,
mingled in radiance over cloud and lea,
our joy shall swell the exulting heart of day,
. our love shall tinge the rose of sky and sea :
and we shall know the steep pride of the hills
and the sombre meditation of the wood,
or quench our rage where the red wine-god ■spill,,
o'er glowing rocks the madness of his blood ;
our link'd approach shall flush the water-maid
who dreams her limpid realm with tender eyes :
our noon-tide sleep shall haunt her memory's sha.'.
vexing her dim breast with unwonted sighs :
and where our fiercer joys have thrill'd the earth
shall burst hard, stalks and cruel cups that keep
strong soul of seasons dead to fill the dearth
in lesser lives whose dream is dead with sleep :
and gloriously our summer’s reign shall end ;
in some dark pass that leads into the west,
burnt incense-wise, ov/r blood shall sweetly blend,
exhaled in music from each love-slaih breast ;
some eve whose dragon-dying hides the sky
and holds the hour on its empurpled wings,
while pallid seers proclaim the doom-day nigh
and shuddering nations watch the deaths of kings.
See now the time (O eve of smoky brown t)
the morbid season of my close content ;
drown'd flame, broad swathes of vapour clos '..,
down
round the clear gaze that pierces, vainly pent,
and knows how vain the hero-death that flung
far flame against the craven face of dark—
poor hero-heart the minstrel summer sung,
O brooding hidden over a bitter earkl —
how vain ! did not the hot-strength of the earth
exude in drifts of colour, dwindling
unto dim odour-wafts, a hearted ivorth
the long-defeated tribes to altar bring.
.
The unslaked caravans of vast desire
seeking in furnace-sands some fierier rose
with deadly heart; the red crusades of ire
following some dusky king of mighty woes
unto a nameless fall in distant fight-
such only freedom from the daily mesh
woven by the crafty lord of wrong and right ;
the pride and splendour of rebellious flesh,
full-sated with wild honey of summer's heart,
the golden lot of ignominy that cdst
and craved the honour of a menial part,
to follow on bleeding feet, nor fell the last
how high their pyre blazed and insensate will
that the last word of their red tale, be told !
and o'er their darkening blood, a moment, stilt,
hung, on horizon wings, the spirit’s gold,
the ghost of flame, in the vast crucible
transmuted of some viewless Trismegist—
haply the same whose touch, inaudible,
dissolves the lingering leaf to evening mist.
flow with the lucid flowers in their hands
that gem the pale fields of Thulean spring,
and silver from the moon-made table-lands
of snoiv, the glimmering distance vanishing ;
with, opals that engeal the boreal gleam
and diamond-drip of ether's crystal thrill
miraculous, the corteges of dream,
over the hills of legend gathering, fill
the imaginary a venues of gloom
up to the ivatching ivindoivs that betray
the House of Contemplation, vaulted room
soaring, with shade that broods above pale day ;
pale day that wastes even since morning, drain'd
by ambush’d mystery of its wanton breath . .
see now the time that rises, pale, imstain’d,
the fixed light that charms the fields of death f
A little yet, a little—wait, O files
obedient to my dumb command—the brow
may waive its frigid loneliness, the wiles
of the spent heart becloud it — wait: and thou,
dark Presence, large above the passing world,
biding the full hour of the fated stroke,
ere in the sudden gust of truth be whirl?d
the veils of kindly Maya, leaf or smoke,
let thei r suspense of smouldering glory be
yet mirror''cl in this mind's untroubled pool
or e’er beneath the implacable certainty
of icy light and thought's untarnish'd rude
the vacant world stand rigid ! let me yet
this vesper dream I am not all alone
and ponder with luxurious ref ret
over the singing, golden morning flown :
soon, soon enough the spirit, v/nreproved,
shall on its proud predestin'd circle range
in dread indifferent solitude removed
above the poignant pageantry of change,
and the large brows whose curves are centuries
arise of Isis’ carven front supreme
that bids the lucid soul in stillness freeze :
the glittering crystal of my winter dream.
N.S.W.
C.B.
Education: A Re-Statement.
I~T is my love of, and sympathy with, children
I that compels me to write. Their happiness
is my concern. In the early part of my
ministry I taught them to place their hopes
beyond this world ; now, I teach them to live here
and in the present. Duty done here is the fitting
preparation for there. Tradition says that the
way thither is one of sorrow: Nature, with her
bountiful provision for pure enjoyment, says
otherwise. The future world was for the poor
and afflicted-: this, for the prosperous afflietar.
We do not think so now. This world is a com-
monwealth, entered by birth. There are those
who bitterly deny that mere birth into the world
confers rights ; but why argue the matter ? The
compassion of the perfected man would grant
those rights were they non-existent. Thus, the
child has a right to happiness. Many things
which mar the joy of life, such as transmitted
taints, are outside the scope of this article; here
we have to deal only with that arch-destroyer of
youthful happiness—the present system of edu-
cation.
My views are summed up in the sentence :
Education should be limited by time, and be
exquisite in emotion. That was in my mind when
1 quoted the old grandmother spinning and chant-
ing songs of love and death ; and it is at that
point that I did not make my meaning clear. Let
me now say that I prefer as an educational instru-
ment the grandmother’s story with its environ-
ment of blazing hearth and wide, desolate moor to
the mere statement of “the length of the Amazon.”
The Amazon rejoicing down .its vast, sunlit valley,
with all its import to man, is what I am pleading
for. I want to linger there, to float in its broad
sunshine, to pierce its waving forests, to know its
peoples—in a word, to fall under the spell of’its
romance. I desire with a great yearning to gaze
at the fact until the “Something” behind burns
with light and colour like an opening star, and
I see it and my children see it. But the
examiner practically forbids me to do this ; hence
my cry for the deliverance *of the children out of
the land of Egypt. We are touching on the
subject of Geography, and my meaning will be
made clear by the quoting of four questions from
a recent examination paper (University of Tas-
mania, Junior Geography, 1900) —
1. Draw a map of South America, marking on it the
Amazon, Orinoco and De la Plata Rivers ; Aconcagua,
Cotopaxi, Chimborazo, and Lake Titicaca ; the Straits of
Magellan, and the Caribbean Sea ; and Rio de Janeiro,
Monte Video, Valparaiso, Lima, Pernambuco, George-
town, Quito and La Paz.
2. (a) When it is noon in London it is 6 p.m. in Gal-
utta and 7 a.m. in New York. State approximately the
longitude of Calcutta and of New York.
(of Explain what is meant by climate. What are the
various causes producing the climate of Tasmania ?
(c) On which two days in the year are day and night
equal all over the globe ? Explain this equality.
5. Write a short description of (a) Italy, (b) New Zea-
land, (c) the Transvaal.
6. Write a description of the Pacific Ocean, naming its
coasts, chief inland seas, islands and other characteristics.
There are four more questions. And the time ?
Two hours. You see now what I mean when I
say that the examiner will not allow us to educate
our children. It is true that some examiners state
in private that they do not expect the child to
answer all the questions. Such a defence of these
impossible papers is as wicked as the practice of
setting them. Think of the agony of a sensitive
child during the examination ; the disappointment
after careful preparation ; the anxious waiting for
the result; the grief of failure ; and the cramming
of the following year to reach the standard set by
the questions. “ Curse ye, Meroz, said the angel
of the Lord ; curse ye bitterly.” For the Outlines
of Geography prescribed by the Regulations we are
preparing a text-book of 188 pages, every line of
which is cunningly packed with one or more
facts. How is it possible in the limited time to
make each fact shine? I think the last straw is
the getting-up of the counties of England, Wales,
Scotland, and Ireland. Yet Tasmanian children
must do it, for in the last examination-paper there
is a question on counties. How can we produce a
White ora Jefferies when our children are tor-
tured with such old-world divisions ? Passing on
to the neighbour-subject of History, we find pre-
scribed :
(a) Outlines of English History.
(b) Outlines of Sacred History.
Now, consider the glorious opportunities of
English history-teaching; what living descrip-
tions of places! what tracing the growth of
events ! what noting of character! And then
ponder over the years of English history—you
dare not pause to make the ideas shine. And the
Outlines of Sacred History. How simple the
words, but how vast the task ! There is no text-
book mentioned, so you must face the whole of
the Bible. This use of the Bible has to my know-
ledge inspired life-long hatred of that sublime
book, and, as a minister of religion, I here enter
my protest. The following are some questions set
for juniors :
(7) Name, and give the geographical position of, the
districts ruled over by Og, Sihon, and Balak; and relate
the action of these kings towards the Israelites (1899).
(8) Write a short history of Joshua, Elijah, Athaliah,
Cornelius, and the origin of the feast of Purim (1900).
(9) Give particulars of the rival kingdom set up at
Saul’s death at Mahanaim (1900).
(10) What incidents are described in the New Testa-
ment as having happened at Capernaum and Athens
(1900.)
They are set, you see, to cover the whole range.
Can you answer them ? The children answer
them : but the cost! And they learn as history
parts of the Bible which we know are fabulous
or inaccurate. But the worst feature about the
two papers (Geography and History, 1900) is—
“ With the exception of the question about
climate, Tasmania is not mentioned.” When
shall we learn to be Australians?
These are facts to ponder over.
(1) The examination is open to all over 12
years of age op the first day of December
of the year in which the examination is
held (Regulations).
(2) Nine subjects may be taken —Latin, Greek,
French or German compulsory.
The rivalry of schools and the ambition of parents
compel masters to enter their pupils as young as
possible, and for as many subjects as possible.
The actual working of this examination is a crime
against youth.
(In parenthesis: “Business and professional
men declared that to boys when they entered an
office an examination was of little or no value.
They had to be taught from the beginning.
Parents wanted their children to pass examina-
tions'. . . . For the purposes of daily life, the
examinations were more harmful than useful.”—
Hermann! Ritz, M.A. Lecture at Government
Technical School, Hobart. Hobart Mercury,
August 20, 1901. And read by me just at this
point of my paper.)
A healthy and happy childhood is one of man’s
most precious possessions. In those early days
we live on the mount of vision ; our senses deal
with things with a fresh wonder that never comes
again; and we store up then the most vital
impressions of life. Wander with A. France on
the quays of old Paris; be with Pater the Ohild
in the House ; experience again with R.L.S. the
shy, vague, intuitions of childhood; talk with
Dickens with the queer boy ; shout in the great
Ode—but why quote further ? We who are in the
autumn of life know the value, the wistful beauty
of those years of dawn. That part of time seems
another life lit by the
. gleam,
The light that never was on sea or land.
For me: no bells have the charm of that Pen-
wortham chime which, floating across the river,
disturbed me at my play; no twilight rain has
ever slanted down the world with the mystery of
those passages in the evenings of long ago. God’s
pity be on the man whose life begins in misery !
Youth is a sacred time of preparation for the life
of the soul—not fqr the office-bench. A man’s
true business in life is with the development of
the soul. The labour of gaining a living is sent to
prevent a too great leaning to mysticism—beyond
that it is a danger and a harm. The fatigue of
play, and a something of the animal in the child,
make it safe to lead him into the royalties to
which he is born.
Does the present system of education guard,
open, stimulate, and satisfy all that is best in the
child ? No, again ! Children leave school after
years of cramming, unfit and uneducated in the
true sense. They are crammed with a vast
number of unassimilated facts, but they are not
educated. The health suffers even under the best
conditions: the scholars come back from the holi-
days bright and rosy, and gradually grow pale
and dull, especially the girls. Any system which
pales the cheek, dims the eye, and starves the
imagination is self-condemned. Even as the
plant’s food must be soluble in water before
absorption, so the food of the mind and the heart
must be rendered soluble by curiosity and imagi-
nation on the part of teacher and taught. The
plant would starve in the midst of food in the
dormant condition : the child starves in a plenty
of food which is an intrusion, not a living part
of his organism. No farmer would thrust the
dormant reserve into his plants, yet he allow*
others to work a greater mischief with the delicate,
mechanism of his child’s brain. My dream of
youth is such that grey-haired men should be able,
softly and tenderly, to live again the beautiful
time in gentle recalling of its happy days. As .we
grow older, and approach nearer to the inevitable
grave, we prize more and more the memories of
those years spent under so wild and romantic a
light.
A new system of education that shall be accept-
able and universal is beyond the powers of any
man : he can only put before bis constituents, with
an engaging air, the bit of truth he has won with
his life-blood. He must not hope for more than
the official smile. The official smile—the in-
credulous eye and the curving lip ! Who that is
in earnest does not know it? And the more
ignorant the owner, the broader the grin. I won-
der if anyone has shouted “pom-pom” into the
British War Office. No, we must not hope for
much in this world ; rather let us pray for help to
receive another man’s “ truth ” with sympathy.
There is against the reformer of education the
weight of the academical world. Professors and
say, in effect: “ The system made me ;
therefore it must be right.” Reform shuts out all
clumsy methods of examination ; the tests of the
new education are delicate. Deep must call unto
deep. Many will laugh at this—not those who
have spent their days with children. Attempt to
utter that which does not ring true and they will
detect it at once. They watch you with keen un-
preoccupied eyes, and read your soul.
I can fully understand Le Gay Brereton’s
revolt. It has been my-attitude for years. Some
day I shall announce to my little flock my inten-
tion to share no more in the tyranny that blights
their happiness. (I hope to put forth m.y system
of education in another paper.) It will wreck my
school, but save my (teaching) soul alive. As it
is, I have lost boys by refusing parents’ requests
to fill in every minute of their children’s lives
between school and bed with home-work. They
all plead the certificate —their children will be
nothing in life without the certificate. When I
think of the certificate and its ruinous effect on
youth, I envy the ancient prophets the vigour and
resource of their language.
And now to the desired end. The fqrmation of
a high, almost impossible, educational ideal, to
be realised in the years, will help to bring the
golden time about. The Sermon on the Mount
may be impraoticable in individual and in State
life ; but, nevertheless, it has, by its divine love,
helped Civilisation along her thorny path.
Tasmania.
JAMES HEBBLETHWATTE.
Ethel Turner’s The Story of a Baby (1895) and
The Little Duchess and Other Stories (1896) are
newly reprinted in one volume, with the addition
of three sketches not previously seen in book-
form. The publishers (Ward, Lock, and Co.,
Ltd.) follow a detestable practice in omitting the
date of publication; and there is nothing to show
that the matter is reprinted;—theideabeing, appar-
ently, to leave unwary purchasers in ignorance that,
in one form or another, the work has been before
the public for several years. The passage in The
Story of a Baby which paraphrases Swinburne, in
a fashion here complained of when the book was
originally published, is still perpetuated—thus:
IN A GARDEN.
(Poems and Ballads, Hi,
83-U.)
Baby, see the flowers i
—Baby sees
Fairer things than these,
Fairer though they be than
dreams of ours. . . .
Baby, see the moon !
—Baby’s eyes
Laugh to watch it rise,
Answering light with love
and night with mOon. . .
Baby, see the star!
—Baby’s hand
Opens, warm and bland,
Oalm in claim of all things
fair that are..
Baby, hear the bells !
—Baby’s head
Bows, as ripe for bed.
Now the flowers curl round
and close their ce115....
Baby, flower of light,
Sleep, and see
Brighter dreams than we,
Till good day shall smile
away good night.
THE STORY OF A
BABY.
(New edition, SIS.)
Such wonderful, wonder-
ing eyes it had, intensely
blue, intensely earnest. . . .
Did you show it a beauti-
ful flower or a low-hanging
silver moon, a picture,
something bright with
colour, it seemed to be
looking away far beyond
them and smiling in a faint
sweet way, because it saw
fairer things than ever you
dreamed of.
The hands . . . were like
the inside of a flushed,
curled rose-leaf, and when
they closed round your
finger, you felt how
strangely sweet and soft
and warm they were.
From the long open
window came the: Sound of
Dot’s voice, singing. The
baby was listening as it lay
in the hammock
Seeing that Ethel Turner’s readers are certainly
not, as a class, readers of Swinburne, this persistent
reproduction in prose of Swinburne’s poem, as
“By Ethel Turner,” is both discreditable and
surprising.-


WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOIHBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
M‘DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Agents; 3XT.Z. X.. 3VC. A^_Oo l^_X-; ±d :: _^OOAL^AGENTS^EVERY^IERE
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2k Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
\ cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd-,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin’s Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price. v
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
pmucy ciimy [Ti.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers— Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling' Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
HAVE THE
BEST.
a
F
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
»,t. Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
at mv a perfect Web Fence M mil hold
y securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS “
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
5806
s 8
saor
c
BB
5808
mamuTL
T iiiinrTg^-
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE -Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
»>•»• post, 20.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: it PHiLUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Bole Cliargel 3 Per Cent! to”tb.e Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
s&e are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.”
By “ Steele Rudd.”
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The health of women is of supreme im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
SAFE CORE —a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation-
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“ Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —•
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was m a, very critical
state The doctor attending me told me that it I
lived’l should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless m giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearing of Warner s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warners Safe Cure
the whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
insr is I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
Mv 'mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint. (M ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Vic.,
Marcli 12, 1901,
PftfliT* Sirs t
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed _to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
prised to see me up and about again. I have
heard of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen,— . .
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe. Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results I obtained.
(Mbs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
|December 8, 1900.
T~)p^. r Sirs
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived from the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mbs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tam worth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Sirs ~ -
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn ray living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully,
(Mrs.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vio.,
March 11, 1901.
For years I was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints I gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely oured. About
twelve years ago my husband used Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength. Y ours truly, JANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, I, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obediently,
(Mrs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, Vie.
April 30, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to do
my household work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mrs. )E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
* “ Camrock,” El wood Street,
North Brighton, Yic.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering from that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties,
or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S.A.,
October 2, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
Several years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was hardly ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reading of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefib from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
auite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become perfectly healthy.
When these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed
rvntnrallv and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache,
Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobaxt
Demonstration H. October 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. '
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name _
. .g 1 1 » » , ~
Address '
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the abova
Name.
Address.
X X
V/
Caulfield C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE)
100,000 Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . .shares in the above.
Name
Address.
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALIi.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Kamo.
Address
Melbourne C. (Special)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RAGE)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me... - . sTmrpifl in the above.
Name
Address
* c s
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To T 4TTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
■'* • - ' - ' ■ ■ ■ -.v. _ . . ; , _ ( ,r .
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address cc Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


aNGIEkS
EMULSION
S.WITtt HYPOPHOSPHITES^r,
BRONCHITIS
AND
STUBBORN COUGHS.
ANGIER’S Petroleum Emulsion not
only quickly relieves the most ob-
stinate cough, and soothes and heals
the throat and lungs, but at the same time
it promotes appetite, aids digestion, and
greatly improves the general health. It is
equally good for the cough of chronic
bronchitis with profuse expectoration; the
dry, harsh, throat cough; the irritating
cough of influenza; and for whooping
cough and croupy coughs of children. To
those who are subject to bronchial attacks
it is an especial boon. The cough and
breathing are made easier, the irritation in
throat and bronchial tubes is soothed, the
character of the expectoration is altered,
and a general improvement effected in all
the symptoms. We have had hundreds of
reports from all parts of the English-
speaking World attesting its remarkable
power to relieve and cure troublesome
coughs.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN,
DO NOT accept inferior imitations made with ordinary
Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
OF ALL CHEMISTS & DRUG STORES.
The ANQIER CHEMICAL Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S. W.
e
_ .Ns£
ft*
y
N.
fr
\\
How tired you look. How you long
for a good rest. It’s work through the
day and worry through the night.
Already you have nervous dyspepsia,
nervous sick headache, and neuralgia.
Tour food distresses you. You are
“all tired out,” and you suffer from
terrible depression.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is what you need. It keeps you up
when especially pressed with work. It
cures dyspepsia, and it builds up ex-
hausted nerve tissue.
Pure, rich blood, a strong digestion,
a clear skin, steady and vigorous
nerves; these may all be yours if you
only use this great blood-purifying and
blood-forming medicine.
Prepared-by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
PMRoT
Br^nd”
UMS WoUNDC
CpUGMJ (OLPS £c
[Beware or
/mitati°mS
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addebbb— L.D.l>i 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
AOstraliao MGtGal ProVideijt Society
MONET TO LEND
urity of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
On securit
Or on
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
sf
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IQ»r
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&W Send for a
Catalogue.
T~W)
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &e., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.'
■
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUGHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
-
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed oases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J, C. ENO, Ltd., at tb.o * FRUIT SAIiT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by T. 6. ENO’S Patent.
Sinking: Pump.
CANZ* 0
DYNAMOS,^MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia i
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
IST.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Miaxif- Company
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodforn, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we-oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
oent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
saf
Delivered at any Wharf ©r
N.B.W. Hallways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the Magnolias.
He (a Poet) :
Better this scented darkness than the glare
Within the ball-room.
She :
It is better air.
He :
This soft magnificence and splendour deep
Of midnight walking on the shores of sleep,
These flowers that blush upon the dark green trees
And keep the moonlight in their chalices—
Ay me, when Cleopatra reigned of old
There were such midnights !
She :
It is getting cold.
He:
Cold ! There is no such word as cold for me—
My burning heart would thaw the Polar Sea.
Had I the universe at my command
I’d give it gladly
She (softly) :
James, you have my hand.
He:
Your forehead is as white as virgin snow ;
Your skin is pink and white like Marvell’s doe ;
Your fair translucent skin,
Lilies without, roses within.
Beneath this moon you are a dream divine,
A nymph of Greece—a Lorely of the Rhine.
Your eyes are set to music—two such eyes
I saw beside the gates of Paradise
When Eve went weeping after Adam fell, —
The bright and tender eyes of Israfel.
Your lips are—
She (with a yawn) :
Yes, dear —
He :
Like the scarlet flower
Of green hibiscus in its passionate hour,
When, crowned and wreathed with it in Southern
Isles,
The sleek brown Circes lure men with their smiles.
(Musingly):
From Yap to Islands far below the Line,
The whole brown world of women it was mine.
O fair and lovely isles! —
She :
And did you dare ? . . .
He:
The night of Araby is in your hair,
You are the harvest that the Heroes reap
She :
Oh, dear ! poor James is talking in his sleep.
Mother!
The Mother :
Yes, Ada.
She :
Sit beside my lad ;
I think he’s sober, but I’m sure he’s mad.
The Mother :
And you were saying, Mr. Dooley, then
He (not noticing the difference and talking with
closed eyes) :
Yes, I was saying One sweet kiss again !
( Chanting):
Sweeter by far you are to me
Than nightingales in Italy :
The blackbird singing in the sedge,
The brown thrush in the hawthorn "hedge,
The linnet in the greenwood glooms,
The goldfinch in the apple blooms,
The bird of Joy, the seraph lark
Singing at daum above the dark ;
They were . . .
(trailing off)
The Mother (nestling closer and beginning to
enjoy the situation)
They were, dear!
He (kindling again)
Singing prophets they
Of what should come to me in my good day.
Ada, the night is golden ; we shall go
The Mother :
But I am Ada’s mother : don’t you know ?
He (magnificently):
Mother or Daughter matters not to me,
You are the Keeper of the Rainbow Key.
We go into the distance darkly blue
To find Romance. Arise !
(Both arise. The Mother kisses her hand towards
the house.)
“ Ada, adieu ! ”
V.J.D.
One Awake in the Grave.
Sleep—might I sleep ! but I must wake and listen
Oh, weary waiting, icy-cold and dumb :
In the long grass where rain-drops cling and
glisten,
When morning breaks, at last her step may come.
Does she live on, my Love I love for ever,
Has she a thought to send beneath the grave ?
Would she bring back the life we lived together,
Heal with her tears the mortal wound she gave ?
She does not come. For I would hear her weeping,
Feel her light footstep tremble through the earth.
While here I wake, a hopeless vigil keeping,
What does she count my broken slumber worth ?
Sleep—l must sleep—but still I wake and listen
Oh, weary waiting, icy-cold and dumb. . .
Through the long grass where rain-drops cling
and glisten,
When evening glows, at last her step may come.
vio.
SPINNER.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS REALLY
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing a] kali in a free state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much,
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
“THE KOH-I-NOOR” Automatic
sa
CLOSED
The Most Practicable
PENCIL-HOLDER
yet produced, fitted with the
world-famous Koh-i-Noor Leads.
KOH-I-NOOR
Art Jewellers and
OPEN
SOLID SILVER OR OXIDISED GUN-METAL
2| inches long. 8/* ; 3J inches, 8/6 —including
Three of the Koh-i-Noor Refill Pencils.
a
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“ jMge ” Standard
Blood Split Pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <JUTHRIP<S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG
m
Those
* suffering
from vueah
' and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
hold
the Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine
Bottled
Brandy.
THE ~~~
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
0
a
OOA
Vi
M
W
/Sv*
r~-y
x)
a
T A
THE SUN NEVER SETS
ON
R ÜBEROID ROOFING
and its manifold advantages
are known from pole to pole.
■
The largest ships of the sea.
The humblest dwellings on land.
UTILISE VIRTUES
with economy, comfort and profit.
P&B Factories
SAN FRANCISCO.
NEW YORK.
HAMBURG.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY AND
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at' the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1125.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1901.
Price 6d.
FAT IN PERIL!
“To sum up then: The prohibition of black labor will cause the loss of many millions already invested in the industry; will prevent the further employment of large capital. The destruction of
the industry may lead to the bankruptcy of Queensland.” — RICHARD TEECE, in Sydney D.T.
“If dis nigger have to go, what will become ob de Fat gentleman?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
‘‘Australia for the A ustralitins.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and IHaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscriber's in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d„ postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xhk Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and gM Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted, for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— li. A. Thompson and_ Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
&e'^xxHe^zo'L.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1901.
Peacock the Apostate.
As one of the inevitable results of Federa-
tion, State Premier Peacock, of Victoria,
sees a deficit ahead. All the States are in
the same situation, and it is nothing to the
discredit of the Federal principle that they
should be so. The Commonwealth tariff is
nearly due, and, when it begins to operate,
border customs will be abolished, and a
large revenue will disappear. Nobody will
lose anything by its disappearance. The
money will be in the pockets of the people
instead of in the Treasury ; it only remains
for the authorities to find some new way of
taking the same amount of money out of the
pockets of the people, and all will be well.
The general idea among Protectionists is
that the seller pays the duty, and among
Freetraders that it is paid by the buyer.
In the present case, it matters nothing
which party pays it. As regards inter-
state commerce, the seller and buyer are
both Australians, and inter-State duties are
paid by Australians either way. Therefore, by
the abolition of these duties the Australians
of every State cease to pay a large amount
of customary taxation, and the natural con-
sequence is that the Treasurers find them-
selves on the rocks, just as they would if any
other large tax was abolished. They couldn't
fairly expect to be in any other place.
* * * *
And here the good old Australian prin-
ciple of Shirk comes out strongly. In every
State the people will, this year, be relieved
of a heavy tax, and the natural course is to
put on an equal tax of some other kind and
make things balance. But not one Treasurer
lias yet ventured to definitely suggest such a
thing. In every State there are pathetic
remarks about the cruelty of “laying extra
burdens on the people,” and the fact
that they wouldn’t be extra is unanim-
ously suppressed. The various ways of deal-
ing with the case that have been proposed
up to date are to borrow more money and
pay the shortage out of that ; or to rob
some poor person, or cut dov\ n some badly-
paid person’s salary ; or else to do nothing
at all and just let things happen till further
notice. All the States except one seem in-
clined just to let things happen, or else to
borrow some more money. Premier Pea-
cock, of Victoria, is the only political leader
up to now who has had, even in a small
degree, the courage of his own meanness, or
of his own convictions, or of his own
cowardice, and who has come forward with a
definite scheme for robbing the poorest class
of the community in order that the richer
portion of it may pay less taxation than
heretofore.
* * * 9
Peacock’s brilliant idea is to cut down
old age pensions from the present maximum
of 10s. to a maximum of 7s. per week. He
also proposes to have a rigid overhaul of all
pensioners, and to take away the pension in
every case where any semblance of an excuse
can be found for so doing. By this unutter-
able economy Peacock hopes to save £44,000
towards an anticipated deficit of £229,000.
This is the only measure he has yet laid
before Parliament ; the other tT85,000 of
the deficit is just to happen until further
notice. The poorest and most helpless class
of the community—also the class about
whose sufferings, and whose deserving charac-
ter, and whose bygone services in building up
the State Peacock and co. have wept most
piteously—is the first one, and, so far, the
only one, which is required to contribute a
copper. Whether the buyer or the seller
pays the customs tax—whether Victoria pays
on its border exports or its border imports—
the Victorian people will save, and the
Victorian revenue will lose, probably some-
thing like £250,000 per annum. It is
impossible to say accurately what the
reduction will be, but it is likely that
the Federal tariff will yield just about
as much as the present Victorian tariff
does on oversea imports, and the abolition
of border duties will be so much saved.
Victoria is a lightly-taxed State, even with-
out this saving, and has no need to resort to
any specially mean devices in order to reduce
its burdens. The average direct and in-
direct taxation all over the Commonwealth
is £2 14s. per inhabitant annually ; the
average for the Commonwealth and Maori-
land is £2 17s. 9d. ; the Victorian rate is
only £2 10s. 7d. Out of the seven States of
Australasia there are only two where taxa-
tion is lower than in Victoria, and both
these States keep their taxation lower for
the time being principally by charging a
huge amount of their ordinary expenditure
to loans. It it only necessary to retain the
taxation at its present level and (providing
there are no more Boer wars, and Boer wars
don’t happen every day) Victoria can pay
old age pensions on the present basis, and
meet all its other expenditure, and still have
a good amount over with which to reduce
the fine old deficit.
* * * *
Whether it is common courage or common
humanity that Peacock lacks, it is difficult
to say. It would be necessary to fight the
House of 48 Rich Landlords on the question
of imposing a new tax in place of the one that
is being abolished, and the House of Land-
lords is a body that would rather sacrifice
anybody, however poor and aged and deserv-
ing, than lose a chance to reduce its own
very moderate burdens. It consists largely
of fat and Tory Freetraders, and though these
persons are shortly going to be blessed with
the largest measure of Freetrade to be found
in any part of the world, save, perhaps,
Canada and Russia—the total abolition of all
customs duties over an area of 2,972,906
square miles—they are not the kind of men
who will take that blessing gratis if they can
so arrange things as to be paid for taking it.
Still, it is impossible to say for certain, until
the experiment is tried, that the House of
Landlords would definitely refuse to vote an
extra land-tax to make good the loss. Premier
Peacock might at least have had the credit
of making the experiment before he began
to oppress the poor and take the crust out of
the mouth of the aged—ail for £44,000 a
year.
• * * *
Victoria’s old age pensions, on the present
scale, seem likely to absorb £300,000 a year.
No sane individual, considering the experi-
ence of Maoriland with two-thirds the popu-
lation, expected the amount to be any less,
and if Peacock expected it to be less he was a
fool. The State also pays £340,000 a year
in Civil Service pensions. It can’t econo-
mise on the latter item without breaking
faith with its pensioners. It can’t economise
on the former without at least indirectly
breaking faith, and without cruelly and
heartlessly taking back a portion of the very
scanty measure of justice it recently gave
with such a fanfare of trumpets to its old
and deserving citizens. It granted the pre-
sent pensions well knowing that the loss of
its border customs revenue was close at
hand, therefore the aged recipients had every
right to suppose that it saw its way to pay
them. As for the proposed 7s. a week, that
sum, as rents and prices go in Australia, is
the most abject mockery of a means of sup-
port that could well be conceived. To the
old inhabitant, who depends on it
as his entire means of support, it
isn’t so much a living as a prolongation of
the misery of dying. It is slow starvation—
and some people would almost prefer to have
their starvation done promptly. It isn’t
enough to keep the aged recipient from
being sent to gaol by Peacock’s awful magis-
trates and J’s.P. for “ insufficient lawful
menus of support.” Some of these strange and
hog-like characters have already been on the
verge of sending to gaol under the Vagrancy
Act pensioners with 10s. a week, on the
ground that the sum which Peacock says is
too much is really not enough. It is less than
a year since the Government of which Pea-
cock was a member granted this scanty
boon, and said proudly that in handing out
10s. a week to the respectable aged inhabit-
ant who had no other means whatever, it
merely rendered bare justice to a class
which had deserved well of the country. By
its own showing it now proposes to do gross
injustice—for the s&ke of £44,000 a year.
It isn’t much as the price of Peacock’s
honor, and the honor of Victoria. No
Government ever arranged to do a
shamefully mean action for a smaller
inducement. The amount won’t even
cover the anticipated deficit ; it won’t cover
quite one-fifth of it. The necessity for hunt-
ing for new sources of revenue won’t be
much less after this miserable breach of
faith than it was before, and the amount of
suffering it will inflict is appalling. The
world has a certain regard for the man
who does bad things, or even mean things,
on a large scale ; for the man who does mean
things on a petty scale it has nothing but
contempt. If all Australia knew the whole
record of all its present political leaders, and
a poll was taken to-day to elect the meanest
boss politician in Australia, Alexander
Peacock would have a good show of coming
out on top.
* * * *
If Victoria’s House of Landlords has any
gift of foresight—a thing of which it has not
hitherto been suspected, by the police or any
other authority—it will interfere with Pea-
cock’s foolish and incompetent device. The
Commonwealth Parliament is already half
inclined to force the Barton Government to
take up the Old Age Pensions question as a
Federal matter. If Peacock’s backward
movement is carried out it will probably be
a great deal more than half inclined. If it
does take the matter up, it will probably fix
the maximum pension at something more
than 10s. a week instead of less. It will
certainly grant far more pensions ; an all-
Australian system would apply to any person
who had lived a certain number of years in
the Commonwealth territory (not in any one
State), and a large number of nomads who
are now disqualified because they spent their
lives roving from State to State would come
under its provisions. And the Federal
Government would almost certainly have to
impose a land-tax to raise the needful funds
—a very different kind of land-tax from the
small, easy-going apology for an impost that
the Victorian now pays. So long as the
land-tax is regarded as a purely State impost
the House of Landlords can veto any attempt
to increase or extend it. When the Com-
monwealth Parliament takes to imposing
such a tax things will be very different. The
Commonwealth land-tax will come just as
soon as the Commonwealth Old Age Pension
does, and Peacock is helping that along
gaily. If the Upper House doesn’t realise
this, and doesn’t know when to climb down
in self-defence, it will have a long way to
fall one of these days.
The Man on the Land.
Within the last six months the cultivated area of
New South Wales has again begun to diminish,
and lavish loan expenditure is one of the probable
causes. In 1899, when the loan expenditure was
under lg millions, the area of land in cultivation
increased largely. In ’9O and ’9l loan expenditure
more than doubled, and the cultivated area
decreased. Dibbs cut the loan business down to
a very great extent, and a huge agricultural
expansion—the biggest N.S.W. ever saw-set in.
But after a while loans grew larger again, and the
expansion of agriculture became slower, till with
the great See-O’Sullivan loan-boom it shows the
first signs of being once more on the down grade.
The explanation is simple enough. The agri-
culturist is mostly fitted for hard labor at
Government works, and very few of him
would go on the land at the miserable pittance
which can be earned there while a job at
railway or bridge-building, or sewerage, or road-
making, or other such work is procurable. Also,
many who are on the land are ready, for good and
sufficient cash reasons, to get off it with all pos-
sible speed when such a chance presents itself.
The reasons in question are numerous enough.
The Bulletin offers a few to go on with :
* • * «
(1) The Borrowing Curse. Nearly half the freights
charged on all produce sent anywhere by rail goes to pay
interest on the debt with which the railways are bur-
dened. If the railways had been built out of the land
revenue, produce could be carried at a much cheaper
rate, and with less of his earnings absorbed in freight
there would be more left for the Man on the Land.
(2) The want of a system of Resumption of Land for
Closer Settlement. The agriculturist is drifting out into
the howling Wilderness, where crops are scanty, and
where the expense of getting them to market per the
mortgaged railway line, so eats up the profits that there
isn’t half as much left for the grower as he could earn
making railways for O’Sullivan. If such institutions
as the Australian Agricultural Co. were moved out of
the way, the agriculturist might get land comparatively
near a market, where freights wouldn’t devour so much
of the produce, and the grower and his employees would
consequently be left a better income.
(3) Centralisation of everything at Sydney. A man
who wants to export may have a port near to him, but all
railways lead to Sydney or Newcastle and nowhere else.
Therefore these are the only places where exporting can
be done. And the freight over a needlessly long railway,
with a huge mortgage on it, eats up the profit.
(4) Freetrade. When the produce gets to Sydney by a
long, long journey (because the Australian Agricultural
Co. and other loafing monopolies prevent the settler being
nearer at hand) at a high freight (because the interest on
the railway mortgage must be paid), it has to compete
against produce imported from cheap labor countries per
a sailing vessel which travels a highway that isn’t mort-
gaged. Consequently the ship hasn’t to charge exorbi-
tant rates to cover interest bills.
(5) Freetrade again. There is very little manufac-
turing population to consume the produce locally, because
the bulk of N.S.W. manufactured goods are imported
under the blessed Freetrade policy. And exporting to
the only available market (England), to feed the people
who make our tweeds and calico goods there, when these
people should be making them here, is a game at which
the agriculturist can only average a few shillings a week.
With poor land, a long haulage over a railway which must
charge high rates to pay the interest on the mortgage,
and then a longer sea journey and more costly sea freight
than almost any of our competitors are burdened with,
how much is left for the Man on the Land?
(6) Lastly, the Borrowing Curse again, for, in addition
to paying needlessly high freights to cover the interest on
the railway debt, there is an immense debt —getting on
for £30,000,0 o—incurred for other purposes, and the
taxation required to pay the interest also falls, more or
less, directly or indirectly, on the producer.
(7) And, by way of postscript, there is the 7 or 8 or 9
per cent, mortgage on top of all.
* * * *
There is absolutely no complete immediate
remedy for t/iese evils. It has taken 30 or 40
years of misgovernment, of cowardly shirking of
responsibility, of letting things slide, of booming
and borrowing and passing on the responsibility,
to_ bring about the present miserable state of
things. If 20 or 30 years of good strong govern-
ment could wholly undo the evil, it would be a
marvellous performance. The Man on the Land
is in a bad way. He only goes on the land by the
compulsion of poverty, in a large proportion of
cases; he remains poor, in most cases, while he
is on the land; and his readiness to get off it again
is pathetic. And, even if O’Sullivan borrowed
.£6,000,000 a year instead of about £3,000,000, and
paid 10s. a day on Government works instead pf
75., it would only make the lot of the Man on the
Land worse in the end The railway that is built
at 7s. a day costs more in borrowed money than
the one built at ss. a day, so there is a bigger mort-
gage on it, and higher rates have to be charged to
make it pay, and the higher the rate the less
remains out of his crop to support the Man on the
Land.
» m ♦ •
But by way of a beginning on the road to a
better state of things here are a few suggestions :
(1) Let the N.S.W. land tax be graduated till on the
biggest estates it runs to 3d. in the ,£. That will pro-
duce more revenue. It will also compel many big mono-
polists to cut up and sell their properties, and give 3ome
men a chance to go on the land nearer to a market.
(2) Establish a vigorous system of resumption of big
estates for closer settlement. That will have the same
result. But don’t resume the big estates with borrowed
money.
(3) Stop borrowing, no matter what it costs in present
taxation and in hard economy. Even if the Governor’s
salary has to be reduced, and the publication of the
“History ofN.S.W. from the Records” has to be suspended
let this be done. Let all new puhlic works be constructed
out of revenue, and make a beginning, however small, at
wiping off the existing debt. Then there will come a
time when the produce of the Man on the Land can be-
carried at half the present rate. If this isn’t done a time
may come when he will have to pay twice the present
rate.
(4) Let the Man on the Land have money on mortgage
at 4£ per cent, per medium of a State Land Bank, instead
of the rate of interest he now pays. But don’t borrow
for this purpose either.
(5) Foster manufacturing industries in every possible
way by a Protective system. Then in time there will be
a large producing local city population to buy the local
agriculturist’s produce—not an unproductive city popula-
tion living largely on loans, and on finance, and on
charging commissions, and on cutting each other’s hair.
The Man on the Land has to exchange his produce for
clothes and the like. If his produce has to pay freight to
London before it can be finally swapped for clothes
because the man who makes the clothes is there, then by
reason of the freight there is less left to buy the clothes
with than there would be if the man who made them was
close at hand.
(6) And let us have a weighty, not to say enormous,
absentee-tax as a strong inducement to the man who has
money invested in Australia to live here, and spend his
money locally. If he doesn’t live here the proceeds of
the tax will help just a little to make borrowing unneces-
sary and to ease the burden of the Man on the Land.
(7) Also, let us hang O’Sullivan as the great borrowing
enthusiast of the N.S.W. Ministry, and the man whose
accumulated interest bill will shortly make the lot of the
Man on the Land even worse than it is now.
There are other things—irrigation, road-making,
locking of rivers, &c. —which want to be done for
the Man on the Land, but any Government which
adopts the above ideas will at least have made a
good beginning at alleviating his hard lot.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
IThe Minimum Wage v. The Maximum
Dividend.
William M‘Millan, of N.S.W., the represen-
tative of an absentee firm of importers which has
just declared an 11 per cent, dividend, made to a
great extent out of the Australian people, con-
tributes a bitterly indignant article to the Review
op Reviews about the evils of the Victorian Mini-
mum Wage law. The M‘Billion belongs to a
class which mostly talks as if it was in business for
the sake of a great moral principle, and the fact
that it declares 11 per cent, dividends for its
absentee shareholders is kept very much in the
background. No one who has heard the brassy
M‘Billion dilate on the crushing monopoly of
protected manufacturers (whose dividends, in Vic-
toria, average about 8 per cent.), would
imagine for a moment that his crowd of
absentees paid 11 per cent, (some people
in the same importing business pay as much
as 17 per cent.), and that he was really howling
against local trade rivals who cut into the profits
of the great M ‘Arthur and Co., of Loudon,
absentee softgoodsmen. M ‘Billion calls the
abolition of sweating by legal enactment “The
Defeat of Liberty.” So it is. It abolishes the
liberty of great softgoods firms to have clothing
made at ll|d. a day by sewing-women of the
kind that Hood described when he wrote :
With fingers weary and worn,
With eyelids heavy and red,
A woman sat in unwomanly rags
Plying needle and thread.
• • » • '» ;
Stitch ! stitch ! stitch !
In poverty, hunger and dirt.
And still with a voice of dolorous pitch
(O, would that its tones could reach the rich !)
She sang this Song of the Shirt.
That is how things were, and how they still are in
London, where M ‘Arthur and Co. hang out and
pay 11 per cent. It is also, judging by the
awful revelations made before a commission of
inquiry a few week ago about pants made at
4d. a pair, and similar horrors, how they are in
Sydney—where M ‘Arthur and Co. also hang out.-
The Minimum Wage Law abolished, so far as Vic-
toria was concerned, the liberty of any softgoods
firm or person to run things on such principles.
It also abolished the liberty of any woman to be
ground down to these awful depths of degrada-
tion. So it was, as M‘Millan says, the “ Defeat
of Liberty ” beyond a doubt. It was just as much
a defeat of liberty as when, in England many
years ago, the Protestant was deprived of the
right to be burnt, and his liberty to be a martyr
was taken from him. Of course it is impossible to
pay Is. for making a pair of pants here—a wage
at which it is possible to live—if M‘Millan’s, or
any other, firm is permitted to import an English
article made at 4d. ; the only result would be to
destroy the local industry altogether, and leave
the local worker with—instead of a miserably
poor wage—no wage at all. And to shut out the
imported article would be bad for the great
absentee firm of M‘Arthur and Co., which lias
just paid 11 per cent, dividend to its English
shareholders. M‘Millan writes scornfully about


the “ infantile cry of Victoria ” that all the States
shouM enforce the payment of a living wage, so that
it won’t be driven, by the competition of States
where the blessed liberty to sweat and be sweated
is still rampant, to abandon its living wage in self-
defence. Also he says, “ the dream is being
rudely dispelled by the fresh air of the whole con-
tinent of Australia,” which is now blowing on the
industries which pay a living wage—by which he
doubtless means that the fetid breath of the fever-
dens where haggard, bony women live a death-in-
life-at making pants at 4d. a pair will blow on
these industries when border tariffs are removed.
And if it isn’t allowed to blow Liberty will be
outraged and great absentee softgoods firms may
have to be content with 5 per cent, instead of 11.
And M‘Mill an demands scornfully
Is this restrictive system strong enough to withstand
:the ordinary and inevitable laws of political economy ?
To which the reply is certainly “No!” No
•system can stand against any inevitable law. But
the law it is going to stand against is the artificial
and diseased and bogus law that an absentee firm
must make 11 per cent. The law of the Minimum
Wage is as good as the law of the Maximum
Dividend any day.
♦
More Adelaide Tramway Literature.
Adelaide Observer barracks once more with
great violence for handing over the Adelaide
tramways to a private syndicate
All the available borrowing power of the State, which
is relatively small and will become less and less, is needed
for current and prospective undertakings of a truly
national and developmental character ; and to appropriate
any of this margin for a city luxury, when the money
might be better spent in opening new avenues of settle-
ment in the interior, would be to adopt means of retard-
ing general progress and prosperity. No legislator, and
particularly no representative of a country electorate,
would be acting in the best interests of his constituency
by sanctioning the diversion of a limited national credit
for a purely local purpose. And even the possibility that
a work will pay a handsome profit does not alone entitle
the State to take it over* especially when the temptation
to do so raises moral as well as economic questions.
What a truly brilliant idea ! The State’s borrow-
ing powers are becoming less and less because the
borrowed money is spent on works which don’t
pay interest. When the State borrows £1,000,000
(annual interest, £35,000) and invests it in some
work which only yields £15,000, the result is that
£20,000 a year more has to be raised by taxation.
South Australia has been doing this sort of thing
for 47 years, till the balance of interest that has to
be raised by taxation through spending the loan
money on unpayable works is £240,000 a year.
This is more, in proportion to population, than the
whole interest bill in Great Britain, and naturally
the borrowing power of a State in that situation is
growing limited. If S.A. raised another million
(interest £35,000 a year), and invested it in a good-
paying undertaking like the Adelaide trams, and
made £65,000 a year out of it, there would be
£30,000 a year profit, and the burden which has to
be raised by taxation would drop to £210,000.
Then the country, being less embarrassed, would
have more borrowing powers instead of less. A
rich man may borrow £2,000,000 much more easily
than a poor one can borrow £IOO. Unfortunately,
it has become a kind of fixed idea that unprofitable
public works should be done by the State, and
profitable ones should be left for syndicates and
iboodlers and individual sharks. Even now, bad
-as things are, the S.A. Government could borrow
the money to build Adelaide’s electric trams
at 3| per cent, and the foreign syndicate, it
;is dead certain, won’t pay less than 4 per
.cent, for its debenture borrowings probably
it will pay five. The money will most likely
be raised in England either way, but the
biggest drain on the country for interest will
ibe under the syndicate system. Then the syndi-
cate’s shareholders will want 10 per cent, if they
can get it—the Melbourne tramway shareholders
took 24 per cent, last year—on the portion of the
money they put up themselves, and a lot of that
will also go out of the country. A country must
be darned poor when it is so poor that it can’t
lafford to make a profit of 10 per cent.—or 24 per
cent. ; it is like being so naked that one can’t wear
clothes. And the State can do the work quite as
fast as any syndicate if Premier Jenkins only
moves. So far, however, the purchased press of
Adelaide persistently warns Jenkins not to move,
and that rather uncertain gentleman from the
Wooden Ham country is so much afraid to oppose
the press that he obeys. Then the same press
points out that the failure of Jenkins to move
shows that State ownership is impossible.
♦
Seventy per Shent.
“ Pyalla ” to The Bulletin :
Two money-lending bills were recently introduced into
N.S.W. Assembly—one by John Hurley, the other by
James Ashton on behalf of Hushes, M.L.C. Both have
the same object, yet are totally dissimilar in principle.
Hurley’s bill fixes a legal maximum rate of interest,
Hughes’ mentions no rate at all. The former is actually
a resurrection of the British laws, which were
repealed in ’sl. Hughes’ bill is a copy of the
measure drafted by Lord James of Hereford, which
became law in England last year. The principle of
fixing a rate of interest by Act of Parliament was first
adopted in England in 1571, and was maintained until the
17th year of Victoria’s reign. From that time until last
year Britain was without usury laws, and the word
“ usury ” had no legal significance. Many attempts, how-
ever, were made in Great Britain and the colonies to re-
enact the sumptuary laws, but all failed, in face of the
argument that Parliament should not attempt to perform
the functions of an open-market by fixing the price of a
commodity-— i.e., money. Nevertheless, the alarming
rampancy of the evils of usury was fully recognised,
and a profound sensation was caused by the reports of two
• select committees of the House of Commons, in ’97 and ’9B.
A proposal by the ’9B committee was to give the Courts
absolute discretion in dealing with money-lending trans-
actions, all of which should be open to judicial review.
The suggestion was embodied in the British Bill, which
is now law, and is adopted in Hughes’ Bill which it is to be
hoped will soon become law in N.S.W. In all money-
lending cases that come before the Courts power is given
(to the said Courts to review and go behind any contract,
and to relieve the borrower where the burden is grossly
disproportionate to the amount of benefit he receives.
Also, application can be made to the Courts by the debtor
for review and relief, and the Courts can determine the
amount considered as a fair and reasonable rate.
Though Hughes’ bill does not fix a rate of interest, it
will be more drastic in its effects upon the usurer than
would Hurley’s. Its initial clauses are calculated to
at once shut the doors of many a Shylock. First, Shy-
lock will have to register himself as a money-lender, and
he must trade in his registered name only, and at a regis-
tered address. Thus he will have to find his own prey
without the aid.of such jackals as “Christian gentle-
man’’and “wealthy widow.” Further, where a security
given by the borrower is evidenced by any document, a
copy of such document will have to be furnished to the
borrower and to the surety, if any, so that he or they
shall know positively the nature of the bargain entered
into. Heavy penalties are imposed for any infringement
of these provisions.
Hurley’s Bill has been withdrawn owing to a technical
error in the manner of introducing it ; and writer knows
that many a bloodsucker simply grinned when the
measure was introduced because he knew it would never
become law. But, with regard to Hughes’ Bill, Shylock
is shaking in his shoes because such a measure would
“ get at ” him properly. It is rumored that the worst of
the money-lenders (the large majority) are taking con-
certed action, and intend to spare no expense in blocking
the measure! This, of itself, should put the proper label
on them, because the provisions of the Bill affect only
“ cronk ” and rapacious transactions. The “ fixing of the
price of a commodity ” dodge won’t work now, in the face
of the simple and obvious course of enabling the judiciary
to act upon its discrimination between reasonable fair-
dealing and voracious scoundrelism.
♦
A Tasmanian Legislator.
Among some Australian politicians almost every-
thing is a good excuse for floating a loan, just as
almost every circumstance is held by the intensely
red-nosed citizen as a good and sufficient reason
for whisky. John M‘Call, M.H.A., of Tas-
mania, is the newest gentleman to put up a record
in this way, and it is a fine large record, too. The
situation is this. Tasmania, like all the States,
will lose heavily under the Federal tariff by the
abolition of inter-State duties. That is to say its
Treasury will lose—-its people will lose nothing.
Whether duties are paid by the buyer, as Free-
traders believe, or by the seller, as Protectionists
believe, inter-State duties are paid by the Austra-
lian people because in that kind of commerce
they both buy and sell. The Tasmanian people
will save, either as buyers or sellers, what their
Government loses, and it is only necessary that
they should pay in extra direct taxes what they
cease to pay in indirect taxes, and the people and
the State Treasury will be as solvent as ever.
Even that wouldn’t make the direct taxes
burdensome, for Tasmania now pays less of them
than does any other State. Here are the figures :
Direct Taxation ter Inhabitant Annually.
Maoriland .. £0 18 8 Victoria .. .. £0 11 3
Queensland .. 0 13 3 Westralia .. 0 11 1
South Australia 0 12 10 Tasmania .. 0 7 8
New South Wales C 11 3
And this is just where M‘Call, M.H.A., comes
in. He can’t bear the idea of paving enough new
taxes to make up for the old ones that are
abolished, and he proposes that for five years
Tasmania should borrow enough (about £500,000,
he thinks, would be sufficient) to put things right,
and posterity should thereafter shoulder the
burden as usual. And this (ye gods!) is his
reason :
To induce New South Wales to come in, we had to agree
to provide a book-keeping period of five years. This
means a distribution of the surplus customs and excise
revenue, according to the amount consumed or used in
each State, instead of per head of the population ; though,
strange to say, the cost of government is taken on this
basis. Now it has been shown, over and over again, we
will be much better off when a change is made in favor
of the distribution according to population, and I am one
of those who believe, when this can be considered by the
Federal Parliament on its merits, without the fear of
threats from any State opposed to it, the good sense of
the Federal Parliament will, with a proper federal spirit,
agree to the method of distribution that will be advan-
tageous to the smaller States. I mean, of course, those
with the smaller population. I take this view that the
Treasurer’s loss will possibly be £500,000 for the five
years we are under the “ book-keeping” system. What-
ever it is, I contend it is the cost of union—a union that
is not only to benefit the people of this State for five
years (the book-keeping period), but for all time. If we
admit this, I contend the people who inhabit this State
for the particular period when this bill is run up for the
permanent benefit of the State should not be called upon
to pay the lot.
For those first five years a strict .account is to be
kept, and each State is to get back the exact
amount due to it over and above its share of the
Federal expenses. That is to say, every inhabitant
is to pay an equal share of the cost of the Federal
Government, and each State is to get back from
the Commonwealth exactly what it contributed in
taxes, less its people’s share of the cost of the
Federal Government. After five years the Common-
wealth Parliament can fix things as it pleases, and in
a rough and ready division of the surplus Tasmania
may get more or it may get less —one is as likely
as the other. But dear old John wants to borrow
£500,000 to pay ordinary expenses with in the
meantime, and leave the bill to posterity, on the
supposition that Tasmania may get more than its
share after the book-keeping period is over. The
present generation is to cease paying border duties,
and put on no new taxes to make up for the
old tax taken off. Truly posterity is a useful
animal to carry the burdens of the lazy, selfish
old man of to-day.
“Tied” Hotels.
The Parliamentary Committee which is sitting in
Sydney to consider the questions of “tied ” hotels
has unearthed an extraordinary and almost in-
credible state of affairs. If the sacred name of
Liberty is to amount to anything, the enslaved
publican is a good subject to practise on, and the
slave-owning brewer is almost as much in need of
suppression as any planter who ever walloped his
nigger on an Alabama plantation. Here are some
samples of evidence:
The system connected with a publican going into a tied
house was as follows : The brokers advertise houses at
given prices. The applicant then obtains particulars re-
garding a house he fancies, as to lease, the amount of
money required, and the loan permitted. The books
showing the trade done are then produced, and if the
results are satisfactory the solicitors for the broker draw
up a bill of sale on the furniture and fittings, and a
bond is then drawn up for double the amount of the lien,
which specifies that unless the licensee deals with the
brewery in question for all beers, wines, spirits, and
aerated waters, the bond can be enforced. With regard
to the lien on the hotel, in 99 cases out of 100 it had never
been incurred by the signer of the bond.
The bond, let it be observed, is for twice the
real amount of the brewer’s claim on the hotel, so
as to bind the luckless devil of a publican all the
more surely. Some more evidence :
Brewers charged to the licensees of their tied houses
considerably more for beers and spirits than they could pur-
chase them for in the open market. The brewers allowed
no discount to tied houses, but they did to free houses.
The licensee of a tied house was bound to accept what-
ever liquor was supplied to him, whether it was good or
bad, or suited the customers or not, and if sent back no
allowance was, as a rule, made for any such liquor.
A very strong agreement now existed between the
different brewers not to interfere with each other’s houses.
With the abolition of the border duties, the combination
would work their utmost to prevent Victorian, South
Australian and Tasmanian beer from coming into the
State. In Victoria, a 54-gallon hogshead was supplied to
free houses for £2, and to tied houses for £2 10s. ; the
Adelaide 00-operative Brewery supplied the 54-gallon
hogshead at either £2 or £2 25., and a rebate was
allowed on this amount. Anyone who once drank
Victorian beer would never want again to drink the
Sydney beer. In Sydney the SU-gallon hogshead cost
£3 12s. In Victoria there was a heavy duty on malt and
hops, which were, however, free in Sydney. In the case
of these hogsheads, although the brewers charged their
customers for 54-gallons, they were only charged on 50-
gallons by the Excise Department. When a cask of bad
beer was returned to the brewery the Excise allowed, a
rebate, but nothing of this was returned to the publican,
who had to suffer a loss. The frequent sale of illicit
liquor was attributed to the excessive charges made by
the brewers to their “ tied ” customers. If a publican in
one of these “ tied houses ” refused to accept any goods
supplied by the brewers, the result of his bond would be
that a bailiff would be put in the next morning.
No wonder Sydney brewers are prosperous; £3
12s. for a hogshead of beer which is pretty often
bad —there is no particular reason for troubling to
make it good when the publican has to sell it, or
at least pay for it, in any case—against Adelaide’s
£2 2s. and Melbourne’s £2 10s. for a superior
article. And here is something more about the
brewer’s way of doing business:
Whichever firm (of brewers) secures the lease, the
amount of the bonus paid by the brewers to the landlord
becomes a first charge against the ingoing tenant, and
this is the way the liens are usually incurred. If, through
neglect or other cause, a tenant is unable to pay his ac-
counts, and the brewery enters into possession, the
amount of this tenant’s debts goes on to the lien, and the
next licensee has to sign a bond for the original amount
with the sum in question added, as well as interest at the
rate of 6 per cent. One brewery, to the witness’s know-
ledge, had direct control over four hotels, the licenses being
taken out in the names of the firm’s clerks and travellers.
In many cases, just before 12 o’clock on licensing day,
the applicant was rushed into the office of the brewers’
solicitors, and the bill of sale, lease, promissory note for
the amount of the lien (repayable on demand), a blank
transfer of the licence, and all the other documents were
put before him. He had no time to read any of them.
He had to sign them beforehe could go before the licensing
bench. The documents bound the signer body and soul
to the brewer. There was seldom anything done till the
day when the transfer was to be applied for. Say the
transfer was on a Monday, the brewers, however, wanted
the money lodged on the Saturday. Applications for the
documents prior to day of the transfer were always met
with the reply that they were not ready. In every case,
too, the applicant had to pay all costs, both those of the
lawyers and for stamps.
As to why the publican stands this sort of thing
well, the average publican knows no other way of
making a living. He must get a public-house, and
as 98 per cent, of the public-houses belong to
brewers he has to take the only kind of public-
house he can get. If the brewer’s demands
amount to more than he can earn honestly by
selling the brewer’s bad and exorbitant beer, he
goes in for Sunday trading, and sublets his private
bar at a hideously-exorbitant rent to ladies with
tight waists and loose characters, and makes the
money to satisfy his beer-cormorant by any means
he can. After these and other revelations, the
Bill for the abolition of “ tied ’’-house agreements
should pass by a deafening majority —still it is
hard to say. Truth is mighty and will prevail.
Beer is also mighty, and it prevails quite as often
as truth does.
+
A Tale of the Sea-
“ Shellback ” tells a tale of the sea :
Re Tagliaferro-Alala salvage case, recently heard in
Melbourne. Evidence was given by masters of both
vessels to the effect that their ships were thoroughly sea-
worthy, and one of them had only undergone its annual
survey three months previously. Yet, when the Taglia-
ferro ranged up alongside the Alala, in response to latter s
signals for assistance, it was found that neither vessel had
a 'suitable towline on board. Mooring wires and sundries
were used, and, bv good luck, assisted by a fresh gale on
her quarter, the Tagliaferro ultimately brought her tow
to a safe anchorage in Portland Bay. Now, when under-
going survey for Marine Board, Board of Trade, or any
other qualified authority’s sea-going certificate, sundry
items of equipment must be produced for surveyor’s
inspection and approval. Amongst them is a suitable
towline, either of wire or rope. As both these ships had
recently passed their survey, the question arises—What
had become of their towing-gear ? It’s not an article that
the cook might, by accident, heave overboard to wind-
’ard, nor is a 120-fathom 11-inch hawser a thing that can
get/' itself lost in the chart-room locker, or hide its
modest head in a corner of the bo’sun’s store. The
natural inference remains that these two vessels passed
at least one survey minus this part of their necessary
equipment. If one item can be successfully dodged, then
why not others, as, for instance, boat-accommodation,
life-belts (not that the latter are of much use, still, like
the Scripture, they afford some consolation to nervous
passengers), or unworkable hand bilge pumps ? These
latter, as a rule, are only shipped for surveyors’ inspec-
tion, and rarely, if ever, put to the purpose for which
they are intended, and through time and want of use
frequently get out of order. As a matter of fact, the
official survey of deck-gear is conducted in a most per-
functory manner. The time at the official’s disposal, as a
rule, is too limited to allow him to do much more than
just glance at the various items as they are brought
under his notice. The operation too, as often as not,
takes place in the graving-dock, so boats, as a rule, are
just lifted from their chocks and swung outboard. Occa-
sionally they are floated, with oftentimes disastrous
results as regards leaking. As an instance, I was once in
a South Sea Island steamer loading in Sydney. Surveyor
stopped ship from proceeding to sea on account of heavy
list to port. The impulsive little Welsh skipper, anxious
to get away (before all the split peas on his manifest
were detected) yelled for the hose and ordered a star-
board lifeboat to be filled with water, just to put
the ship on an even keel till we got outside.
We poured a good part of the harbour into that boat, and
then the skipper grew madder than ever, and yelled to
us to leave off, for the so-called lifeboat leaked worse than
a basket, and he was afraid the surveyor would stop him
for that as well. Eventually the packet was trimmed,
and she got away from the wharf. Outside the Heads
the mate commenced to get the mudhook on board.
Coming up one fluke touched the side with a
pretty smart tap, which brought from the skipper an in-
junction to “be careful with that anchor, mister, as she
is mighty thin forrard.” One voyage in that greyhound
was enough for me. On the whole, it seems that the
system of yearly inspection in local ports leaves consider-
able room for improvement.
♦ 1
More about Private Railways.
A faint attempt to resurrect the old dead agita-
tion for private, instead of State, railway owner-
ship is noticeable, now and then, in Australia.
This country’s great rival is Argentina, just as
the great rival of Britain is the United States.
And Argentina threatens to leave Australia very
badly—it may be only a temporary result of the
drought, or it may be a permanent proceeding.
So we begin to meet interesting little items like
this in the dailies (Sydney Telegraph sample):
Captain A. W. Pearse, in his pamphlet entitled “ Our
Great Rival : the Argentine Republic,” presents a glowing
picture of the progress and prosperity of that South
American country. His aim is to show how Australia is
being distanced by these rival producers at the River
Piate, and to point out how legislation is injuring this
country. Well, we are inclined to think that in the
matter of legislation Argentina has not much to boast
about; that country has progressed in spite of it, as N.Z.
has latterly done, and, as we hope, Australia will pro-
gress. But it is quite to be admitted that in recent years
Argentina has gone ahead the faster. Captain Pearse
says that Buenos Ayres has a much larger trade than
Sydney, which is true, because Sydney is not the only
port in Australia. He says their railways, though in the
hands of companies, carry live stock, &c., on lower terms
than our Government railways do ; and that, while here
there is a dearth of employment, our rival is going ahead
by leaps and bounds.
Certainly, three-fourths of the Argentine rail-
ways—not all, by any means—are private rail-
ways, and these do carry goods pretty cheaply.
But behind this there is the same old explanation.
Every private line in Argentina was propped up
with G-overnment subsidies and guarantees. As
far back as 1891 the Government’s liability for
pauper aid to these awful private speculations was
£920,000 per annum, with a prospect of the bill
rising to £1,500,000 per annum. Finally, the
matter was compromised by giving them immense
lump sums in Govt, securities. One way and
another, the private railways of Argentina have
saddled the Govt, with a permanent liability
of between £600,000 and £1,000,000 a year,
to say nothing of land-grants; and even
with this assistance they don’t pay as well
as the Australian railway systems. • The Gov-
ernment, tottering under this load, went broke
a few years ago, though it has since recovered
a little, and is now able to get about and
pay its debts, partly in very bad paper-money,
worth less than half its face value. If Australia
wants cheaper railway freights on the Argentine
principle, there is no need to sell its lines to pri-
vate companies. All that is wanted is to save
about half the interest bill by compromising with
the public creditor, and then all rates could be cut
down 25 per cent, in one act.
-—-—-—-V ... ■
Touching the Vic. Mount Morgan Co. a share-
holder writes :
A little more than a year ago, I attended a meeting o!
shareholders, whereat the chairman announced that as
there were a large number of forfeited shares of no use to
the co. it was proposed to give 10,000 of them for a valu-
able block of land adjoining the mine. On the table
was lying a long document, with the co.’s solicitor
in attendance. A shareholder next me asked that
it might be read, when it appeared that under this
agreement 10,001 shares were to be given to the chairman,
E. M. Cairns, for this lease—a lease that had been taken
up long ago and abandoned without any work being done
on it, though from its situation it might be of value. In
reply to protesting shareholders, the chairman, Mr.
Cairns, stated that it had been determined to acquire the
ground, which was necessary for the mine, and he held
proxies enough at his command in the room to settle the
question. Of course during this heated discussion nobody
thought to examine the agreement, and the resolution
was put to the meeting and carried by a majority of
one, Mr. MacDonald, a shareholder, calling out loudly
“ this is a fraud on the shareholders.” The whole thing
was an utter surprise. In addition, there was a further
agreement, that the directors were at liberty to acquire
any other leases they thought fit on any terms they
pleased. Immediately this was carried the minutes of
the meeting were confirmed, and in an incredibly short
time 10,000 of the co.’s shares had passed into the chair-
man’s possession without cost to him, for, by the terms
of the agreement, the shareholders were made liable for
the calls. With regard to the second part of the agree-
ment, we heard nothing for months, but recently we
were told that 10,000 other shares had been given to the
Chairman (Cairns) and one of the directors (Nicholas' for
two other leases pegged by them, at the rate of 5000
shares each- costing them merely the trouble of pegging
but the ground. So that in all 20,000 shares have gone
to the chairman and directors, the present value of the
shares being about £1 each. This is c oifinned by the
chairman’s circular of 28th May last informing us that the
mine had been sold in London for 40,000 shares in a new
co., of which they, the shareholders, were to have 20,000,
leaving 20,000 to the parties who held the agreement I
have referred to. A further call of Id. per share on these
shares was the subject of a recent indignation meeting in
Melbourne.
♦
Several Yic. M’s.L.A. who voted with the Pea-
cook Government in favor of . an elected Conven-
tion to amend the Victorian Constitution (Bill
carried on its second reading by a majority of
four) declare that they will cross the floor on the
third reading unless some impossible amendments
which they have outlined are accepted in com-
mittee. Fink, the chanipion wobbler and time-
server, is leading this section of the Govt, sup-
porters. Fink was one of the renegade Liberals
who assisted to oust Turner, and was rewarded
by M ‘Lean and Shiels with an empty portfolio.
At the time Shiels said they took him into the
Ministry because he (Shiels) wanted the assist-
ance of “an intelligent young man.” By some
clever political high-tumbling, Fink is again an
alleged supporter of the old Turner party. When
the session opened he was ready to become “ the
intelligent young man ” to Knight Gili.ott the
helpless, hopeless Attorney-General. But Pea-
cock knew Fink too well. All good Victorians
should put up over their beds the names of the so-
called Liberals who voted against the Convention
Bill. Some of them were deserters from the
Turner party— Downward, Graham, Kirton,
Methven, Murray, O’Neill, Outtrim, Robin-
son, Shiels, Sterry, Toutcher, Vale, and
H. R. Williams. To this black-list ought to be
added Fink and Tom Smith, who voted for the
second reading, but are proposing impossible
amendments with a strong Tory bias.
4
Melbourne ship-owners and agents, representing
much foreign capital, lately deputationised
Premier Barton to express their righteous horror
of the Immigration Restriction Act —that step-
ping-stone to a White Australia. Captain Currie,
their chief spokesman, declared the proposed Act
to be “un-British” and unjust, but plainly
showed where the shoe really pinched when he
pointed out that under the Act his co. would lose
a large income gained in carrying Asiatic passen-
gers to these States. Capt. Currie evidently
holds that anything which takes the bawbees out
of his pockets is un-British and unjust. Further-
more, Currie, after asserting that he would be
compelled to raise the price of freight to the detri-
ment of Australian producers in the event of
losing the Asiatic passenger traffic to Australia,
proceeded to declare that, whereas in 1890 there
were 19,000 aliens in Victoria and N.S.W.,
in 1900 there were only 10,500 —a decrease of
8500 in 10 years. Therefore he held that the
proposed Restriction Act wasn’t needed because
there are practically no niggers coming here ;
also, that it is unjust, because it will deprive his
co. of the large profits it makes in bringing that
absent and non-existent person. Further, it is an
outrage on the liberty of the numerous scarce local
nigger who doesn’t exist, because it deprives him
of his right to come here, and it is superfluous
because he isn’t coming in any case.
:
It is truly wonderful to consider how a politician
can thrive with no stock-in-trade save the coarse,
ignorant assurance of the blatant pill-vendor or
book - canvasser. Last week George Reid,
the most bowled-out politician in Australia,
was still able to raise a cheer in a Sydney
suburb by an allusion to that deficit of his
“which nobody had been able to discover.”
The deficits whose existence that famous
political thimble-rigger denies in so off-hand a
fashion were shown up by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Statistician, by the Auditor-General, and
by the committee of three (two of them nominated
by Reid himself) which reported on the accounts
at the end of his Premiership. The same howling
dervish of finance, in the early days of his Pre-
miership, appointed a committee of three Sydney
bankers to overhaul his accounts and guarantee
the absolute genuineness of his one great surplus,
and after going through the figures the committee
refused to do it. Whereupon Reid had the
astounding cheek to lay their refusal on the table
of the Assembly and say it was a triumphant
vindication of his character. And some years
later, after his ejection from office, he appointed
another committee, and paid it himself, to go into
his accounts and again prove his complete re-
liability and truthfulness, and even his own hired
committee wouldn’t do it. And George Reid
again said he was triumphantly vindicated.
Reid wasn’t the only man in N.S.W. who made
deficits, but in the way of denying their existence,
and cooking the accounts to conceal them, and
swearing that his own shortages were the work of
his predecessors, he never had an equal. There
was a streak of unutterable meanness in him
which dragged N.S.W. politics down to a level
which even they had never reached before. The
fact that this amazing political bounder is still
politically afloat and flourishing is almost the
worst thing that can be said of Australian Par-
liamentary life.
Attorney-General Gillott, in the Vic. Assem-
bly, has come to the conclusion that if specula-
tion were removed from the Stock Exchange we
would have it in a greater degree in other lines.
Speculation in mining is a preferable evil to
gambling in wheat, oil and other commodities.
The same truth would be admitted in the Federal
Parliament if members were expressly asked for a
Yea or Nay to it, and yet P.M.G. Drake is
allowed to hang on to his anti-“ Tattersall ”
legislation, whilst the Church and Ikey Mo Guild
fleefully rubs its ill-matched paws. Practically
)rake’s scheme is to feed a gang of dishonest


“ Men pay taxes all their lives, and such
ought to be the premium for Old Age Pensions.”
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
The equitable life assurance
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDIMR
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now. offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IRVIN E, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
CL C. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melboubne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR) General Manager for Australasia.
SOCIETY
SPECTACLES
will be found satisfactory
if fitted by
WOOD,
“ The Optician,”
fsa
who has a reputation for Testing and Fi ting the
Eyes correctly. No charge for examination.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and 209 George-St, Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
N.B.—Our New Self-Testing Chart 'posted free, with
full instructions, to any country address. Write for
particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital: £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for harge Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE,
UIBACUIB.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
stock-jobbers with the money which he will refuse
to transmit to “Tatt.” by post. The square
racing gamble is to be suppressed that
cronk Stock - exchange business may in-
crease. All the talk about the “morality”
of Drake’s proposal is the merest piffle. Man is
a gambling animal to the same extent that he is
an alcoholist, and the suppression of sweeps will
not suppress the mental craving for which they
cater. As for the cant-snufflesome objection that
sweeps encourage gambling among women and
boys, the first answer is that 999 women out of
1000 only gamble with the consent and knowledge
of the men they get the money from. And the
youth, inasmuch as he is father to the man, can’t
be too soon initiated into the foolishness of build-
ing false hopes on the chance of a ss. ticket in
“ Tatts.” In fact, youthful experience of blank
disappointment is a healthful tonic rather than a
moral poison.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “LadyHuntworth’sExperiment.”
Lyceum “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Criterion “ The World Against Her.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Nadjezda.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Silver King.”
Buou “A Message from Mars - ”
Theatre Royal “ Riding to Win.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
It must have been in a moment of con-
scientiousness bordering on frenzy that Donizetti
acknowledged a fancied debt to Walter Scott
in the title of “Lucia di Lammermoor.” No
single character is common to the novel and to the
opera, and only the one incident a trifling
matter in those days, the stabbing of the bride-
groom. The impecunious master of Ravenswood,
in the opera, is described as enjoying a state of
“ haughty prosperity ” ; the Lord Keeper and his
awesome wife presumably sleep in the cemetery
the Ashtons appear to keep conveniently in the
back garden; and the faithful Caleb, the one
creation which makes it possible to read Scott’s
dismal book, seems to have been discharged
from the service of his too affluent master.
In the first act, it appears that that
master is sneaking about the Ashtons’ grounds
on the look - out for Lucy ; while Lucy’s
brother and his Lowland followers, disguised in
kilts, and carrying modesty to a point no High-
lander has yet thought of by hiding their blushing
knees behind silk continuations, are looking for
Ravenswood. The hero, however, warned, no
doubt, by the melodious din with which the search
is accompanied, has got Luoy (Signora Sapio) and
a rejuvenated Alice (Signorina Marchi) to himself
in another part of the grounds. While, there-
fore, Lucy’s brother Henry (Signor Bozzoli) is
declaring his unalterable determination that Lucy
shall marry Bucklaw (Signor Cannonieri), Lucy
and Ravenswood are making quite other arrange-
ments, which include the transfer of a ring and a
very pretty love duet.
* * • *
In the second act it appears that Henry
has got into Opposition, and expects a visit from
the police. Bucklaw alone can work the Ministry,
and Lucy is Bucklaw’s price. Resort is had to
the dear old expedient of suppressing and forging
Ravenswood’s correspondence ; and for the sake
of her mother, who it now appears is really dead,
Lucy signs a marriage-contract with Bucklaw.
This, of course, is the cue for which Ravenswood
has been waiting in the wings, and he enters in
time to take a leading part in a great sestet and
chorus. After this peaceful demonstration, swords
are drawn, and there might have been the deuce
to pay but for the intervention of a douce
person of the name of Raimondo de Bitebend
(Signor Travaglini), who, it appears, is tutor
in the establishment. He adopts the simple
expedient of showing the marriage-certificate
to Ravenswood, who thereupon curses the
lady and discreetly withdraws. In the third
act it appears that the marriage has been
solemnised ; but a disturbance takes place, and
Bitebend informs the interested chorus that Lucy
has stabbed her husband in the bridal-chamber.
This intelligence is confirmed by the entrance of
Lucy, arrayed in very late evening-dress, and
carrying in her hand a bloodless weapon.
She closes her career by a very fine piece of
vocalisation, accompanied by a single flute.
Ravenswood meanwhile is meditating among the
tombs of his ancestors in the Ashtons’ cemetery,
at the back. Here a crowd of people naturally
come to look for him, anxious to impart the news ;
but any hopes which he may have founded upon
Lucy’s early widowhood are very quickly dis-
pelled by the careful Bitebend, who comes to tell
him that Lucy is dead. Then, after the usual
Eolite resistance and protest by his companions,
e stabs himself.
• * • *
The artists concerned and the manage-
ment alike are to be heartily congratulated on
the manner in which this famous opera was
placed before a tremendous house. The only
lady who has any opportunity is the heroine ;
and Signora De Vere Sapio made the most' of it.
Lucia is one of those parts which give no oppor-
tunity for a moderate success. It is all or noth-
ing. You may sing it well or sing it badly,
but never moderately well; because with this
sort of music moderately well means intolerably.
Signora Sapio was entirely successful alike in
“singing sorrow,” in giving the tears in the
voice, and in dealing with those awful vocal
tangles in the first act and in the mad scene.
Moreover, in her madness she looked so sweet
that one longed for an asylum where one
might hope to meet with one distraught like
this. Dani is more pleasing every time the pub-
lic makes his acquaintance. Unlike the average
tenor, he can act, and act well. He
is modest, unassuming, and never rushes to the
footlights to unburden himself of his breath.
Signor Bozzoli, as Henry, should break himself of
that habit of clawing at the air with the right
hand. There is nothing else of which he requires
breaking. Signor Travaglini should wash some
of the distemper off that too capacious forehead.
He can do nothing else to improve upon his
performance of Raimondo de Bitebend. As
Normanno, Signor Marcello does all that is
necessary ; and Signor Cannonieri bears up with
heroism against the white satin jacket and short
white trousers in which Bucklaw presents him-
self for the marriage ceremony.
** * *
“ Struck Oil ” was revived at Sydney
Lyceum last Saturday, and, judging by the house,
it is capable of a longer run than the few nights
for which it is billed. It is a common opinion
that without Maggie Moore’s unique personality,
“Struck Oil” would die out, but it is more
probable that it will keep on its legs so
long as the company that holds it up is
of a fair average merit. The chief motive of
“Struck Oil,” as everyone knows, is the affection
between father and daughter, and persons who
hear dry-eyed the wailings of the average stage
heroine when she loses her child (and goes about
hunting for it in a desultory sort of fashion and
finding it by inconsequent pieces of blue ribbon)
and persons who yawn fiercely when the bereaved
wife faints on going to see her about-to-be-
executed husband, —these persons had to cough
loudly when Lizzie Stofel, in a ridiculous pinafore
and sunbonnet, took her Saturday farewell of her
amiable but brainless German pa.
* * * •
Lizzie Stofel is the type of child who is
much more amusing on the stage than off, and
when she cleans a window by giving two dabs at
it, the hearts of gallery mothers are touched, for
they remember how their own Marys and Janes
clean the windows just like that at home. Lizzie’s
pa goes to the war with the honorable intention of
keeping well behind the other fellows. All one
sees of the war is a number of very small tents
which suddenly light up, also a vision of Pa
Stofel triumphantly dragging his own officer by a
rope from one scene where it is night into another
where it has suddenly become broad day. It is in
this drama, also, that it takes about six men to
steal one keg of whisky. Also, Stofel’s household
clock sticks to quarter past one in the first act,
and is as faithful to four o’clock or thereabouts in
the last. The engine in the Oilsburg scene rushes
into its part before the curtain ascends, and Pa
Stofel regains his memory and gets his oil just as
he has done many thousands of times before.
* * * *
Maggie Moore rises gloriously beyond her
avoirdupois, and as a large, healthy German
“ kind” manages to make the pathetic touches of
the character as forcible as the humorous ones.
Maggie’s magnetic personality and emotional
voice carry her triumphantly through many diffi-
culties. In the grown-up scene she is less
effective, but Lizzie Stofel, when she arrives at
long dress period, is a person of no great impor-
tance. Nevertheless, the long dress made a little
longer would suit Maggie better. E. B, Russell
makes a good impression as the amiable Deutsch
Pa, and the other characters, if sometimes a little
stiff, are, on the whole, harmless enough.
** * *
“Lady Hunt worth’s Experiment,” a
comedy as yet unseen by Australia, is to be
staged at Sydney Royal on Saturday. It is the
work of R. C. Carton, and is said to have made a
good impression in London. Under these cir-
cumstances Galfred, Earl of Tweenwayes, will
wear the brown suit and blackened eye of an’effete
aristocracy until Friday only. Though the
“ Amazons ” has been well supported, there has
not been, as there should have been, a concerted
rush of the democratic section of the community
to gloat on the degradation of Galfred, Earl of
Tweenwayes. The gallery, where democrats
mostly go, has shown no special accession of
business. Yet the Earl of Tweenwayes is
about the hardest thing, in a brown suit
and a dirt-colored whisker, that was ever
said about the British aristocracy. Coming, as
he did, after the visit of sundry brief and
anxious-looking real aristocrats, he suggests that
a long pedigree is more disastrous than long beers,
and that a family tree is apt, in the long run, to
get into the head of its possessor. There are
other members of the nobility in Pinero’s comedy,
but the bent and decayed earl is the only one who
is specifically described as being the remnant of
an ancient race, whose hollow cough had disturbed
the sleep of centuries. The others look like a
recently created and healthy peerage which lately
made its money in wild-cat.
** # *
Nothing large enough to shock this paper
out of its usual calm has happened at either the
Sydney Tivoli or Empire this week, so these two
shows may consider themselves released on their
own recognisances, if they have any.
** * *
Sydney Palace Theatre has issued a type-
written manifesto re the numerous changes that
are to be shown on its stage next week. Among
the new performers is some mention of a cul-
tured pig who is to do something really brainy—
writer forgets exactly what at the moment. Pour
weeks without one change in the programme is a
food record, but the Sydneyites seem to love their
’alace under any circumstances, and the number
of persons who are cast into outer darkness by
the doorkeeper because there is no rest for the
sole of their evening shoe remains as great as
ever.
At Sydney Criterion the last few nights
are announced of the “ Death or Glory Boys,’ the
drama which leaves the impression of haying been
written by a clever lunatic disguised in drink.
The author’s curious ideas as to the state of
anarchy in the British Army will accordingly
cease to trouble ; and it is rumoured that some-
thing called “ The World Against Her ” will take
its place. This sounds like the good old Past,
and the wife that is forgiven after many writhings
on the floor!
** * *
“Riding to Win,” the new drama at
Melb. Royal, seems to have been born in England
and reconstructed here by the eminent Australian
tactician, Bland Holt. It is now a Melbourne
narrative of thrilling local interest and the latest
topical allusions. George Darrell, years ago, used
to compile works of a similar kind with the hero’s
top-boots measured to fit himself, but in his worst
moments he never did anything quite so unoriginal
as “Riding to Win.” All the things which have
happened oftenest in the world of melodrama are
just now occurring for the severalth time at Melb.
Royal. The bad nephew (Albert Norman) and
his minion, the bill-discounter, come along and
conspire to ruin Walter Baker in order that Albert
may marry Miss Ross and acquire the pro
perty of Uncle. The same old stolen notes are
forced into Walter’s possession, and everybody
save Miss Ross believes him guilty, after which he
toils at a boatshed on the Yarra. Also Albert the
Bad, when suddenly confronted by one whom he
had led astray, curses her, and pushes her into a
tank that professes to be a pond in Melbourne
Botanical Gardens. An over-fed Newfoundland
dog is expected to rescue Miss Seymour from her
tepid bath, but on Saturday night the bloated
quadruped forgot its part, consequently the
drowning lady had to wade about in the tank
whilst sundry able-bodied men were sooling the
dawg on to its duty. The rescue sensation will
never be a certainty unless Miss Seymour is pro-
vided with a sheep’s pluck, or a biscuit, to tempt
the animal towards her. She must appeal to its
appetite; whistling will not bring it. On Satur-
day she appeared to stand up in the tank, after
sinking for the third time, and whistle with her
last breath ; but the dog merely wagged his tail to
signify that he knew he wasn’t really necessary
for her salvation.
• • » *
The charm of Bland Holt’s new drama lies
in a splendid disregard for consequences. The
tank incident passes like a dream, and no unplea-
sant results come of it. Arthur Styan, as the
father of the intended victim on that occasion,
subsequently catches Norman in the act of murder-
ing Uncle, whereupon he demands that his
daughter shall be married by the man of blood, so
as to make an honest woman of her. All this
time Walter Baker is one of the unemployed. He
is married to Miss Ross, and is rich in her affec-
tion, but, owing to cousin Albert having obtained
Uncle’s property by murder, poor Walter can’t
buy a medioal practice in Collins-street. He has
to go looking for jobs. And then it dawns upon
hungry Walter that he is a foolish medical gentle-
man to go looking for stray jobs when he can win
a £2OO bicycle-race at the Melb. Exhibition Oval.
This inspiration seizes him after Bland and Mrs.
Holt have kindly brought some bottled beer and a
goose to his domicile. The beer and sage-and-
onions put new life into Walter; he borrows a
bike and wins the £2OO. Moreover, Norman is
biffed off to prison on the unsupported word of
somebody, and, although this illegal proceeding
can make no material difference to the other
people, they all agree that the dark cloud has
rolled from off their lives.
* * * *
Bland Holt’s co. appears to as little disad-
vantage as possible in this lamentable drama,
whilst John Brunton contributes bright views of
Queenscliff and the Melbourne district. The
person who most deserves sympathy is Miss
Harrie Ireland. She plays the part of an irrele-
vant blind girl. No interest attaches to Miss
Harrie. When she strolls blindly into Baker’s
kitchen, they just dump her into a chair on the
prompt side of the stage, far away from the rest
of the company, and leave her to bear her afflic-
tion silently until somebody chances to remember
that she isn’t getting any bottled beer.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), Wilson Barrett
is reviving “The Silver King,” with the same
Jaikes, Elijah Coombe, Susie and Cripps who
supported him the last time he faced the fire of
Australian comparisons in Titheradge’s character.
Otherwise, the present co. is perhaps a little less
satisfactory on tne whole than Barrett’s previous
crowd. There is nothing seriously the matter
with the performance, but “Silver King ” happens
to have great traditions attaching to it in this
country, and at one time or other old playgoers
have seen every character of the drama better
played than now. Which is not to say that Mel-
bourne doesn’t want this show. Inferior revivals
have flourished for more than a week or
two, and this one ought to do its little
bit of time “on its head. Wilson Barrett, the
original head, never looked or acted Wilfrid Den-
ver with particular success in the first two acts of
the play. His touch is too heavy. Reckless dis-
sipation doesn’t come natural to him. He makes
a conscientious pretence of being young and
foolish, but he doesn’t quite get there. Later on,
when the character becomes pretty much of a
missionary, white-haired and sententious, Barrett
is himself again. The repentant Denver is a
preacher, and it may be said of Wilson Barrett
that he seems an actor who sincerely loves to hear
himself preach. If the demand for more “Silver
King” should slacken this week, “Quo Vadis”
will be produced at Her Majesty’s next Saturday,
but the chances are in favor of Jaikes getting
more than six successive shillings out of Bodgers,
the baker.
** * *
Two performances of “ The Professor’s
Love Story ” were given at Melb. Princess’s last
Saturday, by way of dispelling the notion that
Charles Arnold and Co. are never happy unless
they are in a violent hurry. There is no indecent
haste in the Prof.’s Love Story. Arnold, Miss
Knights, Miss Frederics, George Willoughby,
Denton, Fred Sharpe, and Miss Ada Lee play the
slow, sentimental comedy for all it is worth. The
Scotch accent of two out of the three last named
would probably get them a month without the
option, in a Glasgow police court, but their tri-
angular courtship is excellent humor all the same.
As for Professor Arnold and his sister Miss Agnes
Knights, they strike sparks of true pathos from
their lines, and look thoroughly genuine under
conditions which put a big strain on their art. To
night (Thursday) Arnold makes his last appear-
ance in Melbourne as Jones of the Happenings,
and to-morrow the season ends with the departure
of Smith from his home.
** * #
The Crane-Power co. takes the Princess’s
stage next Saturday (7th) on behalf of a large
spectacular tragedy, entitled “Nadjezda ” —a par-
ticularly bad title from the commercial point of
view. “Nadjezda,” however, is said to be as
good a play as “Fedora,” or fifteen times better,
and the scenery in Tyrone Power’s production
will spread itself regardless of expense. Further-
more, the cast of the tragedy, from Miss Edith
Crane downwards, promises to give it a fair
chance, and if The Bulletin’s encouraging smile
can assist the enterprise the new management
may consider it done.
** * *
“ A Message from Mars ” appears to have
caught on to the male conscience at Melbourne
Bijou, also it is much admired by the average
d.c. female who wears her frock cut short at the
shoulders. But whereas the men are struck for
the moment by the wild unselfishness of Horace
Parker when he recovers from his dream, the
women like him best before he falls asleep.
Horace’s masterly indifference to the billing and
cooing of his “intended” tickles the fancy of
those bare-necked realists in the undress circle.
Their giggle had a note of admiration in it. On
the other hand, they can scarcely conceal their
contempt for the reformed Parker, because they
know that his mania for turning his house into a
hospital can’t possibly last—after marriage.
* ♦ * *
“A Message from Mars” is a pretty
little fiction, calculated to beguile an impression-
able johnnie into a brief, unnatural benevolence,
but it doesn’t delude the johnnie’s sister, or his
cousin, or his aunt. They know what will happen
to Horace Parker when Miss Ruby Ray has
married him. There will be no selling of his
fifty-guinea overcoat to give to the poor. That
isn’t the sort of unselfishness she was trying to
bounce him into when she took his engagement-
ring off her finger and gammoned that the gold
was burning it —as though gold could ever be too
hot for the angel sex ! Parker, in his matrimonial
state, is going to be furtively kind to the
poor when he gets a chance, and weakly
submissive to his Ruby all the time. His charity
will begin at home with the payment of enormous
millinery bills, and finish with a splendid fortune
for his widow when she has worried him to death.
The case of Parker chanced to clash with “The
Professor’s Love Story ”in Melbourne. Now the
Prof, is an unsuspecting bachelor scientist, who
remarks, in the course of his ignorance, that girls
don’t marry for money. And when the learned
infant of 40 babbles his simple confession of faith,
there comes a merry peal of sweet soprano laugh-
ter from all over the house. The Australian
woman takes herself candidly.
** * #
At Rickards, where the juggling shadow-
graphist and the young man who sings ‘ ‘ Ta-ra-ra ”
upside-down are assisting Coleman and other
people to keep the house warm, Marie Lloyd is
the forthcoming attraction. Marie has forthcome
on two previous occasions, but this will be her
positively last farewell fortnight. Likewise, it
will bring the melodious and somewhat melan-
choly Hurley to a close.
*# * *
At Adelaide Royal, “ Florodora ” has just
started with a rush, the advance-booking having
beaten all local records. The Tivoli keeps right
on with Lizzie Kirk and some bears, also Arnoldi,
who was an Adelaide schoolboy until the other
day, when he developed into a very clever pro-
fessional juggler,


stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
’ 214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALGOORLIE.
f
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
. Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
g)ff“ Locomotives from 10 to %50 h.p. ~*'l
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technioal advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
From information to hand, the Great Southern
Consols Gold Mining 00. has taken a step in the
right direction towards reducing its working expenses.
Having decided to introduce electric traction in its
mine at Rutherglen, tenders were called from all electri-
cal firms represented in Australia, and after close investi-
gation of the different offers, and having satisfied itself
as to the superiority of the plant offered by the
Austral Otis Eng. Co. Ltd.—as agents for Messrs. Ganz
and Co.—the Board decided to accept their tender. The
contract, which is to be carried out in four and a half
months, comprises steam dynamo with two electro loco-
motives with a capacity for hauling 60 tons per hour over
a distance of 8000 feet at a speed of five miles per hour,
and the plant is to be erected under the personal direc-
tion of Messrs. Ganz and Co.’s electrical expert attached
to their Australian Agency.*
* * * *
Extract from the Croydon Mining News, 2nd
August, 1901“ Judging by its results up to the present
at the Golden Gate mill (Queensland Mining Co., Ltd.),
the ‘ Wilfley ’ Concentrator is going to work a revolution
in gold-extraction on the Oro3 r don goldfield. With each
visit to the machine one sees more to admire in its man-
ner of working, the concentration being simply perfection
itself. Two other concentrators of the same pattern will
be erected at the Golden Gate mill within about six
weeks.” Pull particulars of the Wilfley Concentrator can
be obtained from the agents, N. Guthridge, Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Fremantle.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Co., of South Melbourne, has
just completed a contract for the supply of shafting,
pulleys, plummer-blocks, trommels, &'c., for the Lloyd
Copper Mine, N.S.W., and has also in hand a contract
for the construction of a tandem compound steam-engine
of 300 h.p. for the same co. This engine is to be of the
highest class, and fitted with Suezer type trip valve gear,
and all modern improvements.*
Sound Progress of 17th August, 1900, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ Everywhere it is making rapid progress, and is meeting
with a proper response from those who understand sound
investments.”*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
* * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vannera
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
« * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
■* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W. A.): Represented in Eng-
land that the total expenses of mining and milling work out
at £2 14s. per ton, and that includes everything ; also,
that when the plant is brought up to a capacity of 12,000
tons per month the mine should be earning a monthly
profit of close upon £50,000 —“an achievement of which
any mine in the world may be proud.” The good things
that are going to happen—’twas ever thus ! When the
Lake View was turning out over 30,0000 z. per month all
the Australian newspapers regarded it as the mine’s
settled production. It suddenly fell to 10,0000 z., and
then to 5,0000 z. Shares fell from £2B to £l4, and then to
£7. They are now £8 155., which means nearly 2J
millions. Preparations are being made to largely increase
the gold output, but it is doubtful if that is warranted by
mine developments, or if it can be maintained for any
length of time.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-sbreeb,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st.,Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Jiagle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross—i®* Carriage Pree to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
*
❖
WOOLF & 00., 376 George-atreet (xxeac-t G.P.0.>5 SYDHTEY.
The Wild Cat Column.
Premier Peacock having issued the Victorian
financial statement, this is how things stand (subject tx>
some very small adjustments yet to be made) with the six
States of the Commonwealth for last financial year. Said
financial year in the five mainland States ended on 30th
June, 1901; in Tasmania on 31st December, 1900 :
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Tasmania ... £1,054,980 £923,731 £131,249
Victoria.. .. 7,727,163 7,709,000 18,103
Deficit.
South Australia 2,824,212 2,846,577 22,365
Westralia .. 3,078,034 3,165,244 87,210
N.S. Wales ... 10,827,116 10,957,519 130,403
Queensland ... 4,096,290 4,624,478 628,188
£29,607,795 £30,226,549 £618,754
The result is a total deficit for the six Commonwealth
States of £618,754. This is the worst disaster since 1894,
despite the fact that the revenue is the largest on record.
This is how things have gone for the whole six States
since 1890 :
1890- Deficit, £1,070,952 1896-97.. Deficit, £288,242
1891- „ 1,245,713 1897-98.. „ 248,571
1892- „ 1,602,223 1898-99.. Surplus, 492,120
1893- „ 1,426,798 1899-1900 „ 590,801
1894- Surplus, 6,422 1900-01.. Deficit, 618,754
1895- Deficit, 613,347
Eight deficits, £7,114,600: three surpluses, £1,089,343 ;
net deficit, £6,025,257. (These, except for the last year,
are Coghlan’s figures, from the latest issue of the “ Seven
Colonies,” pages 770 and 771.) Also about £13,500,000 of
ordinary expenditure has been charged to loans, making
the real deficit about £19,500,000. In the last 21 financial
years (starting from 1880) Maoriland has had six deficits ;
Victoria and Tasmania, nine each ; South Australia and
Westralia, 10 each ; Queensland, 11; New South Wales, 14.
•• • «
In the days when honest George Turner was
Premier of Victoria it was enacted that the whole surplus,
when there was one, should go in reduction of the old
accumulated deficit—now stauding at about £2,356,000.
Shiels and Peacock have altered all that. A year ago
Shiels had a large surplus, but he only set aside a small
amount in reduction of the deficit, and carried £llB,OOO
forward. By reckoning that £llB,OOO as revenue all over
again, Peacock is able to profess that his present surplus
is £136,000, when the real amount is £lB,OOO. He pro-
poses to pay £50,000 off the old deficit and to carry £86,000
forward, and reckon that as revenue oyer again ; so if
next year has a real surplus of £14,000, it will appear as
£lOO,OOO. This good old G. Reid device enables one real
surplus of £lOO,OOO to appear year after year, till it looks
like £2,000,000. Still, Peacock hasn’t sunk to Reid’s level
and invented a Cash Basis. If he had adopted Reid’s idea
of not charging the year’s accounts with interest on the
public debt accrued but not yet paid, the Victorian sur-
plus this year would be £708,588—0n paper, like Reid’s
famous surplus of £340,000. But such a fake would be
hardly possible, except in Sydney. It can only be done
when the big dailies are prepared, for party reasons, to
defend it, or rather to deny that there is any fake at all,
and swear to the genuineness of the surplus, as the de-
graded Telegraph and Herald did in Reid’s case some
years ago.
* • • *
Treasurer Cribb, of Queensland, proposes to meet
his big deficit by land sales and by a general faith in Provi-
dence. Treas. Bird,of Tas.,anticipates adeficitof £123,943
next year as the result of the abolition of inter-State
duties and the imposition of something lighter than the
stupendous revenue tariff now existing in his isle,
and he proposes just to let the deficit slide and do nothing.
Premier Peacock expects a deficit of £229,113 for the new
financial year through loss of inter-State customs and
other causes. And that awful man says that he has been
advised to extend and graduate the land tax, but he
isn’t going to do anything of the kind (cheers). He
isn’t going to propose any new taxation (cheers). He
proposes to cut down old age pensions to a maximum of
7s. a week instead of 10s. ; to have all the cases re-heard
with a view to seeing if a lot of the pensions can’t be con-
fiscated altogether ; and having saved £44,000 a year this
way, and also pared down the allowance for the mainten-
ance of orphans and neglected children, he proposes to
let the rest of the shortage take care of itself. If this
grossly inhuman proposal doesn’t bring Premier Pecksniff
down from his high estate there is very little public spirit
left in Victoria.
» * * *
Anxious Victorian Banker: Believe all three are
good enough to hold. Anyhow, if the writer had them
he would hold the lot.
* * * *
E.W.T.: Wouldn’t advise you to have anything
to do with it. The idea is a popular one in England, but
to the investor the ordinary building society (provided
you get into a sound one) probably offers more advan-
tages.
* » * *
Melbourne is not an up-to-date municipality,
but it is so far ahead of most that it owns its own electric
light and supply plant, and makes a very decent profit
on the undertaking. If Greater Melbourne was one city,
like Glasgow or any other British centre that is run on
sane principles, instead of about 13 different munici-
palities, and if the undertaking covered the whole metro-
politan area instead of the city only, the results would
probably be much better. Taking things in their very
worst aspect, and debiting the concern, not only with
expenses and interest but with the discounts and charges
on loan flotations, results are as under :
Loss on Loss on
Undertaking. Loan Flotations. Deficit.
February, 1895 .. £8 £6250 £6258
Profit.
„ 1896 .. 1983 4275
„ 1897 .. 3913 362
Accumulated
Profit.
„ 1898 .. 2591 2229
„ 1899 .. 5149 7378
„ 1900 .. 7535 14,913
„ 1901 .. 6086 1906 19,093
Interest on Investments.
1690 20,783
The municipality has put away, by annual instalments,
£20,139 to a sinking fund for the repayment of the money
borrowed for the undertaking, and during seven years
the investment of this fund has produced £1690 in
interest, making the total sinking fund £21,829. Against
this, if the undertaking is debited with the loss on loan
flotations, there is a debit at the general account of
£1046, reducing the total accumulated profits to £20,783.
That is to say, the loss on loan flotations has already been
paid off ; the concern now pays interest and expenses and
a sufficient amount annually towards sinking fund to
clear off the whole debt in about 50 years ; in addition it
already yields the city a net profit of over £2OOO a year,
which will probably grow much larger; and it supplies
electric-light at a very cheap rate. Why nob consolidate
all the municipalities into a Greater Melbourne, and let
the Council supply all the metropolitan area ? The success
of its preliminary experiment justifies such a course.
* • * •
The Union Bank of Australia :
Total
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
Feb., 1895 .. £37,173 6 per cent. =£37,500 £1,014,093
Aug., 1895.. 36,063 5 „ „ 37,500 1,012,656
Feb., 1896.. 37,995 5 „ „ 37,500 1,013,151
Aug., 1896.. 58,838 {written off” 10|000 [ I’o2 1 ’ 024 ’ 489
Feb., 1897.. 37,578 5 per cent. = 37,500 1,024,567
Aug., 1897 .. 37,436 5 „ „ 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898.. 47,696 {written off” So} 4 ’ 024 ’ 6 "
Aug., 1898 .. 42,579 6 per cent. = 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,071 6 „ „ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899 .. 48,514 6 „ „ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 "f written off' S® 11019 ’ 865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 1,022,190
Feb., 1901.. 86,628 g®} I>o2 1 > 023 ’ 818
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £850,000 (separately
invested in Government securities); contingency fund,
£150,000; and undivided profit, £23,818. The Union
Bank announced several years ago that it was necessary
to make provision to the extent of £250,000 for losses,
and transferred that sum from reserve to a special con-
tingency account, reducing the general reserve to
£750,000. But the amount is only now being actually
written off. The management transfers £25,000 of the
contingency fund back to the general reserve, whence it
originally came. Then it transfers £25,000 of profits to
contingency fund ; and then it writes off the £25,000.
This complicated way of doing things possibly helps to
amuse some person or persons unknown.
* * * *
The Union Bank’s profits for the half-year to
February, 1901, are equal to £6 17s. 4d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of
the half-year. The increase of dividend to 8 per cent,
makes it equal to the figure of 1893, and, but for the
£25,000 written-off, the profits would make it possible to
pay a dividend of 11) per cent. The bank holds
£1,466,070 in State and municipal securities and £3,200,478
in cash, making a total of £4,666,548 in liquid assets,
equal to over 26 per cent, on all liabilities to the public.
Altogether, things are going reasonably well with the
Union.
* * » •
Dr. Montagu, the exceedingly stout gentleman
from Canada who lectures in this country on behalf of
that truly lamentable life assurance concern, the In-
dependent Order of Foresters (Canada) has been holding
forth lately in Queensland. Among other statements he is
reported as informing the public that “ Having no stock-
holders, and therefore no dividends to pay, the society
(the 1.0. F.) could protect families and homes at a much
lower rate than had ever been considered possible.” Con-
sidering that not one of the big Australian life offices has
any stockholders either, or any dividends to pay, it re-
quires a good deal of brassy assurance to put this forward
as a perfectly new benefit conferred by the 1.0. F. But
the point that can’t be too strongly emphasised is that, so
far as concerns the small £lOO insurer, who forms an
immense proportion of the insuring public, there is no
truth —not a vestige of truth—in all the 1.0.F.’s brazen
assertions about its remarkable cheapness. The 1.0.F.’s
premiums are low, but it tags on other charges, with this
result: —
Policy for £lOO, without Profits —Age 20.
1.0. F. A.M.P.
Quarterly Premium ..£0 5 0 £076
Court Dues 0 3 1) Nil
Total Cost £0 8 1) £0 7 6
Of which the A.M.P. uses for
expenses, and the 1.0. F. for
expenses and court dues
about £0 3 4) £0 11
Leaving to accumulate towards
paying the policy .. .. 0 4 9 0 6 5
If both were new concerns starting abreast, the £lOO
insurer in the A.M.P. would pay less, and yet
have about 40 per cent, better a chance of his
policy being paid when he dies. But they don’t
start fair. The difference is that, if the customary
actuarial test is applied to the A.M.P., it has
money enough to cover all liabilities and a good deal
over, while when the same test was applied to the 1.0. F.
in 1897, the liabilities came out at £7,159,342, and the
assets at £518,724, leaving the appalling deficit of
£6,640,618. And the man who insures now acquires a
share in this deficit. All the lecturing, the music, the
bunkum about the cheapness of the office, the huge
advertisements about the Red Indian with the long name
who runs the affair in Canada, don’t alter this result by a
single copper.
* * * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
00. (Melb.) completed, at 30th June, its best half-year,
bar one, for a very long time. The progress of this co.
since 1894 has been as under: —
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1894.. £663 5 per cent. =£625 £1892’
June, 1895.. 555 5 „ „ 625 1822
Dec., 1895.. 465 5 „ „ 625 1662
June, 1896.. 826 5 „ „ 625 1863
Dec., 1896.. 796 6 „ „ 625 2034
June, 1897.. 759 6 „ „ 625 2168
Dec., 1897.. 486 5 „ „ 625 2029
June, 1898.. 1006 5 „ „ 625 2410
Dec., 1898.. 2769 7) „ „ 937) 4242
June, 1899.. 1176 7) „ „ 937)- 4480
Dec., 1899.. 997 7) „ „ 937) 4540
June, 1900.. 833 7) „ „ 937) 4435
Dec., 1900.. 1091 7) „ „ 937) 4589
June, 1901.. 2252 { g>nus’to staff ?65*} 5738
The profits are equal to £l5 4s. sd. per cent, on the
shareholders’ funds as at 31/12/’OO (capital, £25,000;
reserves, £4589), or to something over 18 per cent, on the
paid-up capital. And, in addition to the material increase
in profits, the reserves, though still small, have reached
by far the highest point in the co.’s history so far.
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited (Sydney), a
wool and produce concern which, up to ’92 or ’93, used to
pay regular 10 jier cent, dividends, but which has latterly
fallen on bad times, publishes another of its curiously
reticent balance-sheets. Figures for the last few years
have been: —
Profit. How disposed of.
June, 1897 .. £1,841 .. Written off £1,841
„ 1898 .. 2,731 .. „ 2,731
„ 1899 .. 4,043 .. „ 4,043
„ 1900 . 6,555 .. „ 6,555
„ 1901 .. 5,569 .. „ 5,569
The co. has a nominal reserve fund of £7500. Against
that there is a partly paper item, “ Goodwill, plant, office
furniture, &c., £25,000.” How much of this is goodwill
doesn’t appear, but the amount, whatever it is, can t
fairly be considered as an asset, and badly needs writing
off. Also there is an item, “ Sundry debtors, which
stood at £97,757 -in 1899, but which has been
reduced to £70,765, and it is apparently the
loss (whatever it is) under this heading that is being
written off at present. The loss still unprovided for,
whatever it may be, and the depreciation of freehold
property (set down at £10,718), if any, and the goodwill
(whatever that may be), when added together make an
unspecified amount, and it, less the £7500 reserve, lias to
be written off before the co. has any right to be in a
dividend-paying state again. The amount being a mys-
tery, it is impossible to guess how long it will take to
write it off. The most promising features are that the
earnings are much better than they were five years
and the huge overdraft, which is almost the only outside
liability, is being reduced. The total outside liabilities
for the last three years were : _ , ,
Bank Other _ Total
Overdraft. Liabilities. Liabilities.
June, 1899 .. £65,437 .. £6,680 .. £72,117
„ 1900 .. 55,741 .. 3,009 .. 58,750
„ 1901 .. 39,406 .. 4,283 .. 43,689
The situation looks reasonably hopeful, but apparently it
will take five or six years of this progress to put the co.
on a sound footing again.
• * * *
Information concerning the Sydney Meat Pre-
serving 00., brought up to date :
Less
Loss on Subsidy Total
Business. Received from Reserves.
N.S.W. Pastoralists.
Dec., 1898 .. £66,474
June, 1899 .. £2,136 .. £2,346 .. 66,684
Dec., 1899 .. 2,714 .. 3,726 .. 67,696
June, 1900 .. 5,526 .. 4,074 .. 66,244
Dec., 1900 .. 8,011 .. 6,514 .. 64,747
June, 1901 .. 7,660 .. 5,518 .. 62,605
The co. states in its report that “ our competition raised
the values of stock at Homebush to such high lev els ”
that the above loss was the natural consequence. Still
the revolt among the pastoralists against the continued
payment of the subsidy of 10s. per cent, on all stock sold
at Homebush continues. The points which the pastoral-
ists consider are mostly these : —(1) The Sydney Meat
00. is only one of a number of companies in the
same line of business, and the others get on solnehow
without a subsidy. (2) If the Sydney Meat 00. makes
the above losses through bad management, that doesn’t
help the pastoralists ; if it makes them by selling meat at
a needlessly low price that directly injures them as re-
ducing the market value of their product. (3) The sub-
sidy—which, for the last year, equalled nearly 60 per
cent, on the Sydney Meat Co.’s capital—gives it an ad-
vantage, which badly handicaps other establishments,
and helps to prevent them growing larger and more
numerous, and thereby creating a better demand for
stock. A circular has been sent out to the pastoralists
on the subject, and at latest advices 909 replies had been
received : 235 for continuing the subsidy, 81 for divid-
ing it among all the companies, 693 for its total abolition.
* * * *
The Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.)
suspended in 1891 ; arranged in 1893 to repay its deposits
by instalments spread over seven years, with 5 per cent,
interest; and in 1895 got interest reduced to 2) per cent.
Finally, in 1900, having paid off most of its old deposits,
it renewed the balance for five years at 4 per cent, and
went into active business again, with results as under :
Profits
Business on rfivirlends &c Total
Profits. Property Dlvldends * Reserves.
Sales.
July, 1897.. £BB5 Written off . .£l7ll £13,542
Jan., 1898.. 476 „ -• H9l 12,827
July, 1898.. 657 „ ... 2250 11,234
Jan., 1899.. 904 12,138
July, 1899.. 1011 „ *. 692 12,457
Jan., 1900.. 739 „ .. 73 13,123
July, 1900.. 1269 „ .. 660 13,732
(£49,600 capital written off)
Jan., 1901.. 1451 1208 Written off.. 6942 9,449
July, 1901.. 1542 608 { lope rcent.= 8 > 724
The dividend is intended to be a division of 5 per cent,
per annum for the whole year 1901—not 10 per cent, for
the half-year. Even on that basis it leaves very little
margin, for the profits on property sales are not earnings,
and cannot be fairly used for dividend-paying ; they
simply mean that in some cases, properties were written
down needlessly low out of capital, and some of the lost
capital has been recovered. Earnings are certainly im-
proving greatly, but still for last year they only represent
between 6 and 6) per cent, on the written-down capital of
£48,025. Also, there is a tremendous amount of leeway
to make up, and reserves are still decreasing.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney) has
again passed its dividend. Results for the half-year just
ended compare with some previous consequences as
follows: —
Nominal
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
June, 1899 .. £9256 I Written off Plant £ 3ooo} £32,726
Dec., 1899 .. 7327 off P!ant llooj 32 > 533
June, 1900.. 5465 { Plant teoo} 31 ’ 805
Doc., 1900 .. 2587 Do. 2000 32,392
June, 1901 .. 4510 36,902
The reserves consist of Depreciation Fund, £35,69i, and
undivided profit, £l2ll. All the reserves, and all the
profit and loss balance except the above-mentioned £l2ll,
have been transferred to depreciation account, so pre-
sumably they are all required to provide for losses. In
that case, the undivided profit of £l2ll is the only real
reserve. Whether the depreciation account is sufficient
to cover losses is another matter. There is no certain
evidence to show that there are any real reserves at all.
For the past 12 months no visible allowance has been
made for wear and tear of plant. Since December, 1899,
£12,114 new capital has been called up, but despite this
the co.’s overdraft (less cash on hand and credit balances),
has kept growing at this rate :
"June, 1899 .. £8,106 Dec., 1900 .. £21,394
£g Dec., 1899 .. 12,643 June, 1901 .. 26,540
June, 1900 .. 22,149
The £16,933 paid away in dividends during the 1) years
to June, 1900, seems a wholly unjustifiable expenditure
in view of these steadily increasing liabilities. But even
since the co. ceased to pay dividends its overdrafts have
increased by more than £4OOO, and the position looks not
especially promising.
* m • *
Mick O’Brien : We aren’t in the North Cobar
Co.’s secrets, but we regard their scheme as a legitimate
mining enterprise and a rather alluring gamble.
* • * *
Poor little North Central Co., which for ten
years has been vainly trying to pick up a spur of the
Broken Hill lode, is apparently nearing its end. The
manager, in his half-yearly report, writes dolefully ; if,
he says, work is continued at all, it might as well be on
present lines as any other. The co., a purely Sydney
venture, has spent £21,335 altogether in a more deter-
mined fight than present writer ever saw any other
Sydney silver-mining co. responsible for ; and it has still
£1771 “deposit and accrued interest.” The co. used to
have a locked-up deposit; whether it is free now this
balance-sheet doesn’t say. Only once or twice during the
past six years have the prospects justified the co. in going
on ; and the present most certainly is not one of those
times.
* * • *
Overflow Mines (N.S.W.): If results only equal
preparations what a magnificent property this will
become? “ The erection of the water jacket plant lead
and copper refineries is making good progress. Every-
thing is in readiness to receive the jackets, and the fur-
nace stack is nearly completed, contracts have been let
for a supply of charcoal, and the supply of fluxes and coke is
also satisfactorily arranged, and the manager hopes to be
able to blow-in in three or four weeks’ time.” It is to be
hoped that another blow-out will not follow. A most pro-
mising mine, with plenty of money and good management,
has suffered from several serious mistakes,.and it is almost
too much to expect that this last little effort is going to
pull it out ot the mud.
* * * *
N.S.W. Gold-dredging: Last week’s return—
Araluen Valley Consolidated, 48oz. ; Araluen Proprietary,
28oz. ; No. 1 Turon, 20oz. ; No. 2 Turon, 18oz. ; Mac-
quarie No. 1 (a fortnight), 390 z. ; Colombo, 7oz. 17dwt.;
Kiandra, 41oz. It will be seen that two dredges only of
this lot are worked at a good profit. Others only pay ex-
penses, a few work at a loss, and for the poor ones the
usual excuses are being made, save that, in one or two
instances, floods have been seized upon to account for the
small gold yields. m
The Elliott diamond mine, N.S.W., has de-
clared a div. and promises to distribute some more.
Writer thinks this is the first diamond-co. div. ever
declared in N.S.W., which has had many diamond mines.
(Continued on page 81.)


Hush-Class Hatters
Gent’s
Black
Semi-Stiff
saf
High Grade
Selected
Fur Felt
8/6 10/6 12/6 14/6
In ordering-, piease state size or number of inches round head, also chest measurement.
DAVIP JONES $ COMPANY,
SEOR6E & BARRACK STREETS C:
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
66
KING
5
T
Forget all your troubles, -
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
The importation from England of a new
town clerk for Sydney looks like another attempt
on the part of the average alderman to convince
himself that the staggering debt, and the annual
deficiency, and the slums, and the dirty gutters,
and the great holes in George-st., and the impossi-
bility of making a decent city so long as 480,000
people are bossed by 43 separate sets of aldermen,
all exist through bad town-clerking. The debts
arose because the aldermen hadn't the courage to
raise enough money to pay expenses. The holes
in the street arose from the same cause. The
council has certainly very limited powers to im-
prove the city, but the powers would be of no use
to it without money, and it never asked very
seriously for such powers. The best town clerk on
earth can’t do much till all Sydney is consolidated,
until the council gets almost unlimited powers to
improve it, and until it gets the brains and energy
and a rate of at least 2s. 6d.—or 4s. would be
better—in the £to improve with. But the habit
of being shocked at the town clerk has become
chronic. Probably Premier Philp, of Queensland,
in like manner was shocked at his office-boy when
he found he had a £528,000 deficit, or declared that
a new and more competent hall-porter must be
imported from England at once.
* * * *
Sydney hospitals have been excessively
crowded during the past few weeks. A case in
point, within a Bulletin correspondent’s know-
ledge, is that of a young lady who went in one
afternoon to undergo an operation under chloro-
form. At 3 o’clock, next morning, she regained
consciousness, and at 7 she was wheeled out in a
chair to a cab, and sent home, as other patients
were waiting to get into the ward she had been in.
THE NEW SERVANT.
“ You must understand folds, you know.”
“ Oh, yes, mum! I was born in a fowl-house.”
Premier Holder’s release from prison of
the Russian Finn, Johann Andersen, owing to
soriie invisible pressure, has features in common
with Parkes’s release of bushranger Gardiner in
N.S.W. over 30 years ago. But the Parkes Govt,
fell through the affair. Mr. Justice Bundey, who
sentenced Andersen, was not consulted, and
although consulting the sentencing Judge some-
times works badly, yet, when a Govt, wants to
play games behind the people s back it generally
ignores the' Judge. Justice Matthew Henry
Stephen declared that a prisoner sentenced by
him was similarly released, and as no reference
had been made to him in regard to the case he
i -i , i •, , £ , ,?, ~ ,
had tiie curiosity to ferret out the papers and look
them up. Ihe chief paper was endorsed—“Re-
mad enthusiasm. You go down the street to-day
when we leave, and you won’t see any circus—only
a lot of indifferent people, who will either not
notice us at all or will only do so to make dis-
paraging remarks about our capacity to drink long
beers.”
* * * *
Apropos women who masquerade as men :
De Lacy Evans, the man-woman who created such a
tremendous sensation when her sex was discovered some
years ago (she died the other day at Melbourne Immi-
grants’ Home, of which she had been long an inmate)
would have been an interesting example for Kraaft-Ebing
1r» v 1 OC h / and was certainly as curious an “ex-
mbit to the student of psychopathy as almost any
instanced by the authorities. She worked for years in
the deep mines of Bendigo as a man ; she was three times
lease recommended by ” (a certain influential
politician).
* * * *
A funny scene occurred the other day in
Hobart Supreme Court. Chief Justice Dodds
has lately been made a K.C.M.G-. and Premier
Lewis, who is also Attorney-General, arose when
the three Judges came on the bench to open the
Full Court, and on behalf of the Bar congratulated
the C. J. on the “ honor conferred upon him by
His Majesty.” But poor Lewis had just then been
flung a C.M.G.-ship, much against his will, and
while Lewis congratulated the Chief, the latter,
who is a man with a sense of humor, dared not
in return congratulate the unhappy Lewis.
* * * *
A number of the brave soldier-boys who
sailed from Sydney per Britannic were so
hideously sea-sick all the way to Melbourne that
they stepped off there with the idea of returning
to mother. They asked Govt, to pay their pas-
sages back to Sydney, but the Govt, was not
taking any, and when last heard of the warriors
bold were besieging the guardians of the Patriotic
Fund for assistance. The Age, which lately
sooled the young men of Australia on to the horrid
Boer, heads its account of the above—“ Sea-sic-
kness Cures War Fever ” (we are supposed to
have forgotten by now how energetically David
worked to spread the germs of that fever.) A tired
janitor pointed out that they Were merely servants
engaged under contract to work for certain par-
ties in S’Africa, and that they had broken their
contract; also, that the Federal Defence Depart-
ment never agreed to act as dry nurse to deserters,
and further, that the road home lay N. by N.E.
i-E., and was good, easy walking this time of
year.
• * * *
Victoria sent 105 returned cohentingenters
back per Britannic to fight for Rhodes, Beit, and
Co. at Bull’s expense. They slipped away so
obscurely that apparently the only spectator of
their departure was a Herald reporter. He, pre-
sumably anxious about the slump in Jingoism,
interviewed most of the warriors. Nearly all
freely admitted that the inducements were the
high wages and the easily-got job. Said one ; “I
am going back because I have to. I gave up a
good position as clerk to fight for the Empire, and
when I came back my employer, a merchant who
had talked patriotism by the yard, told me he was
sorry, but could not sack my successor, and had
no room for me. An old uniform and a medal
will not keep me, so I am going back to earn a
living You can tell the people that. A little of
the plain truth may do them good, because
they very soon get over their wild shouting and
MATTERS IN MELBOURNE.
“The stock-tax has no more influence in raising the price of meat than a porous
plaster would have on a wooden leg, and if the tax were removed the beef would be no
cheaper to the consumer. The principal cause of the high prices now charged is excessive
exportation.”—AGE.
FREETRADE FATMAN ESQ. : “My goodness , madam, how can you expect to
have plenty of meat while that brute has to be fed? ”
married (to women), and the third “ wife ” bore children
to lend color to the imposition. The discovery did not
come even when Evans was injured in an accident, and
had to be carried to hospital, where she remained six
weeks. The truth came out on her subsequent removal
to Kew Asylum, where She was detained as a lunatic for
two years on grounds that would excite the contempt of
the medical profession to-day. Writer once talked with
a Bendigo miner who worked below with De Lacy Evans,
and who insisted that the miners always “ had their own
opinions” about her. “ It’s a funny woman that won’t
give herself away when she tries to climb a ladder,” he
said. “We couldn’t ’a’ sworn out an’ out she was a
woman, but we guessed pretty near it.”
When the De Lac3 7 Evans sensation was at its height,
21 years ago, several other women went and "did
likewise. A woman got a job as a corporation-
laborer at Olunes or Oreswick, and a woman
cab-driver turned up at Bendigo, but none of these kept
the imposition up for any length *of time. At Ballarat
suspicion was excited bv the appearance of a new blanket-
washer at one of the down-east batteries, and, after a
week of mystery, the police were put on to it. An arrest
for impersonation followed, and through somebody’s neg-
lect the case was actually on the point of coming into
court when the chief magistrate discovered that the
supposed man was a man. The blast with which he
enlightened the arresting constable was long a street gag
in the garden city, and made life there unendurable to
poor bobby, who was “ exchanged-”
The Argus has taken quite a democratic
stand on the question of military uniforms, and,
in a recent article, advocates the sweeping away
of gold lace and flummery, the abolition of the
gew-gaws of the Scottish regiment, and the sub-
stitution of two suits of khaki for officers and men
alike. The cost of the different existing uniforms
is appended ; a lieutenant’s full outfit is shown as
varying from £lO2 in the artillery to £56 in the
infantry. Also, the Argus publishes an article
advocating the abolition of cavalry, urging it to
be obsolete as an arm of Australian defence.
And this in the face of the fact that 100 of Mel-
bourne’s very Naicest have just formed an alleged
cavalry regiment, with a gorgeous uniform like
unto that of a comic-opera general.
* * * *
The Vic. Government has at last got rid
of the grim and spectral “Queen’s Arch ”in
Collins-street, which cost £lsoo—it has been sold
as firewood for £lO. The arch in its degenerate
days occurred to most people as an unpleasant
memorial of a big drunk over a very small Duke.
Y i c torian
P.O. Depart-
ment, which
charges £9 per
annum rent for
a rather less
satisfactory tele-
phone than can
be hired in Syd-
ney for a “fiver,”
exacts a fee of
12s. fid. for re-
moving it from
one office to an-
other, even
though the new
office is next
door to the old
one, and the ap-
prentice youth
who performs
the little job in
less than an hour
is not paid half
of 12s. (id. a day
for his labor.
The telephone
service in Mel-
bourne seems to
be a very stupid
and extortionate
affair. A good
deal has been
heard about the
head -gear,
whereof the girl-
operators com-
plained bitterly,
although the
same head-gear
—sothe manage-
ment said—was
worn by Sydney
girls without a
murmur. As a
matter of fact,
the two things were not identical in construc-
tion. The Melbourne head-gear was the special
design of a local autocrat, whose attempt to im-
F
P r ? V€ L . u P on the original American invention re-
suited m a genuine grievance,
* * * *
The big Melbourne University ernbezzle-
, ,
mer Js could never have been conducted on so
gorgeous a scale had Bishop Goe and the rest of
the governing savants been decently-worldly men
with a taste for punting and similar giddiness,
The defaulting official had quite a reputation
among bookmakers for backing the kind of horse
that was dead sure to sprawl home last. A body
which w as supposed to be consistently oil its uppers
. have been lamentably ignorant of its own
affairs, or else spent its time in rushing round to
the Govt, with its empty hat with the pernicious
notion of “having ” the State and keeping up its
sleeve the £lO,OOO or so that figured on the ac-
n™-infarvPJa wiro &
coun ™ nc s DOORS.
* * * *
Melb. Metrop. Board of Works has been
f a i n to appoint a commission (Bard Fitzgibbon
. m ,| nTin( .uf r \ ■ .■ „ • «„ v
ana pother) t 0 inquire into the excessive
expenditure over the .York foolery. One of the
items objected to is the cost of the “ illuminated
A BULL.
Husband of Extravagant Wife (to daughter):
“I’d have had a comfortable little nest-egg to
leave you if I hadn’t been married."
water” on Eastern Hill. This was at first to be
£300; then, as the Jingo ardour intensified, it
grew to £5OO. Later on the engineer-in-chief told
the Board that they could make a “grand show”
for from £6OO to £7OO ; and so the illuminated
water went on its wild career till it finally washed
away £2OOO. And now contractor’s are averring
that they would have taken the whole thing on
for the original £3OO, and made a good profit out
of it. Hinted that there will be further interesting
exposures, and; at all events, those chiefly
responsible are squirming hard and doing their
best to block inquiry,
* * * »
“ Vulcan” : Have been amused by the
howling in the press of self-styled dentists against
the proposed Sydney dental hospital. The usual
gag of “interference with private enterprise” is
made the most of, though none of the howlers sees
fit to refer to the quantity of doctor which has
BLIND!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He turned his back on the sunset gold ;
’Twas other gold he sought ;
The western wizard, weaving bold
Cloud-fancies, touched him nought.
This man had sold his soul for gain,
And thought the selling good ;
For, captive in a golden chain,
He praised his servitude.
The sun, the moon, the rain, the wind,
The stars, the flowers that vein
The earth—as alien to his mind —
He gave no thought to them.
There was a watcher in the park,
And he was smitten sore ;
For fate had touched his eyes, and dark
They grew for evermore.
Yet turned he them upon the West,
Where glowed a royal rose,
And smiled, and felt his spirit blest,
And saw the light—who knows ?
Who knows—with fancy at the helm
And secret stars to light—
What fair, far off and spirit-realm
The soul at times may. sight ?
The two men went their homeward way,
And one deep peace befell ;
But one had starved his heart that day
And deemed it nourished well.
Each came, at last, to his own door,
And left the night behind,
Yet, who was rich? and who was poor?
And which of them was blind ?
RODERIC QUINN.


J.D.I.Z. 01.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on ly_largest size, each, bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & C 0. ,. Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Soreness and Tenderness of the Throat and Chest;
for Stomach and Bowels when Swollen and in Ferment;
for Stuffed Nostrils and Heavy Breathing; for Nostrils
Running and Violent Sneezing.
CATARRH is proved to be a “Germ” —manufacturing
“ Poison ”in the tissues of the body. Raffan’s Catarrh
Remedy is one selected from over 100 modes of treatment
during a period of 10 years. It is the one treatment
above all others which successfully stops the progress of
the disease, and ultimately cures it. pT £2/6.
MELBOURNE.
The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World • • •
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
arper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmea
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
BILE BEANSX
anP r Troubles.
been compelled to take refuge in the Benevolent
Asylum since the hospitals began to treat needy
patients free. Good serviceable masticators mean
good health for a big percentage of our meat-eating
people ; but how many out of the thousands
nepding such can afford the 5 to 50 guineas re-
quired to put them in ? If the proposed hospital
will put new molai's into the mouth of the man and
woman with six kids and £2 weekly at cost price,
then—-the opposing “ dentists ” notwithstanding
—it is a most desirable institution.
* * * »
A Melbourne breach of promise case
between a spinster of “32 or 33, as near as she
could recollect,” and a widower of 53, revealed the
touching fact that they had “ generally called one
another ‘ Kiddy.’ ” Love is ever youthful, and in
this case there was seemingly a good deal of love.
Plaintiff said that the promiser, presuming on his
promise, had “betrayed” her, and a witness
stated that the lady one day came into the room
whieh he and defendant occupied and threw her
arms around 52-year-old “ Kiddy,” whereupon the
embraced one said “ For God’s sake, get out of
this ! ” She got out of the case with a verdict for
£5O damages and costs.
* * * *
That Melbourne girl who “ breach of-
P 'oniised ” her ex-boy after rebuking him with a
loaded, revolver-—and got £5O damages—is an in-
stance of woman’s constitutional inability to seize
the psychological moment, as it were. In her
evid nice she said the lover aforesaid one day took
her to a phrenologist who was also a matrimonial
agent, and, on learning this, wanted to marry her
there and then. The dallysome damsel pleaded
“it was so sudden,” and procrastinated—and the
laggard lover could never be brought to the scratch
again.
* * ■* *
Re the little girl and the shoe-lace (B.
17/8/’01). They manage things differently in
England. The Midland Railway has just prose-
cuted a woman for “interfering with the comfort
of a passenger.” She got into a carriage where a
man was alone, and, later on, demanded money,
threatening to make it hot for him. This is the
old story, but the up-to-date sequel is on quite
unaccountable lines. 1. The man took it fighting.
2. The Railway took up the case. 3. The magis-
trate believed him. And 4 (and most astonishing
of all) the woman was fined £2 !
“A LITTLE LEARNING efcc.
VISITOR: "Why, Mrs. Public-house, you must
have been a perfect walking-encyclopaedia! ”
HEGE MRS. P.: “Oh, no; I was just as stout
then as I am now."
N.S.W. Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals summoned a certain citizen for ill-
treating rats. Citizen had a patent rat-trap
holding a number of the rodents, and he sprayed
them with kerosene and applied a lighted taper.
Defendant’s infant-assistant danced round the
cage to the music of the rats’ squeals of agony.
Wh en the case came before the police-court the
information was found faulty, and the infant-
assistant had to be summoned. Latter could not
he served, as he had been smuggled away, and the
ease fell tit rough—owing to the crass ignorance
and inability of the inspector.
A. F. Basset Hull writes :
You revive the old misstatement about the sale of the
Duke of York’s stamps. I happen to know that he still
possesses every British-Colonial stamp that was given to
or purchased by him. He disposed of a few insignificant
foreign things by way of exchange when he decided to
devote his attention exclusively to collecting British-
Oolonials, but the statement that he “ sold ” his stamps
to Rothschild or anyone else was a pure fabrication. In
1896 I contradicted the cablegrammer in a par. in Sydney
E. News, of which I enclose copy. I have since personally
discussed philatelic matters with the Duke, and can
assure you that he still possesses even the Colonial
stamps given him by Dan O’Connor 20 years ago.
This is a serious reflection on the Australian Tory
press cable agency. Where next will “ disloyalty”
rear her malignant head ?
V * * *
“ C.R.” makes disrespectful remarks
about Furniture:—
It amuses me to hear people in the
bloom of health talking about the
provision they intend to make
s. for their old age. They see
too far ahead. The natural
sgSSJPhs, man sees as far as the
first meal—what Haz-
litt called the abori-
ginal meal—breakfast.
The hand-to-mouth ex-
istence is the only vivid
existence. The savor
of life is on your
. lips all the time.
I have seen men,
literary men who
called themselves
Bohemians, go
about the city
with furrowed
brows and eyes
like dying em-
bers. What- was
their trouble ?
Furniture !
They had
nice, neat
little homes
with car-
pets on
the floor—
a grotesque
absurdity
and a sani-
tary crime
in this
climate—
and a side-
board with
shelves,
and a
piano, and
a sofa that
groaned when
you sat upon
it, and chairs
that groaned for
the arrears of
time-payment, and
an extension dining-
table, and a bedstead
or two with polished
brass-knobs, impudent
and exasperating to the
drowsy eye, and a mirror
over the mantelpiece—
where no mirror should
ever be—and stair-cloth
S and stair-rods and curtain
—another sanitary crime in
this climate—and pictures which
U should be hung, as consolations, on
’ 1 the walls of the Blind Asylum. And these
things tyrannise over them and crush them down
with the dead weight of sordid and insolent matter.
They worked for them and kept awake at night for them,
and were in a state of constant terror lest they (the furni-
ture fetishes) should be taken from them, after all. Men
of this slavish type form the great majority of the com-
munity. They are the persons who fear a bailiff more
than they fear Satan. And yet they talk with compas-
sionate contempt about the poor benighted heathen who
worships stocks and stones. There is no superstition
known to history that has done so much to spoil the Joy
of Existence as the Cult of Respectability. Better the
old wooden gods than the new time-payment ones.
* * * *
The Melb. dailies, squeezing every inch of
sensationalism out of the Carlton shooting affair,
where a woman was badly bulleted in her own
home, carefully concealed facts known from the
very start to the police and reporters. Thus the
most sordid kind of lust tragedy was, for “ copy ”
AFFLUENCE AT LAST.
MRS. GEORGE: “Oh, George, the sixpence in the pudding — l've swallowed it!"
MR. GEORGE: “ Happy woman! At last you have more money than you know how to get
rid of!”
purposes, converted into an audacious “ masked-
man ” robbery which terrorised every defenceless
woman in Melbourne.
V V * *
Queensland Government persists in im-
porting adult laborers. Meanwhile, in one day’s
“ wanted ” advt. column in a Brisbane daily, out
of 66 advts. 29 called for boys, girls, youths,
improvers, apprentices, &c. Which suggests that
if Queensland really wants working population to
develope its industries it wants it under 17 years of
age. So let the Pliilpites get in touch with all
orphanages, foundling-asylums and reformatories
in thq dear old Mother Country, and give local
employers the girl and boy labor they solicit.
* • * *
Four cases against the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners for damages arising from tram-
accidents were heard during the last week in
August, and (like most similar actions brought
this year) all of them resulted in favor of the
plaintiffs, one injured soldier recovering £B5O
damages. The fact that the Commissioners
amicably settled out of Court all the Sydenham
accident cases, about 50 in number, is a severe dis-
appointment to the Devil’s Brigade. The terms
of settlement have not been made public, but they
are supposed to involve payment of some £lO,OOO
in all.
* * ♦ *
The Brisbane public’s sympathy (in the
recent libel case) was undoubtedly with the
Observer, not on the merits of this particular
case, but on account of Col. Ricardo’s personal
unpopularity, and also on account of the scandal-
ously partial summing up of Judge Cooper. This
gentleman was so conscious of the bias displayed
in his own speech that he spoke in this wise : “ If
you imagine you know my opinion you may do
so.” A little later he added that if the jury did
not agree with his opinion (an admission tiiat they
knew it), they could reject it, but if they agreed
with it he would ask them to sustain it. Impar-
tiality !
* * * *
Brisbane Newspaper Co., which gob struck
for £5OO and costs (meaning in all, perhaps,
£4000), over the Ricardo-OBSERVER libel suit, has,
so far, tacitly agreed to accept a public subscrip-
tion to defray its loss. The plan is a shilling sub-
scription-fund, but, as the collection racket is
moribund in Queensland, the chances of gathering
in 40,000 or lings look small.
* * * V
“ Yeteran ” : Re the recent Ricardo libel-
case in Brisbane. The men who made those
statements about Colonel Ricardo’s conduct had
not his responsibility, and could not know what
was passing through his mind. Charges of
cowardice are like charges of falsehood, easily
made, but hard to prove. Nothing is easier than
to call coward to a man who refuses to take any
unnecessary chances —though it is absolutely a
soldier’s duty to avoid such. Moreover, in re-
maining, as alleged, under cover while his men
were skirmishing in front, and in staying behind
with the led-horses, Colonel Ricardo simply acted
as directed in the drill-book. Also said that when
a staff-officer gave Ricardo an unspecified order,
he said the Brigadier would be responsible for the
consequences if he obeyed it. No attempt was
made to show that any ill consequences resulted
from any of these things, and, in fact, there is
nothing in the Observer’s charges inconsistent
with perfectly cool, calculating courage.
* * * «
Somebody in Sydney Catholic Press has
just become very angry about the woman suffrage
movement, and writes a half-column to that paper
to the effect that if our mothers get the vote they
will cease to kill the bugs ! As a rule, the average
suffrage-opponent says nice, refined things about
woman shedding a light round the domestic
hearth, and the necessity that she should be pre-
served as a household angel to do sweet and
gracious actions. The Press correspondent, how-
ever, lets the cat out of the bag by saying quite
openly that, by the time his mother has scrubbed
his floors, made the beds, and chased and caught
the offending insect aforesaid, she won’t have
any time to vote. The gentleman’s final word is
that “men will become drunkards, women will-
become degraded, homes neglected, and this will
be the outcome of the womanhood suffrage.”
Which is very sad. Woman, having a vote, will
fall from her high estate as a person who stays at
home and kills bugs.
* * * *
Private letters from S’Africa explain the
absence of at least three Australian swaddies
unaccounted for among returns, invalids or
deaths. These three are now doing “time”—
one for striking a British officer, one for looting,
and the other for stealing horses and accoutre-
ments from an English johnnie corps. None of
them lias more than a year to do, though it was
only recently that a private who struck his
superior was shot ihstanter.
TV**
Brisbane-Bishop Webber is off again to
Britain to cadge funds to build a cathedral. People
who can’t run up a cathedral without foreign
begging or borrowing don’t deserve'to have one.
Dr. Webber, however, has royal warrantry for his
action ; and, as the Dook laid the foundation-
stone, English snobs are expected to shell out
freely.
• • * *
Hordern’s are experiencing much difficulty
in getting suitable accommodation for their
gigantic business. Why not give some of the
churches a chance to pay off their big debts?
They are lying idle during the daytime, and if on
Sundays the goods were left ticketed, lydies, while
improving their chances of salvation, might have
the opportunity of choosing something to buy
next day.
* * * *
Apropos wife-kissing in the street. Last
week’s Sydney prosecution was not unique. A
few years ago Mr. Charles Moore, curator of the
local Botanic Gardens, prosecuted a young man
for kissing his wife (or sitting with his arm round
her waist) on a seat in the gardens. Present
writer is not quite sure how that case ended.
* * * *
N.S.W. bakers, employees’ new rules
controlling wages and hours came into force
last Sunday night; their fight, started barely six
weeks ago, has been a bloodless battle. Wages
now are £2 10s., with week of 54 hours in the
bakehouse, and overtime at Is. Gd. an hour, as
against 255. weekly, for 12 to 14 hours a night and
overtime only a mirage. The masters have
cleverly accepted the inevitable, at the one time
adopting the men’s ultimatum with certain modi-
fications agreed to by a conference, and manipu-
lating the position to purge their trade of the keen
competitor who was selling to the retail grocer at
one penny a loaf. The men intend helping their
much-sweated fellows in the country and the
formation of a Federal Bakers’ Union is
mooted.
* * * *
Sydney is to be experimented on with an
all-night service of trams, at long intervals, with
a minimum fare of 3d. To the long-suffering
cabby this innovation will come as the very last
straw; and to the dweller on the tram-routes
it will add another blight to existence; but to the
rest of the population the commonsense under-
taking will be a boon. -
THE RIGHT COLOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I am not pretty,” said the maid,
“ Nor clever, like my cousin, Gwenny ;
The compliments that you have paid
Are wasted. I’m ‘not taking any.’
You always say sweet things to me ;
To other girls your manner’s slighting.
Now, what can the attraction be ? ”
The man replied, quite candidly—
“ Your hair’s inviting.”
The maiden frowned and shook her head,
Then bit her lip in sore confusion :
“ My hair, I know, is flaming red ;
You might have spared me that allusion.
Please hold a match up to the blaze
Next time your nasty pipe needs lighting.”
Undaunted by her angry gaze,
He spake again that simple phrase—
“ Your hair’s inviting.
I would not have you dark or blonde
(Don’t toss your chin and look so spiteful).
I seek a sweetheart fiercely fond ;
And you, I’m sure, would prove delightful.
The blue-eyed dolls, with looks of gold,
Are mostly dull and unrequiting ;
The average brunette is cold.
Bright-red is Love’s true tint, I’m told—
Your hair’s inviting.”
MELB.
E.F.


sa
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. *— m
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY'S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS' SUITS (Ready-Made )
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Foy’s.
GOMEZ Byism’s
. . . CELEBRATED . . .
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERT BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS
Twice as good as other Teas!
Half the Price of other Teas !
241 b. Canisters @ 7d, BJd, tOAd.
ATCHERLEY
THE BEST IN AUSTRALIA @ 1s Od.
DAWSON, 284 George Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 3, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
If you’ve got a miniature of your grandmother,
or a curious buckle, or even a button of a size and
style which no other woman in your circle is likely
to possess a duplicate of, you may hang it on a
loop of ribbon velvet round your neck, let it dangle
to your knees, and know that you are doing some-
thing after the manner of smart London. So
you’ll not have lived in vain. I’ve seen three
women in Sydney wearing dangles. One of them
(the ornaments) was an oxidised-silver mirror of
the artistic Renb Lalique design, with a hinged
cover and about three miles in circumference.
Englishwomen, say the fashion-writers, are out-
Parising the Parisians with toilettes that are light
or “ loud.” They go shopping in costumes that a
season ago would have been ball-dresses, with the
addition of transparent lace covering the neck and
shoulders, and a big hat. Gloves you may carry in
your hand as a guarantee that you are not too poor
to buy them, but you need not wear them. I sup-
pose, now that Alexandra is Queen, attenuation
in women will be fashionable. Also, light-brown
hair and cigarette-smoking, for the Queen is an
inveterate cigarette-smoker. I don’t quite know
if you must smoke 15 cigarettes or 50 a day to be
“inveterate,” but a friend of mine, who was
lounging about Copenhagen a few years ago, while
the then Princess was there, says that she and the
Danish royalties made the cigarette no secret.
Every afternoon they sat in the palace grounds,
in sight of the passing townspeople, who were too
used to the show to stare, puffing, puffing all the
time. Some Britishers snap-shotted their Queen
and one of her daughters with their weeds in
active service. So newspaper stories of Edward
VTl’s freezing attitude towards women who smoke
must be inventions of men who don’t want help
from their wives in spending tobacco-money.
The Court for hearing claims in connection with
the Coronation met recently in London, and the
Registrar, having called for silence, under pain of
imprisonment, read some of the petitions
received. A gentleman of the name of Southeron
Estcourt had sent in his claim to be “ Chief Lar-
derer as owner of the Manor of Shipton.” The
Duke of Norfolk claimed “to act as Chief
Butler of England,” the Duke of Newcastle “to
provide a glove and support the King’s arm,”
“ The Bishops of Durham and Bath and Wells to
support their Majesties at the Coronation.” Sir
William Carmichael Anstruther (C. J. Darley’s son-
in -law) wanted “to exercise the office of Hereditary
Grand Carver for Scotland.” One lord claims to
carry the golden spurs, another to bear the cap of
maintenance. The Big Show of next June ought
to be very good as a mediaeval procession, but
there’ll be much left out —for instance, the asses’
heads, worn (superfluously) by capering jesters.
A disagreeable little London paper is telling that
the King has been very cool to a certain actress well
known in Australia ever since Frank Gardiner, the
mining-millionaire husband of Carrie Swain,
motored H.M. round Paris in his car. Gardiner
had snapshotters stationed at certain corners to
snap him and his Royal pal. The King was then
P. of W., but that was quite good*enough for the
pallid Frank. The actress had introduced the
mining man to the future monarch. An introduc-
tion like that ought to be well-paid for.
A circular, gold and silver lettered, informs me
that on July 12, on board the Konigin Luise, a son
was born to Madame Ella Russell, wife of “Cesare
de Righini, Esq.” And the circular is stamped
with the arms of the liner, and the name of the
captain, and attested by two doctors. A touch of
Royalty !
Wedding-portraits of Dion Boucicault show him
to be the same young, unlined, keen-eyed Dot
that Australia knew some ten years agone. In
fact they surely must be of that time, for a letter
from a London friend says : —“ Boucicault and his
bride are a curious-looking pair. She, so tall and
gaunt; he, so small, crushed-looking, grey-haired,
and wrinkled. The wheels of London grind
quickly. Another man who has shrivelled and
parchmented is Haddon Chambers. While I’m
writing about stars —or only star-dust—let me say
that my ink is not blacker than the outlook before
Australians who come over here with their sing-
ing-voices, playing-fingers, or writing-brains, but
minus private means. One of Marchesi’s present
pupils (you know her well) tells me that she often
goes hungry to her gilt-edged lesson. None of her
Australian friends dream that she and others
with voices as good or better than the girls they
left behind them live in garrets and have not
sufficient food. These plucky creatures still keep
up the fiction of prosperity by getting the cable-
man to send along cheerful lies. One dramatic
artist confessed to me (I don’t say how long ago)
that she got the ‘ fox ’ of an engagement at £3O
per week cabled out when the figure was really
only 305.”
From Brisbane I hear that Carrie Moore wears
the Tyson diamonds a good deal, and very hand-
some ones they are—the big sun-ray star and a
dazzling swallow in full flight. Carrie is a great
favorite with the Brisbane public, but rigidly
sticks to her rule of “no suppers”—to the keen
disappointment of many gilded youths. When
last heard of privately, Palotta had been giving a
drag-picnic to the chorus-girls, whom she took
out, a hen-convention of them, amongst the
“wattle-blooms.” The latest Brisbane woman-
club is the Nymphea Rowing Club. The dames
and demoiselles attached thereto gave a concert
recently, and—well, if they can’t row better than
they can concertise, says my correspondent, they
will never set the Brisbane River afire. However,
they are all nice girls, so much can be excused
them.
Palotta and the rest passed through Sydney to
Adelaide last week. Grace had five fresh scalps
in the shape of Brisbane offers of marriage.
A lesson in toleration and good feeling was
given lately at Strahan, on the Tasmanian West
coast. The Anglican Bishop, Dr. Montgomery,
who was visiting the town, was entertained at a
social gathering ; he was met at the train and wel-
comed to Strahan by J. J. Gaffney, the R.C.
member for the place, and the local Catholic choir
gave a concert at the social in honor of the Bishop !
A year ago, when the new R.C. church was being
opened, the Anglican rector lent the benches from
his church, and went to hear the Catholic Bishop
preach. This is something like getting down to
original Christianity. By the way, sheep of the
R.C. fold are usually very kindly treated by
Anglican and other sheep when they want new
pens or when their stock-route is a bit dry and
grassless, and it is well that Holy Church should
show signs of reciprocity. A priest in a Vic.
township lately helped to fence a heretic church
and to give it a bell by taking a large party of his
parishioners to a bazaar got up for the purpose,
where he and they went in right heartily for bran-
pies, cosies, fancy aprons, and home-made mar-
malade.
Donald Macdonald and manager Geach passed
through Sydney to Melbourne last week. D.M.
has lost his besieged look, also the illusion (he
never had) about London keeping golden niches in
the temple of fame for Australian geniuses. London
he loathed, rural England he loved. The book-
market for the new writer is as dead as the share-
market, but with less hope of resurrection, for the
sixpenny edition of works of fore-front writers lies
a heavy boulder on its sepulchre. Audiences,
chiefly Australian, rolled up to hear D.M. warring
(Englishmen hate the war now ; they say, we are
paying the bill); but his expenses were fearsome,
and he had had enough of the pointer, the pictures,
and the charge of the Devons. So back he has
come to the bosom of his family, and the service
of the Granny in whose cause he has shed much
flesh.
“Rolfe Boldrewood ” Browne has been telling a
Melb. interviewer that he started “on his own”
at 18 years of age with a few hundred head of
cattle,_ a dray, and one pound in his purse. He
and his animals browsed their way from North
Melbourne to the Port Fairy district, where the
lad took up a “run.” The squatter-novelist’s
family have done themselves rather well in the
way of marriages. His sisters are, respectively,
Lady Darley and Lady Scratchley. One of his
sons married a much-moneyed Chirnside lady,
another wedded a daughter of Gerard Smith, a
Westralian Governor. Young Captain Victor
Scratchley, his nephew, who lately got the D. 5.0.,
is announced as engaged to Miss Anna Harvey of
Singapore.
The venerable Mrs. Gother Mann, who died
last week at the age of 95, of pneumonia, was one
of the most loveable and loved of women. Except
her last illness, she never had an ailment of any
seriousness, and her mental faculties were alert to
the last. During Commonwealth carnival she
went about the city brisk as a girl, viewing the
sights. At the Admiral’s garden-party for the
Cornwalls the Royalties were genuinely interested
in the presentation of Mrs. Mann, and kept her
seated between them, talking for half-an-hour.
Admiral Beaumont was a constant visitor at her
home at Greenwich. He used to call her the
“Good Angel of the Navy,” and his affection for
her dated from the time he came here as a young
lieutenant in the Blanche. Mrs. Mann’s husband,
who died in ’99 soon after the 60th celebration of
the anniversary of his marriage (he was at one
time Governor of Cockatoo Island), was an Indian,
Australian, and Imperial pensioner. One of his
brothers is the last-surviving member of the
Leichhardt expedition. Mrs. Mann’s family of
12 children are all living and vigorous.
The Australian acquaintances of Lord Francis
Hope and his wife, May Yohe, will be somewhat
shocked to read four or five columns which appear
in San Francisco Chronicle of July 18.
N.S.W. Art Society’s exhibition was opened
without any fanfare of trumpets by the Admiral,
attended by a flag-lieutenant. The National
Gallery has bought three pictures, first and fore-
most being a big canvas, by Frank Mahony, full
of delightfully-painted cows, and entitled “A
Spring Morning.” Mr. Mahony’s enemies are
saying they expected something better from him,
whereas his friends aver that on this occasion he
has absolutely surpassed himself. Anyhow, the
trustees of the N.G. liked his cows in their setting
of hazy blue and bright green well enough to pay
£2OO for the “ Spring Morning ” and add it to the
three other Mahonys in the Gallery. In this mat-
ter the same weary old rival Art cliques’ vendetta
crops up once more, the Art Society being now
represented on the Gallery trust by two practising
artists, whereas the Society of Artists is
not directly represented at all. The Gallery’s
second purchase is an English subject by Hanson,
a water-color, “ The Weary Horses Seek the
Stream.” A languid, mother-of-roses sunset
throws up a darkly grey and violet foreground,
with horses, farm buildings and broken fences.
The Gallery’s third investment, “The Millstream,”
is a black-and-white oil by Piguenit. Mr.
Lister-Lister’s big canvas holds a fine ex-
panse of coast-line, sea and sky, and Mr. Nelson
Illingworth’s bust of Primate Smith is the best
thing of its kind in the rooms and pleases even
the prelate’s greatest friends.
Next week will be a crowded one—the Aus-
tralian and Union Club balls, St. Vincent’s ball,
a lot of private dances, the Darleys’ garden-party
and the races. Items of interest since I last wrote
are “Lucia” at Her Majesty’s, and the opening
of N.S.W. Art Society’s Annual Exhibition.
Madame Sapio goes so beautifully, musically mad
that you long for her to bite all soprani of your
acquaintance and hope that the virus will “ take.”
She invests the distraught bride with so much
charm, and manages so artistically her cas-
cade of hair and the lawn and lace of her
dressing - gown, and raves in suoh wonder-
ful mad trills and roulades, that I shouldn’t
wonder if she sets the fashion of tem-
porary insanity for brides. The flute obbligato
must have been played on a magic flute, and the
audience leant forward eagerly trying to spot the
wizard flautist, Signor Amadio, in the crowded
orchestra. As for the harp, with its golden
chords, I’ll willingly be a party to kidnapping the
harpist, Signorina Sivocci, when she attempts to
return to her native Italy.
Signorina Marchi was a revelation as regards
appearance. Hitherto her roles have disguised
her height, beautiful figure, and face. As Alice,
her black hair, ivory face and long close dress of
white and crimson made her an eye-satisfying
portrait.
The colour scheme and the grouping of the
wedding guests is beautifully balanced and shown
up by Dani in his inky clothes taking the centre
of the stage. How well Dani and his countrymen
manage their swords and scabbards !
In a certain shop in George-street there’s a seal-
skin cloak, which a devoted hubby brought from
London for his wife. She wore it twice, and
growled all the time —sealskin clothes have a trick
of making most persons look a bit dropsical—so he
took it and hied him off with it to a fashionable
shop, where it is now for sale.
I saw a picture the other day of Edward VII.
playing his pianola. He has considerable musical
taste, and is said to play well, but can’t do any
with the piano itself. Lord Hopetoun also has
a pianola, and nearly everyone of note in Syd-
ney has or is going to get one. The pianola is not
merely an automatic piano-player. You put it to
the front of your piano, where its 65 fingers do
the playing. It is operated on by means of pedals,
stops, the tempo-regulator and perforated roll of
music. You sit at it, and play according to your
musicianly instinct; you supply the expression,
but anyone who does not know one note from
another can play with technical correctness any
piece written for the piano. Paderewski himself
—so goes the legend—does not disdain the use of
the pianola. You may see and hear it at Henry
Birge and Co.’s recital-rooms in the iEolian
Building, 323 George-street, where afternoon
recitals of pianola and seolian music are given.
I was much misled by the correspondent who
contributed the “ information ” that last year’s
St. Vincent’s Ball would have been a financial
failure were it not for the late Mr. Dalton’s aid.
The Committee did not need any after-aid because
instead of a deficit there was a surplus of
£221 2s. 7d, The art union tickets for a Singer’s
sewing machine are included in the gallery tickets,
2s. each.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ A matter of State rights which may yet
involve Australia in civil war is now raging between
the members of the Federal and State Houses.
This all-important question concerns the plucking
of the flowers in the gardens of Melbourne Parlia-
ment House. The Federal members, being on
the spot, scoop the beds about 9 a.m., and stroll
down Collins-street decked out like participants
in a Greek vintage-festival. Later on, the mere
commonplace local M’s.P. come along and find
nothing but buds which will not be out until the
morrow—whereupon they complain bitterly,
arguing that though Parliament House has been
lent to the Commonwealth, the gardens do not go
with it. The Commonwealth House, however,
maintains that the grounds are included, and the
matter stands there. The other day one exas-
perated local legislator, finding all the flowers
gone, set to work on the buds. He had just
finished when a Commonwealth member came on
the scene and threatened to give him in charge as
a trespasser. Then there were ‘a few words,’
and promises of violence, and eventually the State
man was warned to keep off the Commonwealth
grass in future. He went off threatening to test
the matter in the Supreme Court.
“Kingston, the Emperor of Silence in the
House of Reps., has one or two soft corners in his
heart for the beautiful in art and nature, and says
something more than ‘ Humph ! ’ to his beard
when taking the air of the country in its spring
bloom, or the tour of the Art Galleries in a stolen
half-hour. Women do not find him grumpy, and
some artists pin much faith to his sympathies.
Only in the House does he sit silent, unmoved,
impassive, stubborn, impervious to anything but
the sharp-shooting of Reid’s retorts from the
Opposition benches. Then Kingston levels his
sly eyes at the figure opposite, smiles, and watches
the round man’s antics covertly.
“At the Arnold matinee, Edith Crane, whose
fine figure showed up well in brown, sported pink
hydrangeas in her hat, and kept attentive hubby
Tyrone Power busy donning and doffing her
wrap 3. Mrs. Norman Menzies (Dorothy Vane),
in pale pink strapped with black, had white vest
and under-sleeves, and one of her favorite black-
feathered hats. Several Arnold mummers not in
the cast came and went. Edyth Latimer, with a
garland of spring flowers round her flat straw hat,
was with Miss Barrett. The latter young lady is
pale, thin, and academic-looking, thanks to her
pince-nez, I suppose. She doesn’t act, but has
come along to keep pa company.
‘ ‘ Matinees are regarded as deliciously thrilling
occasions by girls who have acquaintances in
‘ pro.’ circles. See an actor step forward to greet
Miss What’s-Her-Name; she reverentially rises
to her feet, and worships with her eyes. Soon as
he’s gone, her girl-chums close round her, and the
group excitedly discusses the hero’s lightest word.
Every woman has her beat. One is interested in
the arrival of war-ships, another woman lives for
Christian Endeavour conferences. It’s an ill-wind
that doesn’t blow excitement to some petticoat-
wearer or other.
“Churchy fogies, with their wives and daughters,
rushed Barrett’s ‘ Sign of the Cross ’ just as they
did formerly when the Knight-Ferrar co. served
up the same mixed brew. It’s evidently not the
play’s moral lesson our good friends are after.
They never even dream of sampling a nice, clean,
really ‘ moral ’ little play like ‘ A Message from
Mars,’ with its teaching of unselfishness, or ‘The
Professor’s Love Story,’ which gently decries
cynicism and black views of the motives of others.
Neither can the ‘unco guid’ be drawn to ‘The
Sign ’ by its sermons, hymns and prayers ; such
as chese are always on tap elsewhere, Sundays and
week-nights, at the cost of an offertory threepence.
Take away from ‘ The Cross ’ its ‘ moral teaching,’
plus scripture readings and scriptural songs—
what’s left ? Just a bit of color not exactly pink.
So one can’t help suspecting that local saints taka
less interest in ‘ early Christians ’ than they do in
late Pagans—midnight Marcus and his would-be
deeds of darkness.
“In the ‘ Message from Mars,’ dark, handsome
ituby Ray looks tall and slim in dainty white
dance-frock, one pink rose nestling in her hair,
knotted low on her neck, and another in her cor-
sage, cut well off wearer’s shoulders. Then she
throws on a pink evening-wrap while ‘ Auntie ’
(Nellie Mortyne) veils her sequined black with a
cerise cap. I like the prevalent theatre cloak—•
shawl-shaped, i.e., pointed at the back and slop-
ing up towards the shoulders. The most graceful
specimens are pretty long, knee-deep, say ; and
edged with white flounce of pleated silk-muslin.
“The Daffodil Show of the Horticultural
Society is to be opened at the Town Hall on
Thursday (sth). Ceremonial rites are fixed for 2
p.m., and the show, which has been put back a
week from the date first decided upon, will last
until Saturday evening.
“ The Dante Society, after a long period of
depression and sundry differences of opinion, had
its first flutter for the year on Friday. The
toiling committee, wearing a large and handsome
smile, breathed sighs of pardonable satisfaction as
the valuable social fish so painstakingly ground-
baited rose to the surface in twos, threes and half-
dozens. A juvenile detachment from Cliveden,
half the Consuls in Melbourne, and every Federal
big-wig from Forrest downward who hadn’t been
already entrapped to orate at the Salvarmy’s
big Town Hall spree, came, saw, and were con-
quered.
“ A Melbourne curiosity is a female crank who
spends all her time wandering from one ser-
vants’ registry to another, looking for a billet.
She is known to all the keepers of such institu-
tions, arid is constantly dropping in at each to see
if they have secured the desired place. She is
very well off, and is cute enough to invest her
money well; but in the matter of her quest for a
position as housemaid in a quiet Christian family
where she can wear a nice white cap and apron
she is as mad as a March hare. The crank is
known to all the servant girls of Melbourne, and
her eccentricities are considered a welcome break
to the tedium of long waits in stuffy offices.
A new kind of terror to domestic peace is
amongst us. A certain tall, tawny-headed
charmer, whose home is up South, is proving her
perverted sense of humor. She will telephone
some shining light of Church or State and inquire
“ Is Mr. Blank in?” “Yes, but he’s at dinner,”
comes the reply. “Well, please give him this
message : ‘Miss Fewclothes received his note, and
is sorry she can’t have supper with him to-night,
as she’s not very well.’ ” To another goes the
message : “ Miss Fewclothes did not receive that
promised packet from the jeweller’s. Will Mr.
Dash please see about it ?” These intimations are
often delivered to, or in the presence of, Dash or
Blank’s wife. Should one of the innocent injured
husbands (a well-known P.M.) get the damsel
before him
“A large showy matron and her black Pomera-
nian poodle gave a one-act-comedy performance
in Collins-st. on a recent afternoon. The
heavy dame stepped down from a high dog-cart,
at the Vienna, and set her pet on his paws, ex-
pecting the dutiful to walk in her train. But the
scamp saw some other gay dogs, perhaps, and
made off to join them. The matron angrily
stamped her foot, and enjoined master Pom. to
follow her; but he took no notioe. Then his
mistress indulged in a common dog whistle, at
which all the other pups (various breeds) along
Collins-st. _ stopped and looked. But this didn’t
allure the inky pet; so at last, in high dudgeon,
she strode down street, snatched up her rebellious
poodle from the backyard breed, and carried him
in disgrace into the Vienna. Probably his after-
noon rations were cut off.
“ ‘Mutual Improvement Classes ’ are the latest
emanation from the brains of the daughters of
Minerva. A well-known Melbourne woman is
striving to gather together some of her worthy
sisters to pitch an Improvement tent on one of the
flats of the city, and set an example to the Social
Prodigals in the old publican spirit. The idea
was hatched some time ago, but the work of turn-
ing out substantial results is yet in an early and
very tender age. To join such a class is to make,
as it were, a public repentance in a hair shirt, and
women, as a rule, consider hair-shirts very unbe-
coming.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Art is a sensitive plant, and only flourishes
in a congenial climate. In the large cities of
Europe, where beautiful women adopt the flexible
P.D. figure and shed its influence upon the recep-
tive soul of man, musician, painter, and poet
thrill the world with divine harmonies in sound,
sentiment, and color. Such an inspirational influ-
ence has the P.D. that the King of the Belgians,
the keenest judge of figures in all the world, gave
the order of the Legion of Honor to the artistic
designer of that popular corset.*
An Australian military officer, referring
to the Hawthorn (Vic.) stieking-up case:—“ They
ought to look among our returned men. I don’t
say any of them did it, but there are dozens who
would take the job on if it were suggested to
them. Country fellows, tame and quiet enough
when they left here, have become really dangerous
men through their year or so at the war. A cam-
paign is not calculated to increase one’s respect for
life or property, and a lot of our men proved them-
selves only too able learners.” On this theory,
hey for the noble art of Bushranging in Australia
during the next few years.


THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. V Inspection Invited.
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
| FACILE PRINCEPS. 1 | SEMPER IDEM. J
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
Australia
Lightest Wines
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Puke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is stated that N.S.W. Treasury will get
about £40,000 death-duties out of the estate of
the late Mr. T. Dalton, M.L.C.
it tv i »> -r> li tt i i > ,
Dick Butler, Holder S successor as
S.A. Treasurer, also succeeds him in being the
~ . . . _. , . ~
thinnest man m S.A. Assembly.
Premier Barton does not deny that he
will accept the Federal Chief Justiceship. Those
who wish him best hope to see him take it.
. , i r i t „ in „ v
Champion chess-player Jacobsen, ex-
champion Wallace, and good man Christensen are
all either former or present postal officials.
On the tied-houses committee of N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly are three teetotallers—one
of them a publican-and three moderate drinkers.
Mr. W T hiteley King, secretary of N.S.W.
Pastoralists’ Union, is in a most serious state of
health, having broken an intra-cranial blood-
vessel.
~T , x , lvww , t\,t„
“In a year or two I expect to meet Mr
Kipling walking westward down Fleet-street
carrying under his arm a brown paper parcel con-
taining his new story that has just been rejected
by the Boy’s Own Paper.” — Max Beerbohm.
August 22nd was the 29th anniversary of
4-1 & i .* t a ott/i Pahl Uqrwin tplp-
the completion of Adelaide and Poi t Darw:in tele
graph line. Charles Todd h and still UA.
Postmaster-General) rode 50 to » f g
Mt. Stuart to sand the first message along the
" lres ‘ tt- , /c , i x
Mrs. Phillips, born m Kent-st. (Sydney
M years present first annual ba l
of the N.S.W Australian Natives Association
The lively old lady is three years senior to tne
Ven. Dean Cowper, another surprisingly virile
Sydney native. _
Tasmania’s senior puisne Judge (A.
Inglis Clark) is about to publish a book on juris-
prudence. Judging from the author’s predilec-
tions, it is likely to be an attempt to Americanise
English and Australian procedure, and to dethrone
certain hoary “precedents
The See Govt, selected M. Clarke (IVL.ij. A..
for Bega and the “Father of the House’’) for a
seat on the Public Works Committee. This was
intended to make up for ignoring bis claims to a
portfolio when the Ministry was formed. But, on
a ballot, the House threw him out in favor of
little Moore, from Bingara.
J H Reid, K.C.., seems to have acquired
a special retainer as senior counsel for defendant
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners in actions for
damages arising out of tramway accidents. Such
a retainer—considering the regularity with which
the electric tram breaks up oitizens-must be
worth quite a portfolio to the leader of the Federal
Opposition.
THE MIGHTY FALLEN!
“ It is explained that the return of Inspector-General
Baden-Poivell to England is due to fever and over-
work”-NEWS ITEM.
Francis H. Snow, who is turning Adelaide
upside-down with his proposed tramway grab, is
a local patent-agent. His principals are the
London Westinghouse Co., which has already
spent a lot of coin in the attempt to secure this
fat monopoly at the expense of Adelaide citizens.
Ex-Premier Parkes’ favorite monologue
for years was, “If I were offered my life over
again I would not take it.” Ex-Premier George
Reid said the same thing of Tiis life the other day.
To steal Parkes’ politics was bad enough, but to
steal his introspective vanity is barefaced robbery.
Abraham Cohen, of Tam worth (N.S.W.),
who died lately in England, cut up £110,624
among his family, leaving not one cent directly
to charities or public benevolences. He evidently
heard these crying, for he tells his children that
he trusts them to do the fair thing in those
respects.
Pastor Tremayne Dunstan, Sydney’s Con-
gregational Pope, says that if he left the pulpit
nothing would please him better than the editor-
ship of a daily paper. The calmness with which
every Dunstan assumes his own fitness to run a
daily paper amuses people “in the know.
.Reasonably-successful parsons grow on every
gooseberry-bush; good daily-paper editors are
pearls beyond price.
London Daily Telegraph prints this :
“When in 1884 Mr. Kruger returned home after his
visit to Europe he took with him some suits of pyjamas.
But Mrs. Kruger would have none of these lapses into the
effeminacy of the wicked world across the seas. Put
away those things,’ she said, when he first ventured to
don his new purchases, ‘ and go to bed in your trousers,
like a true Dopper.’ And Oom Paul obeyed.”
Federal Defence Minister Forrest is com-
ing out in style since taking up his residence in
Melbourne. He may now be seen driving up
Collins-st. with a coat-of-arms on his gorgeous
carriage. His coachman and footman wear a
hybrid kind of kharki uniform with facings the
color of a weather-worn tombstone. John gets
bigger and fatter every day.
The son of a long-departed Australian
statesman used often to be annoyed when intro-
duced to strangers by—“ Glad to meet you, but
you’ll never be the man your father was.” On
one occasion to this familiar formula he retorted
with much energy, “I know that —because my
father was chief among a million ; but anyhow
I’m a d d sight better man than you ! ” Then
ensued a painful silence.
Brisbane Figaro’s obituary notice of the
late W. H, Groom savored sadly of spite. Quoting
from one of the most virulent speeches made m
Parliament against Groom’s candidature for the
Speakership, some years back, the writer says,
“We quote this for the purpose of showing the
obstacles he had to combat ” —which is like bash-
ing a friend on the head with a stone—not to hurt
him, but to show how hard the stone is !
Along the front of the completed part of
N.S.W. National Art Gallery panels are affixed
bearing the names of Giotto, Titian, Rubens,
and Correggio (none of whom, by the way, are re-
presented in the Gallery). When the other side
is completed no doubt we shall have the names of
local artists of equal eminence. The Bulletin
suggests the names of , and —, and
. And then the Domain will run with
Blood.
“ Seppy ” Stephen, who lately died in
England, was one of the late ex-Chief-Justice
Alfred Stephen’s Sydney-born sons. Tbe Chief-
Justice was father of 18 children —nine boys and
nine girls, five of the boys being born in Hobart
and four in Sydney. It is peculiar enough to re-
call, as the old man often did, that of the nine
girls five were born in Sydney and four in Hobart.
“ Seppy ” followed law, but as a solicitor. He
sat in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly for a fevv years, and
afterwards in the Leg. Council, but did little to
perpetuate his memory. Of late years he resided
in London, where he posed as a light of
the Colonial Institute. The deceased was one of
a class who, though of Australian birth, care
little for Australia, but affect to be more Eng-
lish than the English themselves.
The “ Holloway ” pill pre-
scribed by the House of Peers (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent) to purge Earl Russell’s mind of
international divorce-law misconcep-
tions has proved peculiarly colicky to
that radical lord. “Scandalous,”
“monstrous,” were his comments on
the three . months’ detention pre-
soribed, and certainly had he been
brought up at the Old Bailey, it is
the Bar’s general opinion he would
have got off with one day within
doors. But his brother peers “owed
him a bit,” and they took the oppor-
tunity, as “ honorable” men, of paying
it. R. has always sneered at the
peerage and its Lord Mayor’s show
business. He, a peer, has laughed at
and satirised the airs assumed by
those of the “ blue-bag ” blood, and
how the 8.8.8.’s hated him for it!
So they smote him withe (new double
word) last Trial by Peers and three
months in the debtors’ gaol. For
making Lady Scott’s daughter his wife
years ago it has cost R. £30,000 (he
says) in litigation alone, and his name
has (unfairly) been dragged through
the lowest bed of scandal’s sewers.
The Senate press-reporters got
into trouble t’other night for throwing
ink on the heads of that beautiful trio,
Mary Jane Gould, Walker, and Puls-
ford, who sit immediately beneath.
The trouble, however, was shown to
have arisen through an accident, and
so nothing was done. To a casual
visitor to the Senate, the wonder is
that the men compelled to remain
there all day and night don’t drop
bricks on these awful persons. Gould
is alleged to have been appointed
deputy-leader of the Freetrade party,
to take command in Svmon’s absence.
This is, if true, the best news the
Protectionists have heard for many a day.
The Tasmanian Govt, is so pleased with
its Agent-General, Alfred Dobson, that it has re-
newed his appointment for another year. Mr.
Dobson has had a succession of the sweets of office
—Attorney-General, Speaker, Solicitor-General,
Crown Solicitor, and now A.-G. A sound lawyer,
and popular at the Bar, he would long since have
been on the bench, but for the feeling that there
might be too much Dobson in power at the
capital.
The N.S.W. Government gold medal with
which Manager Lamport, who defended the
bank at Henty (N.S.W.), is to be pre-
sented, is a real distinction. It has never been
bestowed upon anyone for an act which has not
stood the test of time. The medal was instituted
in the bad old bushranging days and has, so far,
been conferred upon not more than (say) a dozen
men. Manager Lamport is entitled to rank with
any of these. The man who, while covered with a
revolver held by a masked man at two or three
paces, will advantage himself, as it were, of a
flicker of the highwayman’s eyelash, to open the
drawer in front of him, grasp his own revolver and
take his chance, has got real grit.
Joseph Cook* of Boston “ Monday Lee-
ture”fame, died last June, in America. He is
doubtless enjoying himself “over there” re-slaying
theinfidels, free-tliinkers, and loose thinkers, whom
he so repeatedly scalped (in their absence) on his
own platforms here. A born bounder, pounder,
expounder, and £4O-er (he often asked, and some-
times got, £4O a week when on a lecturing tour),
Cook used to bulk large between mankind and
real religion.
The two most raucous-voiced politicians in
N.S.W. Parliament are Monaro Miller and St.
Leonards Clark. A speech by one with interjec-
tions by the other is like a
duet between two fog-horns
in different keys.
AND NO WONDER!
AVERAGE COUNTRY J.P. : “I fine you £2 without
the option.” (Laujhter.)
SERGEANT OF POLICE : “ Soilence in the coort!”
■ Vic. Chief Justice Madden, who has never
made a secret of his antagonism to the shorthand -
writer, with his awkward habit of jotting down
just what the speaker says, has just had another
fling at the official shorthander: “Shorthand-
writers,” snorted his Wax., “often make me talk
the profoundest nonsense.” The irreverent mem-
bers of the Bar exchanged a meaningful grin,
which was “quickly suppressed,” as the police
reports say.
It has been kept very quiet that lawyer
Gregory, who so ably put his case for discharge
from Kew Asylum before Vic. Supreme Court a
couple of years ago, is no longer in custody. He
gave his parole to the late superintendent and was
allowed much freedom. The new superintendent
omitted to ask for Gregory’s promise not to bolt,
an 1 being thus freed from responsibility the eon-
fi me took French leave—and nobody seems to
know where he is.
In the interests of the peace, order and
good government set forth in the Commonwealth
Act, it is necessary that the refreshment bars at
Melbourne Parliament House be immediately
abolished. Certain prominent members, especi-
ally some from adjoining States, spend more
of their time in the bars than they do in the
chamber, and the results are very obvious. The
Vic. members would doubtless be in the same
boat, but then they are not away from their wives.
Mr. David Mitchell, barrister, in handing
over to N.S.W. Govt, his magnificent library of
books concerning Australia, made certain reason-
able conditions as to proper accommodation for it,
with which the authorities, after taking delivery
of the library, are slow to comply. Mr. Mitchell
grows importunate and the matter is getting on to
the official nerves. The library donor is not the
first Mitchell to worry N.S.W. officialdom. Sur-
geon Mitchell, his father, connected with the
Macquarie-street hospital 70 years ago, kept up a
fight in the little community for years. He fought
with the Governors, acting-Governors, and other
medical men ; appealed from authority to author-
ity, and finally won damages to the extent of £lOO
from his arch-foe, Inspector-General Thompson.
Miss Rose Scott, well-known in Sydney woman-
suffrage and benevolent circles, is grand-niece of
the old warrior-surgeon.
When Sydney Mayor Graham and other
Caledonians enthuse about the “beautiful city
of Edinbro,” one is reminded of a yarn of
Henry Parkes’. Upon a political campaign once
the Hairy Bismarck occupied the same room with
another prominent N.S.W. (Scawteh) politician,
and during the night the Father 6f Federation
was awakened by agonised groans from his room-
mate. The latter explained that he had had a
most awful dream. Parkes asked if he had
dreamt that his wife and family were dead. “Oh,
much worse than that ! ” was the answer. “ Well
then, did you dream you were in hell?” “Oh,
worse than even that ! ” replied Scotty. “Well,
hang it all, man !—what.dwf you dream ? ” “ Oh,
I dreamt I was at home in Scotland again !” The
book that Parkes borrowed this yarn from can
still be met with occassionally on the second-hand
book-stalls. It dates from about the time when
Sam. Johnson remarked that the fairest prospect
that ever opened to a Scotchman was the road to
London.
John Fisko, of Harvard, the American
Spencerian, is dead, surviving by only a couple of
months Joe Cook, whom, 20 years ago, he so un-
mercifully flagellated for “ theological charla-
tanism.” When, in the early, 80’s, Joseph was
lecturing in Melbourne, a local agnostic reprinted
Fiske’s article on him from the North American
Review, and thousands of copies were distributed at
the doors. This was so pointed that Cook couldn’t
ignore it, but contented himself by saying that
the author had regretted its publication. As Dr.
Fiske included the article in the volume of his
collected essays, published last year, the pro-
fundity of his “regret ” and the true inwardness
of Cook’s veracity are made manifest.
Thinking of the late “Bill” Forrester’s
fine physique, one is bound to attribute his early
death, from paralysis, to the game
of speculation that he played so
pluckily. As a peaceful agri-
culturist, or an orthodox
commercial person, astute
William might have lived
20 years longer without
getting half as much en-
joyment out of his
innings. Or if he had
been a closer and more
selfish fellow, the neces-
sity for bringing off coups
would not have been so
urgent and nerve-straining.
With all his apparent suc-
cess of late years, the big
sportsman died poor,
his outlook probably
being even more blue
than it was prior to
V his first Melbourne
Cup success in ’97.
Everyone has heard the
story of how Forrester,
when he saw Gaulus and The Grafter
racing down the straight together,
lengths ahead of the field, rushed
down to the telegraph office in the
Flemington paddock and sent a wire
to his wife in Sydney, saying merely,
“Am out of my trouble.” Which is
surely one of the prettiest racing stories ever
told. The lucky man’s first thought was to let
his best friend and dependant know a little
earlier than she could otherwise get the news
that the sun was shining on them again.
The Bulletin is assured, on the autnority
of one of the offices interested, that the exact in-
surances on the life of Mr. T. H. Kelly, of Sydney,
were :
New York Life .. .. £31,300 (original £20,000)
Equitable of United States. .£24,000 (original £20,000)
A.M.P £15,500 (original £10,000)
Mutual of New York .. £6,700 (original £5,000)
Deceased’s life was thus insured for a total of
£77,500. v '
’Tis a far cry to the days of Richard
Cromwell, the spineless son of old Ironside
Oliver, but in Auckland (M.L.) Library is the
document, witnessed by many nobles, by which
that quiet, cow-like young man heaved the crown
of England out of his family for ever. It was
presented to Auckland Library by Hori Grey,
with an understanding that the history of how it
came into his possession was not to be divulged
until after the Great Proconsul’s death. That
history would make interesting reading, and the
Auckland Library Trust might turn an honest
penny by publishing it.
The Parliamentary candidate: “A man
is asked to stand, wants to sit, and is expected to
p e . ”__Winston Churchill.
Recent Melt), obituary notice : Laurence
Louie Clarence Sodesquiest Jones, aged 11 months.
No wonder the poor child died young.
Recently deceased, Thus. Slierwin, of
Whittlesea (Vic.), aged 82. He was born at
Parramatta in 1819, and arrived in Victoria in ’39.
With other civilians he took part in the capture
of the first bushrangers in Victoria, one of whom,
Williams, was shot dead at Whittlesea in ’42, the
remainder of the gang being hanged.
An elderly man, not long arrived from
England, was admitted to Hamilton (Vic.) hos-
pital, and, in reply to questions, stated that he had
no relatives in Australia, his elder brother, who
came out many years before, being dead, he
believed, as he had not been heard from since
1860. A few days later the Englishman, now
convalescent, met in the grounds another patient
in whose countenance he recognised something
familiar. Questions and answers were rapidly ex-
changed, the result being that the men found
that they were the two brothers who had not
heard of one another for over 40 years.
Bishop Colenso writing from S’Afnca in
February, 1881:
Here are the English papers reaching us full of ravings
about the treachery, cruelty and bloodthirstiness of the
Boers, of which, when the facts are thoroughly known
and fairly considered, hardly a trace remains. Also, the
accusation against the Boers of ill-treating the natives
under their rule must be greatly exaggerated. To all
appearance they even preferßoer rule to our own.
Even if some of the Boers are brutes, there
can’t be the least doubt about the savagery of
some of the British troops. Richard Harding
Davis, the American, who was there, described in
Scribner’s how some Lancers at Elandslaagte
killed men who had thrown down their arms and
held up their hands. One, a giant farrier, ran
two men through and had them on his lance at
the same time ; he was killed himself a few days
later. Davis says Joubert excused this savagery
on the ground that the English were not used to
fighting civilised people, but he had the sworn
testimony of several burghers taken for all that.


TRY
MAGONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce. ==;=—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives :
S'WIIF'T & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON S WHISKY.
DAVID STOH.EH & SOU'S’ in Three Colo, - s - BLACK » BEPand BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia—2*.
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living’ in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining'room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situatul
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological an l
natural-history items, etc., altvays give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
A noted cattle-duffer has just been laid
by the heels in a Far-Western town, the luck
that has kept him out of gaol for a lifetime
having deserted him at a critical moment. One
of his smartest deals was when he met with a tra-
velling mob of fat cattle, in which pleuro had
broken out, half-a-score being in a dying state.
The drover said our friend could have the hides
and horns on condition of his destroying the car-
CROSS-EX A MINA IT ON.
COOK ( to navvy Jive minutes late for breakfat):
“ Where have you been all the forenoon,
M’Guire? ”
M’GUIRE: “ Sure , I've been looking for my belt
till I couldn't find it.”
COOK: “ Did uou have it on when you look it
off?”
cases. This was gladly agreed to, and a temporary
abattoir was quickly made, but, instead of the
dead beasts being burnt, a ton or so of salt was
procured, and the whole lot sdted down. For
weeks later the residents of Gidjierville revelled
on cheap corned-beef, and the local butchers were
hopelessly stuck with their store of salted meat,
not being able to compete with pleuro prices. And
nobody seems to have been a jot the worse.
W * * *
Groan from a "Victorian country paper :
We must apologise to our readers for the late appear-
ance of the Bunyip this week, which is due to the fact of
our being left in the lurch by one of our employees, who
failed to turn up to work on Monday morning, and who
has not been seen or heard of hereabouts since. He was
never over-industrious, and left us in a similarly sudden
manner just before last Xmas. His name is Smith, and
he wrote to us about a couple of months ago expressing„
contrition for what he had previously done, and stating
that he was once more hard up after putting all his cloth-
ing into “ soak ” with his favorite “ uncle.” As we had
in the interim several worthless fellows, we decided to
give Smith another chance, and for our kindness towards
him we have been rewarded by having our work thrown
back several days, and it is highly probable that the
Bunyjp will be almost as late next week also. We have
issued a warrant for Smith’s arrest, and next week he will
probably have to explain his conduct to a local bench of
magistrates.
“ Westral ” : Re the lydies who “ travel ”
their charms (8., 25/5/’01) almost the only
“business” done, outside of the larger
towns on the Westrdliun goldfields, is—
barring Japs—by women who “go on
circuit.” The miner on the monthly pay-
day, after settling his store and pub.
accounts, starts in to get through the
balance, and consequently has very little
money until next pay-day. (I’m referring
to towns out-back from Menzies.) There-
fore, there is not sufficient inducement
•for business lydies to settle down in any
one place. So they get the dates of the
different “pays,” and arrive just when
everybody is temporarily wealthy. I
have got to know them well from their
frequent appearance on the roads ; the faces
are as familiar as those of the “commer-
cials.” One girl, in particular, goes as far
as Lawler’s, starting from Menzies; and what
amazes me is the fresh, healthy, English
look she always wears, notwithstanding the
hard travelling and the hard life.
* * * *
“Vril” : Witnessed, on Peak
Downs (Q.), what I take to be an uncom-
mon sight, viz., a full-grown wild emu
pursuing a forlorn young calf. Emu, with
a good bit in hand, was about half a length
behind, while the calf was “all out ” and bel-
lowing dismally.
“C.F.”: Train-travelling, the other day,
from Geraldton to Perth, I had pointed out to me
on Minginew platform the nigger whom the
recently-murdered Durack, it is alleged, compelled
to shoot some other blacks, For this the native
got 15 years; but, in consideration of good
conduct in gaol, he is now on duty as black-
tracker under a sort of ticket-of-leave.
• m * •
“Trotter”: In Mackay and Bundaberg
districts (Q.) the white man has, in the Hindoo, a
worse enemy than the Kanaka. Last year Tommy
Tanna was getting 15s. a week and rations ; now
he is being superseded by Ram Chundur, who is
fencing, ringbarking, corn-pulling, cane-cutting,
stumping, &e., at 7s. to 10s. a week, and “find
himself.” The white man is simply out of the
question in these districts, all the work going to
Hindoos, Kanakas, Japs, Chows, and Malays.
¥ * * *
“Will J.”: He statement (8., 15/6/T)
about that Mudgee ancient never having seen a
train. Writer’s great-grandmother left Scotland
at middle age, and some years ago died in Vic-
toria at 79, without having seen one either. She
was buried where, two chains away, a daily
average of six engines now whistle past.
“Tom Colliiis ” on an appar-
ently interminable question :
He “Xerxes” (8., G/7/’l) : When a
small boy I had an ancient fliut-lock horse-
pistol, with which I missed many magpies
and ’possums. The mainspring and pan-
cover spring of this weapon had botli become so relaxed by
half-a-century’s service thtA their aetion was insufficient
to produce fire by the operation of thermo-dynamics. Con-
sequently, I fixed in the flint-holder a bit of wood, per-
forated to receive a stump off the business-end of a Bell
and Black ; and this served the original purpose. Here
was introduced the principle of chemical combination.
If I had employed one of my mates to start her off with a
burning-glass while I took aim, that would have meant
the enlistment of optics in the production of the vital
spark. Three distinct branches of physical science, you
see; and the first is the only one we have to deal with,
friction being an exercise of dynamics, not of chemistry
or optics. But all are fish to “ X.” Hear ye him:
“ ‘ T.C.’ might as well argue that a cold lens could not
generate heat enough to produce fire, or that spontaneous
combustion is impossible.” Well, despite the fact that
Faraday ignited gunpowder by means of a lens
composed of solid ice, “T.C. ” does argue that
it is not the function of a lens to “generate”
heat. The heat refracted by a lens has already
been generated in the sun’s mass. And “ T.C.’s” way of
rejecting spontaneous combustion would be to mix, for
“X.’s” information a pyroligneous compound, which
could not be preserved except in a closed vessel, as it
would ignite on exposure to the atmosphere. But these
facts don’t reach even the dignity of side-issues, nor do
they make the task of producing fire by friction of two
sticks any less “ arduous and momentous.” Gov. Phillip
writes of the blacks of Port Jackson “. . . they are
seldom seen without a fire, or a piece of wood on fire,
which they carry with them from place to place, and in
their canoes, so that I apprehend they find some difficulty
in producing fire by any other means with which they are
acquainted.” To which remark, Becke and Jeffery ap-
pend this foot-note “ Phillip was wrong in this conclu-
sion. The Australian blacks are adepts in producing fire
by the friction of two sticks.” (“ Admiral Phillip,” p. 62).
Here P. writes from personal observation ; B. and J. from
the hearsay testimony of that large class which loves the
maivellous for its own sake ; and this seems to sum up
the present situation. A saddening disclosure, however,
is that hazy perception which takes me as pronouncing
the friction method “ impossible” ; whereas my first par.
described the process as performed by the blacks of the
Upper Yarra. I protested—and still protest—only against
a slovenliness of skite which cannot but make the judicious
grieve.
The Bulletin is beginning to realise that fire can
be produced by rubbing two indignant contribu-
tors together, whatever else may fail.
A PRESS WILL WHITBURN.
(An editor gives us this sketch of Douglas Jerrold’s
brother, Henry, a familiar character round the Aus-
tralian bush newspapers in the last generation.)
EDITOR: “ Want work? What can you do?
Chop wood? ”
DOUGLAS JERROLD'S BROTHER: “ No! I edit,
sub-edit, report, read, set type, canvass !”
“ Tonbur ” : Recently camped with a
Russian coffee-cockie on the Daintree River
(N.Q.). He could hardly sp yak a word of Eng-
lish. Fed me on stewed mussels, maize porridge
and potatoes. Housed me in a room with six
bunks, as in a forecastle, occupied by the family,
whilst stray dogs and pigs camped underneath.
Twelve Russian and Scandinavian settlers reside
there, seven married and five hatters. There is
no school, no church, no police protection. A
small “ half decker ” calls once a fortnight
with the mails from Port Douglas, and takes
away a few bags of coffee or corn. A tribe of
half-wild naked niggers dwell there; big, ferocious-
looking brutes, the terror of the settlers. The
land is magnificent, coffee, maize, hemp, spices,
sugar, tobacco, bananas, paw-paws, grenadillas,
&c., flourish there, and there’s an abundance of
timber —box, mahogany, cedar. The curse of the
absentee-landlord comes in here. Nearly 12,000
acres (cut up in blocks of 80 to 040) are lying idle
—the pick of the river. But in N.Q. the good
land, when not occupied by Chows, is mostly idle.
* * * * •
“ Rewi ” : In a far-back survey-camp we
had run out of supplies, yet one evening at suppei
the Chow cook produced a fine “brownie.’
“Hullo, Lin Sing,” asked the wondering boss
“ where did you get the fat to make that with ?’
“ Oh, all-e-li, boss,” said the smirking Lin, “ me
catchem fine big goanna ! ” Tableau !
•* * * *
There is a remote chance of the pink and
white terraces atßotomahana(M.L.) being restored
in the distant future. A geyser in the lake is play-
ing up to a stupendous height, and the steam from
another at the top of a hill ascends from 800 to
1000 ft., and spreads out like a cloud, the expelled
water sweeping down the mud which accumulated
at the time of the Tarawera eruption. There is a
thin coating of pink silica on the mud, and it
is believed that the terraces were not destroyed,
but merely covered. The geyser now showing
activity is the cauldron which existed on top of
the terraces, and if the same amount of debri
continues to disappear daily these lost attractio
may in time be revealed to view.
• * . ,
At Reclfem station (Sydney), t’other day,
writes a correspondent, some of O’Sullivan’s pets,
day-laborers under the minimum wage, were
shifting old railway-sleepers a short distance —six
men to a sleeper ; two at each end with a cross-
stick, and two crossing hands in the middle.
Now, in loading up their waggon in the bush,
when the sleepers (with the sap in them) are much
heavier), the haulers-in almost invariably do all
the work single-handed, and shifting never takes
more than two men.
* * * m
A late visitor to Chatham Islands describes
it as a model place. A magistrate (who rarely has
anything to do) and three J’s.P. act as school and
licensing committee year after year. There are
no road boards, no voting, no electoral roll, no
rates or taxes (the dog-tax is evaded with great
unanimity, and the land-tax is never collected);
there’s no poverty, rescue homes, refugees,
neglected children, or criminals. There are two
drink-stores, but little drunkenness. Population,
400, and everyone on the island owns a horse.
* ♦ * *
“ YV.B.” : Met a man t’other day 100
miles from Cloncurry (Q.) who was walking to
Brisbane to get the old-age pension. Had been 40
years out-back and was 76 years old. I told him
the Bill hadn’t passed yet. “ Well,” he replied,
“ it’ll surely have passed by the time I get there.”
* * * *
“Tonbar” : Effects of the drought. Saw
recently in Central Queensland a man in the
shafts of a spring cart with a woman in the traces.
Told me they had dragged it from Goondiwindi
and were bound for Chillagoe. “Ye gods ! ”
* • • •
Dear B.—Am not making “J.W.C.”
(8., 17/8/’01) any offer, suitable or otherwise. Let
him go to the Hon. Crick and blossom into a
national benefactor with many beans, or own to
being an irresponsible idiot. Provided a bag of
pollard were sufficient to dose rabbits on a given
square mile, the thing might be done with a
poison so slow in its effects that the last bunny
would have time to stow his dose before the first
began to feel sick ; otherwise there are always
some with sufficient sense to leave the stuff alone
as soon as it begins to disagree with their pals,
and this evqn when they are starving. After suc-
cessful poison-operations, rabbits escaping will lie
close, often for days, badly scared by the squeal-
ing of the poisoned, and thus the novice will think
he’s got the lot. Perhaps that’s what’s up with
“J.W.C.” If not, Crick and fortune protrude,
and up goes the price of pollard. — Perdu.
* * * •
“Rockhampton”: Thus an enthusiastic
scribe who travelled with the Yorks : “ Wonder-
ful country, happy people, no poor, no beggars.”
Well, Queensland is at present on the verge of
bankruptcy. The West is filled with workless
men and half-starved, careworn women. Glad-
stone’s railway has put some 500 men. out of work ;
Lake’s Creek meat-works are practically closed ;
Mt. Morgan is, or has been, on the verge of
shutting-down ; Clermont district is deserted ;
Chillagoe is a frost; and the boodler is fighting
for Cloncurry. Out-back, we have towns containing
many grass-widows, who do strange things for a
few shillings, to obtain food for their children.
Immorality is rampant, and the Chow is the
white-haired boy ; while, on the coast, the yellow-
cum-black-cum brown agony supplants the white,
and drives him to the wilderness. “Yes, it is a
happy land!”
* • * *
Copy of resolution posted in the Joss
House, Cairns —a township of a tricolored popu-
lation, which claims such men as Bamford and
Givens as representatives in the State Parliament
and House of Representatives :
To Messrs. R. Leon, Tan Bung Chong, Trustees Cairns
Joss House.
At the last meeting of my Council the matter of rating
portion 1 of allotment 18 of section 27, town of Cairns,
was considered, when it was unanimously resolved,
that, as the property is used exclusively as a place of
worship, no rates will in future be charged thereon, and
the rates now due will be cancelled.—l am, yours &c.,
, Mayor. October 24, 1892.
As man makes God in His own image, query:
What breed of god will the Cairns god be?
* * * *
“F.C.S.”: Constable Blackman, whose
death under strange circumstances recently
HE THAT HATH WINKERS, LET
HIM WINK.
PUNTER: “ I say I That was a pretty yood bridle
you had on the old brown mare.”
JOCKEY: “ Not near as yood as the winkers I
had on the steward.”
occurred at Broken Hill, had been to S’Africa
with Col. Knight’s contingent, and had only
recently joined the police force. Big and athletic,
he was gentle as a child, and used to be horrified
by some of the tales told in the hmt at Band wick,
which he and seven others (including myself)
occupied before the despatch of the contingent.
One of these yarns, related by a Goulburn m.. .
was this : “It was soon after Tom Dunn turned
out and joined Gilbert, O’Mealley and the rest of
them. Father, at that time, was a police-sergeant
“THE ONLY TRIER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie said he was a digger, but they doubted him as such,
Tho’ bo wearied diggers diggin’ it didn’t matter much ;
At night he would meander, in an aimless sort of way,
To the pub to ’ave another to pass the time away.
Ilis name, he said, was Legion, and he came from Eider-
do .yn,
But, Lord ! it doesn’t matter in a wearied diggin’ town,
Tho’ some said they had travelled from New Guinea down
the coast,
And that Eiderdown they’d ever seen or heard of, none
could boast.
The publican ex-digger, in a wearied sort of way,
Said that Legion was a “ trier” and would get a “ patch ”
some day ;
And the daughter, feeling lonesome, would often wander
down
To his claim beside a gully near that wearied diggin’ town.
The “ sluicing claims” had all “cleaned up,” and men
from far and near
Were sluicing “ runs” and “leads” again with whisky,
likewise beer ;
And pretty Jane, the daughter, was putting all the gold
Into a fair-sized “chamois,” which her dad had said “ to
hold ! ”
Until next morn—’twas then he sought his gold and
daughter, Jane;
And on the bar he found a note —I’ll read it o’er again—
“ I’ve gone, dear dad, with Legion, the man from Eider-
down.”
He was the only “ trier” in that wearied diggin’ town.
DARKY.
MY PUB. IS LIKE A GARDEN FAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My pub. is like a garden fair
With fragrant girls aglow,
Where malten flowers make bright the air,
And cooling streamlets flow.
Where jokes and jests flit to and fro,
Displaying plumage rare—
My pub. is like a garden fair
With fragrant girls aglow.
The golden pewters circle there,
The Hebes whisper low,
And on their perfumed pinions bear
This song, that all may know.
My pub. is like a garden fair,
With fragrant girls aglow.
THE BETRAYER.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Gallant Soldier’s Danger.
A gallant soldier of the Empire, Sergeant.
McNamara, late of His Majesty’s 82nd Regi-
ment, has given to a reporter upon request,
some particulars of his life. -
“You were present at the Siege and Fall of
Sebastopol, were you not?” said the reporter.
“Yes,” said Sergeant McNamara, “ I was then
in the 82nd Regiment. For that campaign I
received the British Medal and Clasp, and the
Turkish Medal. During the Indian Mutiny, I
took part in the relief of Lucknow under Sir
Colin Campbell for which I received the Lucknow
Medal and Clasp.”
“I would like you to tell me Sergeant, what
you consider the most trying experience you
have gone through.” .
“Well,” was the reply, “that occurred m
Australia in this wise. At the time—several
winters ago—l was confined to bed through a
severe cold, which developed into influenza. I
suffered from pains in shoulders and limbs,
heavy headaches, loss of appetite, sickness, and
a heavy, drowsy feeling, although I was quite
unable to sleep properly. The pains in my
head were so bad, that I could not lay the back
of it upon my pillow. Soup and tea were the
only nourishment I could take. Later on I
had another attack of influenza, and after that
I had two every winter. I was so weak and
ill with it that considering my advanced age
(sixty six) I should not have been surprised if
it had terminated fatally. To add to all my
troubles rheumatism afflicted me in the left
shoulder and in the foot, causing gnawing,
aching pains. I had medical treatment and
tried many advertised remedies as well, but they
proved useless.”
“You no doubt took the one remedy which
invariably wards off and cures influenza,” re-
marked the reporter.
“Yes, I did,” said Sergeant McNamara. “I
took Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people.
After using them for two weeks I felt consid-
erably benefited. I continued the treatment,
and now, notwithstanding my age and the late
inclement weather, I am hale and hearty and
have been free all this winter from influenza and
rheumatism. I have a good appetite, sleep well,
and am stronger and brighter than I have been
for years. I strongly recommend Dr. Williams’
pink pills to all those suffering from influenza
and rheumatism.”
Influenza may be warded off by taking Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, which cure its after effects
by enriching the blood, toning up the nerves and
strengthening the constitution. In this way they
also cure rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica,
bronchitis, consumption, weak heart, diarrhoea,
consumption of the bowels and lungs, fits,
scrofula, paralysis, etc. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine ; six
boxes fifteen and three, post free. Sergt.
McNamara resides at George-street, Bur wood,
Sydney.*
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebosi’ contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale .‘-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
stationed some few miles from Goulburn. Dunn,
with another of the gang, turned up m the district
and committed some depredations, and, single-
handed, father started for the scene. With some
miles yet to travel, he was in the act of letting
down some slip-rails when, suddenly, from behind
a clump of bushes, Dunn arose with a double-
barrelled gun and shot father through the jaws.
Father bounded into the air and came down all ot
a heap. Then Dunn ran up and, with the second
b irrel, shot him through the heart. Mother was
left with eight of us kids, and all the Government
allowed her was about seven bob a week.”
At the recent Melbourne
Denton Hat Mills’ feast chairman
Bruce stated that the Australian
rabbit was deteriorating—it now
needed two more rabbits to make a
hat than it did five years ago.
Housekeepers also notice that the
animals are much smaller than here-
tofore. The reason may be that for
years past the slaughter of rabbits
lias been so great that the animals
have not had time to reach maturity,
and breed before they are fit to pro-
duce good progeny, being shortly also
thereafter killed off themselves.
Climate can have little to do with it,
for the pet bunny of this land is
nearly double the size of his wild
brother.
* • *
“ Sc.” : Some Queensland
sugar-planters pay ft missionary to
religiously-instruct their Kanakas,
because a converted nigger is im-
pressed with the idea that the white
man’s God will be very angry if he
(th ) nigger) does not work “strong
feller” all the time. A Bunda-
berg “ boy,” who was being primed
by the missionary with the glories
of angelic life, horrified the holy
man with the remark that he (the
nig.) didn’t fancy the notion of
being turned into a “pigeon ( i.c .,
bird), because there was a proba-
bility of a Shinaman eating him m
his glorified state.” Poor simple
savage !
* * *
“ J.D.” : Saw a drunken fire-
man on a Tas. wharf, the other day.
He couldn’t walk straight, and
seemed to know it. Couldn’t even
stand straight, right end up, so
tried it on his head. Strange to
say, he stood rigidly erect that
way for over 2min., and only took
his feet out of the air when his mate
b.imped him. He then had to lie
Hat, couldn’t stand at all. Afore-
s lid mate explained that the beery
one’s ability to stand on his head when drunk
was because he then had the heavy end down-
wards.
• • * •
“ S.P.” : N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick’s
Rabbit Bill touches the spot; it provides for local
control. There are nine-and-sixty ways ot killing
off rabbits, and every single one of them is tne
right way—and generally the only right way m
some particular district. It is foolishness for the
man in one part of the country to lay down the
law of rabbit-slaying to him m another, and that
has been at the root of most failures hitherto—that
and the want of provision to make destruction
general. If there is a doubt at all about Crick s
proposals it is in re compulsory rabbit-netting:
the local rabbit-governing body might be per-
mitted to also decide whether netting is r'ece.s-
sary, with right of appeal on the part either ot the
Minister or of any land-holder affected to the
AN OLD INVENTION.
SHEPHERD: “ What did God do to prevent Adam and Eve from
returning to the Garden of Eden?”
NIPPER: “ Please , sir, He put barb-wire over the gate."
Land Appeal Court, which isn’t an overworked
body at present.
* • • *
Quoth a squatter to a N.S.W. shearers’
leader : “ What’s the good of beating you fellows.
We’ve downed you every year since ’9O, and yet
here you come up smiling for another go. We
might as well give in and be done with it! ”
* Sic * *
The Shearers’ Accommodation Bill, intro-
duced by Laborite Hamilton in Q. Assembly, is
doomed. The Ministerialists have set-to to talk
it out. If the House liked it could put it m force
inside a month, but a vendetta against the
shearers appears to possess the Ministerialists.
* ♦ * *
“ H.S.” : To “Yarrum” and others re eat-
ing of native-companion flesh. In ’B4, at a spot 350
miles S.W. from Port Darwin, one of our party
shot two native-companions, and, as we were very
hungry and wet (it had been raining torrents tor
24 hours), we ate the breasts, grilled. Ihetiesn
was black-red in colour, and very unpleasant m
flavor. I have often found that dogs, however
MISS LILLAH MCCARTHY.
photo, by the London Slereoscopic Company.
hungry, will not touch this bird’s flesh. Recent.jy
tried my own domestic tykes with the flesh of a
pet “ companion ” that had got drowned but
they wouldn’t look at it. X may add that when
hard-pressed in W.A. I have more than once
eaten n.c. in a stew with dried peas, and found
it, under the circumstances, very tolerable.
* * *
The Kanaka, it has always been main-
tained, is imported by Queensland solely to foster
tropical agriculture. Yet a return shows that 707
of these aliens are specially exempted from the
provisions of the Pacific Islanders Acts and are
allowed to follow any occupations they choose !
As gardeners, grooms, etc they are becoming
quite common in the piebald State, and look like
settling down and becoming a recognised strain in
the local breed.
“ Will J.” : Wyche-
proof (Vic.) main thorough-
fare is a fine instance of
how far Departmental
audacity will go. The
railway-line not only runs
up the centre of the three-
chain street, but is without
any inclosure whatever.
Dogs, vehicles, drunks,
cows and babies loaf on
the rails impartially, and
strangers with frisky
horses, entering that town
when the train swerves
suddenly into the street,
are lucky if they don’t
meet with sudden death
by concussion with metal.
Runaways don’t count with
Wycheproof citizens now.
They only go to the door
when their verandah is
raked away by an escaped
vehicle, and then, as a
rule, they threaten the
utmost terrors of the law
if the stolen premises
aren’t instantly returned.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — Re
’roo’s method of drinking
(B. 29/6/’01). I know that
both ’roo and black walla-
by lap, because I have had
both as pets.
“ Boj ” : The ’roo laps in drinking, but
faster and less noisily than does a dog.
* * * *
From letter recently received from Mt.
William (Vic.) goldfield
We can’t do much gold-digging just now. Everything
is under snow, so we go firewood-digging out of the snow.
The birds are very tame. As I write a robin is sharing
my fire with me, and sitting only 9in. off my foot. Ano-
ther small bird was on the table just now, picking the
fat out of my slush-lamp.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Snake juice : It would take several months and
an expenditure of, perhaps, £40,000 to take a referendum.
Tt isn’t a thing to he taken casually like a threepenny
drink over every small matter every time a small
minority demands it. As far as Tub Bulletin can find
out, 99 per cent, of the people who made all that row had
never read the clauses, and only had an idea that they
had heard somebody named Bill say in a hotel that he
heard from Jim that the Postmaster-General was going
to open and read everybody’s letters Scolex : You
make us tired. (1) An immense proportion of the sugar-
growers own their own land, so no landlord question
comes in there. (2) You say that there is nothing in the
theory that Vic. factories can’t compete under the pre-
sent minimum wage laws and inter-State treetrade,
against adjacent States if the latter have unlimited
sweating, vour reason being that the factory-owner s rent
will fallsu'ffieiently to make up the difference in wages
You must have amazing ideas about the relative
amounts paid in rent and wages. The whole rent isn t
equal to a quarter of the difference in wages in many cases.
1 p . England regulated the rate of interest with more
success than you seem to be aware of for nearly 300 years.
And the law does fix the price of some things, and is
daily showing a tendency to fix the price of more things.
Did vou ever hear of the laws relating to rail way-fares in
Britain, or the Fair Rent law in Ireland, for example ..
Subs. (Queensland) : Well, what are your grounds for
thinking the gentleman is not dead f.... . .Alec. i. .
“ Cattle-Ship ” almost as heavy as the vessel itself ...
K O’B. : “ Widow ” badly written on both sides of paper,
badly spelled, badly punctuated, badly smudged, and
badly several other things.... Gibbs : The answer was
simply to show the utter baldness of the plot. Nan is
a heavy struggle to piece old materials into a very poor
yarn ...P.C.C. : Spring ode g00d... .N.M.R. . hastei
Sunday ” declined for more reasons than we would like to
mention.... Viking : Proposal to name streets in Federal
city First-st., Second-st., &c.., is all right. Proposal to
name cross-streets Addison-st., Burke-st., Carlyle-st.,
&c. (names going alphabetically), isn t. When you
finished the job with Xerxes-st., Yahoo-st. and
Zebulon-st. or Zacatecas-lane the blessed city would
still keep growing Williame Freane : Good item.
01,1 Thomas: Gull as a wet Sunday in Invercargill....
Makeow: A club with rules forbidding the admission
of any “Jew” is a despicable organisation, anyhow....
Mar.' O. : Yet Trades-unionism in Westralia keeps
moving. Last year’s annual congress, held at Perth,
represented under 11,000; this year’s, at Kalgoorlie,
15 200 D. : Venue yarn antique Jack-a-OHios .
Picturesque, but very crude; and in any case your
comments don’t applv, because the writer of that London
letter is herself an Australian.... Alone : “War” is not
ill-written, but reads like an echo of what, after all, is a
very doubtful thesis. There is much reason to believe
that war—that is, friction—means life, and that
absolute peace means only stagnation and death....
Ilarrie : Poems like that make splendid fowl-medicine it
chopped small Yaamba: You’re a bright bhoy,
but—- A Fair-Minded Englishman : Yes, Kruger did
begin the war : he struck the other man when he saw the
’atter, a much heavier person, getting out of his coat.
If you want information as to the original merits of the
Boer war, we recommend you to buy and read Hobson s
book on the subject. The real beginning of the present
war by the wav, was the Jamieson raid, to which a tre-
mendously-influential section of the British Tories were
privv Mirando : Denominational education will not be
re-enacted in N.S.W. If the O. of E. and the R.C.
churches could pull together on the subject (which they
never will) & big fight would be ahead. Had the C.E. in
N.S.W. stuck to Archbishop Vaughan. Parkes would never
have been able to euchre both ; but the C.E. of the time
thought it was wrecking the R.C. by egging on Parkes.
It is too late for it to hark back. Besides, the Anglican
Church is itself widely split on the question
W.J.R. : The Admiralty-knot is 6080 l-3ft.—Booft. more
than the statute-mile," which is an arbitrary division,
founded upon no natural scale ; whereas the knot (prac-
tically the same as the geographical mile) is 1-60th of a
degree of a “ great circle ” touching lat. 48. Avoiding
decimals, you make take the knot as 1 2-13 mile....
Trader: Hardly well enough told Cooklie :
Rather feeble;' fine comedy chance misssed.....
Hopeless : Excellent—for illustration E.M. : Tell us, if
you can, even one solitary instance of a Sydney paper
which had “foully slandered” any decent person not
having been struck for damages by the jury before whom
the paper was sued. Now, come, one instance in 20
years ! On the other hand, we can quote you many cases
in which Sydney newspapers have had to pay large sums
of legal blackmail for telling the much-needed truth.
Mr. Knight, of London Morning Post (chief organ of
British snobdom, by the wav), is “talking through his
hat,” and so are you. ..P.H.L. : (1) The unproductive
works (f.e., works which yield no cash return to the
Treasury) on which loan money has been largely
spent in Australia, include roads, bridges, schools, fortifi-
cations, guns, ammunition, gaols, court-houses, asylums,
immigration, revenue deficiencies, State aid to religion,
lighthouses, “encouragement of mining enterprise”
(beautifully vague term), bush clearing, forest- .
thinning, and sundries. (2) You surely don’t need
to be told that it is a grossly unfair thing to
make posterity pay for works of this kind
Amateur (Hughenden): Very old arithmetical joke
Michod : Put those triolets into simpler metre ; and
count your syllables. Other has good points ; too few.
Rewi: “ The ‘ advanced woman ’ would certainly
have gone-in for trousers but that her legs are mostly
either scraggy or bandy.” Now, how do you know ?.. ..
Khaki : You want a taste of war yourself, with the other
fellow counting six to your one. Then perhaps you’d
sing smaller... .F.O.H. : To call violets “vi’lets” is
arson and matricide... .F.W.H.: Condemned accordingly.
Bushman : You’re only at the beginning of a long,
long road Fraulein : Agree there’s too much whine
among the teachers—from one point of view. If they’re
not satisfied, let them—the younger ones, anyhow—quit,
and fight for footing elsewhere. They stay in their little
sheltered harbor and grumble because they don’t win
adventurers’ prizes. But there's another point of view
Nox : When we print verses full of “ hirples ” and “ yetts,”
take us to the asylum. Write English, you barbarian !....
Jack: We like you; but you can’t write yet
Andrew R. : Strikes us differently. When we read your
mammoth tobacco-expenditure figures, and Pastor Boyce’s
drink-ditto, we think what a glorious thing Life is, after
all, when so many people can get so much pleasure out of
it O. J.: Yes, old prejudices die hard, don’t they ? and a
brain born illogical is often illogical to the end, isn’t it?
. .T.D. : You overlook the fact that Barrett is supposed to
be opium-drunk when he gabbles those lines. The idea
of W. B. ever talking carelessly ! He is always over-
scrupulous in trying to suit his speech to the occasion....
F.C.S. : Quite right to expel The Bulletin from the read-
ing-room. This paper isn’t printed to be read on the
cheap. (2) Bulletin pays for what it prints Chas. W.:
“ TERRIBLE ” TEDDY M'GOVERN, the
world’s champion feather-weight pugilist.
Photo, by Bushnelf, San ’Frisco.
Looks like a record of facts, but is too long for its inte-
rest P.R.W. : Some of the worst verse we ever struck.
j.E.R. : Neither up to mark M.E.W. : Prettily
written, but of little critical value G.M.F.: Interest-
ing but too long, and would need much alteration
Cracker : One is too sultry, and the other too remote of
interest C.L.W. : Can’t touch it without libelling one
side or doing an injustice to the other Cremo : Better
postpone those elaborate personal details about English
cricketers till they arrive Bosheen: As we cant
verify that yarn about Simon Fraser, we let it slide.


f * */ Wr <s
C,, S 4 + T^
*rsK itSM fislfcffi
"The defloit will be incrowsed unless we redaco the amount of the old age ponsion expenditure to 25,000. To do this we propose that the muximum pension be 7s per week, as oripinally suggested by Prener Torner, (Cheers,) I know that this
reduction will meet with dissilifaction outside and the matter will therefore have to receive full disussion. While great good has been done to number of unformute olderly persons, I am asioned to think that to my native and I should [?] so
many of my tellow countrymen so desiross of throwing their responsibility an the State (Hear, hear,) It will he a bad day for Victoria when [?]aragement is given for shicking the responsibility that comes to some and daughters, (Hear, hear,)
when I have found leading citizens, some of them public servants drawing the money of the State, taking full advantage of this Act, I have felt really as[?]ed (Hear, hear,) At the some time I have felt inclined to take off my hat to the hard work-
ing man, who, while not able to take care ontirely of his aged relstive, has asked that a very small pension should be granted as he was able to do something. (Hear hear,)" PEACOOK'S BUDEDT SPEACH
LEADING CITIZEN (who has called at his parent's shapty and brought the old an along to support him in his indignation): "What's this I hear about coulding down the maxinman from 10s. to 7s. [?] It is monstrons. Now that
my father-my father, sir has grown accutomed to an expenditure on the highah scale the blow will fall on me, He will expect me to provide the extra three shillings why should I be called upon to bear part
of the Government's legitìmate burden? It is the Principle of the thing I look at!"


WHAT MAY HAPPEN TO A
FOREIGNER IN SYDNEY.
Scene. —A police-court.
Seak : “ Prisoner, you are charged with riotous
behaviour on the streets. What do you
say 1 ”
Prisoner : “ I don’t know what to say. I kiss
my wife and say ‘ Good-bye,’ and a police-
man come and take me ! ”
Beak : “ Kiss your wife ! Good Heavens ! I
1 fine you five shillings. If you had merely
blacked her eye I would have let you off!
'Patient: ft Then you think, doctor, that epidemics are governed
by the pseudo law of cycles 1”
Doctor : “ Pseudo ! —there’s nothing pseudo about it. Noth-
ing is more clearly established. Take the last two years :
.First we had the Jingo fever, then came thev plague, then
influenza, and now we are threatened with a
visitation of cricket! ”
THE GREAT BLOOD-WAVE.
Little Blohman is by no means a savage
naturally, but above you see the effect
upon him of taking too much daily-paper
at breakfast, with “full account” of mur-
der, suicide, and outrage.
THE AUSTRALIAN FLAG.
—Some rejected designs.
The Australian Natives’ Association,
at. an indignation-meeting held at a
Sydney pub. the other nigh*, entered
its protest against the appointment of
■M r - Thomas H. Nesbitt to the position
of Town Clerk. Thg grievance against
Mr. Nesbitt, it seems, is that he is not
eligible for membership of the A.N.A.
on account of his unfortunate English
birth. 6
c —~~^ r -
Mr. Crick proposes to found a village for working people on the sand-dunes of
La Perouse. In moving the 2nd reading, of the Block-holders Bill, he said he pro-
posed to prohibit the issue of any licenses within this area. He also proposed to
call it Cnckville—(laughter)—and he hoped to the end of his days that he would
be able to represent it as its member in Parliament.
In the picture above is a view of a typical street in Crickville, while in the fore*
ground is seen Mr. Crick, of Crickville, “scouting” for a constituent at the Tillage
goose-pood.
CAETOONLETS.


THAT NAME,
A. SAUNDERS,
IS A GUARANTEE YOU HAVE A RELIABLE ARTICLE.
OF A WATCH
“■VHJk."-
C« n ”* *v
&
Trump,
10s.
Series J,
16s 6<L
fsa
20s,
20s.
/
\
N
psa
Nickel,
255.
Silver,
£2 2s.
me
Nickel,
355.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WATERBURY WATCHES.
New Shortwind, 10s ; Guard, 12s 6d ; Series J, 16s
6d ; Railway, 18s 6d ; New Model Gent.’s, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Gold, £2 15s and £3.
All the above Watches are Specially Regulated
and Oiled.
A. SAUNDEES.
" UNEIYALLED ” NON-MAGNETIC LEVEE.
Strong, Eeliable, Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases
Dust and Water Tight, 20s ; Solid Silver Cases’
35s ; Hunters, £2. A Written Certificate with the
“ Unrivalled.”
The KNOCKABOUT LEVEE, 15s.
The MARVEL, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
“LONDON LEVER”
Extra Finished, {-Lever, Full Chronometer Balance,
Dust and Water Tight Screw Cases, 25s ; Silver,
«£2 2s ; Silver Hunting Cases, £2 10s and .£3.
A Written Certificate for 2 and 3 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
"WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Silverloid O.F. Keyless, if Works with Chronometer
Balance, 35s ; Hunters, £2 ; Pure Solid Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality Movements, .£2los,
.£3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ; Gold Patent Cases Wal-
thams, £4 4s, £5 ss.
/
s
•roar
20s.
20s,
fsa
£6 10s.
£6 10s,
Bct. Gold,
£5 10s.
Send
for
Illustrated
Book,
Post
Free.
18ct. Gold,
£5 10s,
fsa
*oiar
'PI°D
VSI
14ct.
Gold,
£8 10s.
32 ■
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WATCH.
Black or Nickel Silver, Keyless, Reliable Works,
20s : Eure Silver, 35s ;
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £8 10s.
For a Cheap, Reliable Watch these are
Recommended.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID GOLD KEYLESS.
|-Movement, Chronometer Balance, Jewelled, Per-
fect Timekeeper, Extra Strong Cases. Full Size, £6
10s ; Small Size, £5 10s. Pure Solid Silver, Same
Works, £2 10s and £3.
Guarantee 4 Years to keep in Thorough Repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Solid Gold, Full Jewelled f-Watch, Most
Reliable Timekeeper, £5 10s ; Large Size, £6. In
Solid Silver, £2 ; Large Size, £2 10s.
These Watches are Beautifully Chased, and
Guaranteed for 8 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Full Jewelled Works, Patent Action, New Model,
£lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t Get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
m
m
■
f 1 /
o
sit*
s?/
A. SAUNDEES.
BUSHMEN and MINEES.
EOTHEEHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH LEVEES
Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra Jewelled Works, Perfect
Timekeeper, with Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight,
£3 10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance, £4 10s,
£5, £5 10s, £6.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM RAILWAY KEYLESS LEVERS.
LARGE SIZE, as supplied to all the Railways in Australia, with Screw
Dust-tight Cases. The Works are Strong, with full Chronometer Balance. £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; Solid Silver, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Price of these Watches are accord-
ing to the grade of works.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
Thousands in wear give untold satisfaction.
A. SATJNDEBS.
SPECIAL MADE “ BOTHEBHAM ” KEYLESS
ENGLISH LEYEBS.
The Most Beliable and Best Finished Watches made. Guaran
teed to give the utmost satisfaction. Pure Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Finished Works, £5. Extra Quality, 5 10s;
Superior Quality, £6, £7 ; Acme, £B.
These Watches are made especially for A. Saunders only.
Guaranteed for 5 and 6 Years.
Solid
Gold,
£l los.
f
14ct. Solid
Gold,
£lO.
Guarantee
Satis-
faction.
«s>«*•
s
w
Send for
1901
Price List.
' 7M!
N
ntt
lH i iin'n
Silver,
Silver,
£6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION GOLD WATCHES.
SPECIALLY MADE SOLID GOLD KEYLESS
WALTHAMS,
J Works, Extra Jewelled Actions, Chronometer Balance
£7 Ids. 14ct. Solid Gold, £lO ; 18ct. Solid Gold. £l2 10s.
£l5, £2O. Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION SOLID GOLD ROTHERHAMS f-PLATE
KEYLESS LEVERS,
Full Chronometer Balance, 19 Jewels action, Hand Finished, with Dust-tight
Cases, £lO 10s and £l2 10s. 18ct. Solid Gold, £l5, £2O.
4,5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Inscription for Presentation Engraved Free.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS ”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid Nicke? o*
Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s,
Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years,
TRY ONE.
A. SAUNDERS, WATCHMAKER, 815
GEORGE-STREET
NEARLY OPPU ITE RAILWAY
STATION,
SYDNEY


THE
saf
THE
‘PLUM’
(GENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, speoially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
p_,„„ /Single Razor, in strong heather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
tST” Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Mo'untache Producer.
Gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
.Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
ipgf" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN^C
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes : “ I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and Jind that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1,893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguisned itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
=£*—a;
EA
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers, Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances vet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W.> and 44 OASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SIXPBNCE=Posted, Bd..
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL:
COMMISSION S per Cent).
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising; Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. Cd. per Bale.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale. _
WAY BILES sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
iccommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR. McDOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP. '
fIUTH
OZINE
box
:tr.
~ //
1
0S
• «
5
?
6
i
9
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. IIAUTIIAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
A
THE
CANDID QUESTIONS.
Is it your wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Would you like all the unsightly pimples and skin
blotches removed ?
Is it your wish to have a good digestion 1
Would you like to be free of Sick-headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion 1
Would you like to feel that the food is properly
digested, the body properly nourished, and new
strength, vigour, and health infused into the
system ?
Would you like the liver stimulated, the kidneys
freed of deposits, the bowels properly cleansed,
and the blood purified ?
We suppose you would !
Well, that’s easy. To accomplish the object, you
are asked, as a preliminary, to accept a plain,
sensible proposition.
Send fit once for a trial bottle of Rutnow’s Carlsbad
Powder, and it is just as certain as possible you
will be convinced that at last you have secured
an invaluable remedy for all derangement of
the digestive and excretory organs.
Donald Nichol, Esq.., President of the Engineering
and Sanitary Association for London and Middlesex,
wrote:
“ I am free to say to the acting authorities of the several
hospitals and infirmaries, of which I am a Governor, that
great benefit cannot fail to arise by the use of your Effer-
vescent Carlsbad Powder.”
'‘Land and Water” says:
“ We have seen a letter from the dispenser of the City
of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, requesting
further supplies of Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent
Carlsbad Powder, which has been used in the wards with
success. ”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
Modern Therapy.
(i The Medical Record, ’’ Feb., 1901, says;
“ There is hardly any factor more insidious in its evil doing,
more metastatic in its manifestations, more hydra-headed in its
stubborn resistance to treatment, more lethal in its results, and
yet more ignored by the medical profession than URIC ACID.
Nitrogenous waste creates a condition incompatible with health.
Remaining in the blood, it exerts an influence upon the nervous
system which we call auto-infection, causing neuralgia, impaired
vision, gout, rheumatism, eczema, constipation, dyspepsia,
bronchorrhoea, diabetes —mellitus and insipidus, chronic lithi-
asis, &c. When the uric acid is properly neutralised and
eliminated through the urinary and alimentary tract, all these
ailments produced by faulty metabolism disappear. Therefore
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER has
gained a pre-eminent favourite position with the most prominent
practitioners throughout the world. For it is composed of the
health-spending medicinal salts obtained direct from the waters
of the most celebrated European medicinal springs, with the
additional advantage of being perfectly palatable, gentle, and
efficacious. It will be found an unexcelled alkaline and saline,
a cholagogue and diuretic, and most reliable in all hepatic,
nephritic, and stomachic disturbances, especially indicated in
the lithemic and URIC ACID diathesis.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirchenspiung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label or carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “ KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are worthless, and often injurious.
LIVER LOGIC
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifier.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous
tendency.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about two or three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body.
If the Liver is sluggish it cannot exnel its refuse,
and as it must go somewhere it is absorbed back into
the blood, causing biliousness and often jaundice.
The Liver also makes from the blood a kind of
sugar, which, if healthy, is used up as nourishment.
If the sugar is excessive or inferior it cannot be so
used, it then escapes into the urine, causing diabetes.
A Torpid Liver develops gout and rheumatism in
predisposed subjects.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all this,
and the one which never fails is Nature’s Great
Restorative, Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder.
This Powder is made by an ingenious expedient
from the health-giving medicinal springs of the
Continental Spas.
It is improved by removing all drastic or lowering
properties.
It is gentle and pleasant, but the greatest of all
Stimulators of the Liver.
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“Belfield, Lawrie Park Road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Efferves-
cent Carlsbad Powder, which I requested you to send me
a short time ago for the use of my wife, who has been in
the habit of taking all sorts of so-called ‘ fruit salts,’ but
which she has now discarded in favour of your Powder, as
she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the same time,
producing the excoriating effects which she used to experi-
ence from them. I may add that her medical attendant,
a man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly
approves of her use of your Powder.
“ J. DENNEY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW and CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in USA. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
-We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Finn].
CESSESlEa
GrO TO TTF.T .1 ■-
IGOIiAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
HATS. HATS. HfITS -
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLTCR BRADL€y » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
I3T” Sales Meld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
sa
I'UHL jpEAHLY fEElfi
M
OPOIiTO
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best an)
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decav. strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S. ODONTO,
of 67. Hatton Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
farm —~
fsa
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
Georgc-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jingoism now slumps heavily. Almost
the whole Australian press, city and provincial, is
condemning “indulgence” passages to S’Africa.
Though S. Australia has adult suffrage,
the census shows that there are still 15 per cent,
of the adult males, exclusive of unenfranchised
Chinese, whose names are not on the rolls. The
81 census showed 20 per cent, of absentees.
The Afghan, who used to be only a camel-
driver, has now spread into the tailoring and
other trades in Westralia. The cholera and the
cheap nigger and a keg of butter in Gehenna are
three things whose spreading-power is unrivalled.
An analysis of the total paid in Royal
Commission fees (about £10,000) during the cur-
rency of Q. Parliament shows that the Labor
party’s adherents received about £350 of the
swag. The rest went to Ministerialists and Inde-
pendents.
From an English correspondent :
The treatment meted out by Vic.' Leg. Assembly to
Findley has been passed over in silence by most of the
London newspapers.
Jingo servility has its limits—even in the English
press.
J. H. Carrutliers’ opinion that, under the
Compulsory Arbitration Act, trade-unionism
should be made compulsory, contains a pregnant
idea. Sooner or later, and on terms reasonable to
present non-unionists, that question must become
a live topic. The gipsies of labor must be taken
into camp.
John Haynes, M.L.A., has a morion before
N.S.W. Assembly that fares and freights on the
Cornstalk railways—already run at a constant
loss—“ should be reduced one-half as a State
policy favouring inland development.” As
present charges don’t cover expenses this means
that one half the freight should be paid by
taxation on the community at large, by way of a
subsidy or bonus to the wool-growers and agri-
culturists. Freetrader John wants to artificially
coddle these classes, in fact, at the public expense,
and go in for all the horrors of Protection.
WATCHING THE PROGRESS OF REFORM.
Seeing tnat The Bulletin with “ Tatter-
sall’s” advertisement in it is strictly shut out
of Queensland, and it is necessary to print a
special edition minus that sinful notice—how
comes it that Sydney Telegraph, having “ Tat-
tersall’s” announcement conspicuously displayed,
circulates there quite freely ? Is it because that
paper doesn’t make unpleasant comments on
Philp and co.—or what ?
Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald puts the
old argument to prove that there is no real diffi-
culty in raising all Australian loans locally :
The loan expenditure of the various States totals some
£5,000,000 per annum, while their revenue is £35,000,000.
If the Australian Governments can raise £35,000,000 per
annum revenue in Australia, is it not possible for them to
raise one-seventh of that amount in loans ?
Quite true ! and there is also another question : if
the Australian Governments can raise £35,000,000
revenue and £5,060,000 loans in Australia, why
can’t they raise the whole £40,000,000 as revenue
in Australia and have no loans ?
Said that the Barton Cabinet is going to
try and put back the “seditiousand blasphemous”
clause into the Postal Bill—making postal officials
judges of what even a Supreme Court Judge finds
it difficult to decide ! Barton has already alien-
ated many supporters ; and if he goes on this way
he’ll lose them all.
Voting by post is sure to form a part of
the Electoral Act under which the next Common-
wealth Parliament will be elected. The recalci-
trant States will follow. Woman franchise will
be a mockery without it, as in the great bulk of
families in country districts wives cannot go to the
poll the same day as their husbands.
See’s amended N.S.W. Old Age Pensions
Bill will provide, among other items, the repeal
of the clause fining publicans for selling a pen-
sioner a glass of beer. That clause was wedged
in by the Leg. Council, and to do Lyne justice it
made him so mad that only fear of losing the
Bill for a session impelled him to accept it.
Apropos the facts that Adelaide has two
daily and six weekly papers and that only one, a
labor weekly, opposes the tramway job. Brisbane
has three dailies and about eight weekly papers
and only one—also a Labor paper —plays con-
sistently the role of jobbery-exposer. Brisbane
can “lose” Adelaide where Boodle is in question.
Almost the only proposal in Premier
Peacock’s budget which was not retrogressive was
that Victoria should open State coal-mines for the
supply of the State railways. Coal is the great
essential to keep a railway going, and when
private employers, by starting some purely private
squabble with their men, are able to cripple a
great State industry, the situation is wholly
ridiculous.
Writes “ Shaker ” :
Curiously coincident with the announcement that the
Australian Premiers are to be invited to the coronation
comes a rumor that an influential English syndicate is
preparing to submit fresh proposals to the Govt, of New
Guinea, with the object of acquiring a large tract of land
in the Possession to be developed by Indian coolies. If
the Premiers do go to London again, it might be as well
(in view of the fact that on the former occasion another
l E. s. nearly had the contributing colonies on toast over
the same matter, per medium of, then, Premier Nelson
and Co.) to have a clear understanding before they start
as to how far they are empowered to commit the country
to any similar schemes which Joberlain or his friends
may have up their sleeve.
Sydney newspaper item :
At Bathurst local police-court yesterday the glories of
a Freetrade policy as a wage-producer were exemplified in
a startling manner. Sergt. Morris, inspector under the
Public Instruction Act, proceeded against W. Cowall, a
farm-laborer, for neglecting to send his two children to
school. Defendant pleaded guilty, and stated that he
was a farm-laborer, “ with nine children, earning only
15s. a week and his ‘ grub.’ ” The “ grub,” he said, was
worth ss. a week. Mr. O’Neill commented on the shock-
ing state of affairs, and stated that the excuse advanced
that he couldn’t provide his children with decent clothes
was a fair one. The summons was withdrawn by the
police.
Go on the land, young man !
Tasmania's Government has
decided not to buy that most un-
profitable private spec., the Emu
Bay railway. On the face of
things, it is right, for the Emu
Bay line hardly pays for axle-
grease. But if it bought the line
at its present scrap-iron value,
and then resumed the huge
estate of that •foolish and dis-
graceful English monopoly, the
Van Diemen’s Land Co., and cut
it up on the easiest possible terms,
and made roads through it to
bring produce to the railway, it
would be one of the best things
any Tas. Government ever did.
The land isn’t good, yet it isn’t
by any means hopeless. But the
V.D.L. Co. is asleep and three-
parts dead. There are no roads
through its territory—even the
important seaport of Burnie and
the big mining town of Zeehan
are not connected by road—not
even by goat-track. There are
no branch roads to bring traffic
to the railway. There is practic-
ally nobody to live on a branch
road even if there was one, for
the V.D.L. Co. lies like a night-
mare on the stomach of the sleep-
ing country, and neither sells,
nor uses, nor opens,up the land to
any extent worth mentioning. If
it was shifted the West might
wake up, but there is no hope
otherwise.
Why should a legislator’s
salary in a Freetrade .State like
N.S.W. be artificially fixed at
£3OO a year ? Why not let candidates tell the
electors what salary they will accept, and let the
electors take the cheapest man they think will fill
the billet to their satisfaction ? Why have an
artificial minimum wage for M’s.L.A., thus
bursting up the allegedly unalterable Law of
Supply and Demand ?
Still another deputation of Victorian
manufacturers called on Premier Peacock, the
other day, to protest against the Minimum Wage.
A sample
Mr. T. N. Harkness pointed to the deletion of industries
from Victoria which was now going on. . . He told the
Premier that the number of employees in factories had,
in consequence of the Act, decreased.
The Act dates from about 1896, and these are the
number of employees in Victorian factories since
then, according to the official returns: —lB96,
50,448; 1897, 52,701; 1898, 54,778; 1899, 60,070;
1900, 64,210. Where does that deputation expect
to go to when it dies ?
HE WASN'T OMNIPOTENT.
MICK (the well-lamed one): “Did ever yez read 'Looking Backward,'
Pat?”
PAT (indignantly): “How the divil could I?"
S.A. Leg. Council, now ruled by a Tory
majority, passed the unspeakable Snow Tramway
grab Bill in one day. Except two Labor-members,
the only speakers were Snow barrackers. At the
last moment Adelaide Corporation comes out as
an opponent of the measure, and a majority of
suburban councils also oppose, but they are also
up in arms against Govt, conversion, and S.A.
Assembly is not unlikely to make this an excuse
for supporting Snow’s London company. At
latest, the plastic Premier Jenkins had not
definitely announced the Govt, policy on the
subject.
N.S.W. Lands-Secretary Crick has intro-
duced a Bill to enable workmen to take up half-
an-acre to an acre-and-a-half at La Perouse, near
Sydney, on easy terms. The measure also pro-
vides for a loan of £5O, to enable each holder to
build a house. Altogether, 3000 families are to
be accommodated. “ I propose,” said the Minis-
ter, “ to call it Crickville, and hope, to the end of
my days, that I shall be able to represent it as its
member in Parliament. ” The Crick ville electorate
will take in Band wick, and if its vote makes an
end of hatter Storey, M.L.A., Crick will not have
lived in vain.
Melbourne Argus has been saying for
years that the lowness of wages in Victoria as
compared with N.S.W. is a Shocking Example of
the results of Protection. It is still saying that.
At the same time, seeing no other way to get rid
of the hated Minimum Wage law, it has begun to
say that that Act must be suspended because,
when the border duties are abolished, Vic.
manufacturers won’t be able to compete with the
lower wages in N.S.W. And it has just begun
to dimly realise that the two statements don’t
hang well together, and don’t even look well
when hung separately.
S A. Assembly has before it three different
schemes of Parliamentary reform. The Jenkins
Govt, proposes reduction of Assembly members
from 54 to 36, with single-member districts. The
country party, which is in a majority, has elected
a committee to devise its own scheme ; the Labor
crowd favors leaving the Assembly alone and
abolishing the Council, which is the best idea of
nil; and Homburg and a few other Tory Opposi-
tionists propose nothing and oppose everything.
After three years of wrangling Parliament has
done nothing except reject Holder’s sensible pro-
posal of last year, viz., to leave the whole ques-
to an independent convention elected by the
people.
S. Australia is making a desperate plunge
to get a batch of far-Northern squattages off its
hands. The misguided province, some years ago,
decided to pay squatters cash for the improve-
ments they had made if they didn’t want to renew
their leases. Plenty of them jumped at the
chance, with the result that,, for years past, the
Govt, has had to pay caretakers to more-or-less
look after these improvements. Of course, the
Govt, got no return; instead, despite the outlay,
the improvements began to fall to bits. So the
squatters are getting the country back—country
that has been nicely rested —for from 3s. fid. to 4s.
a square mile, with the improvements at just
about a fourth the price the Govt, paid for them.
And, in a year or two, you will hear the N.S.W.
squatter quoting what S.A. has done, as an
example for N.S.W. ; what he will not refer to is
the tight corner S.A. got itself into before offer-
ing these terms.
When Seddon, of Maoriland, was alleged
to have remarked that arbitration was being
ridden to death, and unless moderation was
observed there would be a reaction against the
principle, the Tory Press of Australia rose unani-
mously to heap discredit on the same class of
legislation in this country. Now it turns out that
Seddon’s remarks were not directed against
arbitration at all, but against the way in which
the courts of conciliation were being conducted.
In one dispute, at Auckland, no less than 400
witnesses were listed to testify, and on account
of the voluminous nature of the evidence taken
at these inquiries the work has fallen into arrear.
Nobody proposes to abolish the ordinary civil law
because cases are long-dragged-out. And the
longest arbitration case that has been heard so
far didn’t last one-tenth as long as the longest
strike, nor cost nearly so much.
“ Protection,”
said Senator Josh
Symon, indignantly,
the other day, “is a
selfish policy.” Why
doesn’t Symon make
the equally brilliant
remark that a cow
has four legs ? Of
course, Protection is
selfish. So is Free-
trade. Every Free-
trader in a Free-
trade country strug-
gles to prove that his
policy has benefited
his own country \
and not one of them
says: “We recom-
mend Freetrade be-
cause, though it has
done us a great deal
of damage, that is
more than counter-
balanced by the
good it has done to
other countries.”
The Freetrader who
recommends Free-
trade solely on the
ground that it will
selfishly benefit
“ us,” and who com-
plains when t he Pro-
tectionist recommends Protection for exactly the
same reason, is indeed a nice object to preach the
doctrine of disinterestedness.
About half the time of tli e Viccorian
Legislature is taken up with the grievances of
public servants. Out of 14 questions in the
Assembly on a recent night, Tapeanwax was res-
ponsible for no fewer than eight. When Brom-
ley’s Bill came on, the Service wire-pullers were
there in force long past midnight, openly beckon-
ing members out and sending them back again to
talk. This persistent undergrounding by the
public servant will end in a movement to deprive
him of voting privileges. Bromley’s Bill went for
a revival of seniority as an absolute standard.
Seniority is the zareba of the incompetent. Tom
Bent’s seniority would make him Premier over
Turner.
Premier Barton (in reply to King O’Malley’s
proposal that the Federal capital territory should
include at least 1000 sq. miles, and the amendment
by Chapman, of N.S.W., that it should include
5000 sq. miles):
The Constitution does not contemplate anv verv large
area for the capital.
The Bulletin desires to deny this flatly. The
Constitution says that the Federal capital area
shall be not less than 100 sq. miles. It may be
any amount more. But, apart from its words, it
doesn’t contemplate anything. It isn’t a live
thing, so it. can’t contemplate. And if the half-
dozen men who put in the allusion to the 100 sq.
miles (it was riot done by the people’s elected
representatives in the Convention, but by the
after-Conference of Premiers) contemplated any-
thing that isn’t definitely expressed, the people
have nothing at all to do with that. They can
go and contemplate by themselves.
According to the new Elections Bill just
tabled by the Q. Govt, the oldini quitous Property
vote is to reign undisturbed, but a franchise is to
be conferred on the women—also a fancy franchise
on the fathers of families. If a man (in the word 3
of the Bill—any male elector who is the father of
at least two children— male —mind you, not female)
be blessed with two or more legitimate children
he secures an extra vote. A woman similarly
blessed secures no additional voting privileges
—probably because she hasn’t done the
State any particular service compared with
the man. No woman is to be allowed to sit
or vote in the Assembly. The “aboriginal native
of Australasia, India, China” is to still be allowed
a vote for a freehold qualification, experience hav-
ing amply proved that the alien freehold vote
always goes for the Govt, that fights for the alien.
The Bill bids fair to be a laughing-stock, and
could only be introduced by such a Govt, as the
Continuous Ministry of Queensland.
J. T. Bell (Independent—otherwise
Philpite—candidate for the vacant Federal Dar-
ling Downs seat) has been trying to prejudice the
Danish and German farmers of the Downs (who
are rather numerous) by asserting that if Barton’s
Aliens’ Exclusion Bill had been in operation some
years ago, when the original Danish and 'German
immigrants came to the country, it would have
prevented their settling in Australia. No one
knows better than Bell that no immigrant of
European race will ever be subjected to the educa-
tional test demanded by Barton’s Bill; no one
knows better that it is aimed purely at Asiatic,
African, and Polynesian aliens ; and no one knows,
better that the aforesaid educational test was-
rendered necessary by the action of the Imperial
Govt, to which Bell and his fellow-Philpites pro-
fess such a superabundant loyalty. The real
trouble with the “ culchawed ” Bell is that the
White-Australia party on the Downs are backing-
Littleton Groom, who is pledged to the teeth
against every variety of black and yellow alien,
and this hypocritical appeal to Danish and German
prejudice is merely an attempt to discount Groom,
in the eyes of a large number of Downs farmers.


GQaSSenet, the Great
French Composer, gives the
following description of
The AEOLIAN
O GIVE to a musical work an absolute and exact interpreta-
tion ,to make clear the composer’s most intimate thoughts , to
bring into play a wealth of execution which only the orchestra
can give—in a word, to translate all the shades of coloring intended
by the composer—this is the achievement of the — Massenet.
The claims we
make for the JEo-
lian are strong, but
not stronger than the
evidence we offer in
support of them. The
patronage and en-
dorsements the
lian has received tes-
tify to its merits,
and make it worthy
the investigation of
all music lovers.
The yEolian plays all classes of music,
making instantly and always accessible any
selection you may desire to hear, played just
as you desire to hear it played, for the ex-
pression is under the absolute control of
the player. The iEoKan can be played
by any one. It requires no musical know-
ledge whatever on the part of the per-
former.
The cheapest iEolian plays nearly seven
thousand pieces—and plays them well, too.
”'li Ssi ISM®
00000000
iEoLiAN Grand.
Sole Agents for Australasia^
323 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Sendfor Catalogue
trations and
[o]
containing Illus-
full particulars.
The iEolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
CoOntrv Readers
In Need of GLASSES for FAILING or
IMPAIRED VISION should write for my
PARCEL OF SPECTACLES
.. CONTAINING ..
6 PAIRS ASSORTED SIGHTS
and an ILLUSTRATED SHEET of INSTRUCTIONS
to aid you in selecting the right power, at prices from
3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/- per pair,
case included.
Forward me the PRICE OF ONE PAIR and I will
send you the six Spectacles to select from, money returned
if you are not suited.
H. A. BARRACLOUGH,
CONSULTING OPTICIAN,
371 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Next door A.J.S. Bank (King & George Sts.).
And at 232 Collins Street, W!e3t»Gwrr»e.
iiin
CAMERAS
AN D:5 UPPLS £5
6 6 Ki ng S 1 S rone v, l
•x*: j; iktiesatv
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
fsa
The Bijou Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10s.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5£
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
REEVES & CO , ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
A POLICY FOR THE
Price 6cl. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON W€ALTH
Read What
VITADATIO
*.la Doing.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Agent for WEBBER’S VITADATIO.
Sir,—lt is with feelings of deep and heartfelt gratitude
that I write to thank you for the benefit I have received
from VITADATIO. It has honestly made a grand change
in my life. For the past 15 years I have been a martyr, to
indigestion in its worst form. For over two years I
was practically helpless, being doubled up and quite un-
able to straighten myself. My stomach was so weak that
I was unable to take more than four ounces of very light
food per day, consequently I became weak generally, and
within a short time I fell away to a mere skeleton. I wa 3
attended by some of our leading doctors, and must have
drank gallons of various kinds of medicine, all to no
purpose. Whilst in this miserable condition I read of
several cures of indigestion by VITADATIO, and almost
as a last resource I decided to give it a trial, and right
glad lam that I did so. After a few large bottles I felt
great relief. I continued with the medicine, and all along
could feel the “slow but sure” return of health, until
here I am to-day, perfectly restored and without an ache
or pain in the stomach after food. I can now eat three
good meals per day and enjoy them. I am at loss for
words wherewith to express my gratitude, but you may
be sure I shall spread the good news that Webber’s VITA-
DATIO can, and has, cured indigestion in its worst form.
I send you this testimonial perfectly voluntarily, and
you may have my permission to use it as you deem advis-
able. I shall be pleased to interview and give details of
my case to anyone.
Yours gratefully,
ISAIAH GLOVER,
Of the firm of Glover and Sons
Bedstead'Manufacturers,
Gordon-street, Camperdown.
Witness, A.D.V.
Date, 1/6/00.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
18d Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
d
Xails. Flaita.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/0,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. Ions:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
W igs made on shortest notice.
try orders.
The Age writes about the accused in a
charge arising out of the fact of a Vic. girl, not yet
12 years of age, being found to be enciente :
His arrest on such a grave offence has caused great
surprise, as he was always regarded as steady ana
industrious, and being a capable musician he was a
familiar figure at nearly all the dances held throughout
the shire.
Which is quite a charming bit of newspaper logic
Earl Russell, in asserting his preposterous
right to be tried by his peers on a charge of cheap
American bigamy, has probably driven the last
nail into the coffin of the coroneted-jury system.
Even the peeresses present laughed at the expen-
sive farce. When an ancient lordly institution
excites the ridicule of women who have been bom
and bred in an atmosphere of class privilege it
seems to cry aloud for its own death-warrant. t
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
no? score P the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steyio-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
Ilk Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. W.,Aus.
saf
H grid’s | ecord flrtierj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . •
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
AND SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern,
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
Htk Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
v SEND FOR CATALOGUE,^
United Typewriter »| Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
sa
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
fsa
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
r A
L?
Owners of Vehicles
By Riding
fsa
you free yourself from all Tyre troubles
and worries.
These Durable Tyres can be relied
on for Twelve Months’ Hard Hiding on all
classes and conditions of roads .
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, & Christchurch, N.Z.
Are invited to watch this space next week when
an important announcement
Re Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres
will be made. Be sure and don’t miss it l


Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon -
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
N>>
}g&
bills
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
[Rout deplete QJ|. go., gtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., *] A
SYDNEY * *
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'-TIIIS-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruob Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372—assuring’ £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers— £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Bank of jjortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Uo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £.700,000
Capita! Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve-Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting goiapy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TSUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Rem Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, . _ .
Manager. 81 Pitt St«, SyUflßy.
Tb« Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
AgsiKV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
£150,000 0 0
t'90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
6,388,976 5 3
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED . -
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
Direclors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS..
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. ot London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Direstors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montepiore.
<). J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
iGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alprbd Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Austral ian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 7, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 14,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FttEMANTBE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAISERG
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 7, 12 Noon,
linnvah, Tuesday, Sept. 10, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 14, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat,, Sept. 7, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 14, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lovvest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
p,.„„ Ke tnrn Tickets Available for Six Months.
Polm?in*i a “' kets 'nterchantreable with all other Inter-
nm o ivt’ 5^ OI , n P a " les - Full particulars on application.
U o Ij,fe 15u ildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of Kinir-street.
THE ‘‘ALL RED " MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Svdney every
four weeks as under, for
g, . W..WUYCI WIUIJ tut;
„,. • CANAD’AN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
. T t! s 18 *• 'F Iv "'Krial Route Home, as well as the most at-
c Jr' a ™ lfls aI the h eat of the Red Sea and the
cold ol Gape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans fVancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
’ WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world-over the
Selknk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
aiOng the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
enab '' n^ rT t hem To visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH : -
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zi aland Government .. .2 000 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 50oi<)00
Total Capital
£2,500,000
-THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
0 HAS MONEY TO BEND
at FOIJR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City
, £ < l' vn and Suburban Properl ies in Victoria ' ’
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
. FOR FIVE YEARS, ’
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
THE
United
Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head O ffice :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
*500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
°n Wod, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Loiv.
THOMAS
M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.O Demitv-Ohnirman
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L C
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: G-eorg-e Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden
Assistant-Manager arid Chief Inspector* A J*
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tilev, 11. H.Massie’
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G* F H
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.; Hon. H s’
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout, the world.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
VKUCIAtikt UUKt FUR
DRUNKENNESS
Tcerrn mm i . . . ... %
Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Tre&tmenjb without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON, LANGSTON
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London .
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
JXT. 13. L,
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to HONGKONG, '
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA and YAP.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 27th SEPTEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to I lie Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,_^
913, G.P.Q., SYDNEY.
foreign st a
> P s.
SEHiaaB
raßiaa
saf
sa
fsa
PHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is Gd
„ „ IPSpain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d •
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
od; 9 Canada Du ty, 6d ;6 Bolivia' id
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
TRICOCOGy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
AM RED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
PHOTO
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s 20s
Money Order or Cheque on London. ’
English, French, and German Rare Books
wiK a obta£ 8 an<l requirements > and satisfaction
R. gennert,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
6
nVelfcourrtc T
Jtie best House for
mUsic.Pii,noS.V(olills and
all TTlusical sundries
Collins St..
AMUSEMENT for OLD ami
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Eight Different Articles
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out - ), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
718 George-sbreet, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
Shipping.
the adelaideTsteamship CO.
(MM IT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
west Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland PortSi
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
September 6, at 5 p.m.
S.S Wollowra, Saturday,
September 7, at 10 a.m.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
September 6, at 5 p.m.
Saw? p'i d Route to Goldfields.
first Porr P w ge fclP^ fc ?, are interchangeable after the
rst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
So e n a s mer F o or th A de,- U^- N - 5°^ nd W ' Howard^,nith and
oons. tor Adelaide and W. A. all tickets are inter
d^ons ea fo h Whh tf : eA 'V' S - N - 0o - only. Subject to col
ddions to be ascertained on application.
u. 5. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
. 5. IN. Coy. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
IHE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
MErßorßm eirM^ nificenfc Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay
TOWN^"n TO ,?/ Vil,e ' ° airnS ' and P
Sl ILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
sss z s;«r-sx“s,
.SHormSo'f’ °~ kt0 "'"-
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA and FIJI iiwhi,, '
®YPNEY and MELBOURNE?W?ekR JI ’ MOnthly -
’ Vl N Fm’tni,d]Uy LAlUli AND WE ® T AUSTRALIA
Passent/er Acconiniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
of the ArfLln T’qMelbourne and Cairns with the steamers
suldect in n rf S - S - °? m V any and W - H - Smith and Sons,
For J Adcl ifm dltl " ns to ,e aacertaine, l 011 application,
r Ol Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
RURmo 6 o« h T the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
street^Svdr H 'l! , and 9° > Ltd -> Ageiits, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports“
P 1 AND o. COMPANY’S
" ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
, F °R MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
Main r n e |" bjo,ned dates - and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST and SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
Commander.
.Sydney,
Noon
ROME 5545 E. Street .. (Sent y
D^ A L AyA :6898 VV. L. Broun, R.N.R. Sept 21
CHINA 7912 T. S. Angus " Oct l
ARCADIA .. 6663 A. C. Loggin " Oct’ IQ
INDIA • • 17911 W. D. G. Worcester. R.N.r:Jnov. t
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON— £3B 10s to £77
R-ee . , EDWARD TRELAWNY,
Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
french Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
f A K ’ FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
Steamer
TONKIN Durrandr
AUSTRALIEN .. Verron
V.DELACIOTAT Fiaschi
Com-
mander.
Ade-
laide,
1 p ra.
Oct. 5
Nov. 2
Nov. 30
„- „„ uuimwv, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan, PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at, Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers lor London and give them every assistance
m landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS .(First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ i . nril . rfr .- Y i Principal Agent.
Huddart, Parker g (Jo’s [ilia
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LA IJ NO ESTON, W EST A USTIi ALI A,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
- Uf/VOIUIM I ’HlilU lUI l/ IC PjcUl/cni
P af!S » ugcr trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried..
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States- of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship, Company.
Foi further informaUon apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.’
m nmr'iLMLjiM 37 Pitt-slreet, Sydney.
flj'liuiraithJ^asharn&Oo.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLGAEIDIE, 35.0 TONS,
SAIT, 1 OHTXKUIVLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
■Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘l L WRAITH, M'EACHARIU AMD CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany- and Fre ninth)
Sydney Agents-BURNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


“ H.” : There is a remarkable engineering
project, in France, for a railway across the Sahara,
from Algiers, and right to that point in Africa
where the continent is nearest South America and
begins to tuck in for the Bight. Such a railroad,
in conjunction with steamboat services, would
shorten the time on the journey from Paris to
Buenos Ayres by about one-half.
“F.”: The Abbotsford Convent figures
in a recent “Plain English” letter are under-
stated. The number of inmates of the Magdalen
Asylum on June 30th last was 338. During the
previous 12 months the admissions to the home
were 98, whilst 85 women were “restored to
friends, or otherwise provided for.” Some of the
aged inmates, of course, are practically fixtures.
They have been there 20 or 30 years, or more, and
in such cases the Government saves the ten-
shillings-a-week pension, for which they would be
eligible if they went forth into the world again.
Which is possibly a factor in Premier Peacock’s
ardent admiration for the Abbotsford Convent
work, though that smileful personage says it was
the spectacle of all the human belongings of
the convent, gathered together at the laying, of
the foundation-stone of the new wing, which
“knocked” him. The most impressive thing he
ever saw in his life, declares the man with the
terrible guffaw.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen la el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyHE
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOUOHITIS,
DIABRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o»
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fsa
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ABBLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TIIIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.- Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Steeet, SYDNEY.
ill
is;
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATED WATERS.
'T'HE “ AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Pour Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Agent: WM. JOHNSON, 343 Queen-street, Brisbane
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st,, MELBOURNE.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
The Public think Soap is Soap.
So it is—but there’s a great
difference in Soaps. Some injure
the Complexion, but VINOLIA
improves it.
VINOLIA SOAP is Specially prepared
for delicate , sensitive skins , and is acknow-
ledged in every country the Finest Soap in
the World for the Complexion.
f
Dr. Olarkaon’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkaon’a He-Invlgorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR
wiU bring happiness and health. The influence of the« two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for fil
CALL OR WRITE—
OWL r c a u x t e DRUG
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TKUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System. Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frt m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection, of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail' in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
mimity)
IIMUNE^
HMMiMWi
ALFALINE
-HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials , than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMPSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/ : . Course, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wa-ting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage-
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/•
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, !/-.
mmm* «i
iSfii '
-•v. - .-l-v.
' >SSB
111
H EfißAl AIFAUnI PIU
gSMInIUM
A USEFUL BOOK
SENTJREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfa line Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies hf Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hii
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Q,ueen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington. FREMANTLE—Henry-st
; A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
The recent increase of violent crimes both
in Melbourne and Sydney is too marked to be
ignored. The forces of the law, instead of being
marshalled against the street vendor of pen’orths
of violets, the shilling punter, and the seller of
the Sabbath banana, should realise that the
average citizen has a body to be kicked as well as
a soul to be damned; and that the former is just
now in much the more dire danger.
Beale and Co. are building another large
factory to their already extensive establishment at
Annandale, Sydney. This firm has devoted a
life-time of thoroughness and experience to piano
and sewing-machine manufacture, and should hold
their own more than formerly with the splendid
means now at their disposal.*
“ Quad ” : Woollahra House (Mr. W.
Cooper’s old home), now the property of “ Tom ”
Longworth, of Cobar copper fame, is in the
running for the N.S.W. State Governor’s official
residence. The house has one of the finest ball-
rooms in N.S.W., but when the estate was sub-
divided no provision was made for a roadway to
said ball-room ; guests must land at the main
entrance and walk through the building to reach
it.
“ I have found,” says Mr. Geo. Jenkins,
C.M.G., the high priest of Victorian official
ceremony, “ that in a pure democracy there is
always the greatest anxiety on the subject of
precedence. Every day I found 40,000 people
waiting to see me. Half of them wanted invita-
tions, and the other half wanted to sit on the dais
with the Duke and Duchess. Some of the
bitterest enemies that I have made during the
whole of my long official life were made because I
could not, and would not, put them on the dais.
First of all, everybody came for their invitation
cards. Afterwards three-quarters of the number
came back and said : ‘ Here, you can take back
these entree cards, Mr. Jenkins. We could not
possibly accept them. Mr. Smith is in a row in
front of us, and Mr. Brown, to whom we do not
speak, and who is much lower in the social scale
than we are, is two rows in front of us.’ It was
not much wonder that Mr. Gale found it difficult
to see me.”
There is quite a boom in organising
sweated (N.S.W.) workers. The Cold-Stor-
age employees met the other day to form a
union. They now work for 9d. an hour in stores
at from lOdeg. above to 15deg. below zero ; their
organised brethren, the wharf-laborers, are
(thanks chiefly toW. M. Hughes) receiving Is. 6d.
for the same time, but with the cold blast off.
Then the cold-storage workers object to being
now and then worked from 100 to 110 hours at a
stretch, and often being called to a job for a
stated hour and being forced to wait several hours
before commencing—pay only beginning when
they start. The meat-canning employees are also
moving ; they claim that they work 62 hours .a
week for 20s. to 35s ; an exception is one foreman,
who has been in the trade for 11 years, and he
gets only £2 2s. The same strong desire for better
terms has spread to the wool and hide workers at
Botany. The Newcastle tailors have struck for a
15 per cent, increase in wages; and a section of
the Sydney boot-trade has just formed a society
of clickers. The president of the Bootmakers’
Union, who presided at a meeting of the sweated
clickers t’other night, detailed the condition of
workers: 12s. 6d. to £2 (average 275. 6d. weekly)
for all-round expert workman. Maoriland and
Victoria’s lowest rate, he said, is £2 2s. Simul-
taneously the Brisbane men held a meeting, and a
conference with the employers was decided upon.
In Brisbane, it seems during 1899, out of 887
males in the trade there were 387 boys, of whom
186 were above 18 years. Average wage for men,
£ll7s. Bd.; for boys, 13s. 6d. The 138 women
employees averaged 19s. weekly; the 220 girls,
7s. 9Jd.
According to a cable—which reads like a
particular bit of “nark”—the behaviour of the
undergraduates at Gape Town University Com-
mencement, in the presence of the Dukeandutch,
was most decorous, and formed a striking con-
trast to the uproarious behaviour of the Mel-
bourne students.” This is accounted for in Mel-
bourne, where the undergrads, got on to a few
personal and sartorial peculiarities of the Juke’s
literary mouthpiece, and made a song of them.
The potentate in question smiled and smiled
under the infliction, like a nervous man with a
steam-roller on his corned toe, but he “ had it in
for ’em ” all the time, and this message is evi-
dently an attempt to “get back.” But the idiocy
of the Melb. students certainly pulled the Duke
off his pedestal, and made him look throughout
the function like an anxious small boy “up for
cuts.”
The cabled comments on the marked
difference between the conduct of the Cape Town
students when the Duke visited the local uni-
versity, and that of the Melbourne and Sydney
university students has aroused indignation in
Melbourne. The “ Commencement ” there passed
off well and little comment was made at the time ;
but the ’Varsity dons have met in solemn protest
at the slight on Melbourne University. The
Sydney professors, however, have not met in any
protesting spirit. Not much ! They held one
meeting—five minutes after the rout of the Duke
and suite. It was then carried unanimously that the
professors should not grace with their presence the
social event held that afternoon; and at next Senate
meeting recommended that in future the students
should be kept out of the University’s annual
festival. As a matter of policy the Sydney papers
were prevented from saying much about the row
but its consequences threaten to shake Sydney
University to its foundations.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Severe recent depredations upon the
poultry of a Sydney suburb were discovered to be
the work of a peculiar-looking dog, which, upon
being shot, turned out to be an escaped dingo from
the Zoo.
The luck of some people. The captain of
a China boat calmly sails into Rockingham Bay,
near Cardwell, N.Q., over the Barrier Reef, having
mistaken his port. He wanted Rockingham Bay,
W.A., about 4000 knots away. Being advised of
his error he coolly sailed out again. Mark the
spot on the map and ask any coastal skipper how
he would like to chance it.
A Critical Case.
A Senior-Inspector of Police Submits
his Evidence.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills add one more
name to the long list of their wonderful cures.
It is for those once placed on the verge of the
grave, and who have been given a longer term
of life by the timely use of this wonderful
remedy, to give the Pills their due of praise.
All who use them give them a good name, but it
is only those who, after a long and dangerous
sickness, feel through their use the rich blood
of perfect health in their veins, that can bring
warmth and conviction and the clear ring of
manly and vigorous truth to their words. Such
a man is Senior-Inspector W. T. Langworthy, of
Yass, New South Wales, who writes as fol-
lows : “Dear Sirs, —For many years I have
been a sufferer from rheumatism, constipation,
giddiness, violent pains in the head, and a
‘liver,’ colds, chills, and, worse than all,
lumbago; of course, I got temporary relief from
doctors and chemists. At last I read your pamph-
let on Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and I con-
sidered the vegetable ingredients would not
hurt, and took four—then three, and no pain.
The change was wonderful. Instead of leaning
against the wall while putting on my trousers,
as usual, through giddiness, I was abie to stand
upright, and I felt a desire to turn a somersault
upon the bed as a boy would. You would laugh.
Well, sirs, it is a fact. I have used them now
occasionally for three years, and carry the little
bottle with me on the road when travelling. I
recommend them to everybody, with good results.
Whenever I look at the little bottle, I feel that
I owe one debt to you, and now I will repay it
by expressing my gratitude.” (I have no objec-
tion to my testimonial being used relative
to the benefit I derived from Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.—W. T. Lang worthy.)
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is ljd per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
im
fa®
w*
i m
*
•cm
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Omce.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W.W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
ft
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s.
Ten Shots in S inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Martini
Sporting 1 Rifles, take 44 Winchester Cartridges, very
accurate; Lee Enfield and Metford Rifles. “ Sharpshooting
for Sport and War, ’’posted 1/2. Stamps from other States
not accepted. S 3" All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Glxas. W. Bneliil and,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
IF YOU WISH TO SUCCEED
lIM LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
saf
THE PELMAM SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OP MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OP TESTIMONIALS PROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES, -a®
A DOCTOR WRITES :—“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles.”—Allan Perry
Stinson, L.R.O.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros"
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address— THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman School of" Memory Training,
G.P.O. Box 402, MELBOURNE.
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PH I s
For all LIVER complaints.
A Hlgh-Crade Wheel.
RED BIRD BICYCLES.
Built under strictest supervision by British mechanics in one ol the largest Bicycle
i? actories m the World.
Orank mechanism is strong and easily adjusted. The frame is strengthened by three
layers of tapered steel liners at every point. *
Wo can arrange Time Payment Terms.
Branches in Every State.
Red Bird Bicycle Department —
-64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Inasmuch astETbSky* Vte £ ho « e -°"'ners -
.j i ’ ’ for 1901-02 promises 00ft in
Whp !vl o Sed Whllst the V - R -°- has been increas-
Is!* ™s ®, SSJTS && as
as cne A.J.O. in its allotment of cash to the owners of
second and third horses. Also, speaking as the purely
LT- e ‘‘ 8 M m T* er ° f a businMS concern, Byron Moot
pay us £6O <wf S r P r V us f ab ° ut £6OOO a - vear ' the public
nothino- „U fV l6an to i he P ublic - Owners pay us
nothing , all the moneys they pay for the Driviletre of
Z'nfT* ned t 0 them , in
amount of added money given by any club south of the
.* * • •
Qutte likely that the winner of next Caulfield Cud
™ as , ln fie ' Q d or Victorian Club Handicap at Caul-
anddßlackerwaaitUn day - H J’ mefctus * ““““issi, Ampler,
one of m W r f re a dangerous quartette. Only
one of them, Hymettus, was backed for the little race
a «’ and he Won ifc ’ but ifc doesn’t follow that the
patched-up victor of 98 will show the other three his
of e tTvm 6 fi Ti! h of tbe C .-°- In f acfc, the bringing out
?h«? , si ttUB i. h “ 8 i e ?r ly ln the season rather suggests
t at Hey woods stable may have something better to
«id k Amoi! When oarnlval -tinie begins, whereas Massinissa
the A are sus P ec ted of being rods in pickle. By
and h'ic A m P« er , “'et Wltb a Bli ffht mishap awhile ago,
?' fit ” h to th d A° have ,i m paired his chance of coming
the Post for Caulfield Cup. But the same animal
was thought to be out of form” last Sprint when he
of°monev E £ S rT Randica P>. ak Randwiek, and landed a lot
of his bookmaking connections.
h/JSS? 10 ”# (, N -S-W.) Spring Handicap used to
be a meeting of big bets, with hints for the Metrop., till
suburban proprietary clubs knocked it out. Bar Ferry-
man, last Saturday’s field was the worst in the history of
the race Ferryman carried 9.10, but was shut in every
tne u to , away, and Sirdar pulled himself
together and got home. Ferryman was third. Sirdar’s
fi e i S Sin'fh W tr the \ J 'P' Handicap. He carries
L l3 m E P s ° m to-day (Sat.), and 6.10 in the Metrop.
“onday On Saturday’s showing he’ll probably be
»nHM d f f ° r the .fe m ' f err .vman is also in the Epsom
and Metrop. with 81b. and 26ib. less respectively, and may
be relied upon to play the horse for both events, after
Saturday’s showing. ’
• » • .
Sydney four-year-old St. Mars, by Bill of Port-
jand’ Hem Musket mare Forest Queen, started at eights
in Park Stakes at Hawkesbury, Saturday, and left 19
starters behind easily. Mr. Ohirnside (Vic.) bred him.
and he won easily enough to indicate that there are possi-
Dilities about him as a galloper. r
m * * m
Nothing stands out over-much for A.J.O. Derby
to-day (Sat.) On strength of his win at Tatt’s. Club
meetmg Sir Leonard would look promising but for the
fact that he was easily “ dog-walloped ” at Rosehill a week
before by Grasspan. Extra weight favors Grasspan,
while it may take out of Sir Leonard the dash which he
showed with only 7.8 to hump. But Sir Leonard at
Randwick was close on 2st. better than at Rosehill, and if
there s anything in that form he holds Huasca, Grasspan,
Caravel and Ibex safe enough. Barring a saver on Sir
Leonard Hautvilliers will carry this writer’s bit, mainly
because Scobie has Mr. Bailey’s colt in rare trim, and the
nag finished up the Autumn something better than Ibex
or Grasspan. '
* • • *
To-day si(Sat.) A.J.C. Epsom is the most open
for years. There are a dozen likely winners, and the best
way to get a good reliable tip is to put 10 names in a bag,
shake em up, and plunge on the first that comes out.
Anyhow, it would be no worse than other tips.
* * • *
Three-year-olds Cretonne, Sir Leonard, and
Bruntwood promise well for Monday’s Metrop. Sir
Leonard was heavily backed weeks ago. Owner Cooper is
very confident. Others of the same age are Ibex, Haut-
inllers Caravel, Rock Gun, Prince Butler, Nymagee, and
John See. Three-year-olds have rarely won the Metrop ,
Bylong scoring in ’66-the first year. Eleven years after
Amendment got away with it, and then 11 more years
elapsed before another three-year-old had a look in.
Distance was originally two miles, and ever since it was
reduced to one and a-half the old ’uns have scooped it
* • * *
Invader-Miss Monmouth nag Lord Monmouth
won Q. Cup (11-mile) with 9.2 up in 2.10 without any
violent efforts. If he isn’t asked to exceed his distance
his lordship will yet probably be heard of among the fast
ones.
* * • .
G-ozo-Geruda colt Gozard was simply rushed by
punters in Second Novice Handicap (11-mile) at recent
Q. 1.0. meet. He won easily, and looks quite an
aristocrat with the makings of a champion about him
Gozard is worth watching.
_ Maoriland G.N. ’Chase (£650) was won by Gobo
(9 .- lb) - la . 8t y ear ’ s Straybird (12.10) was favorite,
with Moifa next. Moifa blundered badly, running l off a
mile from home. The Guard (12.2) was second, and
S'mW"?^ nly tbird ‘ In the G - N - Hurdles,
Moifa (12 10) started favorite of 11, but Sou’-Wester nag
Hayden (list.) won the £5OO, and Moifa was among the
, ber starters.” Last year Record Reign won with
12.12 up. *
• • * *
M.L.’chaser, Roller, sired by Australian Cup
winner Dreadnought, won Lincoln Steeple at M L G N
meeting in a canter, and should do better when 'he
matures.
* * * •
The Maorilander, Seahorse (Nelson—Moonga)
has been sold by Major George to Mr. S. H. Gollan for
vr and W 1 Ilke ‘y be sent ’Ome without waiting for
Melb Cup. Seahorse was a first-flighter as a three-vear-
old, but couldn’t show his true form at Flemington, and
has only raced once since. Although supposed to be
under a cloud, he passed the vet.
* * • »
The tote again. Auckland (M.L.) Racing Club
£2 , 1,4 ?° in stakea this season—an increase of
f 1370 ' as fc year. Auckland Cup has been raised
Cup 1 *° £1350—£150 less than value of the N.Z.
* * * *
Two M.L. racing clubs now pay-out on first and
second horses with striking success, and the practice may
prove general. A few pay “ odd money ”up to sixpence,
but others grip it tight-—a species of thievery strongly
condemned Thus, if the “cut-out” is lid., club and
tote-proprietor whack it. In Adelaide, writer believes, it
is distributed amongst charities.
* • * •
.. The dual-divided system is calculated to knock
the pestilential M.L. tote-bettor right out. Some of him
have already retired ; others, instead of paying two divs
pay out a third more to the winner, and as the public has
been picking ’em with sickening regularity lately, Ikev is
loudly denouncing clubs for “ taking the bread out of his
mout/ii.
* * ♦ *
M.L. Police Commissioner Tunbridge com-
plams, re the inability of the “ foorce ” to deal with the
tote-bettor who swarms all over the footpath in every big
town in the province, that magistrates hold that tote-
betting must be absolutely proved before a conviotion
can follow, and condemn the police if they seek to make
bets or procure others to do so in order to secure the
necesssrjr evidence. WeU, “straight-out” wagering is
lawful ana tote-betting isn't, and beaks are naturally
careful when confronted with contradictory testimony.
Ihe Commission w asks for power to arrest without war-
rant betting-men doing business in the streets.
* * * *
The evergreen Totalisator Abolition Bill has
again been talked out in M.L. House of Reps
* * * *
Orange (N.S.W.) greyhound, Golden Queen,
won Toowoomba (Q.) 0.0. Cup on Aug. 21 from 19 others,
after dividing first Q. Waterloo Oup with Chesterfield.
Un Aug. 26 the dog was back in Sydney, and two days
later was first favorite in Sydney 0.0. Commonwealth
Stakes, but was left in semi-final.
* * • •
The Oxenham establishment scooped Sydney’s
two big winter billiard-tournies. “Oxy” himself won
that at big Tatt’s Club, and one of his clerks ate up
all-comers at City Tatts. Neither had laid himself, and
consequently scored a skinner.
* * * *
At Moreland (Vic.) young Fraser (a lad of 12)
a at with the men, and
usingaWb. gun ioaded with 45gr. amberite and ljoz.
JNo. 8 shot (sad to say), grassed 23 out of a possible 25.
Sl * w e. re brought down with one barrel, and some
of the shooting made the old hands curse with admiration
and envy. Fraser has only to keep on living in the same
old groove, and he will become a real champion at the
despicable game.
* * * *
Cabled that Gaudaur is favorite for the world’s
sculling supremacy at Rat Portage this week. The
%f e n t ? ? anuck lnslsts on his owa referee and that water
shall be perfectly smooth,” and his (Gaudaur’s) nominee
referee is to decide whether the water is smooth or not.
If a cat s paw ruffles the surface, the referee can declare
, n ° Gaudaur doesn’t want to race, and Towns
does, but if Gaudaur doesn’t get all he wants Towns won’t
get his match.
• • •
. Trudge : Read somewhere that world’s mile
swimming record-holder-Oornstalk George Reid-would
certainly squelch champion of the world Joey Nuttall if
they.got together. Now nobody knows what the ’Ome
wonder can really do. He wasn’t extended in that match
wi th Yankee M Cusker, though then he established a new
mUe best. The Murkan couldn’t swim a vard with him.
btult about N. s inertia, and his pub. doesn’t count for
much as he kept swimming every day and never had a
hankering for liquor. On July 22 Nuttall easily reduced
the world s 500.yds. figures from 6.42 3-5 to 6.24 1-5 after
V 1 ! 1 -? 3 >;?L led at b y hiB advisers to ease off.
Goes that look like back number” work? Reid might
beat him, but it will be no walk over
**. ’ *
Best road cycling feat accomplished in Australia
was credited to W.A. bikist O. S. Prowse who recently
covered 25 miles in lh. 6min. 5 4-ssec. Course was out
“ d ho, " e . over 12} miles and bad in places. Previous
speediest (shared in by several) reached lh. 9min.
* * *
. N.S.W.-M.L. football history is a record of
besf Ste for °N t q e u? re s t Lan<L The y ear ’B2 was the
wnn N.S.W.—her team went to Maoriland and
i 0 « S ', X mafcch f - . years later a Island
ii 4 ?!. Sydne ? , and slm Pi.V ran over the local
players in all three matches. N.S.W. went to M.L in ’B6
and got nine consecutive and awful drubbings. In ’96
sin u° r «- kS I "’,V al * esfc match at Christchurch by
8 to 6, and m 97 the Maorilanders came to Sydney and
won two out of three with 47 points to 33. *
TheN.S.W.-M.L. Rugby test-match at Wei
K? n ,r aS o hg £- lu “ cheon for the Maorilanders from
the start. Combination was lacking on both sides, and
the game mostly consisted of a scramble among the for-
wards. There were occasional geyser-like spurts, but
""kh'ng swift occurred, and the audience started to read
the afternoon papers. Cornstalks were obviously stale,
2*»S*“* t 0 ° rac J c , M^h f up more than once. In the
first half the Maoriland team scored 14 to the Cornstalks’
l n sec °nd half the continentals pulled
themselves together and played better, but it was not till
Bn ‘, ln , B ' before time that Lindsay got an unconverted try,
a 9 d lle f^ an ? e ended 20 to 3. Costello was badly hurt
about the head ; and the gate-money for this unholy
walloping was £420. N.S.W. team was not expected to
do anything brilliant, as the material for a first-class in-
vading team was not available ; the influenza had played
havoc among good men who could get away, and N.S W
was quite unable to take on M.L. and Queensland at the
* a ™ e . The men were stale with continual playing
and travelling, and they met a fresh, fast crowd from the
northern goldfields, Taranaki, Wairarapa, and the pick of
the southerners, and were outclassed in physique and
vigor from the very first. 4
* • • •
Forty-eighth N.S. W. -Queensland football-match,
at Brisbane, last Saturday, was played before 4000 people
m ram and slush. Home team won by 15 to 6. Gueens-
Lr* le^ St i^! f ’ but N.S.W. forwards played the better
game with little luck. Bananalanders lasted longest
and in second half played their best. N.S.W. full-back
was kicked in the kidney region, and had to be carried off
* • «
Peter Burns, captain of Geelong (at present
heading the list in Vic. football premiership matches), has
an Australian record in having played continuously for
21 years. Burns captained the Vic. teams against S.A. in
June and Aug., and has often acted similarly before.
Stated by the friends of Ernest -Jones that he
has got hunseff into perfect condition by labor on the
AdeJaide wharves, and may, with reasonable luck,
be as fast and effective a bowler next summer as in ’96
* * * m
® ULLETIN ’s London correspondent :
B , hodd Ma claren and his team ever reach Australia
and there get federally and unfederally licked I
can promise you some rare ‘ eccentrics ’ on the noble
herefna«?f £wice Essex and v. Middlesex) has
he refused to bat m his side s second innings, or to give
any reason for his refusal. His own co-cricketers cannot
explain or supply the therefore ’to the ‘ why or where-
fore, and Mac., playing comparatively poorly this season
is more unpopular on every side than ever. Whatever
the nddle-key, you can rely upon some queer incidents
in the coming tour—if it comes.” moments
* • * •
Died at North Sydney t’other day Mr. Joseph
Musgrave (cetat 91), Australia’s oldest bowler. Mr T
Musgrave, proprietor Braid wood (N.S.W.) Dispatch, is
deceased’s eldest son. ’ a
*. * • *
Black iniddle-weight Ike Stewart put up his
props to Harry Phillips (Q.), at the Golden GateA C
(Sydney) Saturday night. Phillips slogged the air tre-
mendously, but got one unmerciful wattle-snoozer on to
Stewart, which almost laid him out. In the third round
Spread the Q ue enslander out,
the purse mterfered * and referee Dooley gave Stewart
*
’Twas 30 years ago last month (Aug.), since
Pewittran his great half-mile against time
™ P lc ?“ ton ® oad > Christchurch (M.L.), notching 1.534.
This has only been beaten once since—by 0. H.
Wh ° jUSt pipped ifc run
* * * »
P ar - (10/8/’l) anent length of stride
Wnter on many occasions measured finishing-
qfcpdfs.ofnJ - S . tace Smith, champion for two years of the
.flways went 9ft., or within an inch there-
-10 S th 8 helght WaS sffc- lliin ‘* and he has done
* • • •
. £ cQntest which threatens to excite a number
“ore Wlldl y than the visit of Duke and
a laying competition among fowl-owners.
ous bfrds a S nd 6en pulled by the champions of vari-
accused rg^"? en and Beveral Politicians are
accused of using inflamed language. The latest proposal
closelv cminf h tbP?r WlS ° f the contestants, watch them
Closely, count their eggs over a fixed term, and award the
prize accordingly. Naturally the modest fowl which isn’t
accustomed to laying in public will get agitated and fail
to do itself justice, while the shameless and hardened
hen that is accustomed to be out late at night will collect
the stakes.
* * » •
A very satisfactory entry has been received by
the Dunlop .Tyre Co. for their big road race from
Warrnambool to Melbourne next month. Close upon a
hundred cyclists nominated for this Blue Ribband event.
Handicaps are due on the 16th inst.


sa
Our Chain Bangles
are English Hall-
Marked,
and stamped on
every link.
Write for on.
Illustrated
Souvenir
Catalogue.
Sent Free.
16-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £2 17 6
15 ct CHAIN BANGLE, £3lO 0
15-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £4lO 0
15-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £5 0 0
15-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £5 15 0
15-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £615 0
9-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £1 2 6
9-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £1 7 6
9-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £1 15 0
9-ct CHAIN BANGLE, £2 7 6
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Next Shadier>s Cafi).
EXACTING CRITICS
PRONOUNCE
Karris Bicycle
Perfect in construction, simple in adjustment. Capable of carrying heavy riders over any class of road
and extremely easy running.
Gradual Payment Terms can be arranged. Second-hand Bicycles taken in part payment for latest models.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zeeland.
fsa
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
SjWiQg Macbip€s, Bicyclg Sflpdrigs,
Lcttgr-Filipg CabipgtS. . . .
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS,
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 5 0 No. 3 Drawer and
and £7 10s. Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 1 Treadle .... 8 0 0 No. 3J Cover, 3
No. 2 Treadle and Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
Drawer .. .. 8 6 0 And upwards to .. 18 18 0
• NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Running: Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 6
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 6 0
No. 36 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 615
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT,
All above Prices
are on a . • .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you con Buy for Cash ?
“ fever njind baby I Jt will soon grow now. 1
‘H ARLENE’
a hair.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
"I/-, 2/©, and (triple 2/6 size) 4-/© per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Go.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
A very handsome match-box is being
issued as an advertisement by the Atlas Pipe
Wrench Co., through N. Guthridge, Ltd., 71
Clarence-street, Sydney.*
Cabled that the Boers in the concentra-
tion-camps are showing themselves most ungrate-
ful, and construing the kindness extended to them
as sympathy with their cause. Then, later on,
comes a cable that of 1067 deaths in the concentra-
tion-camps during July, 860 of the victims were
children! With so much to be thankful for, the
Boer’s ingratitude is indeed a marvellous thing.
Melbourne’s “ wretched climate ” has
created a panic among Federal legislators, several
of whom have fled in dismay, pursued by influenza,
pneumonia and similar pleasantries. Wise mem-
bers, however, speedily discovered that the only
cure for “the wretched climate” lay in D.C.L.
Whisky, and so obviated the necessity for flight.
That so few legislators fled is a testimony to the
combined wisdom of the House, and to the
extraordinary efficacy of the medical comfort in
question—D.C.L.—The Whisky of The Wise.
Touching that Heaven-born refreshment, we
would say with the late Tom Hood,
Think of it, drink of it
Dissolute man !•
Melbourne’s latest sensation puts up a
record for utter unaccountableness. A Carlton
constable, hearing screams at 1 a.m., investigated,
and discovered a woman with a revolver bullet in
her head lying on the floor of her own bedroom.
He rushed her off to hospital, and on the way
thither she told a circumstantial story of a masked
man, who entered with a skeleton key, demanded
and got her purse, tore off her rings, fired three
shots into her and decamped. Further investiga-
tion at the house revealed, in the next room, a
small daughter of 11 and a baby-cousin, aged 4.
The former said she went to bed at 10,
leaving her mother talking to some lady
friends and a certain “Jim.” Later, she
was awakened by someone striking a match,
and saw her mother and a man in her room talk-
ing. The man asked for the loan of some money,
and the mother said “ All right.” Almost imme-
diately after there ensued three shots, many
screams and general consternation. The daughter
said that the man’s voice sounded like —r -’s,
but she was quite certain it couldn’t be, “as he
was always so fond of mother.” A side-issue in
the matter is that the parties were consuming
oysters some time before the shooting episode.
There are very often a lot of oysters in such cases.
“Fx&R” Watches
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are jewelled in 10 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are made in every style of case.
They are stem-winders.
They have opal enamel dials.
These Watches go with profound accuracy, stand hard riding and
knocking about, and will wear a life-time.
We keep them in order for two years (breakages excepted), and
guarantee them for 15 years.
m
a
In Gent’s Open-face Oxydised Oases, 25/6
In Gent’s ~ Silver Oases 42/-
In Gent’s Silver Hunting Case 50/-
In Gent’s Silver J-Hunter Case 55/-
Lady’s Open-face Oxydised Oase 9 407-
Lady’s Silver Hunting ~ 60/-
Lady’s Silver Case, 55/-
Lady’s 14ct. Gold £5 6s
Lady’s 18ct. „ £6 6s
Fairfax & Roberts.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-street, BYDNEY
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
South Grafton (N.S.W.) people are happy.
They are to have a clock-tower to the local post-
office, despite the decision of Federal P.M.G.
Drake that no more shall be erected. South
Grafton is in the electorate of Premier See.
Everyone should purify their blood by
taking a course of Antiuric—it prevents disease.
We can prove that a few shillings’ worth has cured
rheumatism after hundreds of pounds have been
paid to doctors without obtaining relief. Highest
references to responsible persons. A course of
treatment, sufficient for any ordinary case, sent
post-paid to any part of Australasia on receipt of
55., postal-note or money-order; stamps, 6d. extra.
Address —Antiuric Co., Box 842, Sydney.*
It is a curious fact that in Great Britain
the existence of an army is prohibited by law.
Every year the law is suspended for another 12
months by special Act. Some da-y there will be
a hitch and the special Act will get through a day
too late, and then for 24 hours the humblest
private will be able to kick the Commander-in-
Chief with no worse prospect than being fined,
as an ordinary citizen, for assaulting another
ordinary citizen.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-at.. Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Tb*
Callages?
Boot
This Boot is
a Photograph
from STOCK.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
g§J||
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED If not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED If you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6; post paid, 23/6
„ „ Lace, „ ~ ~ 21/ _ j » 22/-
All sizes and fittincs.
Your orders are filled,
the same DAT as received.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St, Sydney
At Poverty Point.
The last three operas produced during the Italian
season in Melbourne were “ La Boheme,” “ Un Ballo ana
“ Rigoletto.” In Sydney they took their turns among
the first four, as the result of managerial experience
down South,’though the present co. certainly doesn’t shine
in the Verdi operas by comparison with the best perform-
ances of yore. Signora Guttica, and Melossi as the
Jester, scored a memorable success in “ Rigoletto ” some
years back. All the same, the present crowd of Italians,
taking one performance with another, are probably the
strongest company that Australia has sampled.
“ Esmi ” : Oomic stage-business is apt to divert atten-
tion too much from the music, even if the audience
refrains from laughter. At “La Boheme,” I closed
my eyes, to rest them a moment from the glare, during
Musetta’s coquettish fooling in the second act, and im-
mediately became aware of the great beauty of the music
then being played. Finding it more enjoyable to listen
than to watch the performance, I kept my eyes closed.
“Melb.” : Atholwood is the only performer who will
figure in the Wilson Barrett cast of “ The Sign of the
Cross,” after being included in that with Julius Knight.
People are so accustomed to see Jimmy Atholwood in old
man parts (bulbous-nosed as a rule) that they were quite
confounded with the sight of him as the yellow-wigged
young clerk in “ Man and his Makers.” They mistook
him for an imported boy comedian. “ Atholwood ? Im-
possible 1”
The music hall profession will soon have to be brought
under the Shops and Factories Act. A Brisbane show
works its artists seven nights a week and gives a Saturday
matinee.
Announced that Wilson Barrett has written a new his-
torical play with Alfred the Great as the central character.
Two things to be sincerely hoped for are that it won’t
bear so striking a resemblance to anything else as “ The
Sign of the Cross” does to “ Quo Vadis,” and that Alfred
will wear more clothes than Claudian does.
A bright and sprightly little actress, on leaving Mel-
bourne by train recently, was attended to the station by a
crowd of admirers, mainly masculine, and the demon-
stration on the platform quite upset the railway regu-
lations and arrangements for the time being. Parting
was such sweet sorrow that one impressionable johnnie
blubbered publicly, and the bright, particular star was so
moved at this display of feeling that she gave_ way too,
and kissed all-comers with generous fervor. Blinded with
tears, she failed to discriminate between friends and
strangers, and two or three luggage-porters, a good grey
guard, and two enterprising young cabmen joined the
throng, and were rewarded with a pillowy hug and a large
feeling kiss apiece.
Lalla Miranda, at latest, was captivating them at Vichy
(France), as the name character in “ Lakma.” One critic
enthuses over her “crystalline voice and faultless acting.”
Another says “ The actress, as well as the slender singer,
has triumphed. With fine eyes, an expressive face, a
series of very enveloping attitudes (‘ enveloping ’ is good !)
Miranda gives to the beautiful Indian an attraction full of
flavor by reason of her charm and poetry. The fine voice
of the singer, attaining wi‘. bout effort the highest note in
the vocal scale, gives marvellously, in a clear and caressing
sonorousness, a melancholic color of the songs of Lackmb.”
And anotherprostrate worshipper of “Mdlle. LallaMiranda,
who was so much applauded at Brussels at the Thbatre La
Monnaie,” exclaims “What a sweet and charming
voice she has. She was encored more than twenty times,
and I take this opportunity of addressing to her my
most sincere congratulations.” The news that the
Spanish-Australian warbler is a delightful Indian girl
comes as a matter of course to her admirers hereabouts.
She is still quite young, and has preserved all the distinc-
tive charm of the personality that made her a favorite
concert singer before she was out of her teens. An artis-
tic portrait post-card issued this year from the Brussels
Theatre Royal de la Monnaie shows Lalla Miranda looking
out from a frame, and the up-to-date face might have
been taken from an old Melbourne photo, of the adorable
brunette.
Australia is dropping behind the times in its theatrical
productions. “ San Toy ” drew a record first-night house
at Capetown (of all places!) early in June.
Melba, as the consumptive Mimi in “ La Boheme,” is
evidently regarded as a physical joke. London Referee
critic says: “Mine. Melba, I am told, thinks she is an
ideal Mimi. There is much comfort in self-faith, and
Melba certainly sings the music charmingly.”
Letter received at this office from a well-known variety
artist“ Editor Bulletin.- -Many Thanks For Your
Oritisum I Will Endavor Have A Try To Please You n 1
Have Another Try In Your Presence those Critusums is
What makes me Cautious and Try To Please My Audi-
ence.—Your Amusement Servant, Blank.”
At Poverty Point they are speculating as to how a cer-
tain human hair-pin manages to get into those tight mili-
tary breeches. Does he grease his soles and use a shoe-
horn, bai Jove ?
The Westralian goldfields are a hard road to travel just
now with any sort of theatrical show. Business-manager
Lohr said of Arnold’s recent visit to Kalgoorlie, Cooi-
gardie, &c. : “ We did very well indeed, but two years ago
we’d have done 25 per cent, better.”
One of the youngest of Williamson’s Italian Opera co.
(born in 1872) is Signora Benedetto, who has been trying
hard to say “the ” and learn the “ th ” sound generally
in the intervals of being a brown Ethiopian maiden m Che
days of the unbuilt Pyramids. The signora is a nice-
looking girl, though that is not apparent under the brpwn
paint of Alda, which necessarily thickens the contour of
the face and adds heaviness to the features. When that
coating is off, she possesses a complexion that it is posi-
tively sinful to bury in the manner of Aida. The signora,
according to a Melbourne interviewer, has a strong
admiration for Wagner ; also, though this statement has
no connection with the other, a vivid faith in the musical
culture of the Melbournites. As a matter of course, she
was also reported as remarking that she would like to
reside in Melbourne permanently ; it is one of the trials
of the mummer’s lot that she has to have a consuming
desire to live everywhere all the rest of her days. Doubt-
less Miss Benedetto wants to live permanently in Sydney,
too. She also discovered that the Melbournites have ihe
“ spark of intuition” ; and if that same spark isn’t found
in the harbor city, there will be trouble in store for the
unfortunate Italian.


Wellington (N.S.W.) is on the road to
Sheol if the local churches, are to be credited. C.
of E., Wesleyan, Presbyterian and Salvationist
clergy unitedly condemned the proposal to raise
hospital subscriptions on a recent Sunday. Dese-
cration of the Sabbath, yell the clerics. But
Wellington persists.
“ Melb.’ 7 : A thing which has got to come
is a central news agency. Four separate little
concerns are at work on the Commonwealth Par-
liament reports. They ought to combine and
send a man to London, New York, Washington,
and Paris, in order to get pon.jd up on news-
collecting bureaux. •
ERASMIC
PERFUME
fs delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST EOR IT . . .
THE NEWEST OF THE HEW.
If you Buy it from us it s all right .
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. FB7o4.—New Lucky Loll and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. E 8739. —Fine Dia-
mond and 18c. Gold
Ring, £i 10a.
Mas n i(i cent Diamond
and O al Cluster King,
' £l7 10s.
No. F 2254 —lsc. GoV] Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 lOs.
No. F3ss3.—New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold
12s (id.
No. F4546.—Fi
Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. Fs93.—Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
N0.F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10a.
No. E 5629. —New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
w ©
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£i iss. -
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Brooch, £3 15s.
No. ES6oo.—Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie dips, 5s 6d.
Heavy Make, XOs 6d.
Shamrock Brooch, £l lss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & GO.,
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
f
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
Iu Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
UO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
i
I II!
LABOR-SAVING
APPLIANCES
the Best House is
Mean Bros. & Rigg, [td.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. PERTH.
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Conneli-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st, MELBOURNE.
I3A.PTO
<Xia>lse
(LIMITED),
Ilawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCEPta
Off
fine silver.
*i
■
MAKERS OF
S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
•* BRA.NI> OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of BOLD, SILVER COKPER ORES, CYANIDE SLABS. JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD AtfLLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT G f ASSAYS. ¥
< ®' or * n^onnat * o1 ' 1 reer ‘ u<^‘ll t> Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Moiisic, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N,S. W.


ANTED
IMMEDIATELY.
GOOD REVERBATORY
FURNACE HANDS.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
North Mount Lyell Copper Co., Kelly Basin, Tasmania Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St.,
Melbourne
FALIERE’S PHOSPNATINE
pmspmiuzM^
FAUERESjjiU*
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN TIITS COUNTRY.
CUPULA
HAIR TOMIO.
111 II ■ ■■'■''l' '?
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with eacli bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3,G ; i bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
saf
saf
Don,t Take
it for
Granted
ORDER IT
SA UCE.
Because
it is the
Best
sa
PLAIN HOME TALK.
. 3 EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future,, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
dotti-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to, any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-marie tor ail occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking’ made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is Bd. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. MARiA Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest). Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man H s Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d posted.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. My price, leather bound, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal. Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Timf, Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
C
h\!<.
kt
m
K l lf
When
writing
please
mention
Bulletin.
LECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment-, send for one of Stephenson’s
■ ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
I strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
; CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
'■ LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
M They impart vigor and potency to every function,
n brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
.Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve, visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aUasbments 3 3 0
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
"‘FREEMAN
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Ordg Specialists in Anfralia iPhotMM
Received Hijhly. Commendable Press Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Disoases
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c., mo.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Regirtration by the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victor.a, South Australia, Great
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
TT is an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
* single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the grcati st
« dentists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and l’-(i iso IK
.
..V- ■
& ‘ 4'K *
WM
m
Yours truly . . .
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director, and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gam some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown thiougn
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see am
learn something of the real character of their wide pi ao-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer. ~ . „
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles witn which so.
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human!
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to.
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in--
terest is that devote'd to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Lame-
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the viork going on is had through the
glass doors. Half-a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are m
view.
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomj li hed by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’" consultation ticket, but their constant,
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,.
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder-
SB
Premises = Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, mini' te, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without a jy know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, Rave
than the enormous practice of the fathojus practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
he pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
I Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
1
m
I 'ours truly . . .
RICH AR D W A LLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.PL.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consultin')
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


A wonderfully gradual plaintiff sued his
brother-in-law in Melb. County Court, t’other
ay, for money alleged to be due since the early
nlties. I he aged warrior, nearing the century,
produced in support of his claim faded, yellow
letters dated 51 and ’58, so worn as to be nearly
illegible. Of course the Statute of Limitations
barred the action.
X.O. : In my Brisbane boarding-house
several returned cohentingenters have been stay-
ing recently. They have all gone back to Africa
on the indulgence-ticket racket because, as one of
, i • i o 1 * v ooouiuOvf Cvo vilU vl
them ‘Ihere is nothing for a fellow to do
11(31 G. J. IlG Only <W£Ii1c11i1g lfl.hnr WflS .Qnn.hhi-nor on
. The only available labor was scabbing on
the Brisbane wharves, where the lumpers are
trying for a living wage. Stevedores actually
calculate on getting two or three hundred kharkis
to fight the wharf toilers if they strike ! Of such
is “ the glory ” of Australia.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, LA BOHEME.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, LUCIA 01 LAMMERMOOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 7, Yerdi’s Magnificent Opera,
O T E L L O.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 4s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Henry Lee and J. G. Rial .. .. Lessees.
Jas. H. Love General Manager.
THE BIG CHANGE in the PROGRAMME by
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
is set for
Saturday Night, September 7.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Reserve Your Seats in Advance and get the Best.
Seats at Eivy’s and Theatre.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
24th WEEK. (FULLER THAN EVER.) 24th WEEK.
Fuller’s Empire Minstrel Specialty Co.
MISS HETTIE WARDEN, the English Serio.
THE LESLIE BROS., FUN IN A BAR-ROOM.
MR. CHAS. FANINC, the Great and Only.
MR. WILL STEVENS, MR. DENIS CARNEY, MR.
TED HERBERTE, MR. FRED BLUETT, MAIE and
ANDREWS, THE CLINTONS, &c., &c., &c.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE AMAZONS.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7, First Production in
Australia of LADY HUNTWORTH’S EXPERIMENT.
Box Plan at Eivy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
g_YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
THE MAGGIE MOORE BOOM.
TO-NIGHT AND TWO MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
STRUCK OIL. -
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7, for positively 6
nights only, Grand Revival of Dion Boucicault’s Famous
Masterpiece, ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Eivy’s.
CRITERION T H EAT RE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
THIRD WEEK and LAST TWO NIGHTS of
DEATH OR GLORY BOYS,
As Presented by Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 7, THE WORLD AGAINST HER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s
RICKAR DS> TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
For SATURDAY NEXT, Peruse Our COMPANY.
ZOBEDIE, the Marvellous.
Mr. AUSTIN RUDD. Mr. EDGAR GRANVILLE.
Mr. TEDDY BOX. Miss DAISY HARCOURT.
THE POCKET COMEDIAN. LITTLE GULLIVER.
THE DIAMOND DUO. Miss IVY SCOTT.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, FLORRIE RANGER,
STELLA RANGER, &c., &c., including
THE AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
Business Mana r-r .. Mr. E. F. Bradley.
EVERY EVENING,
THE CELEBR VTED HAWTREY COMEDY CO.,
In Richard Ganthony’s Play of the Century,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 3s; Stalls,
3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
Rickards* new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 7, for 12 FAREWELL NIGHTS
ONLY, MARIE LLOYD and ALEC HURLEY.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE, the Great Shadowgraphist
and Court Juggler.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Most Popular and Entertaining
Comedian in Australia, and all Our Great Co.
BJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
m" FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
THE SILVER. KUNTGr.
WILSON BARRET as WILFRED DENVER.
LILLAH M'OARTHY as NELLIE DENVER.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING.
For the First Time in Australia, the Melodrama,
RIPIN6 TO WIN.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. Gd., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6,
WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 6, LAST NIGHT of the SEASON,
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
THE CRANE-POWER CO.— A DRAMATIC EVENT.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 7, will be presented for the First
Time in Australia, the Remarkable Play,
3XT A. D J" It* ■ Z 315 A.,
By Maurice Barrymore.
Miss EDITH CRANE as THE* COUNTESS NADJEZDA.
Mr. TYRONE POWER as PRINCE ZABOUROFF.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
■yy ORL D’S FAIR,
Exhibition Building 1 ,
Melbourne.
Opening Day: SATURDAY, OCT. 12, 1901,
TO BE CONTINUED FOR 4 WEEKS.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF AMUSEMENTS.
£lOOO
To be Given for CYCLING. ATHLETICS and
TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &o.
Also :
ART UNION.
VALUE:
£lOOO X3ST PRIZE S.
TICKETS, Is.,
Admit to Fair and Give Chance in Art Union.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Hon Sec.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne.
USB -
SPOONERS
S 3 i
H I
SPOONERS
IATtNT LEATHtf SGJf
GLAZEC lU3S «
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops , Saddlers, etc
CAMERAS
liiliii
I
AND SUPPLIES
6 6 King S' Sydney.
YOU MAY OR MAY NOT
be particular about your Clothes.
IF YOU ARE,
we want to be YOUR TAILORS. Among'
our almost boundless varieties of weaves
and fabrics, including all the NEWEST
PATTERNS and effects for SPRING, you’ll
not have the slightest trouble in finding
something exactly to your liking.
Trust us with the fit and finish.
You’H find both faultless. There is a
certain individuality about
Pitt Strsst Nordero’S
TAILORING —a characteristic tone and
elegance that are appreciated by every man
who aims to dress well.
And the Prices are
Modest—Extremely So.
SEE OUR PATTERNS
before you decide on your SPRING SUIT. It
you cannot come in, we will post samples
to you FREE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Fashionable Gentlemen should see our new
Shapes in STRAW HATS.
The New-shaped ALPINE STRAW.
The “ HOPETOUN,” 8s 6d, 9s 9d, 10s 6d.
And a Choice Line in
“ALPINE” and FOLDING PANAMAS
Just Opened.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
Br ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
HOJ HIVH CEOO-O
All Ohemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
&W For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES ©F THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL !
fs
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
w
I
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DIBEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE.)
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
WALKER & HALL’S SILVER-PLATED
FORKS AND SPOONS.
SAVING OP 1 25 PEB OHHHSTT-
IBia'illliiMmtwi
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
“Flag Brand
Table Forks—
IX/- J-doz.
Dessert „ 8/3 „
Table Spoons—
-11- J-doz.
Dessert ~ 8/3 „
Tea „ 3/9 „
Write for our 80- Payed Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
UIH9T IT COSTS TO OECOfIIEII FORESTER
I.
0*
For a man 30 years of age to take out a Policy for £4OO in the Independent
Order of Foresters, the cost would be about 2s. 9d. per week, not a heavy
drain on his income, but a nice little deposit upon which his wife may draw
in the event of his death.
1.0.F.
Head Office for IM.S.W.:
283 George-st., Sydney.
G. A. FRASER, Manager.
A
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAYING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
•whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment. _
CO3XrSUIaTA.TIO]\r FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
fa
I
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
NOSiVMSH
H
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.


Too Feeble to Smile
AN ADELAIDE RECORD.
A Complete Restoration.
Th« Oate of
Mrs. S. J. TURNER,
(BY AN ADELAIDE REPORTER.)
Widespread astonishment was expressed
in the town when it became known that
Mrs. Susan Jane Turner, of Jerningham-
street, North Adelaide, was apparently
making rapid strides towards a complete re-
storation to health.
“ This happened some time ago,” ex-
plained Mrs. Turner to our reporter, “and
although I was so feeble that I could
scarcely raise a smile, I could not help
laughing, in spite of it hurting me to do so,
at the look of wonderment on the faces of
those who called to satisfy themselves that
I was really getting better.”
“Your friends were greatly surprised,
I believe?”
“ How could they be otherwise, consider-
ing that I had been suffering for five years,
and only those who knew me intimately had
the least conception of the extent of my
i stress. I had long since forgotten what
it was to enjoy a meal, as anything in the
ihape of eatables was taken against my
will through an entire absence of appetite,
and also on account of the disagreeable ex-
periences which followed my meals so per-
sistently that I got to dread the thought of
trying to eat A quantity of gas used to
form inside and distend my stomach to an
extent which made the touch of my gar-
ments extremely painful. The wind also
roamed about my heart, causing that organ
to flutter in a way which indicated that 1
was suffering from an affection which
might at any time entail the most dreaded
consequences. There were times when I had
to struggle to get my breath, through a
feeling of heaviness in the chest, as if a great
load had been placed upon me. 1 had ter-
rible pains in the leftside, which were made
all the more unbearable by violent fits of
retching. *vhe internal strain thus involved
iffecting me so greatly that I was left
horoughly exhausted and helpless after
each atta k What made me still more
wretched was to be unable to do my work.
If I had been allowed the privilege of busy-
ing myself about the house the time would
nofrhave dragged so drearily; but, you see,
I was absolutely incapableof exerting my
sell in any shape or form. When I stooped
to put on my shoes I couid not raise myself
up again for a long time, owing to the ex-
cruciating pains in my back, and I was also
subject to continuous twitchings between
my shoulders. As each year rolled on so
did my sufferings increase. It became more
difficult to obtain any sleep, as my brain
was so unsettled with misgivings about the
future that I could not reconcile myself
sufficiently to fall into that peaceful state
of mind which brings rest to the weary.
There was nothing unusual in lying awake
all night, and each morning I was in the
same pitiful state, with horrible sick head-
aches and a taste in my mouth that was
most revolting.”
“ Were you able to take any exercise ? ’’
“I was too weak to think of such a
thing, for when I moved in my chair the
effort made me quite giddy ; besides, my
limbs ached with such awful violence that I
could not trust myself to stand. Several
times a day I was in the habit of trying to
wash the fur.off my tongue, but still it re-
mained. I tried to assist my digestive ap-
paratus by taking the lightest of foods, but
my stomach could scarcely retain anything,
and I was for ever vomiting a nasty green-
coloured bile. I could get nothing to re-
gulate me, and the medicines I was taking
were of no benefit to my nervous system,
for I suffered acutely from neuralgia, and
my nerves were never still. The sharp
neuralgic agony which darted from the side
of my face up to the crown of my head
nearly sent me mad, and I often thought
that death was my only means of escape
from all my afflictions. There was not an
ounce of flesh on my body, my face being
drawn and pinched, and the colour of my
skin was like that of a corpse. I was
labouring under a burden of five years’ grief
and pain, and as there was every likelihood
of being an invalid for life, my only wish
was to die and end my misery.”
** Where did you get the medicine you
spoke of ? ”
“ From my doctors. I had two of the
most skilful medical men in the State at-
tending me, besides spending a lot of money
on pills and physics from chemists. The
term of my illness is enough in itself to prove
the inefficacy of the treatment I received,
especially as I had nearly abandoned all
hope when I started taking Clements Tonic,
and that was the only medicine which did
me any good. A visitor to my house urged
me to try Clements Tonic, but I had so com-
pletely lost faith in all medicines that it
took a lot of persuasion to induce me to
yield to my friend’s advice. When I had
taken a couple of bottles of Clements Tonic
a simmer of surprise prevailed all round me,
my neighbours looking upon me as the sub-
ject of a miracle. The neuralgic troubles
were removed with the greatest ease by
Clements Tonic, and my nervous system was
welded together to a degree of perfection
that in a short space of time there was not
the least sign of a quiver in any of my
nerves. 1 waß no longer kept awake by
terrifying thoughts at night, but I enjoyed
instead a proper amount of refreshing
sleep, and in the mornings there was an ab-
sence of that bitter taste in the mouth, and
the retching fits were completely stopped."
‘Did your doctors express surprise at
such a great change taking place ? ”
“ Well, they must have been surprised,
especially as I had been taking medicine
from one of them for fully three years, and
had not made any progress at all. Both of
my physicians said that I was suffering from
a severe form of dyspepsia, so it was not be-
cause they were treating me for the wrong
complaint that their medicine failed to cure
me. With Clementß Touic as my friend 1
soon experienced a return of appetite, and 1
was not at all fastidious about my food, for
I felt so hungry that 1 could tat anything.
The suffocating feelings left my chest, and
the medicinal properties of Clementr Tonic
acted so successfully on my digestive organs
that I did not feel the least discomfort after
eating. Inoticerlthat when I became free from
the windy spasm troubles there was simul-
taneous relief from my heart affections, and
thus I went on from day to day until my
health was regained. Clements Tonic had
all my tortures under control, and my
strength was restored by the same remedy
in a way that enabled me to go through my
household duties as though nothing had
been wrong with me. By using Clements
Tonic I acquired a happy release from a five
years’ martyrdom, and I feel overwhelmed
with gratitude because of the fact that my
health has been perfect ever since."
“If you have no objection I will bring
your case before the public."
“ If I withheld from you that privilege I
would be doing a great wrong to those who
suffer, like I did once, in ignorance of the
reliability of Clements Tonic, so you may
publish my statement in any way."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Soban Jans Tubmsr, of Jerningham street,
North Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed dooument, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and oure by Clements Tonio;
and also oontains my full permission to publish in any
manner my statements —whioh I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to bo true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an act made and passed in the sixth yeai of the reign
of hie late Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled
“ an aot to repeal an act of this present Session of
Parliament, intituled ‘an act for the more effeotual
abolition of oaths and affirmations taken and made in
various departments of the State, and to substitute
declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more entire
suppression of voluntary and extra-judioial oaths and
affidavits, and to make other provisions for the aboli-
tion of unnecessary oaths.
Declared and subscribed at Adelaide, in the State of
South. Australia, this eighth day of July, one thousand
nine hundred and one, before me,
L. ISAACS, J.P.
k
m
Hotting Succeeds like Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
.... FOE ....
STYLE, FIT and FINISH.
Send for Patterns andiSelf -Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
6ood Tailoring-
SPRING.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGB, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
A NEW
KODAK.
The No. 2 Plico Kodak.
WL
For Pictures x3£ inches.
Price
21/- on| y-
Loaded and Unloaded In Daylight.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet and mention
this Paper.
KODAKS ALL PRICES, FROM ss. TO £7 15s.
Nou) on Sale by all Photographic Dealers.
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
HedleaL
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
Vx jJOSo. X'.'
A
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe ajjd Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest curing the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blaekfriars, London, S.E.
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I i
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge '
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and. Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
PROP.
LTD.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
Our Suit to Order at
42/-. is marvel’ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/tf.
Dress and Clerical Suits#
to order, £s*
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Suits, Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballatat Serge Suits,
Indig»dye, 25/-
Lonff Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-
\ Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSerge Trouser,,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/8
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Vests, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6.3/6, 4/6. 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7(6.
Gent’s Splendid Bal*
moral 800t5.6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7he
Philosophy of Dress.
patterns of all kinds
and 8' lf-measurement
forms post free. Write
for them ..
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FIXiIaS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
O published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper. —Medical Review.
af
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, i inches long, Nickel-
plated), and i months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
.pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10/
™ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
ItHEI
mi
UEAfil
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
They restore the hearing, and
relieve singing, roaring, and
buzzing noises in the ears.
Many benefited after trying
other remedies without success.
Testimonials from all the States.
Send a post-card to-day for
illustrated book, FREE.
Address, J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
CEB
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo'n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
DEAF
13033
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
r
m
m
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec,
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■
■
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles.
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of thesa
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
PRUNKARP
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
' GOOD FOB BOTH SEXES.
Write THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney


“ Waddy ”: Re smoke-prevention. The
black smoke from a coal-fire is due to incomplete
combustion, and may be considerably reduced
remembering to “feed light and often.” Note
how little smoke issues from the of big
ocean steamers —all due to skilful firing. Air or
steam-jets are sometimes used to diminish the
smoke, but steam-jets are apt to damage the flues
where the jet impinges. In places where coal is
more expensive than Australia (’Frisco, for in-
stance) coal is pulverised and fed automatically to
the nose of an air-blast pipe, and so blown into
the furnace, in the heat of which, owing to its finely
divided state, it is instantaneously converted into
gas. Result, great economy of fuel and no
smoke. I cannot see why, in large establish-
ments,' producer-gas is not made, and the boiler-
gas fired. It is more economical, and there is
absolutely no smoke.
The Bulletin receives No. 1 of N.S.W.
Aborigines Advocate— organ of N.S.W. Abo-
rigines Mission —which “has for its supreme
object the carrying of the Gospel of the
Lord Jesus Christ to the aborigines scat-
tered throughout N.S. Wales.” What futility !
What' the N.S.W. aboriginal wants is a
special reserve, with whites kept off it
under pain of gaol—a place for the race to live
and die in peaceably, such as the U.S. has pro-
vided for the Red Indian. “Believing, as we do,
that Christ died for all men, we believe that He
died for the Australian aboriginal.” What
satire! The aboriginal is killed off on earth,
but heaven is thoughtfully reserved for him—
if only a white missionary can get him to patter
acceptance of a creed which even its own votaries
cannot comprehend, and dare not follow. Then
comes the usual appeal for cash to pay a mis-
sionary’s salary—as if all the cash wasn’t wanted
to give the missionary's human excuse-for-exist-
ence blankets and tucker and a bit of tobacco.
Why will our religionists insist on sending the
victims of their race to a mythical Heaven, instead
of trying to ease the torments of their hell-upon-
earth ?
s
Photo from Life.
Original may bo seen at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
mm.
hair
Under Royal Patronage.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
new growth when that is possible.
middle-aged people like it,
YOUNG L.ADIES LIKE IT
because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
makes the hair grow thick and strong
as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any style
that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays Irritation, and
keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
sa
KOKO is sold in 1/ , 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Koko Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
fsa
K
O
• - w*
K
O
/
H
A
I
R
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMFiOY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AN Y CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and iiinnediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
IBEWARB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Deaf Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the' cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in iny chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case tube Consumption, and various other treatments
liadbecn tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course,of Abb medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave ri>y bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
Which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COM I’LEi'ELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Lleinvellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Searne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
ol your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always'keep it in the,house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
~ < “ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is SO years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night fora
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years, I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was Spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more ; medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
larfje bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and maXter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney. *'
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Heame’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states*—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office . No 5 First Floor, <j ree r’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
9
BENGER’S r'OOD is not only highly nutritions,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD ia sold in Tina by Chamiata, to., avarynhara.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its Own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


Br.£wgi
-
Mill
grass
m
m
m
u
mm
QUALITY IS HIGHER HERE
And the Prices are as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
styles. That is one of the advantages of buying from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8s Cd '
No. W 9. Silvei -Plated Jewel-Case,
Satin-1 ned, £1 Is.
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d
No. F5173A. Silver
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6cL
No. F 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
No. F 4-157. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. W2OlB. ERpr-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 Is.
No. W 36, Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
f
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot.
Height, 8 inches, £3.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
Write -For our Illustrated Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND , SYDNEY.
M.L. dredging-market, contrary to the fervent
hopes of the brokers, has failed to improve with the
increased returns of working dredges. When the floods
subsided and the dredges got fairly on the bottom of the
Molyneux, last month, the returns shot up to three and
four times the ordinary. For the three weeks up to Aug.
3, over half-a-dozen dredges have regularly provided from
200 oz. to lOOoz., while about 25 others range from lOOoz.
down to 30oz. Fact is, that the public is about bled
white with call-paying to “cats.” Now they have the
mortification of seeing real good stock buyable at almost
par, and yet, in many cases, they have nothing left to
speculate with. Those who have the needful are so im-
pressed with the sorry straits of the luckless contributing
shareholders that they are not taking any dredging scrip,
and, between them, the brokers of three Dunedin ex-
changes look vainly for clients and speak slightingly of
the prevailing lack of financial pluck.
* • * *
Writer knows a man who, for the past two
years, has carefully taken home every dredging prospectus
he could get. And after perusal did he fill up the appli-
cation-form for 100 shares and then enclose a cheque ?
No, he put ’em all into a big box, and is now busily
engaged reckoning up how much he has saved by not
investing.
* * * •
The biggest screen yet made in M.L. for gold-
dredging purposes is owned by Earnscleugh No. 3
Dredging 00. It is 7£ft. in dia. and weighs eight or nine
tons.
• * * *
Paringa Copper Mine (S.A.): The British
Australasian takes a remarkable interest in booming
these shares, and never concludes a par. about them with-
out something of this kind: —‘ 1 We have every confidence in
recommending the shares to the notice of investors either
in copper or other mining securities at anything like their
present quotation of £1 55.” Of course attention i 3
drawn to the magnificent prospects and intrinsic merits
of the mine, and the ore will regularly be available for
smelting, and a steady and increasing weekly profit will
result. “ This can readily be understood, as already
parcels of ore aggregating 69 tons have yielded the large
return of 19 per cent, of copper; and we are informed
that £3 per ton will cover the costs of smelting, mining,
and carriage.” Stress is laid on the fact that the mine is
on a railway-siding 36 miles from Adelaide, and that it
possesses such advantages for economical working that a
profit from £6 to £7 per ton of ore may be looked for.
There are 150,000 shares in the co., and at £1 ss. each the
writer does not hesitate to declare that the thing is a
rank cat. Passengers by train from Melbourne to
Adelaide have often noticed a few men gauging small
copper-veins near Oarlingford, once the site of an old
copper-smelting works. From the description given there
is no doubt that this is the locality of the Paringa copper-
mine.
• • * «
Following upon a recent clean-up at. a certain
Vic. gold-mine, two of the directors, with a mining-expert-,
adjourned to the local pub. for a refresher. After the
first wet, one director suddenly exclaimed : “Oh ! I
must have some hot water with this whisky ! ” and rushed
off to the kitchen. The expert followed and found the
gentleman arranging with the hotel-keeper to despatch
his groom on horseback to , five miles off, to send a
private wire. The expert went back to the bar and whis-
pered the other director. “ The old fool! ” said the
latter —“ why, I sent my wire to half-an-hour before
we left the mine 1 ”
* • * •
Westralian mine-workers are having a harder
struggle than most to knock on the head the mine-owners’
levy of a shilling a pay “for the doctor.” The Crown
Law officers say that the deduction is illegal, but that “ it
is no part of the duty of Grown Law officers to take action
where private individuals are concerned ” ; and no friendly-
society feels like incurring the expense of a fight. But a
bill is drafted to compel mining co.’s making this deduc-
tion to register as friendly-societies, which seems a round-
about way of biffing an ancient abuse.
The Seddon Govt, proposes that the mining
and companies laws require amending in the direction of
ensuring that directors of companies shall be liable to be
proceeded against for payment of calls, and that the calls
of other shareholders shall be invalid unless the calls of
directors have been paid, or steps taken for the recovery
thereof. Apropos, the condition of several N.S.W. gold-
mining co.’s with respect to the unpaid calls of directors
is most amusing.
* * • *
“Westral”: Kalgoorlie mine-managers are
having a tough battle with specimen-thieves. One man
told me he was spending over £loooayearon detectives ;
“ but still they get away with it,” he said. He further
uttered a sweeping condemnation of advertised busi-
nesses in the towns which, he stated, were simply living
by buying tellurides, zinc-slimes, amalgam, &c. Occa-
sionally one' is dropped on, but not often. Most of- the
mines have changing-houses, hut the plunder is spirited
off somehow, the nightman being a good medium for
getting it outside the lease, occasionally in the pans, into
which it is dropped in instalments. A bank clerk also
told me that the people now who buy drafts for a yearly
trip to the East are the miners. They get £3 or £3 10s. a
week, and live for £l, so that, if they don’t drink it, there
is a good accumulation at the end of the year when an
occasional cheque from the specimen-buyer is added.
« • * ♦
During the past five years no fewer than 116 men
have been killed in Barrier (N.S.W.), mines. This is
quoted as a set-off to the beloved Tory shibboleth “ risks
of capital ” allegedly taken along the same line of lode.
• * * *
Mounts Jukes and Darwin copper-shows (Tas.),
are at last giving signs of “treasure unbeholden.”
Deeper sinking (650 ft., or thereabouts), has disclosed
stone indicative of something better than calls.
* * * *
The Raub Mines : Curie, the Economist’s
mining writer, has examined these. The directors were
told of 300,000 tons of good ore in sight, and that the
mines in depth continued to fulfil all expectations. Ourle
says there are barely 40,000 tons of pay ore visible, and
the appearance of most of the mines at lowest depth is
very disappointing. He advises the stopping of explora-
tory work on some of the mines, the taking out of all pay
ore in sight and driving the tunnels into the surrounding
hills.
* * • *
Frank Gardner ia reported as having said in
London lately that he had made a more important dis-
covery than that of the Rontgen Rays, wireless tele-
graphy or liquefied air—viz., the patience of the British
mining investor, the stuff he believes, his want of dis-
ciimination, and the nonsense he listens to. “ They are
simply like a flock of sheep. I have been working hard
17 years trying to teach these people. My mines and
management are right, and I am a dividend-payer.
London Critic gives a full list of Gardner’s flotations.
They are indeed an awful lot. Some of them have passed
into'oblivion, others are windingup, others shouldbe wound
up. The list is too long for publication here. The only
div -payer appears to be the Wilfley Ore Concentrator syn-
dicate. His N.S.W. flotations are all in a bad way. The
Brown’s Creek Co.—a splendid plant lying idle on a mine
which has not worked for four years, and shows no sign
of re-starting. The D’Arcy Estates Co. and D’Arcy Went-
worth Gold Mine are amalgamated with the others
of the camp, and are passing through a period
of great tribulation. The Lagoon Creek Gold Mine,
in liquidation, proved a duffer from the start; Tam-
baroora Creek gold-mines also in liquidation, and another
duffer. Frank was a clog-dancer years ago 111 America,
and came to Australia as manager for his wife, Carrie
Swain. Made his first mining hit at Broken Hill by
buying a parcel of Central shares at a few shillings each
and selling them at as many pounds. In this he acted on
the advice of Thomas, the manager, and not on his own
judgment. Subsequently took a hand in the flotation of
the Wentworth mine, made a good deal of money out of
it and then lost it in the same property. Made a heap of
money in Rand stocks, and subsequently associated him-
self with Zeb. Lane in the flotation of the Boulder
Perseverance and other mines. His faith in Perseverance
shares has much exceeded his discretion, he having, by
his own admission, been potted with 17,000 of them at an
average of £ll each. He is now winding-up the British-
Westralia Syndicate. It is really hard to think that the
pallid Mr. Gardner can still be the holder of a lot of
money made out of that list. His excuse for winding-up
the B.W. Syndicate is that his health will not permit his
attention to it; at the same time he admits holding about
nine-tenths of the shares.
My First Love.
A BUSH ROMANCE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At that time I had heard muoh about love, but
had never felt it. I had some idea that, when
that sublime feeling struck people, they had to go
up into a high mountain and write poetry till they
got used to it. But when I fell in love with Mary,
I didn’t think about mountains—no, I just felt as
if I would like to take her in my arms, and, and
—anyhow, I didn’t.
When I came to Wambo I had a little money ;
when I left I had none. Old Francis offered me
a job; so I went to work for old Francis. I had
heard rumors about cattle-duffing, wrong earmarks,
and so on; but when I saw Mary, I said they
were darned lies.
After I had been there three weeks I hoped
Mary was getting a bit fond of me, but I wasn’t
sure. And, this particular morning, Mary was
angry. The grindstone was kept in the barn, and,
when I used to grind my axe in the morning,
Mary somehow used to be there grinding corn for
the fowls. I forget what I did, but I remember
what she said. She said :
“ What do you mean, Tom ? How dare you put
your arm round my waist 1 You men are always
the same when you get a girl by herself.” I saw
the tears in her eyes; I had never seen a girl
crying before. It was awful. #
“Oh! Mary, forgive me!” I blurted out. “I
couldn’t help it, Mary. There is no foolery about
me ; I’m in earnest, and I am so fond of you.”
“Well, Tom, that makes a difference, but—Oh,
now ! There you are again. Let me go at onoe!
You mustn’t kiss me like that, or I’ll tell father
about you.”
I got wild, grabbed my axe, and walked off.
“ I won’t tell this time, Tom,” she sang out; but
I was deaf.
That was just like Mary, I reflected ; one time
my heart was in my boots, another time I would
be dreaming all about Don Juan in Byron’s
poetry. Then I met the old man. “ Hullo, Tom !
seen Mary about?” “Yes,” said I, “she’s in
the barn.” “Oh! it takes her a darned long time
to grind that corn. Come home early, Tom ! I
want a hand to kill a bullock.”
♦ » * •
We had just about finished skinning the
bullock ; and Mary was there helping. Suddenly
old Francis looked up and whistled. “By God,
trapped ! Here’s the trooper ! ”
He rode up on a bright bay horse, and grinned
at us. “Good day, Francis ! Nice bit of meat
you’ve got there. Mind letting us see the brand.”
“ It’s no use fooling round,” said the old man ;
“this beast is not one of mine. I shot him by
mistake. I’m going to send word to Laird and
pay him for it.”
“ Yes, that’s all right, Ned ! I’ll see that Laird
knows all about it. And just now you’d better
come along with me. You too, my girl! Get
ready for town ! Seems you’re in the swim—and
you?” He looked at me hard.
“Oh,” said I, “I’m working by the week
fencing ; I know nothing about this affair.”
“Yes,” said old Francis, “ that’s right; he only
did what I told him. There’s no use mixing him
up in it. He’s only a swaggie.”
“ H’m,” said the fellow; “ you had better hang
round a bit, though. You might be wanted.”
I took Mary aside. “ Mary, my darling, if I
get you out of this mess, will you marry me ? ”
“ No use, Tom ; it’s all up this trip.”
“But,” I said, “ will you promise ; that’s all.”
And she promised.
» * * *
It was four miles to town; I was there in half-
an-hour by the short cut, asking for Laird. Pre-
sently I found him.
“ Are you Mr. Laird ? ”
“ Yes, that’s me. What do you want ? ”
“ Well, we’ve been and shot one of your cattle
by mistake, and want to straighten things up.
You know the beast; he was by himself; white
face, white hind-feet.”
“ Yes ; I know him. Fat, too, isn’t he ? ”
“Yes, middlin’fat.”
“And who the blazes are you?” said Laird,
looking at me, suspiciously.
“I’m tank-sinking on Toolba. Your beast got
mixed with the killing-cattle, and was shot. How
much do you want for him ? ”
“ Well; ten pounds is what I want for that bit
of meat! ”
“ Can’t do it. Give you eight.”
“ Not a darned stiver less than ten quid,” said
Laird. And I all the time in a funk lest the
trooper should trot up. So I said, “Right you
are ! here’s the cash. Give me the brand and re-
ceipt.”
Mary was saved.
Laird was furious when he found-out, and the
trooper persisted in bringing the case before the
court. He got snubbed. Old Francis produced
my receipt, and the Bench said a man could kill
any beast he liked if he could prove it was his own
in a court of law.
The trooper was sold.
That afternoon I was outside the pub., a little
bit sprung. Up came the trooper. “Hullo, my
lad ! that was a smart trick of yours. I suppose
Mary will pay you for that.” I knew what he
meant. A vision of Mary’s beautiful auburn hair
rose before me. People said it was redbut it
wasn’t. I jumped three feet in the air, and
grabbed that trap by the leg. He was off his
horse in a jiffy. I had things pretty well my own
way for a while. He thought I was in fun.
But he got tired after a bit, grabbed me by the
back of the neck, and marched me off to the lock-
up. I felt I was a hero. I had fought for Mary ;
bled for her; and got jugged for her. Next day
it was “ Two pounds or fourteen days.”
I paid the fine. That was twelve pounds for
Mary. _
“Been having a lively time?” said the pub-
lican, when I came out. “Yes, I have!”
“Stranger hereabouts?” “Yes.” “Thought
so. Say ! here now, best let that girl slip ! Now,
don’t flare up ! wait till I tell you. ”
“ What do you mean ? ” I said, getting hot.
“ I suppose you haven’t heard about the—er—
kiddie, have you? No? I thought not. Oh,
yes ; its daddie lives in town here. You see, it’s
this way ; you never know what happens to them
quiet sort of girls.”
I left Womba with a blighted heart, and an
empty pocket. I also took away a broken nose I
got from the bobby. I hate red-headed girls;
though I thought all the time there was some-
thing wrong about that love, because I didn’t have
the proper feeling for writing poetry or anything
like that. lam still single.
WANDERER.


Get what you ask for. Get
Doan’s. Don’t accept something
just as good. All Chemists sell
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but
some try to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Price
2/9 per box ; six boxes, 15/3.
Posted on receipt of price by the
Proprietors, FOSTER - McCLELLAN
GO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TALKING BACK.
Most aches and pains of a “ Bad Back ” are Kidney Ills. A lame, a weak, an aching hack
tell of Kidneys that are overworked. Backache is “Back Talk.” “Back Talk” is Kidney
Talk. Kidney Talk is Kidney trouble, and all Kidney Troubles are dangerous. Don’t neglect
a Kidney warning.
DOAN’S
Cure all Kidney & Bladder Troubles
and are Endorsed by
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Only room for two statements; but we have hundreds
like them, and all Sydney cures.
, i^ J v J, -d BU i tle k 17 „P ] lck ' st ->. ,9 h i ppendal . e ’ this cii y- says : “Over twelve months ago I
too H J? oan « Backache Kidney Pills for a pain in the back, caused by weak kidneys. I only
used them off and on, as occasion demanded, but they cured me effectually, and I am thus able to
speak most highly of the pills. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills have put my kidneys in perfect
order, and I ve never had a pain come back since I left off using the medicine, which is over six
months ago. A medicine of this sort is badly needed, and I wish Doan’s Backache Kidney
-l ills every success. I got these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-st.”
Mrs. R. Jones 36 Terminus-st Petersham, this city, statesPor a good many years I
have been unable to get a remedy that would benefit rheumatic-iike pains in the small of my
back. These used to come on every time there was a change in the weather, and in winter
time. It would catch me suddenly, probably when bending, and I would at such times be
fastened down m that position for some time, totally unable to get up straight, and in the most
violent agony. Ihese attacks used to be accompanied with headaches and swimming in the
head, and also dimmed vision. A cousin of mine advised me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills about two years ago. I was laid up with the trouble at the time, and he brought some of
the puls in to me to make sure that I would use them. I took them in the morning, and that
ev^ n ] n .f th© relief I sent for a box to the chemist’s, and after a while was able to get about
and felt quite free of the pains I always keep them by me, and by taking a dose at such times
when lam most likely to get the pains I keep quite free of my old enemy. I know others who
have gained as much benefit out of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as I have. They will always
cure pam in the back, no matter who is the sufferer.”
*BSm
The Bald Brigade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now this is a song of the Bald Brigade
That carries a gold-knobbed stick,
And gathers at halls of the leg-show grade
Where Totties spring forth and kick.
Their smooth pates shine like globes of glass;
They 101 l in a paunchy row,
Whilst the gods in the gallery watch things pass
In the glistening skulls below !
The old boys snigger in glumptious glee
When the frisky girls appear;
At the gladsome glimpse of a shapely knee
They snigger from ear to ear.
When the floating billows of muslin rise
They cackle Ha ! ha ! Ho ! ho !
And the gods in the gallery fix their eyes
On the glistening skulls below !
Warmed by the vision of wanton feet
Defying Dame Grundy’s laws,
The old hearts pulse with a quicker beat ;
But e’en as they clap their paws
Those veterans sigh for departed days—
They had wild oats then to sow,
And they sowed them thick, that the gods might
gaze
On the glistening skulls below !
The bats they strewed in their lines of life
Brought plentiful crops of care,
Worry and trouble ’twixt man and wife—
But never brought crops of hair.
They sowed more oats on the grave of youth,
They gathered dyspeptic woe ;
And their sins lie bare in the naked truth
Of their glistening skulls below.
The old eyes ogle each charming girl
When her slipper in mid-air floats,
And her shielding draperies swish and swirl
To the music’s maddening notes ;
But old eyes, dim with the film of time,
See naught save a pink leg-show:
’Tis the gods ! the gods get a thrill sublime,
By the grace of the skulls below !
High-kickers are not in the least concerned
By the leers of the Bald-heads “ blue,”
But little they dream of their charms up-turned
To the gallery’s bird’s-eye view.
From the red lips, curved in a smile serene,
Hot, sulphurous words would flow,
Did the dancers guess what the gods have seen
In the glistening skulls below !
Ah ! sad, sad day for the gods ’twill be
When the bright reflectors fade,
When the “ five-bob ” seats at the front are free
From the bucks of the Bald Brigade ;
When the faithful mirrors shall hide their lights
In the land where the dead men go,
And the gods of the gallery see no sights
In the glistening skulls below !
M.L.
THE RIP.
Paderewski.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is a Great Player, a Great Pianist ? Every-
one in the world will give you a different descrip-
tion. Each to his own needs first, and, in propor-
tion as these are satisfied, so is the music-maker
great.
To me, the great one is the one who takes me
away from petty thoughts. The greatest is the
one who absolutely forbids or prevents me from
thinking at all.
Why not judge of him that way as well as any
other, since music for ever leads Nowhere ? It
opens all gates, unlocks all doors, gives a wild,
fleeting revelation of Everything, then turns you
out and leaves you there, alone in darkness, look-
ing towards all things, unable to reach any.
Here he comes, the yellow-haired, the sleek-
eyed man with the vague face, that looks as if
carven carefully out of a dream.
He seats himself, and his yellow head stands
out against the black gown of a woman in the row
behind the piano. His eye and nose are sil-
houetted too, the full-drooped lid of the artist,
■"6 nose that is at once sensitive and generous
And the yellowy moustache and chin-tuft hiding
a mouth that is compressed a little, and is graven
about with fine pain—this, then, is Paderewski.
So we see him, looking at him for the first time,
a vague, yellow face in yellow hair; gentle, but
carrying somewhere between the narrowing lids a
hint of tiger-fire.
He plays. Hush ! hush ! He plays softly to
quieten the house of women. A chord is struck
in warning, then a run floats across the hall
hushing all away.
What is he playing? What does it matter?
Name it or not, it is you who give it its meaning.
Well, then, since you d-mand, I will tell you he
is playing Etudes Symphoniques—Schumann’s.
Paderewski and Schumann, they chase the great
idea up and down, in and out of Erard, and a
faint voice from within whispers that he lacks in
some subtle shade of fineness, making his tran-
sitions too marked for such a poet.
For such a poet! Ay, there’s the rub. For
the poet that he is, is he quite poet enough ?
And then he touches the piano with two “ Songs
Without Words,” slowly,- very, very slowly
lagging, dreaming. ’
Will Beethoven wake him ?
But that yellow vagueness is not for Beethoven.
Music breathing and thundering out the highest
metaphysics, the essence of spiritual fervours, the
message of a giant brain, these are not for that
faced carved out of a dream.
Give him Schubert, Liszt—give him Chopin—
and the king* comes into his own.
He takes the piano in his hand like a brush and
paints on the flexible molten brain of his audience
a storm, a torture, the “Hebe’s kind,” “The
Erl Konig.” He dashes it in with a passionless
force ill the house flees with him in the wild
flight—but leaving its body here behind it in St.
James s Hall, with the rain beating on the roof—
yes, always leaving its body here behind it. He
takes the soul, but leaves the body.
And then Chopin—a Ballade, two Preludes,
etudes, a mazurka, a polonaise. None of them of
the too-hackneyed kind that every school-girl
murders. They float, they float, they caress the
The yellow hair gets in its work, and the tiger-
fire flashes, with the strange, indifferent passion
of a poet. His runs are like streaks of silver
flung across the spirit.
Runs ! Oh, hideous word ! The crudeness and
clumsiness of the English language can show no
uglier example than that word Runs. Runs!-
*° n £« e of flame leaping across the piano !
T?TTTV«7 f 0 / t *£ t^ ash °, f . s P ra y in the sunlight !
RUNS. for that long, thin streak of lightning that
flashes across the heart, firing the inner eye with
silver, stealing the breath, leaving one dizzy
dazed, and thrilled ! J
. In Paderewski’s hands a run is like an “Oh ' ”
m some moment of sudden spiritual exaltation.
Just as the poet cries “Oh, God!” “Oh, my
Rove ! J aderewski sends up these silver cries.
It is hours since I heard him, but I see the color
of his runs still. Silver—always silver.
Until I heard him play, I never heard the
message of a cascade of notes. I saw it as an
ornament, and turned aside a little. With the
unnecessary cruelty of the ignorant I called it
vulgar, and drew away, admiring, but never
knowing, never taking it to myself.
Till Paderewski played those Preludes. Then
1 was punished, and all my days I’ll go the
sottiier, sadlier, for my crime’s sake.
The girl next to me said : “ I don’t like the way
he lifts his hands. It’s so affected /”
But fought of the runs, and I said to myself:
Tor this vague man with the mouth of pain
there is some hidden meaning even to those hands
thrown back, held back, posed back, theatrically.”
And I found the meaning after a time. His
pose of hand is the expression of his soul, his
brain, his condition of emotion. Sometimes his
hand flies up, and remains, dead still, the fingers
bent. It stays like that for a full moment. My
girl says “Affectation.” It seems along, long
time before it comes down again. If you don’t
know what it means you grow a little uneasy,
overstrained. But if you understand, if you watch
ms eyes, his lips, listen to his music, and get into
his region, you will find he is venting himself in
those raised hands, just as you bite your lip in
sudden danger* just as you open your eye in great
surprise, just as you lift your hands at some dread
message. Those taut raised hands are the ex-
pression of his soul.
But great— is Paderewski great ?
Not to a craving, exacting imagination that
demands fire and dew together, that cries for the
Heavens to be opened and solid earth to be swept
from beneath its feet. He plays for ever in a
dream. He translates Chopin inimitably, with
perfect grace, with despair, with a lovely charm
and a veiled passion, but the homely flower-feel-
in £i 4 the domestic pure love in Mendelssohn’s
music, was blurred with a sentimentality that had
551 pl ace there. He played those two “Songs
Without Words ” with a drawn-out tenderness
that grew thin from very slowness. And in a
Beethoven. Sonata” (op. Ill) the struggle between
Paderewski and the greatest musical genius of all
time was to the strong. Beethoven conquered:
the player was left behind. He has neither the
grandeur of style nor mind for this immortal.
Give him the songs he knows to sing and
Paderewski is superb. But call him Padereffski,
or you are not worthy to listen to his dreamings.
They say he plays to Women. Well, but what
then ! So do all artists, everyone who plays to an
audience—the poet, the actor, the artist, the
writer, the pianist, the singer—it’s to women he
is appealing, or to the woman in a man.
London, July.
LOUISE MACK.
At Whangarei (M.L.), recently, the skip-
per of a coastal steamer was prosecuted for allow-
ing drink to be sold aboard his boat. The beak
decided that, as the steward sold the drink, the
captain wasn’t liable. A week or two later, the
police found that drink was still being sold aboard.
A new P.M. had meanwhile come to the district,
and he decided that, as the skipper was in charge
of the boat, the steward wasn’t liable.
The second reading of the Victorian Bill
providing for the election of a Convention to draft
a new State Constitution was passed by only four
majority—47 for and 43 against. Four paired, so,
with the Speaker, every man in the Assembly was
accounted for. The Tories were against the Bill
because they hate the referendum principle in
every shape, and there is a suggestion of the
referendum in this idea ; also, because the measure
threatens their beloved House of 48 Rich Land
lords. And many who secretly approve the prin-
ciple voted against it because their seats are
insecure, and tliey are likely to be among the Lost
when the Convention cuts down the size of the
Assembly. Ex-Premier and one-time Democrat
Shiels was among the Noes—but then Shiels,
while a good theoretical Democrat, has always fled
in affright from his own ideas when he got close
to them.
Writes “ Fair Dinkum ” :
Barnum-Powell’s profusely-advertised Defence of Mafe-
king was a theatrical fraud, no doubt about that, but it
was a success in so far that it gulled more people than the
British Jingoes who waved toy flags and got drunk. Col.
Plumer took the imposture seriously, which fact is ad-
mitted by the loudest denunciators of Barnum’s bunkum
policy. And in deceiving Plumer, his nearest British
military neighbour, Barnum deceived the whole country.
The moral effect of the “gallant defence ” was the same
to the hesitating Cape Dutch as though it had been
genuinely heroic. It served a British purpose for months.
Finally it resulted in the capture of about 200 Boers,
under Eloff, the “ toffy” grandson of Kruger, who were
trying to capture the supposed starving garrison before
the arrival of a relief force. Not until after the “ relief”
of Mafeking did Barnum-Powell prove himself to be the
tinnest of tin gods. Had he shown only a little of the
energy and generalship that his own carefully-spread
fictions had credited him with he would have captured
De Wet and a large force of Boers whom the ever-vigilant
Methuen managed to drive into a very tight place. Ask
the returned Bushmen to name the most over-rated and
under-rated of the well-known British commanders in
S’Africa, and they will answer Baden-Powell and Cord
Methuen every time.
Writes “E.C.8.” from London :
Re English payments to Australian writers and your
par. about an experience with Boys of the Empire (9/3/’01).
The facts are these—The article in question contained,
not 2000 words, but 1273 words. The standard rate of
payment with such publications in London is £1 per
1000 words—in many cases it is less. Therefore the
writer got what he asked for—“ the standard rate
of payment." From this sovereign it appears that
he paid his typewriter a charge of 4s. That, of
course has nothing to do with B. of the E. ; but one
must pause to admire the munificence of an author who
pays his typewriter 4s. for 1273 words (the London price
is from 9d. to Is. per 1000). Then comes the justified
complaint that payment waajiiade by a cheque on which
heavy exchange was charged, and that the covering en-
velope was insufficiently stamped. That was grossly in-
considerate (by the way, is the exchange on London
cheques in Sydney as high as 2s. 6d. in the £7) Yet some
allowance may be made for a paper just started and un-
familiar with Australian business. As an Australian
battling in journalistic London I must speak as I find. I
have occasionally contributed to B. of the E., and re-
ceived fair and prompt payment; I could name a dozen
London papers of which I cannot say so much.


“I Gained Flesh Rapid
If You Are Run Down, Losing Strength, Are Greatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
&
W
F
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
strengt:h and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal weight.
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.”
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AYER 3 Sarsaparilla
Gives Vigor to the Nerves.
AYER’S PILLS act gently ; they cure constipation.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
f A sthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
by
AH ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prevarsd, by
W.TjOWfiRIDAE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is .lid., 25.9 d„ 45.6 d., & 11s,
all Colonial Msdioine Vendors.
OOPTEXGHT.
ANAEMIC PERSONS,
who have dosed themselves too freely with such
tonics as are largely composed of the common
preparations of Iron, and often contain Arsenic or
other dangerous drugs, are certain to be troubled
with Headache, Constipation, and Torpidity of the
Li\er. They should, at once, correct these ill-
effects by taking ....
S
according to the directions given with each box,
because Beecham’s Pills possess the following
qualities in a high degree . ...
They Strengthen the Stomach,
They Regulate the Bowels,
They Purify and Enrich the Bleod,
and they give
Tone to the Whole Nervous System.
They contain no drugs of mineral or metallic origin, but are purely
vegetable, mild, beneficent, and sure. They will restore you to
health if you give them a chance.
Beecham’S Pills are Perfect in Quality, and Plentiful in Quantity;
they last longest, go furthest, and produce the best results.
Beecham’S Pills are Sold Everywhere in boxes, labelled, Is. I|dL»
containing 56 pills, and 2S. 9d., containing 168 pills, each label
bearing the words—
“BEECHAM’S PILLS, St. Helens, England.'*
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
£ ;
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
saf
Sold Throughout the Wond.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
«o^ T °V s
IRISH MOSS
Fftß -The besf remedy -
' INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and see that you get it.
GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


Jibber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet
Washers,
Valves*
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings.
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAXJ and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
den
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE
W - c - & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS, ’*
40 Y OK. It STRklriT, SYDNBV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colony promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. *
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Dav or 21s
*£S*p’ J2xr <*>““».'=. SS
iT‘"^!.v !B!asa n ° m
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager”
Will receive prompt attention.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON,
TRADE MARK.
sa
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Praps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
GENUINE
fsa
f
BEIMNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
GOOLCARDIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC^
THROAT PASTILLES.
NEWMAN’S
In King St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST -
P BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers .amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will MOT injure the wool.
the ordinary scouring 1 process.
It will dissolve out under
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
BLACK , jWJD, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)- -
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .
„ SYDNEY <E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
» BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
» HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
£O3 03 03
y
ffir
l
saf
S3
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
IN STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills Dodsre
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and’ Mine and
Mill Supplies.
And at San Francisco and London. 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
GrREGrORTT <£& CO,
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
sa
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Piekering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schultes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steami Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
wm
■iroo«(6»«S^
r , co "-I
SmjMSf&U:
MMtttSS!
BsssSpyss
:
IHHH : ■
SBiSSiSi -■" '-!
?tSSfSP®I
