

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISK'
x •
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Coco
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
R. <3r> WA.TZUIVS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
. EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
KUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine
Watcii Hep airs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. (id. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
ĥ
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George -st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C% Pitts.™*, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL^CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORN
P
That’s All!
WHISHT
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOE THECOMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price OJE3 Posted,-' BdL.
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
*
Ki
TC-TT O* TFTt. T
m
HAPpt ~
*■*"•4'**
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
2 40. PITT S'ST3O]XrJESIs- '
AMUSEMENT for OED and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown- out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
, 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing,
PIONEER
ħ
LEATHER
"BELTiNG'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasma'nia,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
117 Yorlr-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 33.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
A MACHINE THAT
: : PAYS ITS WAY.
There is no Concentrator now on the market
more effective and economical than the
WILFLEY ORE CONCENTRATOR.
MINE OWNERS..
DIRECTORS .. ..
SHAREHOLDERS
TRIBUTERS .. ..
You all know the value of your Tailings and Slin
Do you know the capacity of the WILFLEY?
It is from 15 to 30 Tons per Day.
All information tve will supply you loith if you will send or write to us for
(l CATALOG.
p±m
486
MELBOURNE
CO L LI N S ST
ĥ
FREMANTLE KALGOORLIE
214 HIGH ST T M?DONALD ST
ħ
A. *SS - ■ ■■mi i i -
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
The London Times : “ A Sound, Honest Brandv.”
The L ANCET : “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to Non^.”
The British Medical Journal : “ A Pure Product, well worth the attention 6f the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive ancl carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
h
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dmner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to use
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, 'Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering' injurious counterfeits,
. SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatiop.
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d —posted Bd.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1103 ]
[Saturday, April 6, 1901.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Uemady
for the Cure of
Goughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
PfcO
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
, The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS,
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
.. . Contain x VO cocaine or other poisonous drur/ . .
S3LD BY ALL CiiTMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, 0. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—Dost
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
lhat isW.K.’s valedictory rhyme : he definitely
.closed his riotous Australian chapter at the end of
last year, and returned to his father’s house oi
many scansions—but in German, not English,
hor a Deutscher born and bred (till nearly man-
hood) Yon Kotze wrote English verse remarkably
well, and with a fuller pulse than many indigenous
bards. Hot blood sent him early roving and husk-
eatmg : he came to North Queensland in search of
fortune, and almost before realising that he had
arrived lie found himself hoeing cane in a sugar-
plantation, with a kanaka on his right hand and
a low-caste Chinese on his left. The decade
during 1 winch lie drifted aliout New Guinea and
Northern Australia did not cool him, and memories
of Ins final departure from Sydney include a
red landscape flowing with many rivers. He met
others of the bardic sept, and read his own poems
in an ecstasy of emotion which prevented utter-
ance. You saw lips moving, but no voice issued.
W hat astounded him particularly was the ease
with which the Chief of the Bards composed
“ poetry while you wait.” “When I write a
poem, complained V.K., “I lie.on a sofa for
three days with the pains of a woman in childbed
and when 1 get up lam as weak as the baby.” Yet
he wrote; and often well. His farewell in N.Q.
Leinster held real affection for the country wherein
he was a sojourner.
VV hat loads of enthusiasm and virility have we not
carried out into the West and the North, among 1 the
plains and the ranges, and they all lie buried there, burnt
to cinders under the blazing sun, drowned in the endless
swamps of the Gulf rivers. Heigho ! What’s the good
of winning ? Has not our life been a free one, untram-
melled, clear of conventionalities and five-shilling din-
ners ? Have we not tasted the great, the glorious cup of
Freedom, that poets sing and patriots die for, to the very
dregs? Ah—the dregs ! There’s the rub ! Are there in
all this world chains of slavery that chafe the flesh more
cruelly than the invisible prison tethers of loneliness and
desolation ? We.lhv? poured our heart-blood out into
the wilderness, and the sand has sucked it up; we have
breathed out our soul into the desert, and it has dissolved
in the great stillness around us. And when we return to
humanity, we suddenly realise that this our soul is gone,
that we are only anaemic wrecks of former manhood, a
pale, brow-beaten, miserable band of convicts released
from 'the-torture dens of—Liberty. And so I return to
my refrain :I am out of it! lam out of it! And slowly
the coast line is sinking into the sea. There’s a bushfire
rising behind the brow of the last headland. It seems to
me I can smell the smoke from here—and it all comes
back, the camp, the glowing logs, the call of the curlew
down in the empty river-bed ! And once I remember,
when we had scrambled up that dry gully on the
Northern coastal range and came—but there ! I knew I
could smell the smoke ! It is biting my eyes, I feel it, for
they are full of tears. And—and—Goodbye ! God bless
you, Australia !
*
Wallace Henderson, who might be called the
English Prose Laureate, is an interesting func-
tionary in a newspaper age. It is his office
to concoct the touching little paragraphs
which wake the Great Heart of the British
People to proud astonishment that monarchs
are made of real flesh and blood—“ just the same
as we are ! ” Wallace is now a hale’ old fellow of
83 ; and the curious may meet him daily walking
along the Thames near Richmond—a hearty
“man frae Greenock,” who carries his years
nobly. The genesis of his office imparts a fine
moral lesson. Sixty years ago Wallace Hen-
derson was a budding poet lie is budding
still. The efflorescence of his faculty was
contemporaneous with the marriage - year of
Queen Victoria; and Henderson was so impressed
by the celebration of the marriage, which he saw
as a visitor to London, that he resolved to become
the Queen’s poet exclusively. He had a small in-
come, and could devote himself entirely to the
Work.
Thenceforward, at intervals of six months
or so, booklets of poetry arrived at Buckingham
Palace, Windsor, or wherever Queen Victoria
happened to be in residence. No one knows if the
poetry was good or bad, for only Queen Vic-
toria and the royal family have seen it. A
humble note with each booklet said that only
one copy had been printed, and the type
distributed. Persistent dripping will wear
away royalty, and after three or four years the
singularity of the.offering was noticed. Enquiries
were made, and the poet was permitted to see the
Queen, and was graciously, thanked. He re-
double;] his labours and produced a booklet every
three months, receiving continued tokens of royal
favour.
But about 1850, when Henderson had pub-
lished some forty volumes in editions of one,
he lost his income through the failure of a bank.’
This distress being made known, he was given
quarters at Hampton Court, with a pension of
£l5O a year; and tlie duty of People’s Paragraphs-
was assigned him. The choice proved excellent;
has * S S ' n office. Long experience
written 1 -”L an ac^e P t 5 an d his paragraphs are
becomes Vlth - a r skill which, once familiar,
Becomes unmistakable. His recent mra-
!KL about ** d « th » f vSEUK*
London K P a P er > then clipped and sent to
ai!:°r f the People,” or “A Loving
-l a®, n copied by every ‘‘loyal”
ran thus mt l 6 dominions. It originally
tbtf y ' i ."' w 4 itin B' afc the court vouches for the truth of
.. ,° °'' ln B affecting story. In thedark days preceding
old t n e^n Ullera1 ’ Prince Eddie > the little six-year-
, , -It. 11. the Duke of York, found his governess
rince Eddie is loved by all for his affectionate
posi ion , and he is particularly fond of his governess.
r tI P to her, and putting his arms round Miss ’s
fck, he said, “ Why are you crying, Dearest ? ” “ I am
crying because of a Great Sorrow,” answered the
governess. Prince Eddie thought for a moment, and then
asked, Dearest, what is Sorrow?” Miss . could not
rep y. Truly, many older and wiser heads than little
Prince Eddie’s might be puzzled by that which to us all
seems so simple—a Nation’s Sorrow !
wa ' s undoubtedly an impressive paragraph,
calculated to touch the hearts of all British
mothers. The assertion that Queen Victoria’s
last words were “ Albert ! Albert! Albert ! ”
was hardly so well invented : for many people it
slg ltly overshoots the mark. Henderson, who
has no objection to talking about his work, thinks
tiat his most successful paragraph was one which
followed the death of the Prince Consort, to this
effect :
It is not generally known that for three days after the
death of our noble Prince, Albert the Good, his little dog
“ Spot,” a faithful terrier, refused all nourishment. In
vain the most tempting - canine delicacies were put
before her : the poor animal turned away her head
with doleful howls which shocked everybody who
heard them. It was only at the close of the
third day "that a member of the household be-
thought herself to offer “Spot” a morsel of blood-
pudding—a favourite dish on the Royal table.
At the sight, a sudden train of recollection
seemed to flash through the little creature’s brain. She
walked round the blood-pudding mournfully, emitting
short, hoarse barks ; and finally “ ate it slowly,” says an
onlooker, “as if it were a sacrament.” When dumb
animals show such devotion, it is no wonder that
the nation has been rent to its depths by an unforgettable
grief.
Henderson calculates that this anecdote was re-
produced not less than 100,000 times, and it still
flourishes in biographies. Naturally, the old
gentleman is extravagantly proud of his office
and regards himself as one of the chief bonds
which unite Britons in devotion to the Crown.
Ihe legend of Royalty’s superhuman virtue
has been created, he contends, almost entirely by
his labours. Writing a really popular paragraph,
it appears, is the most difficult thing in
the world.; and Henderson rejects hundreds of
drafts before he is satisfied. The essential thing
is the homely reference—such as “blood-pudding”
—connected with some homely event. Royal
births, marriages, and deaths are Henderson’s
especial stimulants. A paragraph must be neither
too subtle nor too obvious ; and sometimes it is
very difficult to hit the proper medium. Hender-
son says his best things have flashed upon him at
early morning, after a sleepless night of invention.
His only fear is that no competent person will be
found to succeed him. Truly, an interesting pro-
duct of the age !
+.
The request for a rhyme about Australian towns
brought nothing worth print. Doggerel like this
from “ Iris ” was the cream of receipts :
Others—from Led : C.H. ; W H • Bov •
S.M.W. ; H.R.L.; O.T. ; H.V.D. ;-exhildt
more or less incapacity to realise the subject or
rhyme about it.
P. P. G.
Oh, you with the wind of the plains in your hair,
And the scent of the bush in your breath,
I drink you a bumper, my wattle-buds fair
That bloom to the South of the Realm of Despair,
To the North of the Kingdom of Death !
Oh, girls of the bush ! In the West, in the West
I have built me a castle apart;
And when I am yearning and weary for rest,
I hearken me back as sweet memory's guest
And stay—for the good of my heart.
The desert encircles and holds you aloof,
Afar from the withering strife.
The bush is the wall and the sky is the roof,
And thus you are pure and your palace is proof
Against the defilement of life.
For, somehow, your kiss is a tenderer kiss
Than all the caresses I know j
And, somehow, you temper the passion of bliss
With peace, with content, with a something I miss,
Wherever, wherever I go.
Oh, girls of the bush, if you knew, if you knew
The dreams that we carry away !
When stages were long and oases were feiv,
One glimpse of your fluttering dresses would do
For many and many a day.
And you, with the stamp of the free on your brow
And the light of the sun in your eyes ;
You promised me once but what matters a voiv ?
I drink you farewell as I think of you notv,
And visions, old visions arise.
Berlin, If01.
VON KORZE.
A WESTRALIAN WAIL:FROM BUNBURY
First Effort —
I landed here a week ago,
M.v head is fairly staggered,
The nomenclature of this place
Would drive a nigger haggard.
There’s all the ’ups and ’ings and ’ya,
They spell confusion to mine eyes.
Quindalup, Darradup, Walkaway, Wandering,
Mourambine, Nullagine, Wagerup, Moojeebing,
Wongamine, Boyup Brook, Wonnerup, Daudabin,
Mean Mahn, Dwalginup, Oarrolup, and Jourokine.
Second Writhe —
There humpies are the favourite style,
With shingles red for roofing,
The walls are built of undressed slabs
And mud for weatherproofing.
Nabawah, Jumperding, Uduc and Quindanning,
Dardanup, Mornbekine, Coolup and Barljanning,
Wanneroo, Mogumber, Doodlekine, Marradong,’
Narra Tarra, Yardaring, Baliugup, Balladoiig.
N.S.W.
Country Press Ass.,
114a Pitt Street, Sydney.
There is sad humour all over this circular, and
most of it unconscious :
N.S.W. Country Press
Association.
[Engraving- of tele-
graph wires crossed by
a composing-stick and
a qnill pen.j
Ars Artis Preservatrixi March U 'l9Ol
That rival newspaper man in your town ! You have a
poor opinion of him, haven’t you ? You have an idea that
he will take an advt. at any price, just' to get it from
you ! He plans and schemes to circumvent you in every
way ; and a thousand and one other little meannesses he
plays upon you.
Does it ever occur to you that much of his meanness is
due to the course you pursue? Both of you are pretty
good fellows, each eager to make money. Both could
insert Coy eminent advts. at the same price, instead of
one doing it at half rates, and the other for nothing and
apacket of cigarettes thrown in.
A set scale for advts. could be arranged and stuck to.
Fair prices for printing could be agreed upon, and in a
hundred and one ways each could help the other.
What would be the result ? You certainly would not
derive (sic) your competitor out of the town in a hurry.
Young Tom could get a bike, Cissy could take music
lessons, Dick could pursue his studies. The anxious
hard-working little wife at home would have an easier
time, a happier life, and a more hopeful future. While
for 3'ou there would be less work, more pleasure, more
money in your pocket, holiday-trip to Sydney now and
again, and a chance, of retiring from the frame or office
table in ample time to enjoy your declining years.
The N.S W. Country Press'Association is trying to, and
in fact is, lifting Cue Provincial press from the slough of
despond and lethargy into which it has drifted. Your
membership will greatly advance your chances of success.
If yon come in your rival will come in, and the thing is
done.
You have all the particulars ; send in your cheque.
George Wride, junr.,
Secretary.
Don’t forget the N.S.W. Country Press Conference at
Easter.
What memories of grinding away at the rackety-
shickory old double-royal on supplement night!
For we ’re all Jock Tamson’s bairns 1
_— r 4 .
FOR HTS GOOD.
“ I bring you the stately matron named Christendom,
returning bedraggled, besmirched, and dishonoured from
pirate raids in Kiao-Choil, Manchuria, South Africa, and
the Philippines, with her soul full of meanness, her pocket
full of ‘ boodle ’ and her mouth full of pious hypocrisies.
Give her soap and towel, but hide the looking-glass.”—
Mark Twain's Greeting to the Red Cross Society.
If you see an island shore
Which has not been grabbed before,
Lying in the track of trade as islands should,
With the simple native quite
Unprepared to make a fight,
Oh, yon just drop in and take it for his good.
Chorus.
Oh, you kindly stop and take it for his good,
Not for love of money, be it understood,
But you row yourself to land,
With a Bible in your hand,
And you pray for him, and rob him, for his good ;
If he hollers, then you shoot him—for his good.
There 've been sad and bloody seen,es
In the distant Philippines,
Where we’ve slaughtered thirty thousand for their good.
And, with bullet and with brand,
Desolated all the land :
But you know we only did it for their good.
Chorus (fortissimo, beginning with a howl) :
Ovv ! just club your gun and kill him, for his good ;
Don’t waste a cartridge, give him steel or wood.
When he’s wounded and he’s down
Brain him, ’cause his skin is brown,
But he careful that you do it for his good.
“Take no prisoners,” but kill them—for their good.
Yes, and still more far away,
Down in China, let us say,
Where the “ Christian ” robs the “ heathen ” for his good,
You may burn and you may shoot,
You may fill your sack with loot,
But be surq»you do it only for his good.
Chorus :
When you’re looting Chinese Buddhas for their good,
Picking opals from their eyeballs made of wood,
As you prise them out with care
Just repeat a little prayer,
To the purport that you do it for their good ;
Make your pocket-picking clearly understood.
Or this lesson I can shape
To campaigning at the Cape,
Where the Boer is being hunted for his good.
He would welcome British rule *
If he were n’t a blooming fool ;
Thus you see that it is only for his good.
Chorus (pianissimo) :
So they’re burning burghers’ houses for their good.
As they pour the kerosene upon the wood,
I can prove them, if I list,
Every man an altruist
Making helpless women homeless—for their good;
Leaving little children roofless- for their good.
MORAL.
There’s a moral to my song,
But it won’t detain you long.
For I could n’t make it plainer if I would.
If you dare commit a Wrong
On the weak becaus’e you ’re strong
You may do it—if you do it for his good.
You may rob him, if you do it for his good ;
You may kill him, if you do it for his good
You may forge and you may cheat;
You have only to repeat
This formula, “ I do it for your good.”
Crime is “ Christian ” when it’s really Understood.
Bertha’K!) Suadwell, in Chicago Record.
' _—: ——o
A quaint example of Dickens’s ebullient fancy
has been re-found by a London paper—a declara-
tion of his'“unhappy attachment ” to Queen
Victoria.
My dear Thompson.— Maelise and I are raving with love
for thS.yueen, with a hopeless passion whose extent no
tongue can tell, nor mind of man conceive. On Tuesday,
we sallied down to Windsor, prowled about the Castle'
saw the corridor and their private rooms- nay, the verv
bed chamber (which we know from having been there
twice), lighted up with such a ruddy, homely, brilliant
glow, bespeaking so much bliss and happiness, that I,
your humble servant, lay down in the mud at the top of
the Long Walk, and refused all comfort, to the immea-
sureable astonishment of a few straggling passengers who
had survived the drunkenness of the previous night.
After perpetrating some other extravagances, we returned
home in a postchaise, and now we wear marriage medals
next- our hearts, arid go about with pockets full of por-
traits, which we weep over in secret. Forster was with
us at Windsor, and (for the joke’s sake) counterfeits a
passion, too, but he does not love her.
Don’t mention this unhappy attachment. I am very
wretched, arid think of leaving my home. My wife
makes me miserable, arid when I hear the voice of my
infant children I burst into tears. I fear it' is too late to
ask you to take this house, now that you have made such
arrangements of comfort in Pall Mall, but if you will you
shall have it very cheap—furniture at a low valuation-
money not being so much an object as escaping from the
family. For God’s sake turn this matter over in your
mind, and please to ask Captain Kincaide what he asks—
his lowest terms in short for ready money—for that post
of Gentleman at Arms. I must he near her, and I see no
better way than that for the present.
I have in hand three numbers of “ Master Humphrey’s
Clock,” and the first two chapters of “ Bamaby.”
Would you like to buy them ? Writing- any more in my
present state of mind is out of the question. They are
written in a, pretty fair hand, and when I am in the Ser-
pentine may he considered curious. Name your own
terms.
I know you don’t like trouble, but I have ventured,
notwithstanding, to make you an executor of my will.
There won’t be a great deal to do, as there is no money.
There is a little bequest having reference to her which
you might like to execute. I have heard on the Lord
Chamberlain’s authority that she reads my books, and is
very fond of them. I think she will be sorry when lam
gone. I should wish to be embalmed, and to be kept (if
practicable) on the top of a triumphal arch at Bucking-
ham Palace when she is in town, and on the north-east
turret of the Round Tower when she is at Windsor.—
From your distracted and blighted friend, 0. D.
P.S.— If it comes to that don’t show this to the
coroner.
, = <>
A piece of beautiful verse from the preface to
W. B. Yeats’s new play, “The Shadowy
Waters”—
How shall I name you, immortal, mild, proud Shadows?
I only know that all we know comes from you,
And that you come from Eden on flying feet.
Is Eden far away, or do you hide
From human thought, as hares and mice and coneys
That run before the reaping-hook and lie
In the last ridge of the barley ? Do our woods
And winds and ponds cover more quiet woods,
More shining winds, more star-glimmering ponds?
Is Eden out of time and out of space ?
And do you gather about us when pale light
Shining on water and fallen among leaves,
And winds blowing from flowers, and whirr of feathers
And the green quiet have uplifted the heart?
1 have made this-poem for you, that men may read it
Before they read of Forgael and Dectora,
As men in the old times, before the harps began,
Poured out wine for the high invisible ones.
The finest poet in English to day—and he Irish :
bom Dublin, ’(if).
Some correspondents—, ,
Judas: ZangwilJ, outside his early memories—and
inside is a laborious writer, pounding sparks o'ut
of flint. All that’s left to him is a share of Le
Gal lien lie’s American vogue. When good reputa-
tions die of puffery, they go to America
J.N.Y’. and others: Guess you’ve been hoaxed.
Auckland Herald’n “ Old Toper,” by “ Warburton ”
(which Warburton ?), looks very much after Kipling, not
before M. : Yes, we saw that one-sided pamphlet with
the garbled quotations. The garbling seems character-
istic ; N.S.W. Railway Commissioners noted it years ago.
Evidently author was let off too lightly. But the attitude
of the unin telligen t Scotchman to Burns (B. never here dis.
praised, but admired for all his worth as a forcible writer
arid a splendid Man) will always remain askew. Super-
stition defies fact and argument. ..As Sydney Smith said,
“ If you take a. blowfly and look at it through a micro-
scope, you will see twenty or thirty ugly little insects
crawling on it. These insects think their blowfly is the
grandest and most important thing in the universe,
and they believe the whole world would come to an
end at once the moment their fly ceased to buzz.” Burns
was a fine fellow ; but he has damnable parasites... .Out-
law : “Why attribute to ‘Mr. Anonymous’ those
affecting verses ‘The Night Before Larry was Stretched’?’
Because J. S. Farmer rightly if ungrammatically says
(Note to “Musa Pfedestris, ’ 1896) that “Neither the
authorship nor the date of these inimitable verses is
definitely known. According to the best authorities,
Will. Maher, a shoemaker of Waterford, wrote the song.
Dr. Robert Burrowes, Dean of St. Finbar’s, Cork, to
whom it has been so often, attributed, certainly did not.”
Have read elsewhere that Burrowes was the last man in
the v orld to write such verses, being himself a supra-
solemn clerical joke, wherefore wicked “ Father Prout ”
nailed him as author in Fraser’s Maya. V.T. :
“What’s become of Sydney Jephcott?” Dunno.
call him. “Sydney! Syd ! Where are you?
How are you ? What are you doing
A.B.S. : R*. golden hair not- tarnishing in the grave
(9 t) Robert Buchanan writes in “ Julia Cytherea” (of
the Roman maiden dug up in the Appian Way)—
“ Golden her hair with light from heaven
As if she slept but yestereven.”
And Julia had been in the grave (say) a thousand years.
.... H.,; “ Kropotkin’s autobiog, as an anarchist leader, is
reprinted, in two vols., from Atlantic Monthly. The
first is much the better. The opening chapters would
splendidly lead off a romance about Old Russia, with the
description of Moscow and its society, when Kropotkin
was reared there, in the purple. From his own know-
ledge of them he gives the characteristics of Nicholas I,
Alexander 11, and Alexander 111, with much point.
Nicholas would walk \lone, with impunity, about
Petersburg at any time, and without an attempt
at disguise. Kropotkin was a page to Alexander 11. He
could have entered the Guards, but picked a Cossack
regiment on the Amur. This enables him to pourtray the
great Russian scientists who did so much for the
national advance into Asia, and Kropotkin himself won
considerable distinction among them. In analysing him-
self, he gives the first place to Goethe’s ‘ Faust’ as the
book which set him thinking. In every phase of his re-
cord he is vivid and incisive, especially with the angles
of his bits of description. He might have been a
novelist to rank with Gogol or Turgenieff. As a writer
he makes.one think a good deal of G. W. Steevens”
S.A. : There are British officers and “ offisahs ” ; and it is
the “ officah ” who calls A. G. Hales “ Australian cad.”
Sam Johnson remarked to effect that, when plain speech
knocks the wind out of noodles, their breath comes back
with abuse. Comparing Kipling’s experience in India, it
seems that a “cad” is sometimes a civilian with too
much brains for military environment W.J,: Em
quiring. . '
THE BOOK FELLOW


PRICES^>-
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO.
Goldsbrough, Mort#Co.
LIMITED.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN , MANAGER.
s acn
saoo
I Ob
£soi
«nsß>
/wo
5807
5800
(«j<j& ran feed oof fo or burr*
r C B B
BRIAR
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or bum, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
L application. Thousands Selling Daily.
nick Simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIBT
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ĥ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPEC lAT CATALOGUE
OF ROOFS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ERASMIC
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
NOTHING
SUCCEEDS
LIKE
SUCCESS.
Hence the
Good
Reputation
of
S'
SAUCE.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agent*—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN A CO., Sydney.
GOOD KAIR FOR ALL!
$
%
Alii Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
S3* For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
S3t For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
M-
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
ħ
h
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DIBEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be ... ... ...
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... •••
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL
J per Cent.
Ss. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
Unrivalled
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years,
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. , , . ,
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when deseed. .
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ei
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Send Youb Consignments of .
JL
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Grower*.
BONUS J PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers .
“LAWRUS” DRESS
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS ,
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
“X «*
CCdMtt
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOUUAkE & DuFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
13 1*. Cla>rksoix’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
jDr. Clarkson’s Jrte-In.vigora.tor
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trnlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs truly wonaenuj.
Price—ELECTRIC. BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- QWL
CUT
RATE
DKUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Ullllllfln:
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
*
\
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
|DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
'LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
■ Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
;£ s. d.
Flam Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aiita aliments 3 3 0
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERS ALL’S
AdLdress: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
CITY TATTERSALL’S H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name__
Address
ADELAIDE 0. May 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
shares in the
£
TURF CLUB H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to the Queen’s Death)
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£
Ellesmere Stakes. About Ist June.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
For fuBI particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


fHGIEKS
Detroleum
* EMULSION
vim hvpophdshhus,
BETTER THAN
COD-LIVER OIL
ANGIER’S Petroleum Emulsion is
better than Cod-Liver Oil because it
is pleasant to take, agrees with the
most delicate stomach, and aids digestion
instead of disturbing it. No matter how
nutritious food may be in itself, it is of no
real use until it has been digested and
absorbed. It is because of its mar lied
power to promote assimilation of ordinary
daily food that Angier’s Emulsion is so
superior to Cod-Liver Oil in all wasting
diseases. It has besides healing and cura-
tive virtues which Cod-Liver Oil does not
possess, and which make it positively
without an equal for troublesome coughs,
weak lungs, and all chronic lung affections.
It is prescribed by the medical profession,
and used in the hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of -id. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept Inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Dbug Stores.
THE ANBIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The best cough drops are drops oK
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
The next time you
take cold, dose your-
self with a lot of
home remedies and
dilly-dally along un-
til your cough is
deep-seated and you
are threatened with ,
pneumonia or con-
s umption. That’s
one way, to be sure.
ĥ
Here’s another way:
Take
.. Ay er’s
Cherry Pectoral
at bedtime and be all right the next
morning. Isn’t this the better way ?
Then continue the Cherry Pectoral a
few days until your throat and lungs
have completely healed and all danger
of future trouble is past.
Another grand thing about Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is that it cures hard
coughs, the hardest kind of old coughs,
even after all other remedies have failed.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When it hurts your lungs to cough,
then apply one of Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral Plasters directly over the painful
lung. It will quiet the pain, remove all
congestion, and greatly strengthen.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
' xv 7
,^'
LADIES >
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addrms—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STiui'rf
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt-,
are highly recommended.,
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throng ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!) MOtdal Pr<Wid€pt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
**aueS\.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. HilLier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Jt2T Send for a
Catalogue.
ħ
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours :—femon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
PropkIETORS : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&bS, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900 -British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
Che
highest Rivard
ever made!
HAS
FOR TOILET SOAP
BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
tfW
vicra
REC f D7gO>
BP
Appointment
to
h
fier ittajesip tbe Queen atm fi.u.B. Cbe prince oi Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
& Saddlery Mauf
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNfci
(close to Redfern Railway station}.
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us. .
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Austialia, 411.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
„nd every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
3SS
Delirered at any Wharf ar
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When “Bill the Smelter” (W. H. S. Os-
mand, Victorian M.L.C.) was a youth in Ply-
mouth, Eng., be had a sweetheart whom he called
“Cushie Doo,” and to whom he confided that, if
ever he were lucky, he intended to buy a steam-
yacht and call it by that name. Long years after-
wards, when the sweetheart was probably the
mother of nine, he bought a steam-yacht of 500
tons, and called it the “ Cushie Doo.” After two
years’ luxurious travelling, he resided on the
vessel in Hobson’s Bay till the barnacles on her
bottom were 4ft. thick. Then he tired of the
business altogether and sold her.
The Friend.
I had a vision terrible : I saw
My body lying stark upon a bed.
Its lips were pale ; its brow was bound with awe ;
I knew that it was dead.
Then through me, like a flame, there swept a gust
Of pity for that life outworn and done ;
For that poor body, soon to lie in dust,
And see no more the sun.
The eyes were sightless that had pierced tor me
The purple veils that hide the face of Sin.
And white as wax the ears that avidly
The song of Lust drank in.
The brow, that once was clear as cloudless day,
Was scored with crooked lines of grief and care ;
And round the temples clustered locks of gray,
Unvenerable hair.
The mouth was pale and cold, that once was red
With scarlet kisses and with crimson wine ;
And like a marble idol’s was the head
Whose evil thoughts were mine.
Still were the hands that plied the shuttle free,
And wove the web of wicked deeds and fell;
Still were the feet that swiftly trod for me
The Primrose Way to Hell.
Alas ! when first that tenement was mine,
That lay a sad, unlovely ruin there,
It was a Temple Beautiful, a Shrine
Stainless, and bright, and fair.
Swift judgment well I knew awaited me—
Swift judgment and a doom of dule and dread ;
But, filled with sorrow, I could only see
That form upon the bed.
Then suddenly, while I, with memories drear,
Gazed on that liody I had foully wronged—
I grew aware of Spectral Shapes of Fear
That swiftly round me thronged.
The brows of one with vine-leaves sere were
bound,
One who trod softly wore a poppy-tiar,
And one —a golden Woman-Shape—was crowned
With roses all of fire.
And all were vulture-faced ; yet, dire to tell,
I knew those faces and those eyes that burned ;
In seemed as if old friends, by some black spell,
Had been to demons turned.
Alas, alas, upon the Primrose Way,
Nor man nor woman of the future heeds ;
I knew them all too well again, for they
Were mine own evil deeds.
They came to claim me as their Chief and Head,
And drag me with them down the dolorous road
That leads, beyond the Kingdom of the Dead,
Unto the Drear Abode.
Methought I struggled madly to escape
The burning talons of that dreadful pack,
When forth there stood a shining Angel-Shape
That waved them sternly back.
“ And who art thou ?” I said, “ Good Friend to
me! ”
The Angel answered low :
“lama Deed of Mercy done by thee,
Many a year ago.”
I woke. Yet well I knew the sight I saw ;
It was not all a vision false and vain,
And I went forth, with spirit touched with awe,
Into the world again.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Nocturne.
On the mountain crest the shadow
Of victorious Morning clings;
And deep, moated gullies tremble
To the beat of ebon wings.
Through the still, expectant forest —
Faint and luminous, afar,
Down the pallid West slow sinking,
Sets a solitary star.
Yester-eve —my camp-fire over—
Glowed that lone star's ardent ray;
Now the dead, white ashes scatter
And the star sets cold and grey.
Oh, my heart, thou throne of Passion !
Yester-eve thou too wert fire,
But this Morn thou boldest only
Dead white ashes of Desire.
In the West a pale star, fading,
Flickers, trembles, fails—and dies.
In the East a red star burning,
Fair as Love, doth slowly rise.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.


ĥ
V.DODGE
.”°r PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast ,
Iron. I
40 , »» •> wrought .
Iron or steel. I
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off. I
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance. !
Perfect Shaft Fastening. .
Writ# for Prices and Particulars to Sole Ayeuts "
for Australasia— - |
PARKE HUH Co. Ctd.;
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Solid Gold with 5 Tur-
quoise, 10/-; or Pearl
and Turquoise, 12 6;
6 Opals, 15/- to 50/-
Telephone No. 3642.
NOTE.
Kindly cut out this
Advt. and forward
when ordering-
12/6
Name or Motto—
9c. 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
150. 20/-, 22 6,27/6
lSe. 21/-, 25/-, 80/-
Solid Gold, with t
Lovely Opals,
Special Value, IS/-.
60 other deaigns,
from 20/- to £lO.
180. Gold, 1 Fins
Diamond, with 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
27/6;
S Pine Diamonds 50/-
30 similar patterns.
18c. Gold, set with
1 Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
40/-
Telephone No. 3642
Art Jewellers, 90 King-st., Sydney.
Please send for Illus-
trated Sheet of Rings
and Size Card.
All Goods Post Free
tt
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, Cs. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
AT
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
ħ
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
E Mg c
m
m
i
«
L.B
OR DER
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 3890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £921,239.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER" FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. F. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
JEIOO Policy.
[Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
\ Monthly Ppemium 13. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for .£lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for Soctii Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales ;
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 Georgre St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Bates, tkc., on Application.
Smart business men may And employment as Organisers upon making application to above address.
»0
At ‘
te-:r%
i r r7 m\
GREETING
mm
TO OUR ESTEEMED FRIENDS AND CUSTOMERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
We shall be glad to meet you at our RUBtRQTD BUILD‘NG on the Grounds
of the Royal Agricultural Society at Moore Park, Sydney, during the forthcoming Common-
wealth Show, April 3rd to 9th inclusive. All those interested in new and economical methods
and materials for Building construction will find abundant food for thought.
If you are interested in a Perfect Wire Fence at an extremely low cost you will be well
repaid by a visit to our P & B Ftber 11 Building.
Permit us to express the hope that many will favour us with a call upon this occasion.
E. RICH if> CO. LTD.
22 & 24, O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1103.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 1901.
Pricb 6d.
THE IMPERIAL FOWL-YARD.
YORK: “ Mustn’t let those fowls fly into the next paddock, nohow !”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia, for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice tt> Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and JHaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l , with Us. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—-lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tjie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pAKage added where required—
which you may .pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street ffk Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 9JS Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 2% Hout-st., Cape Town, South A frica.
26TJ^xzlZeZztfi.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 1901.
Well, Australia! How Are You?
The Commonwealth elections are over ; ana
the result meets reasonable anticipation.
The Barton Ministry will have a substantial
majority in the House of Representatives,
and a sufficient majority in the Senate ; and
whether those majorities are maintained will
depend upon—the Barton Ministry. Not
upon the Ministry’s policy of Freetrade or
Protection : that was one of the issues at
the elections, and the newspapers of N.S.
Wales and Victoria, inheriting the disastrous
legacy of provincial politics, foisted it into
undeserved prominence. For, if an eight-
million tariff has to be raised at the Customs,
the difference between Freetrade and Pro-
tection will be practically little more than
the difference between Tweedle-dum and
Tweedle-dee. Presumably, had George
Reid headed the first Australian Ministry he
would have endeavoured to exclude the Pro-
tectionist tariff-tendency ; but he could not
have excluded it wholly—any more than he
excluded it when as N.S.W. Premier he
maintained the duty on sugar. Theoreti-
cally, as George Reid knew, the advent of
Freetrade meant the removal of N.S.W.
sugar duties. Practically, as George Reid
discovered and admitted, it is one thing to
talk theoretical Freetrade on a platform, and
quite another thing to destroy a productive
industry. So George Reid maintained
N.S.W. sugar duties—that is, in regard to
sugar duties, he was as much of a Freetrader
as the Facts permitted him to be. Barton
will be just as much of a Protectionist as the
Facts permit him to be. That is all the
difference between them in that respect; and
when the Eight-million tariff comes to be
drafted, it will be found that the Facts give
a very small margin of political play be-
tween Protection on the one hand and Free-
trade on the other. As both Reid and Bak-
ton very well know.
* • * *
The Bulletin is glad that the tendency of
the first Australian Parliament is towards
Protection, because it is quite clear that a
policy of Protection—as far as circumstances
permit—is the best policy for Australia to
follow. National progress should continue
® ver y possible point. The physically-
perfect man is not a cripple : he has not a
magnificent torso and shrunken limbs, or
good limbs with a contracted chest. So the
economically-perlect nation does not develop
its industries in one direction, while
neglecting other directions in which de-
velopment is just as necessary. The
most vital industries are always those
which actually afford national subsistence by
drawing wealth from the land—agricultural,
pastoral, mineral. But the farmer does not
live by bread alone ; the pastoralist does not
live by wool ; the miner does not live by
gold or coal. They all demand manufac-
tured products ; they demand an exchange
of products. Clothes and boots, furniture
and tools, are not essentially necessaries of
life ; but they are necessaries of civilisation
which have practically become necessaries of
life. The men who produce these things, by
an exchange of products, are practically as
necessary to primary producers as the
primary producers are to them. The aim of
Protection is to encourage national indus-
tries in all directions ; and a well-devised
system of Protection can do this. What
father of a family, because he has some
strong sons and some less strong or
weakly, would nourish the stronger at
the expense of the weaker who can
become strong and useful ? Every nation is
a family of industries, to be reared as a just
father rears his sons and daughters. And
just as a father’s protection is repaid by his
family, so a Nation’s Protection is repaid by
the Nation.
* * * m
N.S. Wales, under the influence of Syd-
ney’s daily papers—whose wealth and in-
fluence depend upon the aggrandisement of
the port of Sydney—does not yet under-
stand that. The N.S. Wales Federal vote
is clearly in favor of Freetrade. Australia
as a whole understands it; and the Austra-
lian Federal vote is clearly in favor of Pro-
tection. By'far the most important lesson
of the N.S. Wales vote is this: If Protec-
tionists wish to win that State they must at
any cost establish a Protectionist morn-
ing paper. The evening Star does not
count outside Sydney, and it counts for
very little inside Sydney. The Herald
and the Telegraph decided the vote
of Sydney for Freetrade ; and the vote
of Sydney decided the Senate election.
The country districts did not poll as they
polled in the Federal Convention elec-
tion ; but if they had the result would not
have been materially different. The Herald
and Telegraph flood N.S. Wales with argu-
ment and illustration as far as the N.S.
Wales border ; and there their influence
stops. If Barton neglects to put the estab-
lishment of a Sydney morning Protectionist
paper among the very first of Things to Do,
he will continue to lose, and the Protection-
ist policy will continue to lose, the support
of N.S. Wales. The Bulletin’s opinion is
that, as a newspaper enterprise, such a paper
would pay handsomely if conducted with
brains ; it would pay even if (and perhaps
because) a separate cable service had to be
established. The Commonwealth Premier
is counselled to paste “ Daily Paper ” on his
dinner-plate,
* * * *
Just as Freetrade heredity, and a Free-
trade press, cast the N.S. Wales vote for
Freetrade ; so a Protectionist heredity, and
a Protectionist press, cast the Victorian
vote for Protection. And “Victorian”
means Melbourne, just as Freetrade means
“Sydney.” Lacking the trade-advantages
of Sydney port, Melbourne has turned
especially to manufactures ; and the Age,
like the Telegraph, knows on which side
its bread is buttered. Melbourne will have
to learn that, in the interests of Australia,
Protection does not necessarily mean High
Tariff, just as Sydney has learned that
“ Freetrade ” does not mean, in the eyes of
its exponents, no tariff at all. Around his
tumbler Barton is counselled to engrave
“ Australia First.”
* * * *
In South Australia and in Tasmania, as
shown by the list of results, the fiscal issue
was not the chief issue. The electors voted
in accordance with their predilections, and
the tariff cry had little force. Tasmania re-
turns to the Senate three Freetraders and
three Protectionists. South Australia does
the same. Barton can remember, without
writing it on his serviette, that from South
Australia and Tasmania a reasonably honest
and enlightened democratic policy will meet
with consistent support.
* * * •
It was in Queensland, and perhaps in
Westralia, that the most significant results
were shown. In Queensland, Freetrade and
Protection practically did not count at all.
It was Black Man’s Country versus White
Man’s Country; and the vote for a White
Man’s Country was overwhelming. Despite
the continued distrust of a considerable body
of electors, theLaborParty “swept the polls.”
Two of their “ bunch ” of three topped the
Senate poll; Drake and Glassey are, the one
a strong Democrat, and the other an ex-
member of the Labour-party opposed to
black labour; and the sole candidate
elected on the Government side is a
colourless man of no significance. The third
Labour candidate, Stewart, came fourth
on the list in spite of consider-
able animosity roused by his per-
sistent denunciations of Australian inter-
ference in the Transvaal war. Thynne,
Bartholomew, Hamilton, Plant the
whole tribe of black-labour advocates—were
left gibbering in outer darkness. And the
Labour party secured five out of nine seats
in the House of Representatives. No clearer
manifestation of Queensland opinion could
be given. On his knife-handle Barton can
write “The Asiatic goes at once,” and on
his fork-handle, “The Kanaka goes as
quickly as possible.”
• • • *
Westralia showed an apparent preference
for Freetrade candidates, electing four
nominal Freetraders and one Protectionist
to the House of Representatives, and five
Freetraders and one Protectionist to the
Senate. In part, this was an accident of
politics : the electors preferred men, rather
than fiscal policies. In part, it was a
recoil from the Protectionist Forrest ad-
ministration. But in part also—and
here the significance lies—it was a
natural protest against the so-called
Protective duties which have helped to
make living in interior Westralia the most
expensive living in this country. In Wes-
tralia Freetrade has been connected, among
other ideas, with the idea of fresh meat free
of the Sand-groping squatter’s stock-tax.
And since Westralians have hardly any local
manufactures, they want their imported
goods with as little tariff as possible. So
the Westralian vote, in its fiscal aspect, was
a purely local vote. The moral which
Barton can wrap round his cigars is that
Protection is not synonymous with Customs-
duties ; and that duty-pressure on Austra-
lian primary-industries is only to be justified
by an equivalent expansion of secondary-
industries—or by sheer revenue-necessity.
* » * *
On the whole, The Bulletin thinks Aus-
tralia has done very well. She has struck a
keynote of national policy Protection
against the Cheap Local Alien and the
Foreign Cheap Laborer ; and it remains for
the first Commonwealth Ministry to play
the tune. In the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment they may not have the best possible in-
strument. but it is as good as could fairly be
expected : ably and honestly handled, it is
good enough to produce, with whatever flaws
and wheezes, a fit National Anthem for the
audience of Australian Democracy.
“ White Australia! ” —With a Black
Smudge.
Politics is a game, and politicians are gamblers.
Probably, nearly all politicians would prefer to
win with honest cards ; but the essential thing is
to win. So nearly all of them “stack” their
principles to suit the circumstances of the game.
* • * *
When all is said, George Reid is probably as
honest as most other politicians—that is to say,
he is as honest as he can afford to be, or thinks he
can afford to be. Confronted at the Federal elec-
tion with the general sentiment in favour of a
White Australia on the one hand, and the desira-
bility of collecting Queensland coloured - labor
votes for his supporters on the other hand, George
Reid decidedjto be a white politician with a black
smudge. He explicitly condemned Asiatic labor.
With regard to Kanaka labor he temporised.
“ He would go and see the thing for himself ”
after the elections.
* * * *
Therein George Reid blundered, as The
Bulletin could have warned him, and as the
Queensland election has proved. The Queensland
electors have given an overwhelming vote against
colored labor. They would have given a similar
vote at any time during Queensland’s history had
they been asked on a single-voting basis. It is
property-voting, “ cooked ” electoral-rolls, and the
corrupt influence of financial institutions upon
Parliament, which account for the maintenance
of colored labor in Queensland. So George Reid
“stacked ” his principle-cards to no purpose. He
gained nothing from Queensland ; and he showed •
to the other States that he was prepared to risk a
most vital principle of Australian welfare—the
Purity of the White Breed—for the purpose of
catching votes to aid him to power.
• * *' *
It has occurred to The Bulletin that the arena
of Federal politics, hedged by manhood suffrage
on a single-voting basis, offers a good opportunity
of success to any politician who will try the ex-
periment of being entirely honest. Even in State
politics, dishonesty rarely pays in the long run.
In the new National politics, it is not likely to
pay at all. There are too many eyes on the cards.
The temporary and local exigencies of any dis-
trict or State will not prevail over obvious
National Principles in the minds of all-Australia.
The State politician has been in the habit of
trusting himself. The Commonwealth politician
will have to trust the people.
* * * •
George Reid has not yet learned that. So he
will make up his mind in favor of a White Aus-
tralia —a Completely White Australia—after the
elections. The smudge will remain on his face
until he comes back from Queensland.
*■ * * *
When George Reid goes to Queensland to in-
quire into the question of Kanaka labor, what
will he find ? He will go to Bundaberg ; and as
Charles Powers (then leader of Q. Opposition in
Parliament; and many years resident in the Bun-
daberg district) said in 1895 : “A trip to Bunda-
berg will introduce you to a Queensland town in
which no woman or young girl dare venture about
at night without a protector for fear of being in-
decently assaulted by the walk-about kanakas.”
Enquiring of impartial people, he will find that
statement just as true to-day. The men who thrive
on Kanakas may tell him that it is an exaggeration;
but two questions by George Reid, that excellent
cross-examiner, will show him that the Kanakas’
advocates observe it more carefully than a reli-
gion, when applied to their own wives and
daui/hters. Interviewing the local sergeant of
police, George Reid will learn that as late as
last Christmas Eve, about one thousand Kanakas,
maddened by alcohol and opium, took possession
of Bundaberg township, brawling, thieving, riot-
ing, defying the police, and keeping the
white residents in a state of panic behind
locked doors. After his dinner, The Bul-
letin hopes George Reid, in the com-
pany of his friendly police-sergeant, will stroll
round Bundaberg’s houses of Kanaka prostitution.
There he will see the girl-daughters of white
working-men (no rich men’s children —no relatives
of Brisbane newspaper-proprietors, or of Parlia-
mentary black-labor advocates) who have been
borne in travail by some poor mother, nounshed
by some toiling father, and educated at Q State-
schools —to satisfy the natural lust of the wifeless
and womanless Kanakas.
* * * *
Proceeding up the Q. coast, with the black-
labor advocates’ affirmation that white men
cannot perform the labor of cultivating sugar-
cane in his mind, Geokge Reid will come to the
small farmers’ plantations which feed the Mackay
central mills. There he will learn with interest
that white men can and do perform all the
very labor which it has been proved by the Rule
of Imagination impossible for them to perform.
He will find that the labor is severe, though not
more severe than a dozen other occupations (min-
ing, stoking, scrub-clearing—for example) which
white men continuously perform in the tropics;
and that the man w r ho can afford to pay
a laborer naturally employs a laborer, colored
for preference. But he will learn, from the
evidence of his own eyesight, the great truth
that the sugar industry is in every detail as much
a white man’s industry as a black man’s industry—
if only it is carried on under white men's condi-
tions and pays white men’s wages. Should he
happen to travel by night the roads in the
Mackay district, George Raid’s keen in-
telligence will note something missing. All
over Australia at night you will see the red
dottels of swagmen’s fires. All over settled Aus-
tralia men lie down in the bush, under the sky,
and sleep in peace and safety till morning. All
over settled Australia—with the exception of the
Q. sugar districts. There the swagmen seek shel-
ter in houses and towns. On enquiry, George
Reid will learn that in the Kanaka a savage’s
murderous instincts are dormant ; and that he
gratifies them (as at Ayr, Q., the other day) by
hacking solitary white men into small pieces with
a cane-knife.
* * • *
Continuing his journey, George Reid will come
to Geraldton. When his steamer enters the
Johnstone, the first thing that will strike George
Reid is that the Johnstone is a river in China—
such a crowd of Chinese sampans will surround the
vessel. Watching the steerage passengers leave the
steamer, he will count probably three Japanese,
two Chinese, two Kanakas, and one white man;
and the white man will look very sorry for him-
self. On enquiry, George Reid will learn that
the steamer steerage-accommodation between
Townsville and Thursday Island is practically
monopolised by colored laborers. Reaching
Cairns, and travelling by rail to the Barron Falls,
he will learn that the second-class carriages are
entirely given over to Chinese—the very meanest
white being practically compelled to pay the heavy
first-class fare. Going along the course of the
Barron, he will be able to see the numerous huts
where the Chinese live with white wopien pros-
tituted to their service; and returning to Cairns
he will be told of the interesting Kanaka riot a
few months ago, when a mob of Kanakas chased
the police to the police-station with knives and
broken bottles—putting the town in terror —and
afterwards barricading themselves for a siege.
* * * *
Thursday Island is the place where George
Reid will look round for a white face, for Thursday
Island is a Japanese community—Japanese per-
forming nearly every service, and monopolising
nearly every trade. (Previously, in his Townsville
hotel, of course, George Reid will have noted
that the cook, the waiter, the housemaid, the
froom, are all Japanese.) John Douglas will tell
im all about the affray between the Thursday
Island Kanakas and Manila men at the beginning
of this year ; with the police powerless, a jewel-
ler’s shop raided, eight men badly injured, and
two deaths resultant.
* * * *
Coming back in the steamer, George Reid will
doubtless ponder all these things in the light of
the fact shown by the 1891 census that one in every
three adult males in Northern Queensland is a
coloured alien; and The Bulletin fancies that he
will begin to think very seriously about his
smudge. And as George Reid has brains, The
Bulletin is reasonably sure that by the time he
reaches Sydney he will add the weight of his
endorsement to the memorable declaration by
Samuel Walker Griffith (formerly Premier,
now Chief Justice of Queensland) —
“ After a very full consideration of the matter, I
am convinced that it is impossible for an inferior
servile class, and a free white laboring population,
to permanently exist side by side with one another.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Old Age Pensions.
It seems, as a rule, impossible to get human
sympathy, charity, or worldly common-sense out
of a paper run by a parson. Brisbane Telegraph
and Week are generally understood to be run by
a number of parsons, and, as a natural con-
sequence, presumably, the two rags mentioned
are always agin everything calculated to lift
humanity out of the particular ditch in which it
pleased “the Board ” to dump it. All improve-
ments in the social machine, all suggestions for
the welfare of anybody but us and ours are, in
the opinion of parsonically-bossed prints, a loath-
some and irreverent interference with the divine
regulation of things. Any attempts to abolish
poverty are especially irreverent, because the
average parsonical mind has been trained to see
in poverty the manifestation of the anger of an
outraged Deity. The belief that all human
wretchedness is the outcome and result and
proper punishment of Sin has become a fetish ;
and to battle with Poverty and try to do away
with it is derogatory to the fetish. "The Old Age
Pension system is looming large in the Australia’s.
Where it has arrived it has come to stay, and
where it has not already arrived it can be seen
approaching very fast. So Brisbane Week (the
weekly edition of the ignorant, hide-bound Tory
Telegraph) rises up and curses Old Age Pensions
with a loud and raucous curse. It screeches that
the bulk of those who require Old Age Pensions
are a bad lot. A hunk of its screech :
They comprise those whose lives have been one lone-
meteoric course of moral ineptitude, who are, and always
have been,-entirely beyond the reach of reformation, and
of help. For such there are souphouses, benevolent
asylums, and Dunwich. Those places are just as much the
natural habitat of such as mud is of the eel. The diffi-
culty always has been legislatively to separate and pro-
vide for the two extremes without laying the country
open to a charge of injustice in regard to the intermediate
denizens of pauperdom. Maugre all legislative expedients
those denizens will ever be what they are. It is useless
to put the country to any moral qualms regardin'-- them
They are happy only in the sphere in which their morai
ineptitude has fitted them. We cannotwaste sympathy
much less good State treasure, upon such. Souphouses’
benevolent asylums, and Dunwiches must still be main-
tained for them, but no more can be done. For the
others, much good can be done by a system of pensions


much sacred affection can be preserved, and much pood
citizenship properly recognised and acknowledged. The
Melbourne experience should be carefully borne in mind
by our own social reformers.
Summed up, it all amounts to this : No man
can honestly. say what brought another to
ruin, and it is practically impossible in
everyday life to divide the sheep from
the goats. The reason of 20 years ago
does not matter much, the community has to deal
with the result or the effect. The soup-kitchen,
the benevolent asylum, and Dunwich asylum
are all merely badly-organised efforts to do some-
thing the community recognises as absolutely
necessary. The gang that runs the Week might
have no objection to seeing people lying dead in
the gutter from the effects of starvation, but the
ordinary man is not built that way, and prefers
to feed those who cannot feed themselves, even
if it is their own fault they cannot do so, rather
than have his path blocked with emaciated corpses
and importuning beggars. The first results of
that impulse to do something were the soup-
houses, the benevolent asylums and the Dun-
wiches. But humanity cannot stand still: it must
either advance or recede, and just now, despite
papers like the Week, it is advancing. People
recognise that the vicissitudes of fortune are
beyond human control, and that all of us are pretty
well tarred with the same brush of wasted oppor-
tunity and dragged down by the same dreary load
of ventures that failed. We have all spent cash
on pet sins that we ought to have put in the hank,
and to-day Jones sees Brown go down through a
combination of circumstances over which he had
no control—uniting, perhaps, with a few sins that
have suddenly found him out; and Jones reflects
and shivers as it strikes him like a bullet that to-
morrow some of his pet sins may come home to
roost and weigh him down till some other com-
bination of circumstances suddenly grips him,
drags him from his little, brief affluence, and
sends him forth on a dreary world, a pauper in his
declining years. If he is a sensible man he recog-
nises that it is better and more humane to pro-
vide in a decent and dignified manner for
Brown and all others who may he wrecked
on the rocks of circumstance, because he him-
self may he wrecked some day. This is
the prompting of a higher, better - developed,
and more far-seeing sense of instinct of self-
preservation. When people vote for the
establishment of Old Age Pensions they are not
doing a charity to those who have gone under,
they are effecting a national endowment policy for
every man and woman in the community—insur-
ing themselves against starvation and pauperism
in their own sere and withered old age. The
well-fed parsons who run the Week and the Tele-
graph may yet, through the grace of God, be
flung down into the gutter of poverty to realise
the unholy uncharitableness of their present atti-
tude on the Old Age Pension question. The
drought in Queensland has ruined hundreds, if
not thousands, of the hardest-working and most
thrifty of her population, and those who are too
old to start again, if they have been in the habit
of taking a little der-rink, are, according to the
Satanic Week, fit cases for “soup-houses, benevo-
lent asylums—and Dunwich.”
♦
Socialism in Maoriland.
Maoriland still hums along in the vanguard of
democratic progress. In the old days of Fat
Man the constant argument was that every
individual must bow down to the great law of
Supply and Demand. If men required 50s. per
week wages to live properly, and the capitalist
could get men to work for 30s. per week, he was
not bound morally or legally to recognise the fact
that the 30s. was too little to live upon. He was
perfectly justified in buying in the cheapest
market and applying the irresistible suasion of
unlimited competition to beat down wages and
prices, and do the best for his own particular busi-
ness. To-day the exploiter is having his old-time
argument used against himself ruthlessly. There
has been an agitation for cheaper cable communi-
cation with Australia. M.L. Postmaster-General
Ward proposed that the co. should cable 12 words
for 6d. between the Islands and the Con-
tinent. The Eastern Extension Co., which con-
trols the cable, nearly fell down dead at such an
outrageous proposal, and as soon as it got
its breath indited a withering reply to the effect
that the co. was there to make cash and not to
foster the business relations of Maoriland and
Australia : it declined to reduce its rates on the
ground that any reduction would mean a loss.
The Postmaster-General has replied that he re-
grets they cannot make it pay at the rate of 12
words for sixpence, but that is the rate the people
of Maoriland would like to have the business done
at, and as the co. can’t do it at that rate, the
people of Maoriland will see about laying down a
cable of their own. A Bill is to be introduced
into the local Parliament to authorise Govt, to
buy the co. out, or if that is inconvenient or im-
possible, to lay down a State cable and simply run
the syndicate affair right out of the business. Then,
in the matter of coal, the State has taken
a hand. There has been a big demand for M.L.
fuel lately, and the prices to the local consumer
have gone up accordingly, except where the
colliery-owners were tied by contracts. One R. J.
Seddon, vulgarly known as “King Dick,” ob-
served, with pain, that while as Minister of Rail-
ways he obtained the best coal at 21s. per ton, he
was compelled to pay 40s. per ton for the fuel
with which Mrs. King Dick had the roast cooked.
This quite satisfied him that something was
wrong, and that the yell of the Wellington house-
holder was a justifiable and proper yell. The Goal
Co.’s got thehint that they were merely the tenants
of the people of Maoriland, and if they couldn’t
see their way to supply their landlords at a reason-
able rate the lease might be cancelled or some-
thing else might happen. Just now there
is a bitter cry going up from the colliery -
owuers to the effect that they do not
make very huge profits, and that these
threats were quite unjustifiable. However, King
Dick, still smarting under the 40s. per ton, and
his ears filled with the curses of the consumers,
sails serenely on. Men have been set to work at
Mokihinui and Cardiff in mines that were aban-
doned and declared no good, and thousands of
tons have been raised and sold under the market
price which had been artificially forced up. Hav-
ing started, the Government finds it cannot stand
still, and already the demand has been made that
the State shall ship and distribute the coal as well
as tear it out of the earth. Altogether, it looks as
though Maoriland is about to fall into the paradise
of State Socialism wholly.
♦
A Judge in a Tantrum.
At the recent Ararat (Vic.) assizes Judge
Williams was obviously in a vile temper. A
lad of 16, convicted of seducing a girl under legal
age, was stated by the medical superintendent of
Ararat lunatic asylum and by a local doctor to he
mentally and physically not-fully developed, “ he
was what was recognised as a moral imbecile.”
Judge Williams ordered him five years imprison-
ment 1 The next case was precisely similar save
that the man was a few years older and there was
no imbecility in the case. The customary damsel
“about 15, but looking much older,” said she had
walked home with accused on the customary
Sunday evening and the customary result is
alleged to have ensued. She didn’t mention
the matter till some months later and
then she straightly charged accused , with
forcibly assaulting her. She said it hadn t oc-
curred to her to mention the circumstance to
her mother, or even to some friends they had met
on the way home, also that she parted from her
assaulter “fairly good friends.” The jurymen
bearing in mind the previous shocking sentence on
a semi-imbecile —debated long. Possibly they
reckoned the girl’s bare assertion that the prisoner
was the cause of her trouble insufficient. Possibly
they were afraid to trust his Honor should
give accused many years right off. They were
finally discharged without agreement. Then this
serene dispenser of justice up-ended himself and
froze on to them with great vigor. (Be it remem-
bered, the accused was remanded, and still awaits
another trial.) Said Judge Williams: “This
was a case in which he could not understand any
reasonable man having any reasonable doubt. . . .
He was surprised they had not been able to come
to a conclusion. . . . When a case was plain be-
yond reasonable doubt it was their duty to convict.
Their daughters were liable to be seduced, and the
man went free. . . There were cases where the jury
ought to trust the Judge, audit was well-known
that where the girl was well grown and a consent-
ing party lie always made the punishment as
lenient as he could. The probability now was
that the young man, if found guilty, would not
get a lenient sentence. He would have to take
his trial before another Judge at Ballarat, and
might get a severer sentence.” Also he may come
before the same Judge (at Ballarat, in June next),
and if so ! A more shameless attempt
to prejudge a case against a man then awaiting
trial is happily rare. It was Judge Williams
who, the previous week, sentenced a weak-
minded lad at Horsham to three years and a
flogging for a similar offence, and, considering
these two sentences and his attempt to procure a
conviction by reference to his “well-known leni-
ency ” (Williams’ well-known leniency !) it looks
as though his Honor was starting t*> blossom out
as a humorist.
A Seasonable Prayer.
The Australian Premiers should lose no time in
getting an assurance that the York bag of tricks
will not contain any baronetcies. If this country
draws a hard and fast line at baronetcies the
institution of knighthood for “distinguished
Australians” will eventually perish of ridicule.
Every honest thinker —“loyal” and otherwise —
recognises the fact that knighthood must always
be in the nature of a British Government degree
for grovellers, even though it were only conferred,
hereabouts, as a recognition of valuable public
service. An Australian Premier who gets the
“ Sir ” is (or ought to be) in his purely political
aspect as much entitled to titular distinction as a
doctor of medicine or of laws, or an army or navy
officer. The handle drops off his family name
when he dies, as with the other fellow’s.
If it didn’t reduce him in a sense to the
level of the bloated British soap-boiler
who is knighted because he happens to
be mayor of a town when the King comes
along to open a hospital, or what not, and who
would miss the “honor” if he were a notorious
first-class democrat, the K.C.M.G. degree for a
George Turner or George Dibbs might be
endorsed by the public opinion of the Common-
wealth. Under present conditions it excites con-
tempt, or at least dissatisfaction, in the best of
cases —indeed, the better the case, the greater the
reason why the “honor” should be snorted at.
Still we can afford to wait for common sense to
work its will as regards life titles. The alleged
bundle of knighthoods which the Duke of York is
bringing to Australia along with the “£20,000
worth of presents ” and other baggage should do
good, not harm, to the democratic cause by
attracting notice to the real purpose thereof,
which is the reward of snobbish “Loyalty.” The
Bulletin devoutly prays that many knights of
the Bingy Benjy and Matthew Davies order
may result from the poor little Duke of York’s
visit. But against the possibility of any more
baronetcies being introduced into Australia’s
social life this journal begs to enter a violent pro-
test. God save the Commonwealth from the
grovelsome influence of the “honor” that de-
scends from father to son, gaining a pestilent,
spurious dignity with age ! To parody the late
Laureate’s verse —
Knighthood is but for a time,
A folly that quickly blows,
But the baronet’s title sticks,
And the baronet’s title grows.
Human nature in this young country is much
about as weak as elsewhere, and it must be pro-
tected from the poisonous gas of hereditary dis-
tinctions. Melbourne already knows what this
means. S’Rupekt Clarke, son of S’William, is
an object lesson'on the insidious effects of Rank in
a strange atmosphere. The browless baronet
holds a place apart from all other local land-
owners. Fools may laugh at the respect, often
an involuntai-y respect, shown to this deplorable
“accident of birth,” but wise men pray, “Goo
save us ! ”
The Slave State of Wesfcralia.
The Bulletin receives this letter from the land
of the Groper slaveholder and his “indentured”
nigger :
I anxiously scanned the Federal debates but failed to
find that any attention had been given to the Native
trouble in this State. Why so grave a matter should
have been ignored is passing strange now that the dawn
of the century greets the brand-new Constitution, and
from henceforth a blot on any one unit will prejudice the
Commonwealth in the world’s eye.
Some years ago Government inoculated this State with
the social ulcer of slavery, for no other apparent object
than to provide low-priced labor to the greedy crowd,
who, not coatent with oceans of land at a nominal rent,
must needs get labor on similar terms. It might have
sufficed to rob the rightful owner of his country without
handing him over to the tender mercies of the slave-owner
and the nigger-driver.
The observation of.years proves that the everyday life
of the “ apprentice” native is physically worse than that
of the African slave of bygone years. True, those were
mere chattels, but even that grim fact gave them a
money-value, and consequent protection. In those days
man’s property in man was fairly well attended to,
simply because it paid. No such luck attends the slave
in disguise. He has no market value, because, when the
old nigger is dead, a new one can be captured gratis.
Employers, when in need to fill the gaps created by deser-
tion ordeath, just “run-in ” a supply. Then a J.P., or some
other equally reputable authority, witnesses the “ signing
of the contract,” and is supposed to make sure that the
captured nigger is acting under no compulsion. The
spectacle of two slave-owning J’sP. witnessing each other’s
contracts and making quite sure that each other’s nigger
is a perfectly free agent is most interesting.
It is only the brutality of a certain class of squatter
which makes the apprentice system necessary. The man
who treats his aboriginal servants kindly can get abund-
ance of voluntary black labor at a cheap enough rate.
Civilisation reproaches this State because it out-
Herods all its sisters in its treatment of the aboriginals.
It is the one Slave State of Australasia, and its slave
system is loathsome in its brutality and revolting in its
hypocrisy. The Catholic Missions furnish irrefragable
evidence that, with kind treatment and training, even
the wildest tribes are susceptible to a better life. I have
known such natives perfectly reliable , truthful, ana
honest— and what one Church has accomplished, why not
ot Mav ? God grant that the iniquitous enactment be
forthwith repealed, and natural rights restored to a race
fast ebbing awav, and entitled to more than barren sym-
pathy. Then will the young Commonwealth be rescued
from the indignity of wearing the badge of Slavery .
Then, too, accountable beings will no longer be hunted
down and driven in chains like beasts of prey, to be
scourged, as if malefactors, by brutish Australian slave-
owners in this land of alleged freedom.
__ *
Death from Chloroform.
Writes “Medicus ” from Victoria :
Dear Bulletin.—The use of Chloroform Anaesthesia ha
been condemned in your columns. I write in its defence
and enclose a cutting from the British Medical Journal
which, while proving not much, is a plea m its behalf.
Chloroform, if carefully used, is as safe as anj other
anaesthetic and more convenient than any other in its
administration. I have lately had two cases mmj quiet
country practice where I gave chloroform to two old men
over 70, the one being under its-influence for an hour and
three-quarters. Both came out of it with pulses as it
nothing had been done. . .
Single-handed (my medical neighbours being tar
distant) for reducing fractures and dislocations and m
refractory children needing surgical help, I have
no hesitation in using chloroform. During the tour
years that I was in Edinburgh there was not a
single death from chloroform recorded at the Koyai
Infirmary, and they use nothing else there. One
patient got very near it by the carelessness of the anaes-
thetist, a clinical clerk, who, instead of attending to his
work, became interested in the operation. If it had not
been for the prompt action of the operator Dr. Jas.
Bell, the Sherlock Holmes of Conan Doyle—who, on
noticing the darkening of blood, due to want of aeration,
pushed a remarkably long fore-finger, which he fortu-
nately possessed, through the rima glottidis, and stimu-
lated the respiratory nerve-centres, there would have
been a corpse, and chloroform would have been blamed.
(From a practical point of view, writes “ Puyyaka,” the
above brings out no new arguments in favor of chloro-
form. The assertion that it is as safe as any other
anaesthetic “ if carefully used ” is vitiated by the doctrine
of convenience set forth in the next line. No amount ot
superior convenience should be allowed as an argument.
A medico’s duty is to study the safety of his patient with-
out regard to convenience, and, anyhow, the odd few
inches of buggv-space taken up by an ether-inhaler is a
small matter in comparison to a possible coroner’s inquest.
The instances related of safe administration to men ot
advanced years are explainable by the fact that in early
vouth and advanced age (below 5 and over 60) the average
of deaths from chloroform does not exceed 2 per cent, of
all fatal cases. Ages of between 16 and 60 yield 61 per
cent, of all chloroform deaths, and it is here that ether
shows its superior safety. The instance given of a case
at Edinburgh Infirmary further bears out the contention
of the superior safety of ether, since it is almost impos-
sible for a careless administrator to give a dangerous
overdose with a Clover’s inhaler. ’The only cases in
which chloroform appears to be admissible where ether is
obtainable, consist of children of tender years, persons of
advanced age, and pregnant women. In the two former
the circulatory mechanism is not so liable to sudden
breakdown as'at other ages, and in the latter the physio-
logical hypertrophy strengthens the heart against a
possible collapse. The tendency to a possible bronchitis
also appears to be present in all three.]
_ ♦
“ Medi-Cuss ” re chloroform deaths :
Writer had hammered into him the code of ethics in-
stead of the catechism, but he fears that the law of caste
would have to go under were he a juryman at an inquest
where the victim had died under chloroform administered
for the extraction of teeth. There can be no shadow of
excuse for so using the drug, and the doctor who allows
himself to be persuaded into a course of action that he
must know is fraught with danger, ought to get three
years “hard.” “Medico” (B. 9/10/’01) states that the
considerations of less excitement and struggling may
favor the use of chloroform in preference to ether in
private practice, but not in public institutions, “ where
skilled assistants are usually procurable.” Are they ? I
know of a dozen public institutions in N.S.W. where the
surgeon has “ Buckley’s ” show of “skilled assistance,”
and it is my opinion that every country practitioner in
districts where there is but one doctor should be oom-
pelled—by force of public opinion, if not by law
—to possess a nitrous-oxide (laughing-gas) outfit. A
really good outfit, including a 163 ft. cylinder of gas, can
be had for less than £5, and the doctor would have thus
at hand an absolutely safe, pleasant, and cheap means of
producing comfortable anaesthesia in nearly all operations
of a minor nature Especially is laughing-gas the thing
for teeth-extraction. The patient can be placed in any
position—the raising of the patient to a sitting posture
being one of the great dangers in the use of chloroform —
and the operation over, the patient, in the great majority of
cases, after a few moments walks out of the room unaided.
Each patient will take, on an average, say, eight gallons of
gas, which means 12 sittings to the cylinder. When the
cylinder is exhausted it can be returned and refilled while
a fresh one is forwarded by parcel-post— another great
point in favor of this agent.
For the extraction of teeth, therefore, the insertion of
sutures, the probing for and removal of foreign bodies,
the opening up of painful abscesses, the removal of in-
growing toe-nails (a momentary but exquisitely painful
proceeding) and many other minor operations, every
country doctor should have a laughing-gas outfit—
especially as the apparatus can be easily carried from
house to house.
Public opinion will yet force the powers that be to sup-
ply it to every back-country hospital, when, in addition
to the saving of an immense amount of totally needless
suffering, there will be a marked decrease in the number
of deaths on the operating-table.
♦
“No compulsion, but you must.” Circular issued
by authority of N.S.W. Education-Minister
Perry:—
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 25th February, 1901.
MEMORANDUM TO TEACHER.
The Minister of Public Instruction has expressed his
approval of the movement initiated for hoisting the
“Union Jack” on all Schools in the Federal States, on
the occasion of the opening of the first Commonwealth
Parliament by H.R.H. the Duke of Cornwall and York,
accompanied by the Duchess of Cornwall and York.
2. It is desired that all requisite action in this matter
should be taken by the teachers and parents concerned.
The cost will be inconsiderable, and probably the forma-
tion of local Committees to obtain subscriptions and
make arrangements for the provision of flags and flag-
poles would afford the best means of carrying out the
desired object. Donations of the latter articles may per-
haps be invited from private citizens. It is to be under-
stood that everything must be done without cost to this
Department.
3. If it be intended to take action in your district in
the direction indicated, no time should be lost, in order to
have the flags and poles in position when the opening
ceremony takes place, on or about the 9th May next.
If practicable, it is proposed that H.R.H. the Duchess of
Cornwall and York should give a signal simultaneously
over all the telegraph wires the time for hoisting the
flags.
J. C. Maynard, Under Secretary.
If it be intended! The Lord may have mercy on
the miserable teacher who doesn’t “intend.”
And “everything must be done without cost to
the department ’’—and for the greater glory of the
Minister.
+
“ Royal Engineer ” to The Bulletin
The great “ expert ” question cropped-up again at the
Sydenham (Sydney) railway accident inquest. Loco.
Superintendent Tiiow said the accident was due to a com-
bination of ill-balanced engine and uneven line, whereas
the coroner’s amici curice, Engineering Prof. Warren
and Mr. Norman Selpe, said that unevenness of the line
had nothing to do with the accident, and that a fin. de-
pression on the rails would not tend to jerk even an ill-
balanced engine off the line. Mr. Tnow said it would, if
the engine were going fast —and he seems to have sound
sci'ence on his side. The same physical laws regulate the
rolling and pitching of a ship and the oscillation and
pitching of a locomotive. Both move round their centres
of gravity with a motion like that of an inverted
pendulum. If the centre of gravity, as in the
Sydenham engine, is “behind the centre of figure,
the front wheels will, if they get a sufficient im-
pulse, tend to rise above rail level, and then a very
slight impulse to one side, such as may b e pven by
a verv small inequality in the rail, will jerk the whole
mass off the line. No one but a very experienced railway
man—who is not only well up in the theory of mathema-
tical physics, but possesses extensive practical experience
and has also the rare faculty of combining theory and
practice into an effective concrete system-can rightly
estimate the value of each small circumstance. Prof.
Warren and Mr. Sklfe saw all that, Mr. Tiiow saw the
faulty engine, and the slight inequalities in the permanent
way; - but they postulated either a perfect engine for the
faulty road, or a perfect road for the fauity engine.
Something more than mere mathematical and mechanical
knowledge is needed to make a real engineer. . i e
must have a certain kind of brain, to enable him to matte
adequate combinational use of his acquired theory ana
personally-observed facts. University degrees prove
nothing. They are merely labels —the real value of whi .1
depends on the sort oi brain owned by the mail who Dears
one
An aggregation calling itself the North Australian
League met the other day in Melbourne, and de-
cided to urge the Federal Govt, to promptly finish
the transcontinental railway to Port Darwin, to
secure the assistance of Russia (Russia !) 111 estab-
lishing a line of steamers between Port Darwin
and Port Arthur, to agitate for telegraphic com-
munication between Darwin and Wyndham, and
finally to endeavor to get that portion of W .A.
ahd S.A. north of the 23th parallel constituted a
separate State. This wonderful league, which
appears to be mostly J. S. Butters, J. Brau-
shaw, P. B. Durack, M -ieas Gunn, and Go.,
gave its case away hopelessly by stating that the
development of the N.T. would make a White
Australia impracticable until an immense amount
of capital had been expended in pioneering
work.” Let’s see. “Pioneering work” mostly
means using and abusing black and yellow labor,
land-grabbing, concession-syndicating, and so
forth, doesn’t it ? And these lovely Leaguers
want the N.T. and the North of W.A. erected
into a State and practically placed under their
control. Sweet simplicity !
♦
“Shellback” to The Bulletin
The Federal, about whose doom, with that of all her
jerew, there now can be little doubt, is described by the
press as a comparatively new boat, strong, well-found
and welPmanned. The same papers, in commenting on
the finding of hatches washed ashore, stated that in
accordance with usual collier routine these were duly
secured before leaving port. Perhaps so. But whose
business is it to see that any vessel, employed in any trade,
coasting or deep sea, is in fit and proper condition for a
battle with the elements that may be waiting her
immediately her nose smells the green water ? The
answer is—Nobody’s. Marine Board surveyors don t
go poking round the coal and other wharves at
all hours of the night, when steamers usually
manage to finish up, and personally see that they
are not overloaded, and are in other ways ready for sea.
Why, not more than six months ago a couple of colliers
belonging to a big firm arrived at an Australian port with
the centre of their load-line discs submerged, and this
after a four-days’ passage plus consumption of at least 40
tons, and the decision of the local Marine Board was to
theeffect that no action could be taken because the vessels
loaded in another State ! Also, present writer has heard
it stated that not long ago the coal-trimmers on the ‘ 60-
milers” —Newcastle to Sydney—used generally to finish
up work somewhere in the vicinity of Barranjoey,
just outside Sydney. Another point—why cannot
actual and verified crew-lists, signed by some re-
sponsible person, say master or purser, be always
available at owners’ or agents’ offices ? The prac-
tice in London is for the skipper to make out his list
whilst proceeding down the river, and this is handed
to the pilot previous to his going ashore at Dover, he in
turn handing it over on arrival to the higher authorities.
Also, the Victorian Ports and Harbors Dept, don’t show up
very well in their refusal to send the Lady Loch to investi-
gate re the Federal when urgent telegrams were being re-
ceived from Gabo. The Lady Loch’s crew, from their close
acquaintance with almost every foot of the coast from
Gabo westwards, would have been just the people to send
on an errand of mercy, which was only tardily attended-to
by the despatch of 'the Tagliaferro to the scene of sup-
posed disaster. The Lady Loch’s “ regular programme ”
is, apparently, such an important affair that the whole
business of the department would stand still were it
interfered with in the smallest degree.
♦
The Jingo newspapers which strive to excuse the
devastation of the Transvaal by referring to the
doings of Sherman and of the Prussians in 1870,
always forget to add that the English papers of
that time were loud in their protests against what
they called the “ barbarities ” of the American
and German generals, and that the harsh measures
of “ the brutal Prussians” did much to enlist Eng-
lish sympathy with the French. A favorite
example with the Jingo newspaper is the order
given in 1870 that French hostages were to be
placed on the trains in districts where it had been
attempted to damage the lines. On this Hall re-
marks in his “International Law” (p. 475):
“The order was universally and justly repro-
bated.” Should the war go on much longer, we
shall doubtless have the devastation of the Palati-
nate pointed out as the model the troops in
S’Africa should follow, “if it were not for the
misplaced magnanimity of our commanders.”
+
With reference to Boer General Botha’s recent
mention of “his Government,” London Times
sneeringly asks “What fs his Government?” Well,
the fact that—after repeated proclamations to
the Boers had failed to secure the submission of
any considerable number of them—substantially
the same proposals were made to Botha, was
a recognition of his position as head of the Boer
State. Those who know the real history of the
American War of Independence (not the
Washington and Lafayette legends, but as
written in the memoirs and correspondence of
men like Jefferson and Governor Hutchinson)
.can find many parallels to the events of the Boer
war. Even as late as 1782, the 7th year of the
Amer can struggle, numbers of American patriots
despaired, and in 1779, the Frenchman De
Portain, one of Washington’s brigadier-generals,
wrote that, if England could keep 30,000
men in America, she must win—and 30,000 men
would be but a drop in the S’African bucket !
— : +
“Ex-R.E.” writes re Broderick’s new British
army scheme: —
Can’t see how the thing is going to work. Six army-
corps to begin with, and three of these to be kept con-
stantly ready for foreign service. Why, 20 years ago they
only professed to have two army corps, and only one was
supposed to be ready, hut when they wanted to send that
one to Egypt it wasn’t to be found, and they had to
throw together a lot of fragments of regiments to take its
place. Also, the army that went to S'Africa was a thing
of shreds and patches, and would have, made an awful
exhibition of itself opposed to a regularly - organised
European army. The men were brave enough;
but they could neither march nor manoeuvre, and
they had no leaders who could handle them. Who
can say that Broderick’s six army-corps will
he any better than the two of 20 years ago ?
The War Minister proposes, but the recruit disposes, and
if men won’t enlist there are no soldiers. Even in time
of peace recruits are scarce, and all that can be got are
wanted to make up the drafts for foreign stations, re-
ducing regiments at home to skeletons. So where is
Broderick going to get his “ 155,000 additional regulars,”
his “ eight regiments for garrison purposes ” in the Medi-
terranean, and the 5000 or so extra marines the Admiralty
will want to guard coaling stations ? The competition of
the recruiters for the marines with those for the regulars
is sufficiently severe already, and the former get the pick
of the recruits, as any man can see who will compare the


The equitable life assurange society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMPING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melboubne.
C> CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
mtNW 4K wATE n ■
n
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—
. . . ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cookie Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manaorr
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia
marines on view daily in Sydney with the stamp of
British soldier lately on a visit here. If the British army
is to be greatly increased there must be either a great in-
crease of pay to tempt men to enlist, or else compulsory
service. For years and years past every fit man who
offered himself has been eagerly' roped in, and yet the old
small army was never up to anything like its nominal
strength. Where is the new large army to come from ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum . “ Two Little Drummer Boys.”
Palace “ Why Smith Left Home.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Centenary Hall Miss Kate Rooney’s Concert
(York-street.) (Easter Monday, April 8).
Redfern Wirth’s Circus.
Town Hall Mdlle. Dolores. •
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “LaTosca.”
Theatre Royal “The World.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Athenacum Hall Genuine British Biograph.
Bijou (Good Friday)... Sacred Concert.
“Why Smith Left Home,” at Sydney
Palace, with its last act labelled “The Count
makes a mistake, and why Smith leaves home,”
calls up a melancholy picture of a distracted hus-
band flying from his disgraced wife and her per-
fidious deceiver. But it turns out that Smith
fled suddenly simply because all his friends and
his wife’s relatives and acquaintances persisted in
turning his home into a hostelry where they gob
accommodation on the cheap. The lydy who does
the cooking, an up-to-date person well-versed in
the economic side of the servant-girl problem,
occasionally paralyses domestic life with a wave
of her soup-ladle, and helps to induce Smith to
flee by providing him with a cake to which it was
necessary to use a hammer. Ere vanishing,
Smith tries to persuade the cook to turn
the deadly art of cake-making to good purpose
by using it to clear his wife’s relatives
off the premises. But the compact, and the cake,
and everything else fade out of the comedy more
or less till Smith himself also melts out of sight.
The dialogue scintillates like the cinematograph ;
and, unlike most plays of this sort, which generally
contain one large warning to married men—usu-
ally not to go out o’ nights—this one contains
several warnings to married men not to do a great
many things.
♦ * * *
Charles Arnold, as Count Yon Guggen-
heim, the foreigner with the twisted English,
makes the third act something that the most sated
plav-goer would want to see all over again, and
perhaps once or twice again after that. It is not
often the stage Outlander knows how to
break his English in the right place. Arnold’s
is scientifically correct. He should remember,
however, that when a German kisses a man
friend, which he does on small provocation, he
salutes both cheeks as a symbol that his friendship
is the real Mackay. A Berlin rail way-station
resounds with the crack of farewell salutes like a
S’African donga with the bark of a pom-pom.
Elderly Miss Smith, who wants to get married, is
an old idea well worked out; and Miss Sally
Booth, as the lydy who does the cooking, and upon
the slightest pretence threatens to go on strike
and call out the milkmen and other trades amal-
gamated with the Servants’ Union, is distinctly up-
to-date. There are also some fine touches about
the slow, ice-cold tones of the housemaid who is
kissed in mistake for her mistress. The humilia-
tion of being kissed in mistake for her mistress
and not “on her own” is a thing that only good
red gold can wipe out.
** * *
On Wednesday, April 10th, the ever-
welcome Mdlle. Dolores (hitherto known as
Trebelli) will return to Sydney Centennial Hall
and delight the hearts of all lovers of good music.
It is 16 months since Sydney heard the great
singer and that fact will no doubt whet the en-
joyment. Since then she has been through
Canada and the U.S., and spent a few months at
Paris Exhibition, where she secured some songs
of the far-away twelfth century and the dead-and-
gone Crusaders. Most of them are troubadour
ditties of once-famous knights, and are spoken of
by Mdlle. as “ very quaint, very simple in form,
and of wonderful harmony.” These, or some of
them, will be sung to the Sydney audiences. The
Cornstalks will surely have something to ruminate
about when that musical resurrection takes place
in Sydney Centennial Hall after about 700 years,
and the man in a dress-suit leans back in
his comfortable chair and listens to the
notes and words to which some crusader
humped his weary swag of armour over the
burning sands of Syria after the mobile Paynim.
The modern man will, no doubt, appreciate the
music of the Crusader ; but what sort of an effect
it would have had on that steel-clad gentleman if
he had had the good luck to. hear Mdlle. Dolores
sing “Home, Sweet Home,” or the “Laughing
Song,” is an interesting musical problem. At
present, negotiations for Mdlle. to sing in connec-
tion with the arrival of the Yorks are in progress,
but barring some such arrangement the melodious
lady will go to Adelaide from Sydney, and thence
to Melbourne. The Centennial Hall box-plan
will be opened on the morning of Wednesday,
April 10.
** * *
The only comparatively recent arrivals at
Sydney Tivoli are the Sisters Pine, two nice little
girls, who warble in character about the advan-
tages of following “the lady guide.” They have
a pleasant way about them, and as the two little
Quakeresses are distinctly charming. Unfortu-
nately, their voices do not impress this paper as
being up to their other attractions. That Lizzie
Kirk is in her last week is regrettable. Mr.
1) Albert has broken out in a fresh line. lie now
sings a song about sundry gory doings in S’Africa,
including the “spiking” of Long Tom on Bul-
wana Hill. And, while he sings, pictures of the
doings, presumably taken on the spot, flit across
the screen. The fact that they don’t spike modern
guns, but steal their breech-blocks instead,
doesn’t concern the song. Next week Marie
Lloyd and Alec Hurley, late of London, will
make their first appearance at the matinee.
** * #
If the book and the songs of Musgrove’s
panto, were only on a par with the gorgeous loveli-
ness of the setting and dressing, What a panto, it
would be ! ’Twould stand as the great time-mark
from which writers and actors would count backward
and forward across the eternity of Xmas shows.
But book and songs are not so, and, with all its
beauty, “Cinderella” is a moulting bird ina golden
cage—a priceless casket containing paste jewels. It
is now ‘‘ up to ” the great George to break away
from the silly old custom by which panto, writers
have been restricted to a dozen or so weary old
fairy-tales that have long ago had all the fragrance
squeezed out of them, and get a real up-to-date
panto, in which the characters shall indulge in the
sparkling dialogue of “ The Tyranny of Tears ”
and “Lady Windermere’s Fan.” There might
not be more money in it than in the present show—
the spectacular effects alone are good value for the
public’s money—but there would be whole stacks
of fame ; and, according to popular report, Mus-
grove is now rich enough to indulge in the luxury
of Fame. Meanwhile, apart from the setting, the
flying feet of the Dartos are the brightest spots
in the show.
** * *
The Villain with the ballet-girl walk anti
the slab of hair over his forehead is still being in-
formed, at Sydney Lyceum, that he who would kill
a woman’s soul would not hesitate to murder her
body. This sounds impressive, but is not true —
for reasons temporal and connected with the
gallows. Also, when a body is killed it can be
certified to; but the alleged homicide of a soul
has to be taken on the word of its owner,
who is generally soulful after she has lost,
according to her own account, that which makes
her so. The fight between the good little drum-
mer-boy and the bad little ditto still continues,
but when one very round drummer-boy tells
another rather feminine boy that he is as good a
man as he (the other round boy) is, the audience
smiles. The bad ’un is a convincing little
larrikin, but his larrikinism is more like an
inheritance from a costermonger and a washer-
woman than from an officer and a lady
whose manner of being unsober is strictly high-
class and grammatical. Bert. Bailey is especially
convincing when he flies out at the wicked officer;
and the servant-girl who has two men waiting 12
years or so to marry her, while the Vicar’s
daughter has only one man, who is anxious not to
marry her, is a striking exemplification of the
advantage of being born in a lowly condition and
taught to cook well.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Alfred Dampier filled
in the first part of the week with the “Black
Flag ’’—the old, old story of the two brothers —one
of whom went to London to study theology, and
only got as far as the chapter on the Seven Scarlet
Sins, and stuck there evermore ; while the other
brother went about in moles, and mended fisher-
men’s boats and did odd jobs in the charity line
till his irate and money-grubbing old step-father
heaved him out and decided to leave all the cash
to the son of the Seven Sins. The unfortunate
impatience of the vermilion-souled son caused the
old gentleman to get a nasty crack about the
head, and Alfred Dampier Glyndon, the chari table
vagabond, got into Portland Gaol for the theolo-
gian’s crime. Eventually he got out of Portland
at great risk, to life and limb just at the precise
moment his innocence was being proved up to the
hilt. Things always happen that way in melo-
drama. Next week Alfred will revive “ Robbery
Under Arms,” and then he departs from Sydney
for awhile.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus got ashore at Sydney about
7 a.m. on Saturday morning, and by 8 p.m. was
in full swing to a crowded house. A performing
bear and his lady bear gave a sketch that is
a beautiful caricature of humanity going along
King-street to supper. John W. Cooke and
Carl Wirth figured in a clever, gentle-
manly turn as Mashers on Horseback, and won
wild applause. Then the fine-looking Miss
Marizles flew round the ring standing upright on
a white horse ; and juggled with balls, knives,
plates, and fire in great style. The cleverest item
in the show, perhaps, is the hand-walking of
Fred. El Zobedie, who, with his feet pointed to-
wards the zenith or hanging down round his
shoulders, sprang from bar to bar with his
hands. He walked upstairs on his palms and
slid down the handrails, and finally sang
and danced “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ” in a re-
versed position. Horizontal - bar exercise,
horses waltzing to music, a leaping grey-
hound, and a grey stallion that seemed to have a
perfect knowledge of colors and picked out red
and white handkerchiefs according to various in-
structions, filled in the time till two tiny ponies
came out with gloves on their forefeet and boxed.
When time was called the little equine pugs
s f a RS' ere d back to their chairs and were sprayed
and fanned in the most approved modern style.
The tiger-trainer went into the cage and used his
whip with great vehemence. The old man tiger
was in a great rage; and the people waited
breathlessly to see him pat the trainer across the
jugular. But he didn’t; and the audience had a
first-cla,ss set of thrills, but no blood. All the
same, it’s only a Question of Time. The wit of
the clowns is the weak point of the show.
Napoleon was routed for the last time
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, last Saturday ; and the
big theatre closed for a week. To-night (Satur-
day) the story of Gyrus Gilfain’s strange scented
island and the doings of Widow Palotta and Prof.
Lauri will be warbled —in other words, the Opera
co. opens in “Plorodora”; and as this musical
comedy ran for over 100 nights in Melbourne, and
seats for the last nights were booked nearly a
week in advance, there is evidently something
startlingly original or delightfully sinful about it.
Originality and pleasant sinfulness always fill the
house; and when they are combined the manage-
ment has to turn money away by the bushel.
*# * *
John Fuller’scompany, with green and blue
sashes round their Arcadian waists, still sit round
the Cornfields in the Empire Theatre and carol
songs both old and new. The good old Gallants
of England who are going to fight for the King
come in very appropriately at the present epoch ;
while John Fuller, with Amy Blackie, gives a
pretty rendering of the “ Sailor Sighs.” Miss
May Marlow, with plenty of spirit and go
about her, still possesses the same sort of
voice and uses it in the same sort of way.
The farce on the difficulties of an insurance-
agent, wasn’t quite up to some that have been
staged by Fuller ; but that is saying no great
harm about it. The feature of .the evening, of
course, was the appearance of Mexican Jack, got
up to kill, with beads that tumbled off his neck
in his agonised efforts to shoot backwards while
half upside-down. Mexican Jack, who apologised
for not having a Californian accent, affirming,
nevertheless, that so-called sharpshooters furnished
with this were generally frauds, managed by
means of two rifles to shoot a ball off his own
head, besides shooting backwards by means of a
mirror, and doing various other things ; and at the
conclusion of every trick the orchestra said
“ Bom ! ”
** * *
The most remarkable Sydney show last
week was decidedly “ Billie Barlow’s ” perform-
ance in the Supreme Court theatre—for two days
only. Miss Sweet-William is a song-and-
dance “artistq” of considerable notoriety in
London and Australian music-halls ; and her per-
formance consisted in suing The Bulletin for
£6OOO damages for “libel” because this paper
on Jan. 12th last, after seeing her romping
about the stage of the Tivoli by-and-large
and front-and-rear, made some remarks about her
“costume” which, when you come to read them
calmly, seemed likely to bring a cloud of eager
spectators. “Miss Barlow’s” legal name, it ap-
peared, was Mrs. Edward Menzies-Stuart ; and
the jurymen had the unusual pleasure of witness-
ing a special “turn” at the Tivoli so that Miss
Barlow could exhibit the “costume” complained of.
There appeared to be considerably more “costume”
than is worn by the Hottentot Venus—and this
time Miss Barlow did not turn round. Next day
Mrs. Stuart, with still more costume, appeared as
a witness to tell how a reference to her naked
soul (blush !) had lacerated her feelings. Cross-
examined by George Reid, K.C., she ad-
mitted singing songs which counsel suggested were
over-frisky; but alleged that her “profession”
didn’t particularly consider “the virtue” of
songs. The Bulletin’s counsel began so nicely
that Miss Barlow apparently thought he was on her
side, and threw him sweet, confiding smiles. Later
on, when the drift of the guileful George Reid’s
remarks became evident to the meanest music-hall
understanding, the witness scowled as if her cross-
examiner was “quite horrid.” The husband,
Edward Menzies-Stuart, told proudly how he
came to Australia with the Duke of Edinburgh,
and said he “managed” for his wife; but what
he was put in the box for, except to scin-
tillate in the now-faded glory of the Edin-
burgh visit, did not clearly appear. Pilcher,
K.C., who appeared for plaintiff, snowed such an
intimate knowledge of trunks, tights, and other
details of theatrical costume that Reid, K.C.,
expressed the opinion that he must follow these
troupes round. “I don’t follow you round, any-
how !” retorted Pilcher. “No,” chuckled Reid,
“ I don’t wear tights.” The jury, after an hour’s
consideration of the case, gave a verdict for The
Bulletin. Miss Barlow having given notice of
appeal, no more can be said about the matter at
present.
** * #
“Tannhauser,” as performed at Melb.
Princess’s two nights last week, comes rather
hard on anyone who wasn’t made in Germany.
The more manageable “Lohengrin” is more
easily admired, because the music has a little
sugar in it, and the action tells the story in an
interesting way, and the background is impressive;
while the opera is so symmetrical that its produc-
tion on a comparatively small scale seems big
enough in all respects. The “Lohengrin” that
Musgrove supplies is never absolutely wearisome
outside of the second act, when the Queen of
Spades and her degraded Frederick hang around
a doorstep in the cold grey morning and sing the
present writer to sleep for about 15 minutes. A
larger orchestra and a finer pair of voices would
doubtless make even that bit of “Lohengrin”
worth listening to.
• * * *
“Tannhauser” has more than one cold, grey
period when a man and a woman, or two men,
sing to one another concerning matters which
Wagner can shed no new light upon. There is
naught save the music and the voices to interest
one at these times. The music is heavy with the
sighs of German philosophy, and the singers’ in-
tonement of the Wagnerian theory is nothing out
of the common. “Tannhauser” (but this a blas-
phemous truth) lives mainly by the success of its
second act —the gaudy crowd, the .noon)nr tnnwfi.
and the incidental spectacular effects. Yet the
“Tournament of Song” is very heavy. Wagnerites,
whose religion runs to bigotry, and quidnuncs in
general, pretend to a keen delight in that Song
Fight as it is fought at the Princess’s. They even
declare that the unexciting “love” music in
the opening scene is voluptuous and passionate.
According to the Cult everything that Wagner
wrote is unimpeachably true to its purpose, for
the mere reason that Wagner’s intentions were
honest. “ Tannhauser,” as some other people
hear it, is a pedantic composition of the highest
moral character. It appeals to them with the
force of a respectable Sunday sermon, no more
and no less. Performed on a larger scale it would
give them a larger measure of mild satisfaction.
Present scribe reckons that the opera is an ac-
quired taste, and he hopes it will never develops
into a violent craving.
* * * ♦
Miss Crichton sings conscientiously the
part of Venus, a lady who reclines upon a
hard ambrosial couch in the blissful Realms of
Space. Miss Crichton’s method is clearly not
voluptuous, whatever the music may be in German
estimation, nor is her voice soft and round. She
is a rather angular Venus, with bones in her
warble. Max Eugene, as Wolfram, doesn’t sug-
gest the spirit of Platonic Love and Pagan
Endeavour. Madame Slapoffski is an efficient
Elisabeth ; looks well, acts well, sings well, but
lacks beauty in her voice ; and the same may be
said of Louis Arens. Arens, who is returning to
Europe, has filled his two Wagner parts very
capably. If the new tenor is famous, as the
advt. states, he will give a prettier complexion
to the music that he takes over from the depart-
ing “Lohengrin.”
••* * *
“ Mignon ” was repeated three times last
week, likewise on Monday, and it is anxiously
expected to appear again. Versatile Madame
Slapoffski has improved her picture of the little
egg-dancer since the first night—greatly improved
it. Her acting in various scenes and sundry cos-
tumes, including a knickerbocker suit and a
nightdress, is very natural to theyoung-girl char-
acter. Seeing that the brilliant French opera was
wanted, and an ideal Mignon is not obtainable, a
clever artist who can get near to the ideal in this
casual Slapoff style deserves a vote of thanks.
And she gets it. Her light comedy scene is rap-
turously received. But why turn a searchlight on
the kneeling figure of Madame in the hist act ?
Miss Lorraine, the frequently indisposed member
of the co., was missing from the cast on Saturday,
when Miss Crichton, with a little assistance from
the prompter, played the giddy Filina in an airy
manner.
#* * *
Barron Barthold, the new tenor imported
by George Musgrove, was to make his first appear-
ance at the Princess’s on Wednesday as the Yes-
No hero of “Tannhauser.”
*# # #
The record reign of “ Florodora ” ended
at Her Majesty’s last (Wednesday) night with the
106th performance, unless Melbourne took out an
injunction to restrain the company’s departure.
“Florodora” was something more than a
phenomenal success for J. C. Williamson. It was
a matrimonial agency for the dear girls who
made it bright and beautiful. The Bulle-
tin can’t say exactly how many of them
got married or engaged to smitten capitalists
during the long run of luck, but their number was
so great that the management has been rushed
with applications for chorus-billets from ardent
daughters of Toorak, and the idea of cele-
brating “Florodora” weddings on the stage
will be seriously considered when the show
gets going in Sydney. Tweedlepunch could
start a new Denomination and qualify himself
as a marriage-pastor, and the ceremony might
be introduced into the second act with Salvation
Harmy effects, all the guests and dependants of
Cyrus Gilfain bringing tambourines and singing
“ What joy to be there ! ” But this by the way.
Nance O’Neil is announced to reappear at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday, and the admirers of that
commanding lady are booking seats for “La
Tosca.”
** * *
Bland Holt has arranged to celebrate the
return of Easter, at Melb. Royal, with a mighty
production of “The World,” for the first time in
12 years. The intention of Rickards, at the Bijou,
is to add Austin Rudd and Lottie Collins to his
programme, in honor of the moveable Bun Feast.
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall the best of the
biographs, which has now settled down to the
title of Genuine British Biograph, will reappear
after a long-lamented absence on Easter Saturday.
Manager Wyld has just come back from England
with new pictures ; and if these are as clear and
flickerless (or almost flickerless) as the pictures of
the first G. 8.8. season, a repetition of the old
boomsome business may be looked for.
*# * *
Good Friday concerts are advertised from
three influential quarters. George Musgrove’s
Opera Co. will give “ Stabat Mater” and extras
at the Princess’s ; the Philharmonic Society has
prepared Gounod’s “Redemption” on a broad
vocal scale ; and a Sacred Festival is to happen at
the Bijou, under the direction of the Napoleonic
Boffard.
John Black, who built Melbourne Theatre Royal, put
into it a fortune he made as a carrier to the Goldfields.
“ Lost Chord ” Sullivan left £54,529, the bulk of which
goes to his nephew.


|)eui york Qife Insurance (Jo.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
Apply— THOB. P. PURVES, General Manager ,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J Acetylene Gas Patents.
The infringement of patent case, brought by the
Acetylene Gas Co., of Australasia, Ltd., against Mr.
Henry Markwald, a Melbourne merchant, was advanced
a stage by Mr. Justice Hood, of the Victorian Bench
on February sth. Plantiffs claim to be the patentees of
a process for producing acetylene gas, and allege that
defendant has infringed their rights by selling calcium
carbide manufactured according to their invention.
Defendant denies any infringement, and asserts that the
alleged invention is not new, having regard to the
common and public knowledge at the time the letters
patent were issued. On the date mentioned plaintiffs
applied for a commission to examine various expert
witnesses in New South Wales, England and Canada.
His Honor met their wishes, remarking that he believed
the application to be bona fide, and though its grant
might occasion delay, its refusal might amount to a
denial of justice. On the same day, and by the same
-company, application was made to restrain James Ross,
master of the steamer “Melbourne,” from landing any
carbide of calcium manufactured according to their
patent. His Honor granted the order, with costs.*
“ EN6LAN P’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
* *-
mrn-r
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
3*
The Argus of 24th October, 1900, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Lite Assurance Society, Limited : ine
affairs of the Society in all material respects are based on
a sound footing.”*
• • *
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
have been successful with their tender for the two new
pump ends for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, Spottiswood pumping station. These pump ends
have been designed by the Board Engineer, and are a
departure from the existing ones, weighing about 65 tons
each.*
* • * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Crimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil*
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Ooolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is nowin a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
The comoletion of the Chillagoe line brings the
rails within 90 miles of the Einasleigh, and the building of
a tram (2ft. gauge), to connect with the line, is to be
started shortly.
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucikj Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
“ Wireless electric lighting,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, “is to be the first ‘boss’
invention to flare-out upon the new century. If all that
is claimed for it be true, copper speculation will receive
another very nasty set-back. Up to now the disclosed
details are not over-definite, though an official and tech-
nical pronouncement is expected daily. Roughly, it may,
however, be said that in the cellar—as with the gas-meter
is placed a powerful induction coil of particular con-
struction, which, by the aid of a battery, generates and
disperses throughout the house, through wood and
brick, electrical waves of a new sort. Empty glass
bulbs and tubes, from which the air has been
exhausted, lie loose in rooms, &c., and under the
influence of the waves fill with flame that gives
a beautiful glow-light. If you are chasing a spider in the
ceiling-corner you can throw up a ‘ bulb ’ to direct the
broom-handle’s prods. Tesla has got something near
this, but a celebrated English scientist claims success.”
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; S’/ Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The Bulletin
The S.M. Herald recently held its annual
curse at the sound and prosperous Maoriland Government
Life Assurance Department. The S.M. Herald loathes
State enterprise with a great loathing, and once a year it
rises up to compare the M.L. State Department, not with
privately-managed institutions of similar size and agc»
every one of which it can beat badly, but with the A.M.P.
Society only. The Herald’s latest effort is given here-
under : „ .
S.M. Herald curse (26th March, 1901).
M.L. Govt.
Insurance A.M.P.
Income— Hept.
New Premiums ». ». £23,925 ..
Assuring .. .. .. 748,428 .. 614,325
Total premiums .. .. 277,355 .. 223,972
Assuring .. .. •- 9,558,166 .. 7,140,042
Interest on Funds : Amount 133,465 .. I*V®
Ditto : per cent, per annum 4'55 .. 4'89
01aims OUtS °~. 162,081 .. 104,629
Surrenders 3/,124 .. 3-,093
Expenses: Amount.. .. 59,639 ~ 39,738
Ditto : per cent, of prem.
income 207 ~ 17’4
Net result— „
Net addition to funds .. 136,146 ..
Total Funds 2,997,681 .. 3,082,807
“ The Government Department,” the Herald goes on,
“is badly beaten in every line by the Australian
Mutual Provident Society except in those relating to
the amount of assurance. Certain influences still
enable it to obtain a larger amount of new busi-
ness, £23,925 being the amount of its new premium
revenue, as against £20,100, the amount of the private
office. It also has a total premium revenue of £277,355,
against £223,972 in the A.M.P. Society. Still further, in
proportion to its income, it assures a larger amount, as its
premiums are rather lower. Still, looking at the income,
we find that the A.M.P. earned i per cent, more interest
on its funds, and there does not appear to have been any
necessity to write off more than £737 for depreciation of
securities, while the Government Insurance Department
has written off £14,400, which would have to go practi-
callv in further reduction of interest. If the Government
had earned the same rate of interest as the private office,
it would have had £9973 more to lay by, and it has
deemed it necessary to write off £13,663 more than I® re-
quired for a like purpose by the directors of the A.M.P.
from their investments.”
The Herald ought to be heartily ashamed of
this mean little fake. It cooks the revenue account in
the first place by omitting to mention that the M.L.
State office had an income of £10,746 from consideration
for annuities, against the A.M. P.’s £46loonly. This, being
an item where the State department is far ahead, care-
fully left out. It omits to mention that the A.M.P. s pile
of £3 082 807 invested in Maoriland was not nearly all
made there, as the pile of the State office was, and is no
evidence of the solidity of the M.L. business , £43,150
was sent to Maoriland in 1899 from other branches of the
AMP for investment; over £263,000 was similarly sent
there in 1898 ; about £44,000 in 1897 ; £46,000 in 1896 ;
and so on. Similarly, the fact that the A3I.P. earns
more interest in Maoriland than the State office doesn t
show that it is beating the State office on its own ground ;
it only shows that the interest on hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds of the A.M.P.’s Australian funds
appears among the Maoriland receipts. The alleged
total funds are wrongly stated in both cases -; accord-
ing to the return from which the Herald quotes the
real figures are :—M.L. State Office, £3,0/1,581 ; A.M.P.,
£3,102,628. This makes the A.M.P. £31,000 ahead
instead of £85,000, and considering that it was doing
business in Maoriland for eight years before the State
Office was founded, and further considering how its
funds are swelled by hug*e remittances from Australia,
this is rather a poor showing. The fact that the State
Office in 1899 wrote off £14,400 of losses, while the private
one only wrote off £737. is partly counterbalanced by the
fact that in the preceding year the positions were re-
versed. And the difference in expense rates is mostly
owing to the fact that the head office expenses of the
State Office appear in the Maoriland accounts, while
those of the A.M.P. appear in the Australian accounts
—though the Maoriland policy-holder has to pay his share
of them just the same.
But the overwhelming discrepancy is this:
There are nine large life offices doing business in Aus-
tralasia, and the Maoriland State Office is the most
cheaply managed of them all save one. And every year,
regularly, the S.M. Herald rises to declare that the fact
of one big private office —the oldest Australian office
being more cheaply managed than the State office
proves the principle of State assurance to be rotten.
Yet the Herald has never been known to say a
word against any one of the seven large private
offices which are managed far more expensively than
the State office. The worst of them all has never evoked
a comment or a complaint. It has never even warned
the public, so far as The Bulletin can remember, against
cronk and dilapidated little concerns whose expenses are
50 or 60 or 70 per cent, of their earnings, though its
warnings against the absolutely reliable State office whose
expenses are only 20 per cent, are something tremendous.
The security of the Maoriland State Life Department,
with the guarantee of the whole nation behind it, is
worth that of all the Australian and English and Ameri-
can offices doing business here a dozen times oyer. The
only possible objection is its expenses, and they are lower
than those of the Mutual Life Association, City
Mutual, National Mutual, Australian Widows’ Fund,
Colonial Mutual, Australasian Temperance and Genbral,
Equitable, New York Life, Mutual of New York—m fact
that any office bar one. And while the Herald de-
nounces the Maoriland State Life office for spending 20
per cent, of its premiums in expenses it never even draws
attention to the fact that the above institutions spend
from 23 to over 40 per cent. The Herald can’t profess
that it is toiling unselfishly in the public interest when it
persistently denounces a single institution the °
Australasia, and the cheapest save one—and neve r exposes
the notoriously shaky concerns (Tub Bulletin d
refer to those mentioned above) whose balance-sheets
wild joke and their obviously bogus assets a . mo< jery.
Obviously it is the principle of State enterprise whic
rouses this usually mild and lady-like paper to such a y
of anger and muddle ; but it isn’t used to b? 1 . n B’, vl £ or ’
and its struggles to make up a case are pitiably uncon-
vincing. >
“Nonplussed” : We are perfectly aware of the
fact. That beautiful assurance office has no assets in the
State you mention barring a few stamps and a little petty
cash.
* * * *
John Norton’s Truth states with a loud cry of
surprise that the People’s Prudential Assurance Co. of
Svdnev (a small proprietary concern with a paid-up capi-
tal of £4llO, of which £6lO is cash and £3500 is repre-
sented by the alleged goodwill of the co.’s own business)
has been approved by the N.S.W. Public Service Board as
an office for civil-servants, to insure their lives in. J-UE
Bulletin doesn’t see why John should be_ so surprised.
So far as it knows, the N.S.W. Public Service Board has
formally approved in its sleep of every office in this coun-
try, from the A.M.P., with its sixteen or seventeen
millions, downward, as a perfectly safe place .for civil-
servants to insure in. A fine, useful, discriminating body
is the N.S.W. Public Service Board.
» » * *
The record of the Squatting Investment Co. of
Melbourne, a big.pastoral concern with large properties
in Queensland, has been, for some years past, a solemn
essay on the drawbacks of being a joint-stock wool-king
in a dry land. Starting from 1890 progress has been as
follows Total
Dividends, &c. Reserves.
1890 .. Profit £19,283 3 per cent. =£8,760 .. £19,720
1891.. „ 26,244 6 „ = 17,520 .. 28,444
1892 .. Loss 11,206 3 „ =■ 8,760 .. M'S
Total
Deficit.
1893 .. „ 9,232 Nil ** m . ! 54
Total
Reserves.
1894 .. Profit 774 Nil -- JO
1895 .. „ 22,001 Nil .. 22 ,J1
1896 .. „ 7,793 Nil .. 29,814
1897 .. 12,131 Nil .. 41,945
1898.. „ 39,624 21 per cent. =£7,300 .. 74,269
1899 .. Loss 38,092 2| „ = 7,300 .. 28,877
1900 .. „ 27,060 Nil •• 1.517
The Squatting Investment 00. has a paid-up capital of
£292,005, all buried out in Western Queensland where the
dead men lie. Its endless perspectives of freehold dust
or herbage are valued in the balance-sheet at £277,771,
and on them are £51,550 worth of living animals and the
skeletons of many years’ unpaid dividends. And the co.
still hopes that something will turn up.
* * » *
“Adelaide”: Under Federation, should a, £1
note, issued in Melbourne by a bank that does business
here also, be worth only 19s 6d in Adelaide ? A £lOO
cheque, received from Tasmania t’other day, was worth
only £99 5s when it got here. This J per cent, is per-
haps justifiable (though the old argument, about its
costing more than that to personally carry your sack of
sovereigns from Hobart to Adelaide, is now exploded).
But 24 per cent, from one office to another of the same
bank seems steep. Why, even Tiie Bulletin’s cheque
for a pound, owing to the necessity for re-stamping, has
a commercial value of only 19s sd, away from N.S.W.
Under Federation, should these things be ?
* • * *
The White Rock (N.S.W.) has fallen into new
hands. The old lease was cancelled—labor-conditions the
cause —and re-pegged by Dan Creed. “ The mine has had
no end of capital spent on it during the last 15 years, but
from one cause or another shareholders have not reaped
any return.” True—it once had a capital of a million,
and tons of money were wasted on one trip there, with a
champagne guzzle. The writer was one of the party, and
endangered his life by saying he didn’t feel enthusiastic.
“ From one cause or another?” Only cause was want of
value in the ore. It could not be made to pay when
silver was nearly double its present value, and what
chance has it now ?
* * * *
Great Central Freehold, Mt. Hope (N.S.W.):
Directors estimate 700,000 tons of ore available for
treatment, and that the money in hand and the 100,000
shares in reserve will be sufficient to make the mine a
regular copper-producer and div. -payer. It wants a rail-
way more than anything ; a doubtful proposition without.
Copper-mines cannot remain permanent profit-producers
without railway communication. Lloyd’s (Burraga) mine
is the only exception in Australia ; but there the ore runs
from 7 to 12 per cent., and there’s plenty of it.
* * * »
Witney-Green, N.S.W. : Suspension granted
for six months. Applicant says £2500. has already been
spent, and he wishes to raise more capital.
r * * * *
Jennings Gold-Dredging Co. Tenders invited
for the purchase of the mining property and complete
dredging-plant on Adelong Creek, N.S.W. This is the
first N.S.W. dredging-concern offered for sale since the
industry started ; but, alas ! there are others to follow. In
most cases the machinery on dredges is so situated that
it can’t be dismantled without great difficulty and ex-
pense. , .
Webb’s Consols, N.S.W., and other adjoining
leases, have been purchased by Mr. Issell Perrott, who
seems to be a great goer. Worked for lead and silver 10
years ago, and after long silence the yarn is that Che ore-
bodies are large, even yielding as high as 83 per cent,
lead and 40oz. silver per ton.
* » * *
As expected, the mining-apprentice proposal,
shvly put forward by the Broken Hill mine managers,
has been dropped on the miners showing their teeth.
* * * *
Most of the shares in Broken Hill’s richest and
biggest mines are held by absentees, in England princi-
pally • and the absence of any proposal to reach these
people by tax made it hard work to get support for even
the democratic Barton Govt, there. There was the same
feeling on the Westralian fields also.
* * * *
“ Working Miner ” is indignant:—“The height
of despotism was reached t’other day by the underground
manager of Peak Hill (W.A.) mine, who forbade the
miners (under penalty of going up the ladder) to carry
their watches below, the reason given for this restriction
being that the miners consulted their watches at knock-
off time, instead of awaiting the “call” from the shift-
boss. On the management being interviewed by a depu-
tation of the miners, however, another reason was given
—viz., that gold was being taken away in the watch-cases
—this in face of the fact that a smart army of gold-
samplers and searchers are constantly on the job. The
system of searching on that mine is so revolting to the
better class of practical miners that they seldom remain
after the first pay. The fish-hawking and bartering class
never finds the constant espionage irritating or humili-
ating. The attempted restriction was cancelled, however,
when the men bodily knocked off work.”
» * • *
Northern Associateds: The last consignment of
100 tons sent to the Fremantle Smelting Works returned
soz. to 2dwt. per ton. This makes about £50,000 worth
of ore sent in three lots, deducting railage and smelting
charges. The ore reserve at the end of the esti-
mated by the manager at 84,117 tons, valued at £761,902.
So far most of the ore has come from development work,
and it is expected that with ordinary stoping an oz. per
ton will cover mining and shipping charges, so it is pro-
posed to send away all ore of 4oz. per ton and over, and
to keep the lower grade for local treatment. Treatment
plant not yet determined ; but, if the success of the Diehl
process is permanently established, that will probably be
adopted.
* * * *
According to the official report to the Mines
Dept., Greenbushes, the Westralian tinfield which has
been just going to boom for so long, once more failed to
get much way on last year ; in fact, the population fell
back from 932 to 736. Still, whereas in ’99 654 miners won
278 tons of black tin, in 1900 306 miners won 436 tons. A
better water-supply is much needed ; there are two
schemes afoot for pumping up from the Blackwood River.
* * * •
Westralian Mine Managers’ Union has joined
with the miners in protesting against the issue of any
dredging leases over Hannan’s Lake or other untried
auriferous ground ; so that one nice little scheme is
apparently knocked out.
North Boulder: A misnamed property—not by
accident, but by design. The Boulder mine is on the
western side of the Golden Mile, the North Boulder is on
the eastern, and there are the Perseverance, Associated and
other mines between. Two or three years ago it found
some good ore, which gave out in depth, and the mine has
been passing through tribulation for over a year. The press
still befriends it: “ The North Boulder has been quietly
pegging away, and although no sensational developments
have been chronicled of late those in charge of the
property have by no means lost faith in its value and
possibilities, and the management is sanguine of some
day picking up the run of ore from the Oroya north
block.” Writer has observed in other places instances of
paid officers of a mine sticking to their faith and remain-
ing sanguine to the last while shareholders were losing
their money.
* * * •
Cabled that the Mt. Deddick Syndicators have
at last got certain underwriters to deposit £lO,OOO as a
guarantee that they will provide £1,500,000 capital necM-
sary to build the line and open the alleged mines. The
Syndicate wants a free grant of the land for the line and
a mining lease of 1000 acres, and, as it has taken nine
months to get somebody else to lend the Syn. a poor
£lO,OOO, it is pretty evident the whole scheme is simply a
grab at concession, to be floated in London with the cus-
tomary results —these being the filling of the pockets of
the first sharks, then the monotonous extension of time,
then the weariful wail of the shareholders, next the
attempted sweating of the Victorian Treasury, and finally
the repurchase of the “ concession.” This country has,
in various spots, experienced the whole painful process
before, and if Premier Peacock —who is said to be await-
ing written information—wants a reason for rejecting the
attempted grab right-off he has one to hand, viz. : the
local railway lea ;ue, representing all the shire councils
of the district, unanimously protested against the pro-
posal. Surely that ought to kill any such scheme.
* * * *
A proposal for improving the mining industry
was laid before Vic. Govt, recently by some frantic icono-
clast. The suggestion was that Govt, should appoint a
board of experts to advise mining investors as to the
prospects of ventures placed on the market. It was re-
ceived with a howl of execration, and for awhile ’Change
wore the worried look that is so familiar in the face 3 of
its clients. It seemed for a moment that the “Wild
Oat’s” occupation was gone; but the Govt., headed by
a prosperous mining boomster, refused to consider an
idea that displayed so little respect for Private Enter-
prise.
♦
Rio-de-Oro Gold and Diamond Dredging Co.,
of Brazil, was discovered by one of the New Australian
settlers in Paraguay, who brought it under the notice of
some N.Q. mining men last year. They sent there one
Wall, who found another man in possession, but, satisfying
himself of its value, made an arrangement with the owner ;
and this is an offshoot of the concession got for dredging
purposes. The parent co. was taken up in Charters
Towers in a few hours. In the prospectus, it is said of
Mr. Wall, that he was one of the dredging founders of the
Shoalhaven River (N.S.W.) Also that he left the sub-
management of the Ohillagoe Mines and Railway' Co. to
take the management of the Chillagoe-Bedford mines.
Why on earth do people print such things in prospec-
tuses ?
* • » •
North Chillagoe Mines : This has appeared
again with the modest capital of £30,000, and if every-
thing is subscribed there will be less than £lO,OOO for the
development of a big group of mines. Such a sum is, of
course, not half enough. This time geologist Dunstan’s
report is published in full. He says the mines are full of
promise, and it lies entirely with the management, not
with the mines themselves, whether the result is failure or
success. To attempt with £lO,OOO to develop a group of
such mines, isolated in N. Queensland, seems a childish
proposition.
* • * *
“ Pelican ” : Surely the whole trouble re Mt.
Morgan water-supply might have been avoided in the
first place if the directorate had unlimited faith in the
mine. The reducing-works should have been on the
Fitzroy river, the ore being railed from the Mount. This
would have necessitated the building of a 25-miles railway
at a cost of £120,000 or so to run through 5000 tons a week
—with a small staff of railway employes. But a good set-
off would have been the saving on dam-construction and
having coal landed at the works water-borne.
• * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta, the one big mine of
S.A., made a profit of £47,008 for the year, from which
£14,550 was deducted on account of depreciation, leaving
£32,457 net. The Wallaroo section of the mines gave
22,700 tons dressed ore as against 23,354 tons in the year
before ; the product of fine copper was 2382 tons against
2413 tons, so the percentage went from 10’33 to 10'44.
Moonta yielded 12,321 tons ore against 12,390 tons, and
the value rose from 16‘78 per cent, to 17T9 per cent.—
2118 tons fine copper instead of 2080 tons. But it is to be
observed that the percentages refer to dressed ore. As a
matter of fact, Moonta lodes steadily deteriorate as they
go down ; and though Wallaroo holds up its end, costs
there are high. For every ton of copper produced by the
co costs averaged £6S 13s.—mining £5O 19s. Bd. and
smelting £l5 11s. lid. being the principal items. The co.
is still adding to its already huge plant; the latest, now
in progress, is a “ cementation ” plant to deal with the
vast heaps of old tailings. This will cost £20,000. The
co.’s financial position is satisfactory ; debiting it with
the £BO,OOO of debentures, there is still a surplus of
£119,329. But as the figures include £198,010 for “ore
furnace-products and bluestone on hand,” the position is
largely a matter of estimate.
* » • *
The Barn Bluff, Tas., “ has been placed under
offer to Mr. Harcourt Palmer ; the capital is to be
£150,000, and shareholders receive one-fourth paid-up
interest. A deposit has already been paid to insure bona-
fides, and a further sum is to be put up within four
months, and £37,500 within 16 months.” This is the
mine that is going to make the proposed railway from
Hobart to Mt. Lyell pay.
* * * *
The Gold Coast of Africa is the locale of the
latest gold rush. Companies are coming out at frequent
intervals in London. Frank Gardner, C. A. Mor. ing, A.
H. P. Stonehan and other Westralians have joined the
noble army of boomers of the Wassau in Africa ; the
latest accession to the ranks of the eicploiters is VVad-
dington, director of the Great Boulder and othei Westra
lian mines. It is a poor look-out for the ■ ■' \j, e | r
when so many of its chief supporters are directing thetr
attention elsewhere. The yarn about the Wassau
that its auriferous banket formation bas
traced for lt iX, and is geologically den .cal
with that of the Rand ; that the reefs
thick, averaging over an ounce ; gold worth £4 an ounce
(12s. more than that of the Rand); that
crushed 50,000 tons for nearly as many oz„ and this wRh
out cyanide or other tailings treatment. Gold pure and
free, ore unlimited, titles clear, and, if newspapers are
he believed, everything is right for a ooni nd^.s
advised to get in early. The fact that this ju t. ».
camp is almost on the Equator, and m worth
most unhealthy spots in Africa, is, of course,
mentioning. , * *
Dr. Peters, the first big scientific
who reported on Mt. Lyell, declares in Harper st;hat he
has located the rich mines of Ophir, the place where
Solomon got his gold when he was in the heightiofh 3
srlorv. Peters’ find is some distance from the
River, the natives of which country, he says, have been
at war with the Portuguese for centuries, He makes out
a good case, but his conclusion befits the mining-boomer
more than the cultured scientist. I have made friends
with the great chief, and large territories in this country
belong to me and my friends. Thus I hope I shall ha
the satisfaction of turning the most ancient goldfield in
S’Africa into the most modern one there. Many oth
gold-fields have been named Ophir, which in itself has
been enough to damn them. There is a N -S-W. Ophir,
somewhere near the spot that Hargreaves made his first
discovery. There are still a few diggers working there
but never a permanent mine. There is an Ophir l
Tasmania which also belies its name, and any indmd, . ia *
mine named Ophir gets what it deserves, a very wide
berth.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT—
-16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT—
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ;.
‘Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT . .
PRICES-^*
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JON€S & COMPANY,
<**orge St Barrack Sts., Sydney
TN THESE VARIABLE AUSTRALIAN CLIMATES KEEP COOL !
AND ALWAYS MAINTAIN YOUR PRESENCE OP MIND.
PRESENCE OF MIND in sudden emergencies depends
on the placid condition of the faculties. A Weak
Throat, a Faulty Chest, a Wasting- Lung, an Exhausted
Nerve, an Ache in the Bones or Kidneys, a Headache,
Earache, Toothache—are fatal obstacles. They deprive
.you of your Strength, give' you the “ Shakes,” and
make you “ go to pie'ces.”
Baffan’s Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
rejuvenates the whole system, and makes you feel
yourself a “ New Person.” 2/-, per post 2/6.
It has to he Tried to be Believed.
R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE. Agents wanted Everywhere.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CI6BRETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
George Jenkins, of the beard, Clerk of
Vr'. ba.rllaments, has been appointed Master
ot Ceremonies to the Federal Govt, during Vic-
toria s great grovel. He already shows signs of
worry, and the messengers and attendants at
arhament House begin to wear a hunted
look. Among his duties Jenkins has to
arrange for a Commonwealth concert. On his
return from Sydney, whither he went to
receive lus instructions, he found awaiting him at
Ins office 140 shock-headed, wild-eyed men and
women singers ; 113-instriunentalists with piles of
violins, harps, cornets, trombones and violincellos ;
and about 3000 people who wanted to recite to
him. The singers all wanted to sing, and the
players to play to him. They wished to
start away on the spot, and it was half-
an-liour before Jenkins was able to explain that
Govt, had appointed a committee of experts in
•Sydney to -select the performers who are to enter-
tain the weary Yorks. This was only the begin-
ning of Jenkins’s troubles. Most of his time since
has been taken-up in dodging persons who want in-
vitations. Those who know say that, in handing
all the social arrangements over to Jenkins, Barton
has cleverly put him out of the running for the
position of Clerk to the Federal Parliament. For
the sake of the Federal Parliament it is to be
hoped this view of the matter is correct.
£50,000, mainly from Govt., has been
promised for the erection of a North Sydney hos-
pital. Another large appropriation goes to the
new Sydney Children’s Hospital, out Centennial
Park way, and now comes a request from Sydney
Prince Alfred Hospital for the completion of the
original design, which with endowment, &c.,
would approximate to £lOO,OOO. A suggestion
has been made that the Duke of York
should lay the foundation - stone of the
new block instead of tiiat of the sense-
less Dead House. Accommodation in the city
hospitals is now over-taxed ; serious and urgent
cases are turned away daily. It is by'no means
uncommon for a nearly-convalescent patient in
the Sydney hospitals to have to hui'riedly vacate
his bed to make room for a desperate case. It
would, therefore, be a good thing, if the visiting
Koyalties must lay a foundation-stone, that they
proceed to start a building intended to be of some
use to Sydney sick and suffering. Then the Govt,
might be excused for going on with the work. The
Head House idea may be ornamental, but it is
perfectly useless, and born of the moment only ;
to call it a Commonwealth conception is pure
cheek. If Australia is to have such a luxury it
should be in the Federal capital ; and, anyhow, to
spend thousands in hollow Jingo show while a
great public hospital absolutely groans for want of
means to do its duty to the suffering would be a
cold-blooded crime.
• * * *
Vic. Government is still prospecting for a
ne .v house for the State Governor, as the huge
place on St. Kilda-road is to be kept for the
Gov.-General when he is in Melbourne. Parlia-
ment has not been asked to sanction the buying
of a new Govt. House, nor is one wanted ; but
unless vigorous steps are taken to stop the job it
will be perpetrated ere the public are aware of it.
Ihe Gov.-General will not occupy Govt. House
more than a few months in the year, and might
take the State Governor in as a boarder, or the
latter might have his own rooms on the premises.
The purchase of such a house as is con tern plated,
and its fitting up, will mean about £3o,ooo—an
iniquitous and useless expenditure.
• * * *
Defaulting lawyer Grey, it is now stated,
has been enjoying a luxurious time at Fiji since a
recent outbreak of legal proceedings made his
continued presence in Victoria a somewhat too
glaring joke. The true story of Grey’s life for the
past year would provide an interesting study in
Crown Lawdepartmental tactics re “distinguished
rascals. Did Grey clear out of Victoria when
the C.L.D. uttered its first threat—some 12
months ago—to arrest him for crimes which were
then already old-established facts ? And if he
why didn’t he ? How came it that Attor-
ney-General Isaacs refrained a year ago from
issuing the threatened warrant ? Has anything,
bar public scandal, happened to convince the
Attorney-General that the warrant which was not
issued when he first threatened to issue it ought
t° be put into execution now? And if public
scandal is the sole reason for the Crown Law
Department’s recent activity, what excuse can
Attorney-General Isaacs offer for the department’s
previous lethargy ? The Bulletin • has had its
eye on the Lawyer Grey business for many weary
months, and in the light of its experience this
journal sees reason to suspect the Vic. Crown
Law Department of being accessory after the fact
to Grey’s criminal offences. In short, to put the
matter into plain English the C.L.D. has appa-
rently done its best to enable an impudent male-
factor to laugh at his victims.
JUST LIKE A WOMAN.
“I've been sitting up these two hours waiting for
you to come home.”
“ What a tantalizing woman y’ are! I've been
outside these four hours waiting for you t’
go 'r a bed.”
The Aucklanders having announced that,
following Roberts’ advice, they weren’t going to
give the Imperial Tommies any beer, Premier
Seddon promptly wired that Tommy Must Have
his Beer, and the Govt, would see that he got it.
The Mayor had to telegraph submission. More
recently, the people who are supposed to manage
things at Auckland intimated that they weren’t
buying any fireworks for the Royal visit,'and now
Seddon says that the .Took must and shall
have fireworks, and plenty of ’em, and if local
bodies don’t make suitable preparations accord-
ingly lie’ll take the job out of their hands and run
the whole show himself. Which is exactly how
they manufacture public opinion in Russia.
* * ♦ *
When the Indian troops were in Maori-
land Jingo-Premier Seddon, who, of course,
organised everything, went with them by rail
from New Plymouth to Wellington on a Sunday,
and addresses of welcome with light refreshment
had to be provided all along the line. Observing
which things, Rev. J. Kennedy Elliott, Scotchby-
terian Moderator, wrote Seddon a letter about the
Sabbath and had it published in the papers. It
was like Elijah going for Aliab. Mr. Elliott
drew the attention of Seddon as a maker of new
holidays and working man’s friend to the fact
that on that particular day he had robbed a good
many working men of part of the oldest of holi-
days. Finally, he called upon Ahab to acknow-
ledge his transgression. Instead of which :
“ Premier’s office, Wellington, 7th March, 1901.
Rev. Sir, —Respect for the office you hold and
ordinary courtesy demand that I should acknow-
ledge receipt of your letter of the 27th ult., and I
accordingly do so. I am yours faithfully, R. J.
Seddon.”
.** * •
King Ned has contributed 1000 guineas
towards the British public fund for a memorial to
his late mother, and subscriptions are to be invited
throughout the Empire. It will be quite interest-
ing to see whether the “ colonial ” bauble-hunters,
who have so emphatically hung back from
seriously subscribing to similar local funds will
now shell out to make a splash in the Place where
the Titles come from.
* * » »
The Melbourne police laid hands on a
lovely villain the other day. Armed with red
collecting-books with balance-sheets of various
well-known charities pasted on the inside of the
covers, and forged letters of authority to collect,
he wandered diligently among the business people,
doing “pretty fair.” In Court he mentioned in a
pained voice that he succeeded in getting Lady
and some others to promise donations of a
few pounds, but that instead of handing the
money to him, they forwarded direct to the
institutions; “Some and my partners was done
out of it! ” He has given the names of some of
his “partners.”
* * * *
Lane Cove, the Nepean, and up to Parra-
matta, the “country” of the half-caste Locke,
who abducted the little girl the other day, were
the worst spots for aboriginal outrages in the early
days. The dense scrub, irregularity of the
country, and the ease with which rivers could be
crossed, gave the blacks many advantages.
Murders were of weekly occurrence, and some-
times even pitched battles were waged. The
black blood of these parts has still a wild strain in
it, and an infusion of white blood often makes it
wilder. But, after all, the little girl has been re-
covered, quite uninjured, and her abductor has
given himself up.
Justice is a quaintly
ramshackle affair in the
gilded West. As a case
in point: A man was re-
cently charged in Perth
with taking down an
alleged It.C. priest for £7
10s. The priest was think-
ing so hard of holy things
that he couldn’t remember
whether the accused
snatched his £7 10s. or
whether he handed it
oyer; and the only other
direct witness was a pub-
lican, who said that the
alleged priest and the
alleged spieler had sundry
drinks on his premises,
and that the latter paid for
them, though whether he
paid with his own money
or with the priest’s money
there was no evidence
whatever. Both parties
were unknown to the
bench, and there was no
proof that prosecutor had
owned any money, or
that defendant wasn’t
merely a benevolent per-
son irrigating a dry
fellow-creature at his
own expense. But just
when things were at a
deadlock a detective
offered the perfectly
irrelevant evidence that
defendant had been
previously convicted
in Melbourne, and
the court, hearing
this, promptly con-
victed him again in Perth
on the off-chance. By this
kind of justice a man may
be convicted the second time
simply because he was convicted the first time,
and the third time because he was convicted the
second time, and after that, because he is a har-
dened sinner with three convictions, he may be
convicted again to an indefine extenite.
• * * »
Another specimen of the justice meted out
by Victoria’s, cheap justices. Present law is
that no female shall be employed in any
shop more than 52 hours a week. In an action
(under the factories Act) against a baker and
pastrycook a young girl swore that she began
work on Monday at 1 o’clock and left off at 11
p. m. On Tuesday she started at 4 a.m. and ceased
at 11 p.m. On Wednesday she worked from 4
a.m. to 4 p.m. On Thursday from 5 a.m. till 8
p.m. On Friday from 4 a.m. till 10 p.m. And
on Saturday from 4 a.m. till one o’clock on Sun-
day morning. (It all sounds like a recountal of
the hours during which Judge Windeyer forced
the court to sit during the Mount Rennie trial.)
She had only about 10 minutes at meal times.
Defendant in his evidence swore that he did not
work her all those hours, “she ‘only ’ worked 85
or 80 hours that week.” “ Only ”33 hours more
than the law allows. Then this'miserable bench
of beaks : “We find that this girl did not work
all the time; defendant is fined five shillings.”
Why is there no Society for Lynching Jay pees ?
The Government which unprotestingly stands by
and sees such pigs practically abrogate a vitally-
democratic law should be flung out at once.
The inhabitants of Buninyong (Vic ) have
for some time been receiving letters filled with
all the obscenity that the imagination of the most
filthy lirute could devise. Scarcely a man, woman,
or young girl in the township escaped ; and now
has come the biggest shock of all, in the discovery
that those unspeakably filthy epistles emanated
from a 16-year-old damsel in long hair and short
skirts. The Australian school-girl isn’t always
as sweet as she looks-and she doesn’t always
look sweet, either..
Another interesting young lady was in the ser-
vice of a Ballarat resident, who, one morning,
found a pair of boots on the fire, and, as there
was nobody in the room but his two-year-old son,
the child got an admonitory whacking. Some
days later, another pair of boots was burnt, and
the child caught it hot again. Then that youngster
apparently developed a destructive mania. Hats,
boots, stockings, &c., were sacrificed, and finally
a valuable umbrella was found on the fire. The
father was distracted to think he was the owner
of such a son, but was somewhat gratified by the
sympathy the young servant expressed for him.
She shortly afterwards left; and, though it was
then noticed that no more cremations took place;
the windows of the house—as of others in the
neighborhood—began to be mysteriously smashed.
This the detectives eventually found to be the
work of the damsel aforesaid, and, when arrested,
she confessed that it was she who had been burn-
ing the articles and getting the unfortunate kid
whacked therefor. »
Yet another small servant-girl has been
wooing notoriety at Wangaratta, Vic. The
young lady in question is 15 years of age, and
was obtained from a Melbourne institution for
“ reclaimed ” children. One evening she ran to a
T HE VETERANA PROPHECY
FOR THE BULLETIN
he year is nineteen thirty one.
T^ e people in the crowded street
w*th cold, contemptuous glances shun
\ man who goes with halting feel.
J V/hy se rve you so)’ one passer cries.
f ()h hardy vetern of the wars?”
H e bows his head and lowers his eyes
w jn nineteen hundred sir” he sighs
\ with Price against the
Boers”
SS.


VETERINARY BOOK FREE
On every Bottle of Condy’s Fluid.
This Book contains instructions by
eminent Veterinary Surgeons for the
treatment and cure of diseases of
Horses, Sheep, Cattle, Dogs, &c.
Condy’s Fluid is non-poisonous, and is
the safest and best Veterinary Remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Insist on having *' CONDY’S FLUID.
Beware of Australian Substitutes.
The name Condy & Mitchell, of London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on jy —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-loth. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Ladies’
Evening
ĥ
Shoes &
Pumps
WE MAKE A SPECIALTY
of COLORING any of our White Satin Shoes and Pumps TO MATCH ANY SHADE
OF GOWN for Evening Wear.
It would gratify any lady to inspect the really superb variety of
Evening Shoes we are just now opening for the coming season.
CALLAGHAN & SON 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
neighbour’s place, and related that a man, whom
she described, was in the house and had greatly
frightened her by shaking her violently. Investi-
gation showed that some money was missing, and
the girl’s story was so circumstantial that it was
believed. Soon afterwards sundry fires broke out
in the house, and when the police investigated the
matter the small girl confessed, not only that she
had started the fires, but that she had invented
the “man” of the previous alarm. The reason
she gave was that she was tired of Wangaratta,
and wanted the family to remove elsewhere. If
she had only been allowed time to “ identify her
assailant,” and add a few more incriminating
details, the Victorians might have been able to
celebrate the visit of the Jook by hanging an
innocent man.
* * * *
Horsham (Vic.) Assizes, last month, a
diminutive 11-year-old lad “of apparently weak
intellect,” pleaded guilty to an assault with intent
on a little girl, whose pluck alone had ‘ ‘ prevented
the commission of a more serious crime. ” Judge
Williams said he didn’t know quite what he ought
to do with the prisoner. The miserable specimen
of humanity was very ignorant and lacking in will
power. There was also a doubt as to his age.
Therefore, leaving the Attorney-General, or some-
body, to transfer the creature to a reformatory if
the authorities thought fit, Judge Williams sen-
tenced him to three years’ imprisonment with
hard labour, and a private birching of 20 strokes.
As a tonic for weak intellects the birch ought to
be hard to beat. Interesting to know how those
20 strokes struck the warder who had the job of
inflicting them on the diminutive ninny.
» * * *
The British Admiralty’s order that “in
future ” colonial, instead of foreign, wines shall be
broken on ships’ bows at baptisms in the navy,” is
proof, according to Australia’s Agents-General, of
the affection of Britain for Australia. After
years of abortive struggling to induce the Ad-
miralty to drink Australian wine the A.-G.’s’
transport at that party’s order to break it on
ships’ noses looks high burlesque.
* * * *
Parson Welch of Ballan (Vic.) avers that
The Bulletin hurts people’s morals and moves
that it be excluded from the local public library.
The Bulletin cordially seconds the motion, and
tenders its thanks to Parson Welch. This paper,
as has here been frequently remarked, is not run
for the good of its proprietors’ health —but for the
brutal, selfish purpose of providing them with
food and drink, not to mention money to put into
the plate. The Bulletin is so pleased with
Parson Welch’s notion of kicking this paper out
of a place where it is read by the public on the
cheap, that it will, on his application, mail him a
free copy (“packed so as to be securefrom ob-
servation”) regularly for six months. This offer
is open to all other parsons who can show that, at
their instance, The Bulletin has been excluded
from a public reading-room.
OVERHEARD IN COLLINS-
STREET.
DRUNK (to tram-signalman:
“ Shay, boss, draw me
a pint (hie) of ’arf-
and-’arf.”
The removal of the
dead from Devonshire-st.
Cemetery lias been a per-
fect godsend to many
Sydney undertakers.
Competition is now so keen that
but for lodge - funerals some undertakers would
have to bury themselves.
Not generally known that, if a British
military pensioner becomes deranged in mind, his
miserable pittance is withdrawn. In a recent case
at Boulder City, W.A., the veteran’s wife and six
children were thus left penniless. The fag-end of
Glory is a ghastly thing.
HOW MAN REPENTS.
[For The Bulletin].
I called to the Prodigal Man to return
From the regions of gay-painted sin ;
I told him the ring and the robe were prepared,
And the feast was laid ready within.
Oh, swift seemed the feet of that Prodigal Man
To speed from his error and shame,
Yet the mouth that seemed moving in penitent prayer
Was chewing the husks as he came.'
Constance Clyde.
# * * *
A crowd that gradually swelled till it
nearly blocked Swanstqn-st., Melb., had a quarter-
hour of exquisite thrill the other day. Some
workmen, standing on a plank suspended at the
fifth storey, were painting the face of a high
building. It was knock-off time. To leave work
they had to swarm up 12ft. of rope, climb over the
eaves and descend through the building. Two
successfully accomplished the feat, but the third
mounted steadily hand over hand, grabbed the
eaves, then slipped down to the plank again.
Twice more he tried, with like result; then he
struck an idea. Putting a loop in the rope just
above his head he swarmed up once more, caught
the eaves, and had just stuck his foot through the
loop when his hands slipped and he toppled over
and hung suspended 60ft. above the street! Men
gasped, women looked round for a clean spot to
faint on, and everybody shrieked for somebody
to do something. By this time a constable, who
had sized-up the situation, had mounted inside,
opened a window, and hauled the man in just as
he was getting black in the face. As he was
drawn in he gave an expiring kick at the plank
and upset a pot of cream paint, which landed on
the verandah and sent a splashed and disappointed
crowd home swearing.
* * * *
On St. Patrick's day last a North Mel-
bourne publican had on his bar-counter a lot of
shamrocks in a soup-plate of water. An old Ger-
man came in for his daily pint, and gathering a
fist-full of the “chosen leaf,” swallowed it with
relish. Bung didn’t notice anything till the Ger-
man was departing. Then, observing the deple-
tion, he said, “Here draw it mild, old man !
One shamrock is enough to take.” “Shamrogs !
said the German—“ vos dose shamrogs ? I tought
d y vos vater-gresses ! ”
* * ♦ *
Lately the water from the public supply at
Broken Hill was officially reported by the Health
Department, on analyst Hamlet’s certificate to
be “unfit for human consumption unless boiled
shortly before use.” And still the Lducation
Dept, (which boxes the children in iron sheds and
expects the teachers to get the same results as in
city and suburban schools) declines to supply the
schools even with filters !
♦ * * *
Victoria has got into such a habit of
promptly arresting any ancient and dilapidated-
looking person that a Melbourne constable actually
ran-in on of the State’s pensioners the other day as
a vagrant, and had him washed and combed and
put on a hominy diet for a week ere it was dis-
covered that he"was a gentleman of leisure living
on his means.
A few months
ago a party of
male Australian
tourists examin-
ing a picture gal-
lery in Rome
with their guide,
got mixed up
with an English
party similarly
engaged. The
guide, seeing the
company regard-
ing with atten-
tion a not very
excellent picture
which was hung
in a bad light
remarked, “Ah,
yes, thatis Yosef
and the Pootifar.”
An English lady
said to a young
Cornstalk who was
next to her, “What
is the subject of
the picture?” The
youth lifted his hat
with a very bad
imitation of the
manner of a
Frenchman, and,
blushing a little in
spite of himself, and
trying to hide his
confusion by affect-
ing a foreign ae-
cent, replied,
“ Mademoiselle,
it is the ancient
story of a young
man who was
singularly defi-
cient in the
quality of tact
and who was de-
servedly punish-
ed for his gross
want of gallantry on
the occasion of a memorable
interview with a lady who has
prominent mention in sacred his-
tory.” Then his new acquaintance saw the
situation. She fled, and gat her out, and was
seen no more in the gallery that day. A discussion
arose among the Australians as to whether their
good-natured companion had behaved rightly on
this occasion. It was resolved by a narrow
majority that he had given the only explanation
of the picture which a man of any delicacy of
feeling could offer to one of the opposite sex.
One M‘Guiness, of Melbourne, fell in
through trying to take down the State Treasurer
for an old-age pension while he had £l6O in the
keeping of the Ballarat Banking Cos. He had,
when applying for his pension, informed the
magistrate that all his worldly wealth amounted to
three solitary sovereigns. The court didn’t im-
prison him ; they did worse {to a man like that) —
they grabbed £2O of his £l6O and turned him out
lamenting.
* * * *
The Chapter of St. Paul’s Cathedral,
Melb., take a simple commercial view of the build-
ing’s situation. Years ago, when it was in course
of erection, the Chapter nearly decided to sell the
land at an enormous price to a boom syndicate.
The other week they rented the Swanston-street
frontage for £2OO to “ responsible persons ” who
are now running up a consecrated grand-stand for
Jookoyork purposes. And, by the way, the
responsible persons seem likely to make a pretty
holy profit on the transaction.
• • * *
Avery
human sort of
story :
Was one of a
crowd on the bal-
cony of a fashion-
able hotel on the
occasion of the
parade through
the streets of the
Imperial troops.
It was fearfully
hot, and a man
near me said to
his wife that he’d
go for a drink.
The lady—a very
pretty woman —
adjured him not
to be long, “ and
she would keep
his place.” He
promised, and
descended. After
about 20 minutes,
a 15st. charmer
from the seat
above took the
vacant place, and
merely smiled
when requested
to move. Force
was out of the
question, so the
neglected wife
bided her time.
When the show
was over (at least
an hour after-
wards), and the
people were leav-
ing the balcony,
she managed to
get behind the fat lady, deliberately stood on the latter’s
flounced-train, and thus tore off about a couple of yards
thereof “So sorry 1 ” she cooed, and, as I now began to
feel interested, I followed her closely downstairs, and
there, at the end of the passage, was the erring one en-
gaged in festive conversation with a gorgeous barmaid.
* * * *
Occasionally little spurts of enthusiasm
about the glory due to “our soldiers” who have
returned from Africa start up like the fading hic-
coughs of a worn-out drunk. Victoria lias given
a feeble “ hie ” over her “boys,”and inspired War
Minister M'Culloch to show a little cheap hys-
teria. “They have done splendid work,” he
gushes, “ and why should they not receive their
reward?” And the reward! “Mr. M'Culloch
says he does not think it will be possible to form
the returned men into a guard of honor for the
Duke of York, but he says they should certainly
be singled out for social favor during the parades.
If they survive all this glory, and do not burst
with emotion when the Royal eye lights upon
them, they may even be allowed to stand round
the distinguished visitors when the animals are
fed, to keep off the dogs and the democracy.
■* * * *
From Adelaide Advertiser :
The concert which took place in Adelaide Town
Hall in aid of unemployed members of the first S.A.
Contingent resulted in a benefit to 19 men
of five and sixpence each. The City Treasurer
paid over the money to all but six of the beneficiares on
Tuesday evening." There were several undesirable
features in connection with the concert. For in-
stance, 91 persons occupied seats in the dress-circle on
complimentary tickets, although Lord Tennyson, who
received complimentary tickets, set a good example by
paying for them. The receipts were £27 17s. 6d., and
expenses swallowed up £22 13s. 9d., including £4 for re-
freshments, leaving a balance for distribution of £5 3s.
9d. The Town Hall was given free.
How Australia does love and honor its Heroes !
Its heart bleeds for them—but not its purse.
First contingent, five and sixpence apiece. What
will the last contingent get !
* * * *
Longstaff was given the job of turning
out the Vic. Government’s invitation-card for the
ceremonies connected with the opening of the
Federal Parliament and the Jookoyork shivoos;
but, being too full of work, handed the under-
taking over to young Norman Lindsay after put-
ting in a little preliminary sketching. The result
is a creditable piece of work which has excited
the wrath of the local artistic Little Pe.dling-
ton. The Australasian printed a criticism of
quite uncalled-for ferocity; but, by way of ap-
praisement, its own artist’s card has since been
accepted by the Commonwealth Govt, for one
function, and has been published. It proves to be
a melancholy re-hash of the hideous cartoon that
was hung out on Parliament House when Mel-
bourne went mafick-mad —a few commonplace,
lackadaisical female figures, an impossible horse and
a profusion of shields, streamers, and furbelows
illustrating Kipling’s pie-dish chant about the
Young Queen and the Old.
* * * •
Despite the visit of the Yorks, Mayoral
candidates come forward slowly in Maoriland.
The majority are probably ’cute enough to see
that they would personally have to foot very heavy
expenses. In Auckland it looks like a walk-over
for the 83-year-old Dr. Campbell—one of the
country’s wealthiest men and oldest settlers. His
big office now stands in the place where his tent
was pitched 60 years ago. In Wellington the
retiring Mayor, Aitken, a strong Scotehbytenan
merchant, is to be opposed by the sporting hams-
ter Tom Wilford. The contest between Sanctity
and Sport is expected to be a very willing go.
* * * *
What promised to be a beautiful romance
finished up with a loud crash in Melb. City Court
recently, when the hero got twelve months
“hard.” He was a plain, ordinary John Hum-
phreys, but had passed himself off as a baronet,
and so captured the affections of a seasoned widow-,
whom he actually married under his title, xne
protests of a grown-up daughter were of no avail,
though the latter is now revenged, as it was
through pawning her watch that step-papa go
into trouble.
* * * *
At a meeting of creditors in a Brisbane
insolvent estate the proofs of debt 'were objected
to, inasmuch as the J.P., before whom they were
attested, had not sworn allegiance to King
Edward VII. under the new Commission issued
SHAKESPEARE FOR THE YOUNG.
King Ned to his son: “ Make your mind easy ; I will take every care of
the children.”
GOOD KING NED (loq.): “How many of my poorest subjects are at this hour
asleep?"
last month. A good many Queensland Js.P.
hardly know they’ve got a king.
* * * *
The sin of the reel-headed father is visited
upon him, so to speak, by his illegitimate child.
In a recent Melbourne libel case the question
arose as to whether the auburn defendant was
really the father of a ver-y dark young woman’s
baby. Other gentlemen friends of the damsel
who had appeared in court were also very dark,
so when the infant was found to be the colour of
The Bulletin’s wrapper there was nothing left
for defendant but a suggestion that the mother
had probably coloured the interesting event by an
inordinate craving for tomatoes during her time
of travail.
* * * *
Adelaide City Council was lately in-
vited by the Holder Govt, to spend £lOOO in
erecting a triumphal arch for the Yorks’ visit,
but declined unless Govt, guaranteed to indem-
nify it by Act for thus illegally spending rate-
payers’ money. This is meritorious, but the same
council is engineering the unspeakable Snow
tramway monopoly —a scheme which pledges the
citizens’ tramway rights for 21 years, unless Par-
liament shuts down on the awful job.
* * * *
Adelaide telephone operators, all ladies,
follow Melb. lady operators in refusing to adopt
the head-gear now universal in Sydney. All
the efforts of Widower Todd, who is very sus-
ceptible to the female glance, are unavailing ; and
the ladies remain adamant as the Melb. beauties
who are credited with having successfully resisted
several Postmasters-General.
* * * *
There has been much feeling in England
and in S’Africa about the appointments made to
responsible posts in the Transvaal ; the friends
and dependents of the capitalist and Jewish gang
having been pitchforked into offices. The single
appointment which no party seems to find fault
with is that of an Australian—Major MTnerney
—to the chief magistracy of Pretoria. And this
is the only good billet given to an Australian,
despite all that was said about the value of the
services of the Australians in the war. By the
way, “ Tim ” MTnerney richly deserved that ap-
pointment ; was it not he who dragged into the
trial of Hans Cardua that odoriferous precedent
from the—hold your nose !'—Vic. Dungey case.
* * * *
Humorous circular received at Bulletin
Office from Sydney’s most fashionable tailor :
In anticipation of the Duke and Duchess of York and
Cornwall visiting Australia, we instructed our agents in
London to forward us a specially-selected assortment of
materials suitable for frock-coat, morning, and sac suits,
and which have just been received. We shall be pleased,
&c.
*•. * »
“Bung A.” • A “ contingenter ” recently
offered a friend of present writer a “ second-
return ” railway-ticket, Sydney to Bourke and
back, for 255. (full price, 84s. 6d.). Explained
that he wanted a few days off duty and a few bob
to spend; and, by securing a free ticket for the
purpose of saying farewell to a “sick sister” in
Bourke, he had killed both birds with one lie.
This blessed country is sweating cash for the
Ghamberlain-Rhodes-Rothschild gang.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your -wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For th/> fun of the thing t
mark roy, Sydney.
Same prloee and attended as If you bought amongst the daily crowds at the counters.
Lord Rosebery and Miss Rothschild were
married in a workhouse. The Registrar, to whom
they went in the first instance, had his office at
the establishment, as secretary to the Board of
Guardians.
Re the power of modern firearms. Other
day at Warwick (Q.) rifle-range, a bullet pene-
trated 3ft. of earth and a foot of hardwood, and
glanced off a hard wood support into the marker’s
chest. Result—military funeral.
Shocking par from Melb. Outpost :
J. G. Barrett, formerly member for Carlton South, was
unseated by Moloney in 1897, and last year, on Moloney’s
retirement, he was unsuccessful against D. V. Hennessey,
in spite of the fact that Brennan, a co-religionist of D. V.’s,
was also standing.
Now, is the election for Carlton South a sectarian
contest or does the Outpost merely assume that it
ought to be so ? And if the Outpost can take
R.C. bigotry for granted without raising a protest,
why does it complain, re the Exhibition Secretary-
ship, that “ Masonic and Orange considerations
enter largely into many appointments ? ”
The most important preparations being
made for the reception of the “deah Duke” are
those for giving the highest artistic expression to
Australian female beauty. Picture the delight of
“ deah York ” when he discovers that the P.D.
figure, which is the delight of the “ best ”
European circles, has been adopted by all classes
in Australia, He will recognize the famous
curves at a first glance and exclaim “P.D. Bai
jove ! ”*
Entertaining the “deah Duke” will en-
tail much work for function-attending citizens.
They will soon be staggering under the weight of
the severest razzle they have ever known, and it
behoves them to take care that they stagger
decorously. Even the most experienced drinkers
can’t afford to mix their whiskies at such times.
Therefore the advice to one and all is D.C.L., and
don’t you forget it. No demon of Undoing lurks
in the D.C.L. ’Tis the “ Whisky of the Wise.”*
It
lux
1
LOB 6 TEAS have wo ***
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ , _ Sydney, April 2, 1901.
Mt Dear Myee,—
The Empire Hotel was the scene of the liveliest
doings in last Friday’s very serious-minded elec-
tions. At the Empire, Mr. Barton’s dinner
crowded the dining-hall with the Protectionist
party, who are nearly all—let me say it in a whis-
per—distinctly ugly men. For that matter, our
politician mostly is. Australian politics haven’t
yet turned out anything after the pattern of Rose-
bery, Chamberlain, Balfour—the brand that
brushes its hair, w""”s straight collars, and culti-
vates a profile. ' • urs ” tend to baggy chins and
trousers, bad boots and a hang-dog carriage of the
head, and in spi te ' being a rabid patriot I feel
that it is about ..t. possible to indulge in any
athletic sentiment over an Australian politician as
—to borrow an impossibility of Rhoda Broughton’s
—to be sentimental in a bad smell.
You will not be surprised, therefore, to hear
that women deeply regret that the only smart-
looking man in our politics didn’t get a seat.
Mind you, this doesn’t apply to the wives of our
politicians. Some of them are among the
brightest-looking women in Sydney—which, by
the way, is singularly empty of anything ap-
proaching the beautiful just now. Even the
downy-looking debutantes who all came out toge-
ther a couple of years ago, and shed a lovely com-
plexion over Sydney Society, are fading fast after
two seasons’ wear and tear.
As we waited, we heard some rosy stories about
our Senators. There was one man who was going
to put up for the Senate on the ground that his
name began with Z, and would be placed where
voters couldn’t miss it. Another man was trying
for a seat because his name was the same name as
the name of another man whom everybody knew.
I had a chat with Mdlle. Trebelli this morning,
and found her bearing up briskly under her
melancholy new name—Antonia Dolores. The
fascinating warbler—she looked ever so charming
in a black brocade robe a la princense, her brown
hair brushed severely off her forehead, and a lot
of black glittering things hanging from her cream
lace yoke—changed her name over in America
because the ’Murkans insisted on mistaking her
for her mamma. Old Trebelli is a household word
there, and it was considered that she, our genuine
“ little Trebelli,” would be a little too antiquated
to be worth hearing. This confusion was naturally
unsatisfactory to little Trebelli, and after much
consultation she determined to alter her title and
fall back on a family name. In time she will drop
the Trebelli altogether. In fact she doesn’t want
to be called Trebelli any longer, and will feel
obliged if everybody starts Doloring her as soon as
possible.
The Dolores Cbncert Co. now consists of herself
and a pianist, a young American man with a
reputation, who will open with her at Sydney
Town Hall, Wednesday, April 10th.
Mdlle. tells me that in America everybody is
for foreign songs. It must be French, or it must
be German, to please a ’Murkan audience. The
charming English songs—Purcell’s, for instance, or
Shakespeare’s songs that Dolores makes so much
of—don’t go there at all. It was through this
pronounced demand that Mdlle. went over to
Paris lately and looked up a lot of old French
songs, 15th century folk-songs, simple as simple
can be, quaint and vivid, and she will sing these
for us, in her own inimitable way, shortly.
Another concert on the tapis is that of Miss
Kate Rooney, our popular contralto with a voice
full of tears, who takes farewell of Sydney on
Easter Monday night, Centenary Hall. Miss
Rooney leaves for London —to study under
Pant ey—next week, and is to be seen on view in
Nicholson’s window—but only in a charming pastel
sketch by Mr. Fred. Leist.
Sydney Liedertafel set the new season’s music
going with a concert last Wednesday, the first of
their twentieth season. The large audience con-
sisted of the, usual mixture of opera-cloaks from
the suburbs and women in hats, with an inky
sprinkling of Society in the front row. Mrs.
Burdekin was there in black, short-sleeved, with
her youngest daughter, a pretty, fair-haired girl,
who will make her debut next season. Mrs. John
See was in black with a string-coloured fringe out-
lining her apron-skirt, short sleeves, and a black
note in her hair. By the way, the Sees are now
grand-parents, and at a public luncheon lately
they say that our Acting-Premier was very much
affronted because gran’pa Dibbs congratulated
him on being grand-parent to a bouncing boy, as
if everyone didn’t know that the Sam-Hordem
baby was a girl !
To return to the Liedertafel—this society has
arrived at the point of being able to do extremely
good work when it likes. But some pieces were
not carefully rehearsed on Wednesday; the
orchestra wandered about in strange tempos occa-
sionally, and many different sharps and flats made
themselves disagreeably felt now and then. The
Weber Overture and the Tyrol-Part Song for
Men only had an air of dress-rehearsal about them
that would be sure to annoy people who didn’t
pay for their seats. Otherwise the concert was
agreeable. The large complement of women-
fiddlers— mere girls, many of them—are proving
themselves worthy a fiddle and a chair. They all
wear white frocks and short sleeves, and, as
the Australian foot will hold its own with
anyone’s, they certainly heighten effects. Hetty
Holroyd warbled in a pale blue silk, with a
turquoise sash, and turquoise sleeves spangled
in silver, and wore the indispensable rosette of
black tulle in her corsage, She sang a scena from
the Vesperi Siciliani with great taste, and quite a
noticeable improvement both in art and feeling.
Her voice is silvery-clear; she doesn’t overload
with expression, but hints at more warmth than a
year or two ago when her singing seemed to me
delicious m timbre but cold. She also sang
Somervell’s “Shepherd’s Cradle Song,” “Poor
Vandering One,” and a few exclamations from
Elisabeth in Wagner's “Pilgrims’ Chorus,” with
tne .Liedertafel singing the Pilgrims’ music in the
background.
Speaking of singers, Nellie Stewart has been
for the State Concert to sing before their
x orknesses.
The lady with a foreign accent who doesn’t
always get things right in English and speaks of
body-very important these days—as Capt.
Wallaby, is also a songstress.
Something like a sensation in the way of publi-
cation is now in the hands of the printers for
publication at the conclusion of the Coninghatn
divorce-case, with a view of enabling the public
to be its own expert in handwriting. It is to be
illustrated, I am told, by photo.-reproductions of
all the documents, admitted and denied by the
petitioner and the respondent in the suit; and by
many which did not see the light of Court during
the progress of the trial. Likewise the public is
to be permitted to gaze upon the counterfeit pre-
sentment of the mysterious “Zero,” while all the
mysteries of the case are to be exposed to the
glimpses of the moon.
** Why Smith Left Home” was the reason of
Charles Arnold’s re-appearance at the Palace on
Saturday, with a crowded, jolly-looking dress-
circle to welcome back the popular laughter-
makers. Great changes among the Joneses. He
who used to be Bishop of Ballarat—item, George
Willoughby, husband of pretty little Ada W.—is
now the notorious Smith who left home. The
chubby face and blue eye of this domestic hero,
and ascertain infantile stolidity of expression,
make Smith a riotously funny creature in carpet
slippers—and Charles Arnold cuts-in the most
perfect little silhouette of a German.
“The farce—American, and full of Yankee fun
that goes ‘over’ a local audience—doesn’t call
for much dressing, but gets all it asks for. Willowy
Agnes Knights, as Mrs. Smith, is a well-dressed
woman in a snappy mauve voile frock over apple-
green glace silk, with a tall green-swathed waist,
and glim; vies of green underskirt. Miss Knights’
hair is worn in a rich sunset-color, to add to Mrs.
Smith’s charms. Even more fetching is a white
serge costume, with bolero of heavy cream
lace, falling in ends down the front of
the skirt. I liked less her white ball-
dress, fixed up with white chiffon and pink
roses. Hope Mayne plays a runaway bride in
white flounced muslin, which exactly matches her
unaffected style of prettiness ; and Frank Denton
runs away with her in a cadet suit, brass buttons,
a brown make-up, and that same young smile.
As for Miss H illy Booth, who was the real reason
Why Smith left Home, you will be surprised to
hear that she wears every color she oughtn't to,
beginning with a green-and-yellow speckled blouse
toned up with a purple throat-ribbon.
By the way, Sydney pays Smith the compli-
ment of considering lie leaves home too early, and
to lengthen the programme Mr. Arnold is getting
ready a new curtain-raiser for next week. The
name of the little play is “The Grey Parrot,” a
dramatised s ort story of that rollicking writer,
W. W. Jacobs.
A certain very high dignitary probably doesn’t
know that the carriage in which he went to the
railway station t’other day was hired from an
undertaker. There can’t be much superstition
about Sydneyites, considering the open manner
in which certain big undertaking firms are com-
peting for the vehicle-hiring business.
Die fact that a house which stands upon a hill
cannot be hid is apparently deeply borne in on the
mind of the master-architect of the R.C. Church.
Go where you will about the country, if you ad-
mire some prominently-situated edifice you are
sure to be told upon inquiry that it is “ the Con-
vent ”or “ the Chapel.” From Bondi the eye is
caught by a large building on the side of Waverley
Hill; from the Centennial Park the two most
conspicuous objects are the Loretto Convent and
the home of the Little Sisters of the Poor standing
side by side on the Randwick Hill ; while away
towards Kensington, on the crest of one of the
hills, stands the training college. St. Ignatius’
College occupies the finest position of any school
around Sydney; you couldn’t better the site of St.
Mary s Cathedral, and the Cardinal’s Palace at
Manly can lie seen for miles. All splendid adver-
tisements, if nothing else; and then, too, religion
would naturally be more at home in an atmos-
phere of beauty.
One of the nicest things about Queen Vic-
toria was the way she cared for her dogs. She
had them nursed till they died, and never would
have a dog destroyed. I think a picture that
would show the old, grey, homely-looking lady in a
more becoming setting than any Court grandeur
would depict her in her summer-house at Windsor,
wearing a big apron, and sitting down holding
one of her famous Dog Receptions. Eighty or
90 dogs—distinguished, well-bred personages—
used to come in one by one, and get patted and
petted by the royal hand, and rub an ear against
the homely apron. I haven’t heard whether they
were announced, but expect they’d announce
themselves under such circumstances. Add to
that a mushroom hat on the queenly head, and
you would have a true and pleasant picture of the
woman who always considered a dog’s feelings.
By the way, I wish some other humanitarian
would improve the “ benches in the park.” In our
Gardens you find seats so impossible that they
seem constructed with the sole idea of keeping
people from sitting on them. Some slant at an
angle that requires a pair of long legs, firmly
heeled into the grass, to stop the occupier
from slipping off. And some are shaped like
benches in a fit, with contorted backs, and seats
that writhe up in the middle, and defy you to
imagine you are taking a rest. And some rise up
at the edges, and leap forward in the small of the
back. And one that outclasses all other malfor-
mations is so complicated in its architecture that
I saw a man put his legs through the back and
turn his back to the front of the seat, and lean his
arms on the top of the back before he could
honestly say he was in a sitting position.
Apropos, a nationality that is generally regarded
as phlegmatic, and considerate, and slow in
making up its large fat mind, is responsible for
the following love letter. The woman who re-
ceived it, and sends it to me, says she had never
spoken to the foreigner who sent it:—
Dear Miss J.—l muse use my pen and ink of writing
you a few lines hoping you exquise me—if I am on the
side, my a few lines, might not give you—as much plea-
eure as a kind feaverable letter from you will give me.
Dear J.—l must give you a little sheck to your feelings
whil one single word gut and true and true I gut and
short till long, from all my heart and mind is my song.
Dear Miss J., I am in neet of a friend a Dear Friend I
might have found in you and such a friend is allways gut
to me—or to you—must exquise me considder over it as
follows Dear Miss J. would you like to own me as a friend
I would be alwais goot and true to you intill I die. Dear
Miss J., Yours very affectionately— Hans Blank. Kiss
me Quick.
The influence of back-block air on German sen-
timent is evidently productive of something in-
describable.
I don’t mean to say that sentiment in Germany
needs any fostering. It grows like weeds over
everyone, even little boys in socks. Some English
and German schoolboys were lately asked to write
down what they most wanted to be, and out of
hundreds of declarations there was just one boy
—German—who wanted to be a woman ! and his
reason was given with solemn fervor that would
have driven an English boy to hide his little
wooden head for ever. “/ would like to be a
woman so that / could love ! ”
Of course, there are some seats in the Gardens
that accommodate themselves to the human form ;
but it has always been my hard lot to find this kind
of accommodation blistering alone in the glaring
sun, as far as possible from a sheltering tree.
Also, there are not enough seats in the Gardens.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Every day for some weeks past there has
been a worshipping procession of women to Govt.
House to inspect the apartments which are being
decorated for the Yorks. The whole building is
in the hands of artisans, who have been simply
pestered by the prying brigade. Some of the
workmen have rude ways of resenting these in-
trusions. A scientifically-directed extra-hard
dab with the brush will send a splash of paint in
the desired direction, and would on ordinary
occasions be resented ; but there is a charm about
a green paint-spot on the front of a new veil, or
a red splash on a bonnet, when the owner can
boast that it came from ‘ the dear Duke’3 bed-
room.’ However, the visits are now to be
stopped. The nuisance became so great that the
Minister for Works had to intervene.
“ A story which Tourguenief, the Russian nove-
list, told, will be repeated in substance many
times over in Australia on the occasion of the'
visits of the Yorks. The Czar was to pass through
the village in which Tourguenief lived, but the
novelist was ill and could not go out. After the
Monarch’s carriage passed a group of villagers
rushed in to tell him about it. They said they
saw a beautiful man in glittering white armour,
covered with jewels, who stood up in his gorgeous
chariot—drawn by four lovely horses—and dazzled
them so that they all fell with their faces in the
dust. When Tourguenief got well he inquired
what had really happened, and found that the Czar
had passed quietly through in a simple frock-coat
and top-hat. Many people in Melbourne are just
ais superstitious as those Russian serfs. They will
actually see a small, undersized, ordinary-looking
young man and his stout wife. They are prepared
to belive they have seen something more than a
demigod, accompanied by his archangel.
“Prof. Peterson, the new musical authority of
Melb. University, was not consulted in the pre-
paration of the programme for the State concert
to be given while the Yorks are in Melbourne.
Musgrove, Caron, and Slapoffski ivere consulted ;
but the official academic, Presbyterian, orthodox,
Westminster-confession-of-faith professor was
quite ignored by the authorities. Musicians are
also angered at the efforts being made to oust an
organist from a leading kirk, in order that the
new-comer may be offered the post.
“Seems that the Metrop. Liedertafel’s dinner
to Prof. Peterson, the other week, had no ulterior
motive whatever. Someone who knows the
circumstances of the little shivoo says it was
arranged by Vice-president Byron Moore as a
fraternal welcome to the new-chum Prof, from
the senior musical society (for the Met. considers
itself senior to Melb. Liedertafel) and as an assur-
ance that he is not to be shut out in the cold be-
cause he was the successful applicant for Marshall-
Hall’s billet. Also it gave the genial promoter a
chance to compose a humorous musical menu-card
on a plan of his own. There was no partisan feel-
ing in the matter; in fact, the welcome had the
sympathy of the rival Professor’s warmest sup-
porters. Mr. Peterson doesn’t intend to wield
the baton for any Liedertafel or orchestra.
He has come to Melb. to take over the Chair of
Music and the University Conservatorium; and
people who have met the dry, matter-of-fact
Scotch gentleman and his charming Hungarian
wife, seem to agree in expecting good results.
“Government House is neat as a new pin, in
readiness for Royalty. Outside, it’s clean but
bilious-looking. Inside, there are passable patches
in a sea of gilt and garishness. No one on the
premises can be induced to give away the culprit
responsible for certain color-orgies. ‘ The people
at ’Ome,’ seems to be the prescribed reply to all
inquiries—‘which I don’t believe there’s no such
pussons ! ’
“The Gov.-General’s den, with thick crimson
carpet and old-rose satin hangings, is warm and
snug. Two other smallish rooms, generally used
as a morning snuggery by the ‘Missus’ of Govt.
House, will also be temporarily given up to York.
With their China-blue and white papers go white
wood-work, and Empire hangings and furniture,
and Persian rugs in red, cream, and a suspicion of
blue. The private drawing-room has dull-red and
gold walls, peacock-blue carpet, bordered with
chocolate and deep-blue, faint-blue hangings
strewn with pink posies, under-curtains of Swiss
net.
“In the dining-room there’s impressive maho*
gany furniture ; and another oasis is the main
staircase —ivory-white with rich crimson carpet.
It’s no use my attempting to describe the ball-
room color scheme. You’d accuse me of dream-
ing rainbows and seeing kaleidoscopes. Experts
say it will light up well and prove becoming.
We ll see ! Those blue hangings and plush settees
are trying. Haven’t you noticed how pasty all the
inmates of the blue d.c. at the Princess’s appear
from the stalls, unless they’ve laid on the make-up
liberally? Near at hand they show to more ad-
vantage.
“ The Duchess’s bedroom is decidedly pink, in
spite of much counteractive grey - green carpet
with rose-wreathed border, green-striped hangings
of satin damask, and flowered cretonne furniture-
slips. The hangings, as a rule, are blends of silk
and wool. In the Hopetoun suite the colors are
blue and cream. Some of the other rooms have
curtains strewn thick with natural-color hyacinths;
and a blue bower is assigned to the ladies-in-wait-
iag.
“York’s retinue—don’t forget—includes among
other grandees a Prince, a Duke, and a Viscount
—game almost worth the candle of smart local
spinsters, who, unless their chums belie them, are
already groaning under the yoke of hygienic
beauty-process which combines the most drastic
features of fresh-air cure and milk-and-fruit diet
with vapour-bath treatment.
“At present the Maddens spend most of their
time at Macedon inhaling all the mountain air
they can ere handing over the keys of ‘ Govern-
ment Cottage.’ The Head of the House has not
been well; and official mourning further excuses
the clan’s seclusion.
“ The girls of the Waxellency Madden family,
with the connivance of mamma, have pre-
served all The Bulletin’s wicked tributes to His
Casual Excellency in ascrap-book. Caricaturedraw-
ings, scornful criticisms, and the most awful allu-
sions to his vice regal moustache are pasted in the
volume, so that when his nearest and dearest feel
nauseated by a Madden picture or paragraph in
poor old Paunch they can get an immediate cor-
rective. Papa runs no risk of ever being too
much of a hero to his own family. In the ordi-
nary way they divide him into three persons:—lst,
The nice, well-barbered, amiable, voluble Pa who
keeps the wolf from the door. 2nd, The Trans-
cendental Pa depicted in Paunch and the
Respectable Press. 3rd, His Waxellency of The
Bulletin. Then they shake hina into a united
trinity and worship him with a grain of salt.
“A huge crowd rolled up for Arens’ last night.
Local critics, Marshall Hall, &c., are raving over
the fareweller’s Tannhauser. Musically, mere
women admire his version ; but he is not ecstatic-
ally beautiful, and why on earth don’t they let him
sing in his ovvn language ? His English, if it can
be called so, is English as it might be spoken by a
talking Russian bear.
“The woman who lives in terror of the man
who is never under the bed has, after all, a com-
paratively easy time compared with a politician in
an Australian State, who, when his wife leaves
him, has an abiding horror of the possibility of
some scheming hussy invading the sanctuary of
his dormitory, and taking advantage of his unpro-
tected state to demand £lOOO down. The poor
man has good reason, too. The story goes that
he had the misfortune to find a calculating parlor-
maid under his bed one evening years ago, who
insisted that she would ‘ tell all ’ if money were
not forthcoming. The cash was found, but the
innocent victim’s confidence in womankind is
shattered. Now in the absence of the ‘missus’
lie absolutely refuses to sleep in the same house
with the designing sex, but betakes himself to
another establishment, which is something in the
nature of a safe-deposit, and where he can snore
untroubled by blackmail possibilities. Some
night a bold, bad damsel will burgle that retreat,
and then a prominent politician will be a candi-
date for the lunatic asylum.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


BEFORE INSURING ELSEWHERE ASCERTAIN WIIAT
The Mutual Life Insurance^
Established Over
Half-a-Cbntury.
Company of New York
CAN DO FOR YOU.
FOR YOURSELF—
An Income for Life.
An Endowment for Early Retirement.
A Pension for Old Age.
FOR YOUR WIFE —
A Definite Amount at your Death, and
A Fixed Income for her Life.
FOR YOUR SONS-
Money to start in a Business or a Profession.
FOR YOUR DAUGHTERS—
Marriage Settlement Money, or
An Income for Life at your Decease.
FOR YOUR BUSINESS—
Additional Capital at your own or Partner’s Death.
All Policies now issued by THE MUTUAL LIFE embody conditions of guaranteed Automatic
Paid-up Insurance ; Extended Insurance Free of Further Charge ; Loans ;
Liberal Cash Surrender Payment. - A „ . ~.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place. ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
MELBOURNE —289 Collins Street. PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
BRISBANE—377-379 Queen Street. HOBART—3B Macquarie Street.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
h
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Hie gist of John Norton’s open letter to
Barton in last Sunday’s Truth is—“ I’m a better
y gentleman than you, anyhow ! ”
B. R. Wise has two sets of admirers, one
political, the other personal. The former deplore
bis defeat at Canoblas, the latter rejoice at it.
Adelaide obit.—Dr. S. J. Magarey, atone
time leader of S.A. Temperance party. A sturdy
democrat, who did much for the workers in S. A.
Leg. Council ere the Laborites came along.
Of the six men leading for the Senate in
N.S.W., Gould is a newspaper-proprietor, Milieu
a *‘ ew G ,a per-wri ter, O’Connor an ex-journalist,
and E. Pulsford a newspaper-proprietor and
A sight in Sydney suburban train—an
Australian ex-Premierandhislady, sitting opposite
each other with a paper of prawns between them,
munching away and calmly throwing heads and
tails out of the window.
Both Isaacs, who “passed” the Yic.
State Premiership, and Peacock, who accepted it,
are sons of tailors. Mr. Isaacs’ father used to
wield the shears at Beechworth, Yic., while Pea-
cock’s is still in business at Creswick (Yic.).
John See has reached N.S.W. Premier-
ship in his 55th year. Like ex-Premier Reid, he
arrived in Australia in very early boyhood. He
has been 21 years in Parliament and is what is
known as “self-made.” He used to be one of
Henry Parkes’ favorite butts.
Eighteen members of N.S.W. State Par-
liament have been returned to the House of Re-
presentatives. Five —Barton, M'Millan, Bruce
Smith, F uller and Sydney Smith—are ex-members;
while three—Barrister A. H. Conroy, Jam-manu-
facturer Edwards and H. Willis —are new to
politics.
Sydney breathed contentedly when it was
announced that president J. Randal Carey, of
Sydney Daily Telegraph, had got a substantial
Govt, billet. It was clear for months that, until
president Carey was disposed of, there would be
no peace in the N.S.W. Cabinet, and no certainty
as to Lyne’s political doings. As the billet to
Carey straightened Cabinet and Premier, the
public feeling was, “ Let her go, Gallagher ! ”
After 62 years in Devonshire-street ceme-
tery, the bones of Allan Cunningham are to be
transferred to the vicinity of his monument in
Sydney Botanic Gardens. Cunningham was not
only a botanist but an explorer, and though of
delicate physique, nerved himself to numerous
desperate privations in the early Australian bush.
He died under 50 yeais, but into his short life lie
crowded a vast amount of valuable, some of it im-
perishable, public work.
HOW IT WAS.
DINGLEHOFEN: “ How it vas, [?]key, dot you never
see Yiddishers keep hotels?”
SCHLOSSBEIMER : “ Dere vas no excitement about
it; efferybody knows de price of a drink. So
if you serve a man mit a beer und ask him
a shillin' 1 for it, vat does he do?”
DINGLEHOFEN: “He beats you down to sixpence,
ain’t it? ”
SCHLOSSHEIMER : “ Not by a jugful. He drinks
half of it und throws de rest all over your
viskers, und calls you a dam schvindler. A
bisness vere efferybody knows de price of de
goods is only fit for blackfellers.”
Macdonald Paterson, at a Brisbane meet-
ing t’other night, wore a thistle in his button-
hole. Interjector : “What’s that you’ve got in
your coat ? ” Mac. Paterson : “ There’s only one
animal on this earth that has been known to eat
it. I’ll therefore give it to you to take home for
your supper.”
Yet another centenarian. John Bond, at
present an inmate of the hospital ward of Mel-
bourne Immigrants’ Home, was born in England
in 1800. He arrived in Sydney in 1809 in the
troopship Alert, and went to Melb. with Batman
from Tasmania in ’35. One of his early occupa-
tions was whaling in Hobson’s Bay.
“What’s in a name?” One unknown
Denis Roger O’Sullivan, who put up for N.S.W.
Senate, polled about 13,600 votes —many electors
apparently thinking him identical with State
Works Minister E. W. O’Sullivan. In the crowd
outside the city newspaper-offices exclamations
were common at the poor show the O’Sullivan
was making.
Quite the most exquisite function of the
approaching Commonwealth celebrations in Melb.
should be a certain “ titled ” person’s dinner to —
ahem ! —bebaubled persons only - G.C.M.G.’s,
K.C.M.G.’s, and common or tinsel C.M.G.’s. It
is to be hoped the caterer for this function will
provide a liberal supply of grease —also spittoons
for the waiters.
There’s a man in Sydney who makes quite
£4OOO a year by pulling teeth —does nothing else
all day. He uses only a local anaesthetic, the
exact nature of which seems to be a secret. He
took out 14 teeth right away for a Bulletin man
t’other day, who, though perfectly conscious all
the time, felt no pain whatsoever. This isn’t an
advt. ; it is a fact.
Could W. B. Dailey have looked across
from his resting-place, at Waverley, and seen the
first three men who asked the electorate named
after him to send them to the Federal Parliament,
he would have quivered with disgust. Member
for Dailey—a Wilks, a Law, or an I. R. Cohen !
Pity that young barrister “Jack” Dailey was
not in Sydney and ready for the Federal polling !
Still another of Melb.’s better-known
woman-doctors goes out of practice. Few, very
few, risk matrimony and medicine together. And
The Bulletin is sorry to hear that one of the
earliest who did, the philanthropic Dr. Constance
Stone, wife of Dr. Egryn Jones, has for
months past been compelled to virtually cease
practice through a most serious illness.
According to a recent article by John
Ferguson, of Parramatta :
G. H. Reid was a competitor for a prize announced
to fie awarded to the best ode on the opening of the great
Sydney Exhibition in what was called the Garden Palace.
The prize was awarded to Henry Kendall, not to Reid ;
whereat Reid was so disgusted with the shortsighted in-
capacity of the judges that he had his wretched stuff
printed on superior paper and circulated amongst his
admiring friends. We think, however, the judges will
not be held to have been blameable when we quote the
final couplet of Reid’s rhyming atrocity which he calls a
poem. It runs thus :
“ Co-operation was clearly understood
By that best ’mong modern princes, Albert the Good.”
Hence, perhaps, the legend that Georgey Porgey
published a book of poems in his younger days.
Adelaide Anglican Bishop Harmer de-
pends for his screw upon an endowment by the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts, made 50
years ago in Bishop Short’s time.
The original amount, £20,000,
which was badly invested, only
yields a miserable £7OO a year, and
the Church is now passing round
the hat to keep His Gaiters out
of the Destitute asylum.
Melbourne hasn’t a bene-
factor to its name just now. Fif-
teen twenty years ago William
Clar\e was writing big cheques
for good causes ; Francis Ormond
followed suit; even “Money”
Miller, the stingy man, gave
£5OOO towards the building of St.
Paul’s Cathedral because he
thought the appearance of the
city would be improved by it.
And there was Joe Clarke, who
distributed tens of thousands of
pounds among nice little widows
and other deserving institutions
of the same kind. These men
have left no successors. The only
Melbourne citizen suspected of an
intention to shell out handsomely
some day is David Syme, the
millionaire, and he will probably
wait till he is dead, which, bar
accidents, will be a long wait.
The 20 would-be Senators who were lowest
on the poll in N.S.W. Federal election did not
among them all achieve a total vote equal to that
accorded to J. 0. Neild, who himself came lowest
on the selected bunch. How proud they must feel
of the place they hold in public estimation, which
evidently considers that it takes 20 such poli-
ticians to furnish an equivalent for one such a
Colonel !
“G.F.8.” says he can prove the truth
of the following:—A certain Australian M.P. and
candidate for Federal honors, who is also a great
advocate for white labor, recently employed two
clerks (white) for 30 hours’ night-work, and at the
end of the job gave each—ss. Four nights they
had to buy their own tea, which, allowing Is. for
each meal, would leave them Is. each for 30 hours’
work.
Authoress Charlotte Yonge, who died
lately in England, notwithstanding that she de-
voted m-ieh of her early life to missionary work in
Australia and the South Seas, found herself prac-
tically forgotten by Australians when a couple of
years ago an illuminated address was presented to
her at Winchester, at the foundation of the Char-
lotte Yonge scholarship. A few S. Australians
alone remembered her.
COURT ETIQUETTE.
JONES : “I s’pose when people address the King
they will call him ‘sire.’ They always used
to, you know.”
HEBE: “But what will they call the Queen!”
HORSEY-LOOKING MAN (promptly): “Dam, of
course.”
This sort of thing, from a M.L. paper,
was probably in Shakespeare’s mind when he
wrote “ Uneasy lies the head that wears a
crown ” :
Hon. Major Steward has been induced to send a copy
of his fine poem on the death of the Queen, “ Victoria
R.L,” recently published in our columns, to King- Ed-
ward. The poem is beautifully printed on satin, in black
and purple.
James Howard, of Edi(Vic ), who attained
his 100th year on 9th March, danced a hornpipe
at a gathering of friends who presented -him with
a silver-headed walking-stick in honor of the
occasion. He arrived in Victoria from England
in ’29, afterwards went to Sydney, and returned
to Vic. overland in ’45, in the employ of Messrs.
Faithfull, squatters in Oxley district. His chief
occupations were those of-shepherd and miner.
N.S.W. Full Court takes a long time to
make up its mind about the case of that very
eminent Gent One, which looks to The Bulletin
one of the most simple matters ever submitted to
any tribunal. The whole point at issue, so far as
one can see, is—Do two (or forty) blacks make one
white ?
A Bulletin correspondent meets a
veteran :
Genial, honest old Beyers, ex-M.L.A. for Mudgee,
N.S.W., who with his partner (Holtermann) took a ton or
two of gold out of Tambaroora in the early 70’s, is here
(Mount Higgins, W.A.) working a show which looks well,
and yielded at last crushing 31dwt. per ton. It was a
godsend to the poor old man, who had been battling
desperately with evil days. Had a long yarn with him ;
he says he made a great mistake when he gave up poli-
tics. He still reckons on returning to Hill E»d and open-
ing up Hawkins’ Hill. Hope burns eternal.
Owen Cunliffe, who knows a good deal
about Edward VII, writes in New York Inde-
pendent :
It is true that he has been connected with a divorce
case, to which I only refer here because it is so frequently
cited by his critics as constituting an illustration of his
moral shortcomings. But those who know King Edward
best, and are acquainted with the ins and outs of London
society, are aware that the sole basis of the charge against
him in connection with Lady Mordaunt’s divorce was the
fact that no one else was admitted to her apartments
when on three occasions he went to pay her afternoon
calls at the Alexandra Hotel in London, where she was
openly staying at the time. The majority of people
fail to remember that the laws of etiquette governing
European Courts and society provide that during a royal
call the doors of the person thus honoured shall be kept
closed to all visitors of minor rank. When falsely accused,
he could have availed himself of his prerogatives as heir
to the throne to decline to take any notice of the affair.
But, moved by a sense of chivalrous sympathy for
the poor woman whose brain had given way before the
case came before the court, he went of his own accord
into the witness-box in order to swear to her innocence.
Even a bishop can’t please everyone.
“ Anti-Humbug ” to The Bulletin
The first Pastoral letter of the R.C. Bishop of Goul-
burn is remarkable for the slobber with which he
belauds his defunct predecessor. The new
Bishop has a penchant for hyperbole and for
turning on the oratorical tap, which goes
far with the common crowd. Hence little
reliance can be placed on his biographical
or historical statements. Everyone who
knew the late Bishop is perfectly aware
that he had little brains, but a keen con-
sciousness of his power as Bishop, often
using it unscrupulously and with a ven-
geance against his priests. A glance at
the “ Ecclesiastical Directory ” for the
years of his Episcopate amply
proves this. It is said “Nero
fiddled whilst Rome
burned;” the old Bishop
could eat his dinner
with a gusto after
sending some priest
out on the cold
world by his man-
date, and without
assigning a reason.
His whole Canon
Law was summed up
in the dictum, Sic
volo , sic jubeo. I)r.
Lanigan had a fond-
ness for f "!sh faces,
and to be a favorite
for a time meant
ruin in the hereafter.
No one knows this
better than the pre-
sent Bishop, who at
one time got a touch
of the episcopal staff.
Dr. Gallagher would
do more good to the
soul of his departed
friend if he set about
repairing some of the
wrongs his predeces-
sor committed, or
sought out the lost
sheep he had driven
from the fold. Such
action would show
that the Bishop
realised his respons-
ibilities and obliga-
tions, and would be
more in harmony
with his position
than indulging- in
unseemly laudation
of a man whom, at one
period of his life, he
surely must not have
worshipped.
Queen Victoria,
though the English
ac facto monarch
with the longest reign,
does not hold the re-
rd for titular monarchs.
The Old Pretender was, by right of birth, James
111. of England from 1701 to 17GG.
The fact that J. T. Walker topped the poll
for the Senate in N.S.W., thus winning the blue
riband of the Australian election, was one of the
surprises of the contest. As a politician and
party man he is unknown in comparison with
men like R. E. O’Connor and E. F. Milieu. The
reason of his success is, first, his daily-press
booming ; and, second, the fact that the Bank of
N.S.W. throughout the State (and probably also
the A.M.P. Society; worked steadily and solidly
for him.
At his final meeting, when the amusing
T. Eldridge Healey, who opposed Treasurer
Turner for a week, bade a regretful farewell to his
proposed constituents —he had been thrown over
by both the Argus and the Freetrade League—
the most pained spectator of the proceedings was
the pet-dog of this last of the Victorian Free-
traders. The animal—probably a twin-brother
of Reid’s tyke—sat on a chair and howled, no
doubt because he wasn’t to be thrown into the
water to swim, or sink.
George Reid, who handled the Billie
Barlow libel case for The Bulletin with so much
humour and such consummate tact, was “dis-
covered ” as an advocate late in life—he is now
nearer 60 than 50. He has built up, or begun to
build up, a decent little Bar practice just when he
is called away to Melbourne to fight the battle of
Calico Jemmy and his other admirers. If he
stuck to his law business, which is now attaining
considerable dimensions, he might possibly gather
a little money for his old age—the world knows,
on his own authority, that so far his purse is
slender indeed. Reid is Calico Jemmy’s one effec-
tive champion—without him the Freetrade cause
would indeed be a dismal one. So if Calico
Jemmy has any gratitude (of the kind which not
only recognises past favors but is ready to pay for
favors to come) he will put up a purse of £lO,OOO
or so with trustees for the benefit of Georgey-
Porgey instead of waiting for the inevitable time
when' the man of jokes and wondrously-distorted
figures falls down exhausted in his tracks, as the
other revenue-tariff champions have fallen before
him.
A melancholy example of malicious page
is the attack made by John Norton—squirming in
the agony of his defeat for the Senate —on Edmund
Barton in Sunday’s Truth. Barton, in warning
the Federal electors to exclude “ vileness ” from
the Senate, pointed at Norton (so the latter de-
clares) and no doubt deprived him of many votes.
As things stand, Norton, standing solely “ on his
own,” and without a single good word for him in
any daily paper, polled the enormous total of (say)
61,559 votes as against (say) 65,622 votes scored
by the lowest successful candidate. For many of
these votes Norton’s vigorous, not to say reckless
oratory in his extensive personal campaign is re-
sponsible ; but most of them were doubtless the
outcome of the gigantic and far-reaching personal
advts. gained per medium of his widely-circulated
weekly paper. A fine large moral here protrudes
for the benefit of the N.S.W. Federal-Protection-
ists, who have no daily paper. The Bulletin
doesn’t count the skin-shedding Star, which is
controlled by certain obvious non-public influences,
and so disgraced itself during the Federal cam-
paign that no sane person now ever takes any
serious notice of its alleged opinions.


TRY
MACONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce. '
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia mm
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel Australia is the
ideal rendezvous for Squatters
and their families who need
rest and change at the close
of our enervating summer.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A curious death ! On Woodford station,
Vic., the boss had a fine Newfoundland dog, of
apparently very small appetite, yet always sleek
and fat. He was an animal of many privileges—
boasting a handsome silver-mounted collar.
Sheep were getting killed by a dog or dogs on
various parts of the run, and it was suggested that
the Newfoundland “ had a tooth in it,” but the
idea was scouted by the boss. One morning,
however, the dog was missing, and nothing was
seen of him till some months afterwards, when he
was found with a ram’s horns firmly locked in his
collar —both animals dead.
* » * «
“Cuss” : A kangaroo-shooter on Whifc-
tarranah Station (N.S.W.) has a moke that, during
present awful drought, turns up regularly three
times a day for a feed of , the boiled ’roo
that the shooter keeps himself and family
fat and hearty on. Also, years ago, at the same
place, a carrier named Dickens— not “ dicken ”
had a mare that he fed regularly on boiled mutton,
as being cheaper than chaff —at the high carriage-
rates then prevailing.
• » * *
“Frank Hennidon ’’ sends to The Bulle-
tin from Wangaratta, Vic., this queer story
Travelling in a buggy from a place called M'Mahon’s
Heef in N.S.W. with an erstwhile telegraph operator
named B ,we were forced by a storm to take refuge
in an old house on the road-side. While seated on a box
in the house my companion dozed off but presently sprang
to his feet and excitedly declared that he could hear a
telegraph instrument clicking in the room. He was
deadly pale and I felt not a little dismayed at such a
strange statement. Several minutes passed without any-
thing more being said, then he slowly drawled out :
“ Telegram to B. B , Benalla, Victoria: You have
drawn in Newmarket Handicap. Accept con-
gratulations. (Signed) E. B , Hay.” After this
B—— seemed to wake out of the trance or sleep into
which he had fallen and had no knowledge of the
incident until I acquainted him with it, whereupon it re-
turned to his memory like a flash. He said it must have
been a dream and added that he had never been in
Benalla in his life, nor was he ever likely to be. The inci-
dent was forgotten by us both until the latter end of last
month. B had been visiting friends in Melbourne,
and on his return to N.S.W. he missed the train at
Benalla. Wiring to his mother advising her of the fact he
in return received a telegram from her couched in exact’y
the same words as that which he had received from the
Unknown on the occasion above described two years
before. It seems he had, before leaving home, bought a
ticket in the sweep, and the result coming to hand before
his return, his mother telegraphed him as stated. B
regards the occurrence as almost too uncanny to talk
about.
* * * *
“ H.S.” : A peculiar people are the
Badjus who occasionally visit the northern shores
SELF-EVIDENT.
THE DOG: “ What’s that! Lucky dog? Well, I am not
Reid’s Dry Dog, anyhow."
Photo, by T. H. Stoward, Adelaide.
of Australia (about Port Essington and Bowen
Straits) in March and April. They have appa-
rently no fixed abode—living almost entirely on
their prahus, and come to Australia for tortoise-
shell. Their food, which they carry with them,
consists chiefly of rice, sugar, and poultry. They
leave about May. Not nearly so many of those
people, however, come over as of the trepang-
seeking Malays, who have often on the coast as
many as 30 prahus at a time—some nearly of 100
tons capacity —manned in all by probably 1000
men. These take away annually nearly 1000 tons
of trepang (the edible sea-slug), worth from £9O to
£lOO per ton at first-hand, but very much more
valuable in the ultimate market—China.
At a Q. bush shanty years
ago, where preparations for a
big dance were well advanced,
a teamster got jammed between
a tree and the wheel of his own
dray, and was carried into his
shanty in terrible agony.
Shanty - keeper regarded his
writhing form with anxiety.
The dance was coming off that
night, and he couldn’t accom-
modate “ the cove” with a room
just to die in if he was going to
take long. The kindly S.K.
went and brought the J.P.
(neighbouring squatter) to look
at the invalid and hurry him on.
The poor fellow’s breathing
alone would have softened the
heart of the devil himself.
“Oh, get the ink and paper,”
said the justice. Procured
eagerly, and in five minutes the
inquest was finished, and the
J.P. off again after some rams.
Next couple of hours the dealer
in poison occupied himself pay-
ing short and frequent visits to
the bedside. “.Right you are,
Billy,” he yelled at last, and
a gravy-eyed groom brought a
horse and cart, which lmd been
in readiness some time, and re-
moved the corpse to its hole-
just in time.
Early in ’99 a company of
mining men bought a battery at
Croydon (N.Q.) for use at their
mine at far-distant Woolgar.
They started to move it per
horse-team, and it is still in pro-
cess of moving. Three times it
has been abandoned, and thrice the whole team
has died of thirst. Nice place, Queensland !
• * • »
“W.O.W, Apropos losses by drought
on N.W. Queensland cattle stations (B. 2/3/’01).
On one big station in W.Q. two years ago, 250,000
sheep were mustered for shearing ; now they can
only find the living skeletons of about 60,000.
Another station has about 100,000 left out of
300,000, and yet another shore last shearing 80,000
remaining out of about 450,000. The drought,
too, has apparently come to stay.
» • * *
One hour after squatter W. F. Buchanan
had bought 7000 sheep at Gingie station t’other
day it began to rain, and he was offered 50 per
cent, advance on his purchase-price.
“Spec": Mustering a
certain paddock on a far N.W.
run where the sheep were dying
like flies in the boggy banks of
the only tank available, the
manager hea tily cur. ei the
skinners he had engaged as a
lot of thieves too good for hang-
ing, as according to the muster
not one-third of the mis-ing
“ baas” had been accounted for
by their pelts. Ihe very prime
condition of the drove of razor-
backed hogs belonging to the
selector who owned the tank at
whioh the sheep were wateiing
caused suspicion, and, a watch
being set, the mystery was ex-
plained. Talk of the cruelty
of the crow ! He is not in it
with the lazor-back hog. A
sheep too weak to extricate
itself from the mud was torn
into chunks and devoured in no
time. On a neighboring station
it has been found necessary to
destroy all the piers as they
were caught following up and
killing both lambs and mothers
in the lambing paddocks.
• * • *
At a N.S.W. bush race-
meeting biggest race of the
day - Cup, first and only prize,
£2, decided after a tremendous
struggle in a field of five. Pro
test lodged by second horse
against winner, on ground of
same being “ corn-fed.” Pro-
test immediately dismissed as
frivolous by the single indivi-
dual performing the combined
duties of promoter, handicap-
per, steward, committee, clerk
of scales, clerk of course, and
judge; protest money (10s.)
impounded. At settling, as
only 275. 6d. (including pro-
test-fee) could be raked up,
winner agreed to take for
balance * n “ order ” on a would-be-but-failed-
to-pay-donator. One or two minor events came
off afterwards for cheap bridles, &c., the day’s
sport concluding with a hurry-skurry, catch-
weights, six entries —prize, one tin sardines,
value lOd.
* * * •
There was a learned dissertation t’other
day in a country court by an interpreter on the
virtue of various Chinese oaths. Blowing out a
match, it appears, simply means that John will
have no light in the dim Hereafter. Breaking a
saucer counts for nothing. Cutting the head off a
rooster, either in court or in the cemetery, how-
ever, is a method of recognised efficacy. Perjury
after this ceremony entails misfortune in this life
and a dreadful time in the next. By-the-way,
writer once heard three Chinamen deliberately
swear to the most damnable lies by way of putting
a countryman, to whom they owed money, out of
the way—on a charge of murder. And there was
a rooster hopping about outside with his head
chopped off, nevertheless.
THE GREAT SYDNEY DIVORGE-CASE.
Mr. A. CONINGHAM Mrs. A. C. CONINGHAM.
Photos. from Sydney NEWSLETTER.
A selector at Grenfell (N.S.W.) recently
trapped on 240 acres, in 18 nights, 18,791 rabbits.
On Eurabba have been slain 100,000 bunnies, and
the local stench of defunct rabbit is overpowering.
“ Deeby ”: In many bush
towns there exists a conspiracy
of cruelty to dumb animals.
As I write, a waggon is pulled
up opposite, harnessed to which
is a team of more-or-less crip-
pled horses. Three have raw
shoulders; these are mares with
foals, the latter all lame
through walking over metalled
roads. The near-leader has a
chafed side, in which the hot
chains rub all day; also, one
of the shatters has a sore back.
These animals have been stand-
ing in the hot sun, tormented
by swarms of flies, while their
owner sits skiting on the local
pub. verandah. Yet this pic-
ture of misery excites no pity
or comment from an) one.
Further down the street I
heard a man laying the whip-
handle on to a_ worn-out,
starved-looking horse, har-
nessed to a heavily-loaded
dray. This man systematically
ill-treats all his horses ; no one
dreams of remonstrating. An-
other local carrier has a habit
of “touching up” his horses
with a long-handled shovel ;
hacking them sometimes in a
barbarous manner. In this in-
stance a man once laid an in-
formation with the local con-
stable. He was a stranger and
unaware of the conspiracy, and
liothing resulted from it be-
yond the fact that he was so
harassed and boycotted by the
townspeople that he cleared
out before the case came on.
In another instance of gross
cruelty I myself ventured to
mildly rebuke the biute. Re-
garding me with blank aston-
ishment, he curtly told me to
mind my own blanky business.
They were his horses. As the
fellow was in a position to
deprive me of my employment, I let the matter
drop at that. But some day, when able to
quit this elysian retreat, I will give some of
these callous brutes the greatest surprise they
probably ever received by laying an information
and seeing the case through—when the Police
Magistrate is on the Bench.
* * * *
Down to date 93 bores for artesian water
have been sunk on Govt, account in N.S. W. The
most expensive was the Dolgelly bore, on the
Moree-Boggabilla road ; it was sunk 4086 ft., and
cost £10,630. The flow is equal to 745,200 gallons
a day ; the temperature of the water when it
reaches surface is 130 deg. Fahr. Next most ex-
pensive was Tulloona bore, same track, 3537 ft.,
£9768 ; 783,000ga15. But the department’s ex-
perience hasn’t always been so satisfactory. The
Bancannia bore, on the Silverton-Cobham track,
cost £8535 (depth 3615 ft.), and then failed utterly.
The biggest flow is from the Kenmare bore,
between Bourke and Hungerford ; though it is
only 1540 ft. deep, the daily yield is 2,050,000 gal-
lons—or would be if it weren’t controlled. The
highest temperature of water is at the Clifton and
Tinaroo bores, between Milparinka and Wanaar-
ing ; it is normally 139 deg., and varies but little.
* * * *
“ W.M B.” : Be trained emus (“G.E.5.,"
8., 2/2/’l). Some years ago, when Richard
Stewart managed Mitchell Downs (W.Q.), that
intrepid driver had two emus, which he used to
drive tandem in a rickshaw, imported expressly
from Japan. They were perfectly trained arid
went splendidly. He also had a donkey and a
bullock trained to go in double-harness.
“ Holmwood ” : Be query (8., 2/2/T)
about water-finding per divining-rod. Water was
thus found in five places on Mr. Hay’s estate,
Boomanoomana, N.S.W., by Mr. H. Vivian
Clarke, of Melbourne.
THE TWO SECRETARIES (in chorus): “ What a nose!”
“ C.A..J.” : Be par. (2/2/’01) about trading
off blind horses. I was had myself once with an
apparently good seeing moke. Prior to my buy-
ing him the owner had ridden him hard across a
paddock, and then jumped a 4ft. fence with him.
This I saw myself, and, as lie was a decent-look-
ing beast otherwise, I bought him for £7. Took
him home and hitched him to a post outside my
gate. I had just got inside when the wind banged
the gate, which I had left open ; and hearing a
galloping noise, I ran out, and saw my new steed
careering down the road, until he belted fair into
a horse and dray. Then, when he made a bee-line
for a steep gully, I knew he must be blind, and I
closed my eyes and thought of my £7. But he
survived the fall, and the next time I saw him he
was leaning up against an old traction-engine that
no other horse in the district would go near.


CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents .-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
MDLLE. ANTONIA DOLORES (Trebelli).
Photo by Falk, Sydney,
“ T.G.F.” : Be A.C.H.’s cat-sagacity yarn
(B. 16/2/’01) knew an old hut-keeper on the Paroo
who told me that he had a cat once that was
afflicted with a most unquenchable thirst, and was
always helping herself to the water out of his
bucket. No matter how often he filled the vessel
the cat would empty it. This so enraged the old
man that at last he put the cat into a bag, with
half-a-dozen bricks, tied the neck of the bag
securely, dumped the lot into the creek, which
was about 10ft. deep, and went to work. On re-
turning to the hut he found the dear old cat
drinking from the bucket as usual. Then the old
chap filled a tub to the brim with water, plunged
puss in, put a cover over the tub and sat on it for
a couple of hours. But when he lifted the cover
he found the tub empty and puss fast asleep at
the bottom ! There is no water in the dams or
creeks thereabouts now. People say it is the
drought, but a demented old hut-keeper says he
knows better —its the cat.
* * * *
“ Via ” : Be jibbers (B. 19/3/’01). Have
never known following plan to fail: Soothe down
the near fore leg and take the hoof into youi lap
(blacksmith fashion), pound two or three times
with stick or stone on the hoof or frog, let it down
again and gee-up. Don’t lose your temper, or
you may get kicked.
* * * *
The people of Bowen (N.Q.) have
been lately much exercised over the Beck-
man-Anderson case. Beckman (often
called the Fisherman) was mates with An-
derson on a prospecting tour, and Ander-
son disappeared. After a while, Beck-
man, who seems to have been none too
strong in the head, showed up again and
told a rambling story of how Anderson
had been killed by a gun-accident as the
pair were going down a gully. Beckman
further wrote a wild, incoherent letter to
the papers explaining matters. I inally
the police took the matter up, and were
guided by Beckman, after many devia-
tions, to the spot where Anderson was
buried. The body was exhumed, and it
was discovered that the head had been-
severed from the body and broken into 16
pieces by some sharp instrument. No
sign of any gunshot wound. Beckman was
tried and found guilty. He presented a.
piteous and abject spectacle in court, and
gave a decided impression of semi-imbe-
cility to the spectators.
♦
A goat persisted in trespassing on
the garden adjoining Northam (W.A.)
post-office, until one of the clerks, after
officially drawing the goat’s attention to
the regulations dealing with trespassers,
decided to shoot the animal. In order
to proceed regularly, he brought a friend
to witness the dead, and the goat was duly
immolated. Two days later the I.M..vx.
wired for an explanation, to which he got
reply “ I shot the goat within the mean-
ing of the Act.” The clerk was at once
banished to Lake Way, one of the red-
hottest places you can get to.
. • • •
‘Jimmy S.” : He strong women.
TV-kon that old Newcastle, aboriginal identity,
Mao’trie now deceased, was, when in liquor,
about as strong as they make ’em. Maggie would
fifflit like a wild cat when being arrested, and three
CSZr 'oteXt"frßng to gM
cab two hauling on her arms, and the other
shoving up behind. She used some forcible
curses, most of her clothes dissolved partnership,
and the three traps had about the sti es jo ion
*» r k ? S”‘“i Kh liSg OnS
arriving at police-station. He teeth -lifting . U
knew an old beer-chewer, a few
wli", lor dnnlts, would lift a t-o.vy cahlc v. l
butls drawn sharply
past it and spat on to make a hissing sound.
Note recently received by a N.S.W.
country storekeeper:
]’lease send me 40lbs. starch, 251bs. candles,
two bags sugar, 10 tins saramon, 14 tins Bardeens.
P.S.—M.V wife had a baby last night also h df-
hunderd potatoes.
“Malle” r. one aspect of the N.S.W.
fruit industry :
Lately drove some miles through Rooty HilUSydneyj dis-
trict. The orchards are either out of cultivation oi rapidly
iroino- out. The huge fruit-preserving works, erected at
immense cost, and provided with up-to-date Ili achmerv,
have, under the blessings of Reids pohcy. shut down,
and are for sale. My companion—an old identity de-
scribed his experience thus: \ had J*®
bitten by the fever for fruit-growing ; the Sydney papers
said there was fortunes in it. I paid £5O for . the j£®. e f s ’ *
don’t know what it cost me to put them in. Toi four
years I paid a married couple £7O a year to look
'after the place ; the fifth year 1 got £l2 off the ground ,
out of one consignment of 40 cases I got
19 of the cases; the sixth year I got £l7, and then
I took an axe and chopped the blessed things out.
See that place there? The trees look .,^ lr ’
going back. The owner came there with a fe ' v . h "" dl .® d
‘quid’ and used to be a spruce land of chap , nowhe
looks shabbier every time 1 see him. At this place on
the right there’s only an old man and woman and the pig.
Got no youngsters ; they just manage to live by getting
hard-up coves travelling along the ™ a d to put in a eek
in the orchard for half-a-crown and tucker. TheyTf'Tf
pay wages ; they can’t." This is a fair sample of the old
man’s observations along miles of roacl. By allonea ,
young' man, vote for Freetrade, avoid the sweating manu-
facturer, and go on the land.
* * • *
“Tuna”: The men who are putting
steps down the Apsley Falls, near Walcha,
N.S.W., report an immense number of dead eels
MISS KATE ROONEY, who leaves for England
by the Omrak on Wednesday next.
Photo, by Falk, Sydney.
in holes at the bottom of the falls, bor le
greater part of the last year the falls have had
little or no water flowing over them,
The R.T.Y.C. schooner Ariadne—recently
at Sydney, and now wrecked at Waitaki, M.L. —
was the largest (300 tons register) sailing yacht
afloat, and possibly also the speediest —with an
adequately powerful breeze. She once made the
trip from Southampton to London in a week, and
on another run was credited (with a favouring
current) with an average of 18 knots. Mr. T. C.
Kerry, the owner, states that the £lO,OOO insur-
ance on the vessel does not half cover her value.
She was beautifully built, mainly of oak and
teak, and, barring accident, would have been a
good ship half-a-century hence.
“DO A GIT.”
(Off the Land.)
When putting in your residence, way back upon
and the Blues, of course,
The drought is at its height and for years there’s
been no rains, „
You often feel inclined to Do a git.
When the tanks have all gone empty and the
creek is ten months dry,
Your only moke for better lands has quit,
Forced to carry muddy water, tasting strong of
alkali, . „
It’s very nearly time to Bo a git.
When you have to tick up mutton that has been
a week in soak, ...
Not fat enough to keep your slush-lamp lit,
You can’t afford the papers and your only pipe is
broke, _ .. „
It’s very nearly time to Bo a git.
When “rent-day’s” drawing nearer, on your
O.P. and C.L., ...
And the mortgagees for interest want their bit,
You haven’t got a red cent and not a hoof to sell,
It’s very nearly time to “ Bo a git.
When the ants are in the sugar-bag and you re
running short of tea,
The flour is full of weevils, dirt and grit ,
Your dog has gone and left you, and you start to
yarn to trees, .. „
The best thing you can do is Bo a git.
SANDY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
A. Macrone : Better defer your judgment as to
De la Rey’s murders, for De la Rey has up to now at least
shown himself a brave man and not a brutal coward. It
will be well to remember the cable’s tardy admission :
“ The two British who were recently shot by General De
la Rey were named Boyd and M’Laughlin. They were
naturalised burghers." In fact, they had sworn off Great
Britain and had become citizens of the republic. That is,
they were no longer Britons.... Hector : Take, for instance,
the case of Surgeon H. G. A. Wright, of Sydney, who only
by the merest accident escaped entrapment by a band of
foul conspirators. And the shock of the accusation killed
Mr. Wright’s wife H.G.M. (Gawler) : Sugar production
is now about 30,000 tons. A good deal of black-labor
has lately drifted into the district, but for 20 years and
until quite recently it was a white-labor industry
Cumbo: Poor but honest poem E. P. Macrow :
To its credit, be it said, the Labor-party in
S.A. Leg. Council voted to a man against sending
troops to S’Africa... .E.L.A. : No doubt there are still
many cr3 r ing injustices to be remedied in Victorian fac-
tories. But the Govt, is gradually remedying them and
giving effect to the principle that a manufacturer is only
entitled to Protection while he treats his workers fairly..
K K : The dropping-about of dummy pawn-tickets by the
pawnees is not a new dodge. The person redeeming falls
in, the article pawned (generally jewellery) being never as
valuable as it 100k5... .Cambo : The story of the alleged
morganatic marriage was circumstantially told in London
Stab on the eve of the young couple’s wedding. Wales-
present King—then denied it, though it was never alleged
that he was there at the time of the supposed marriage,
and, if it even took place, he could have had no know-
ledge of it. Wales said it was a “ shame to try and ( Spoil
the happiness of two young and innocent people or
words precisely to that effect, implying that the bride had
been much upset by the story. The Star, however, did
not retract, but it should have been made to if its story
was untrue.... A Miner (Menzies) : Good letter, but
reached us too late for election purposes......
Chib : Yes, he will indeed be long-bill Lyne when the
public learns the total of money thrown away in Jingo
splash Ben S. : Before printing comments pnma-facie
libellous, we must have the news-clippings on which you
found your remarks... .Sem : Tell us why should any
civil servant, as a civil servant ever vote for Reid ? Didn t
Reid break faith in the most cruel way with scores of
civil servants by having them fired-out of Govt. e mploy
with a paltry “compensation” on which they couldn t
possibly live, just on the eve of their being legally en-
titled to the pensions to which they had justifiably looked
forward for many years ? It may be one of Barton s faults
that he would be incapable of assenting to such a thing....
H.M. : What! another “original” Tom Moore poem!
Thanks ; Qhee bit Anon (apparently from Bairns-
dale or thereabouts and hideously scrawled on newspaper
in colored pencil) : No time to decipher such M 5......
Terowan : Far too sweeping! Some married theatrical
couples lead almost idyllic lives. We could name you
half-a-dozen in Australia who are apparently as happy,
honest and devoted couples as could be found on the face
of the land. But, of course there are others—for the
average actor is light-headed to the point of silliness, and
wholesale admiration, jam, marmalade, spoils nearly
every man W.B. : “ Who was the more brutal, Deem-
ing or Butler?” Possibly Butler, who was, humanly
speaking, sane; whereas Deeming was subject to
epileptic fits and almost certainly suffered from a peculiar
form of sex-mania H. : Certainly, if accepted ; but
send only the best, and don’t waste words in the telling.
Stensor : The reason “ why so many good telegraph-
operators come to such sad and untimety deaths ” is that
high-pressure operating smashes a man’s nervous
system. And once a man’s nerve goes anything may
happen to him. “ All nervousness points Deathward.”....
Hall Boy : An Arbitration Court in Maoriland has so far
always managed to compel obedience. The Court will
not listen to employes unless they belong to a Union,
which has accumulated funds to be levied upon bv fines,
and from which you can, recover compensation and
damages if they refuse to abide by the decision. If you
close your factory—that is, look-out your workmen
rather'than obey a decision, they can go through your
books, and if they find that you were financially able to
pay the wages they awarded, punish you with fines and
imprisonment.. ..Hank Morgan: It would simply mean
substituting a Directorate for a President or Governor.
And in all probability one senior President and several
junior Presidents would be worse than a Governor-
General. The fact that they were elected by the people
direct would make them inclined to defy Parliament. At
present this paper can see nothing better than Hori
Grey’s idea of an elective figurehead and its own old idea
of jetting Parliament elect the Premier and Cabinet,
which would do a lot towards squelching Party
Government, if it didn’t abolish it altogether....
H.G. : Unknown heroes of theatrical divorces uninterest-
ing Must be ear-marked to give ’em snap... .Theo. B. :
The political shibboleth of “ Loyalty and Religion ” is the
plug of tobacco in the people’s rum-cask, and is ap-
plauded by Fat-Man because of its usefulness in hocussirig
the herd..'. .Old Sydney : A Kanaka, at the close of his
time, is not compelled to return to his home. He may, if
he choose, elect to stay in Queensland and re-engage, or
he may travel about the country visiting his friends. The
latter proceeding is very popular—so popular that
many Kanakas adopt it as a regular occupation,,
and so win the sobriquet of “ walkabouts.”... G.B. :
The fight’s finished. We’re out for frivolity now
fs.H.R. : Perhaps! Ethel Y. : Perchance!!......
Horatius Redivivus : Flaccus disowns you A.b. :
“Mvrtle” is faint ; perhaps double rhymes would
strengthen it. “ Bird Notes ” flat. Please do not contract
beautiful words like “memory” and “violet” to
“ metn’ry ” and “ vi’let.” M.B. : Black ink and brevity,
please... .Geo. P. : Why do you say the vessel was over-
loaded? Q. : Wragge, in his official capacity, is both
an enthusiastic scientist and a bombastic nuisance.
Better give him to a deaf-and dumb asylum for a Christ-
mas-box ...Nark: All we can say is that ohe baronet s
action is infinitely creditable and shows him to be a real
man Trotter : Who does not laugh at the credulity of
those who believe that the cheeky tramps in question are
walking (unchecked) so many thousand miles for wagers
of so many thousands of pounds—and that they have sold
in advance books of their travels for so many thousands
of pounds ! Bah ! Likewise Yah !... .0. Simms : Leaving
Norton out of the question, there were some N.S.W.
Senatorial candidates whose return would have been a
reflection on the State; the Prime Minister’s appeal
for clean men -only was a patrio.ic one and
for anyone to resent it publicly was foolish. ....
Conowa : May use.... Regular Reader ; Interesting shriek
.... Broad Arrow (Burnie): Received with many thanks.
D.11.R. : We don’t reply about pars; we’d need a
clear couple of pages to do it in. Sketch will be con-
sidered Hobbles: The Inspector-General of Police
would doubtless furnish you, upon application, with in-
formation required. As to influence—why, just the best
you can bring to bear! Mariquita : Wrote to you at
address given.. ..Medico : Thanks ; will refer to the
point Eileen 0. : Some imagination, but small literary
skill H. deG. : Too trifling Aurora: Rather flat
and feeble... .R.S.B. : Not enough story for a story, and
not enough brilliance for a sketch A.R. .( D J°
fragmentary and inconsecutive .E.J.W. . Shapelesa
kind of thing.... Hugh M. : Triolets very weak , Hove
very stiff Cassio : The “ living” is here ;if you don t
get it that is not the country’s fault .. .Bell Copper .No
fnn Ouiln : “Road” too faint a track.... L.E.. Dont
Breach ! p.L. : “ Matthew ” not up Doyle : Nothing
in it Ward S. :Of course Has. S. (Ball.): All three
stories have seen print...Scrutator : Your little satires ™
« York ” festivities painfully suggestive of Melb. PAUNCin.
Haresfoot: But Rodney doesn’t pretend to transform-
ing talent ” He gives three or four tuneful songs in
character, and the rest of his entertainment is composed
OF MUCH MORE IMPORTANCE.
MR. CASEY : “ Mornin'. Mrs. Doolan; see the
Duke's coming out in May.”
MRS. DOOLAN: “ Shure an ’ so is my husband!”
of genial and fairly versatile Rodney. ..A.G.T. : We by
no means agree with your criticism of ‘ The bnnne. ....
Crambo : Vile pencil-scrawl. We don’t read vile pencil-
scrawls —especially when sent by unknown correspon-
dents... .H.G. : “Who is Charles Robinson? Well,
than lie no present-day English book-illustrator is better
known .. F.C.J. : Better enquire at Bulletin s Melbourne
office... .Schist: Yes, it was very carelessly treated. We
are sorry... .A.M.A. : “Sophia” might suit one of the
thick weeklies... .H.R.Y.S.: Falls rather flat.... Ben S. .
Mav do something with “ Misunderstood. The other
two are your usual mixture of rather good verse with
painfully bad.... Lackland : The nautical one is the
better of the pair, but there’s hardly enough in it....
Victor : Don’t understand it. It was the Knight of
Lonsdale-st.” who had the job of mending her ladyship s
nose years ag0.... W.S. : Some fair patches in Haunted,
but as a whole unusable.... Watt E. : Wants better telling.
Kuoim: Anyhow, Parson Edgar was not “in every
way a big man ” when Speaker Bent bluffed him in Vic.
Assembly... .Gobo : Williamson and Musgrove didn tnnd
melodrama “ impossible ” at the Princess’s with a ss.
dress circle. What are you giving us? (2) Wrong again.
Caston, as it happened, was “ champion top-boot dancer.
But, anyway, that manager is not the only one who over-
advertises liis goods Old Jaclteroo : Not enough sub-
stance ..Echo: Scarcely reaches mediocrity Flax-
bush : Tyro-ish and clumsy, but has traces of power and
ends effectively... .C.T.C. : Seems to be something
in it, but you’ve got it too mixed-up for print
Vulcan : May “ travel ” on its gorgeous mendacity.
More Colliery Trouble.
A MINER COMPELLED TO LEAVE.
“ This is the true story of how I came to leave
the old Bulli colliery,” said Mr. Robert Spinks,
timber contractor and orchardist, Bulli, to a re-
porter who wished for some particulars of trouble,
hitherto unreported, for insertion in the columns
of the Australian Star. “ I had been a miner
there for years, had done my work well, and had
given no trouble to men or masters. But I
became Afflicted with sciatica. Hot, shooting
pains darted through my hip, I could not
sleep at night, and had to lay up until the
attack eased off. The disease often numbed my
left leg, and it pained me intensely to stretch
it. I also suffered so severely from indigestion,
sick headaches, biliousness, and heart palpitation
that I was obliged to leave the colliery. Subse-
quently I became a timber contractor and carter,
but this occupation caused the sciatica to spread
to my wrist joint and right knee; sometimes I
was unable to work for days. Four years ago I
read how beneficial Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People were in such cases, and I began taking
them. I soon improved, the pain grew less, and
I ate and slept better. By continuing their use
the sciatica, indigestion, and heart palpitation all
left me, and I can now work as vigorously at fell-
ing trees and carting timber as I could 20 years
ago. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills also cured my wife
of heart and kidney troubles.”
Coal miners and manual laborers are specially
liable to sciatica, which may be caused by ex-
posure, overwork, or nerve injury. Impoverished
and vitiated blood also assists in its development.
Therefore, to cure sciatica the nerves must be
toned up and the blood enriched. This is just
what Dr. Williams’ pink pills do. Thus, too,
they have cured not only sciatica, but such
nervous disorders St. Vitus’ dance, epilepsy,
hysterical fits, nervous exhaustion, paralysis,
locomotor ataxia, etq. ; whilst by enriching and
purifying the blood they cure anaemia, debility,
indigestion, skin diseases, consumption, colds,
etc. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free. “How to cure
Sciatica ; ” write for special information.*


Mr -Pike (defeated candidate, who is naturally rather irritable):
My dear I think this is-a little too much. I told you, I know, to
distribute those electioneering cards where they would
do the most good, but I eertainly
never intended you to construe
that to mean in my soup/*
Mrs. Pike : “ Oh, dear ! They
are all over the house; they
get into everything [ " '
I '
‘THEN HE TOOK UP THE BURDEN
OF LIFE AGAIN.”
Friend and Customer of Griggs Tilfc Grocer
(also late Senatorial candidate) : “ Then, do yon
attribute your defeat to your losing your voice 1”
Griggs (in a husky whisper) : “ N-n-o ; p’r’aps
if I’d-lost it early in-the campaign I’d ’ad a better
chance ! —two pounds, I think, you said. Shall I
send it, or will you take it with yod 1 '*
“ Look here I what waa
that you said in court last
week in an undertone that
made the barristers laugh!"
Bulletin Artist (after
about the lfi9th time) :
“ Well, you’ll find what I
said in the sth chapter of
Malachi, 2nd verse.”
<f%X
TX V
XXX^X-
f >n YC^0 —
xfxrX
ix \ —
/
y
S* J
M JMI
A correspondent to Melbourne Aos : i
“ Would it not be possible for his /
Majesty the Kong to speak a phonograph j
message to the people of the Common-
wealth ! The phonograph could be sealed
and placed in charge of his Royal High-
ness. As soon as Parliament is opened
the seal could be broken by the Duke of
York, and the message be heard in the
voice of its bearer’3 Royal father.” The
idea will probably receive consideration "
from the Victorian State Committee.
Here you have Geo. Reid as “ Princi-
pal Boy ” in the, forthcoming Opposition
Burlesque, to be played soon in Mel-
bourne. He certainly seems to have
Very little on.
Wkx,*:
'wtr'iv
An aboriginalnamed Tinker was
arrested at Collarendabri on Saturday
on a charge .of dual voting.
And yet it is claimed that our aborigi-
nes do not take readily to civilised ways.
CARTOONLETS.


GEELONG.
A shar!:, estimated to be 14 feet in length.
- cas observed in Corio Bay on Sunday lust.
K^sW K c\#r , r
bee 17 § Ye J ,
ij- i-h is 'true i '° s ‘
o>7e is *7 oW ,r 7
>\ll itfe ouk *.ljsT
»S roT l &r bjw'f
|jc rolled zp i^ejs-
MKr4<ss*A
/ • . x »<- r> ■-
/ <ft^>'V^'c'V
A sfei»-5S -' v 'o *
,- i '> /
V X
=. -' Vv v •'> •"' /
; s§ ~:;
I
s*Mß®(l^a«a§f
V%Hi I 1
§ Bi • / A , v
A s y ;l\
/fL r „ ~4o be tfe' D°oK s /.srt-
CU'*'"7*' 7 ( lr 7*' /o,ce _l_
fey?"]
i Soul
I?ue
|<mJ-fr W»7 VfdlfelenjaJ
d evoilo*7 ft
-fe IHF WUed JuKeryoA
(“ n iS's)
/v .4. ,«y
Ay<'° of 1 /
X^V
Speaking at the railway picnic at Ballarat .«n
Saturday, Mr. Trenwith enunciated a novel
principle with respect to the management of our
State railways. Since he lias attained to the
position of Minister of this department ho ha*
come to the conclusion that people who criticise
the administration aro quite without warrant
for their action
ĥ
f > rc ) *•'7,}
" We l‘^ e /£"~ K*r»? .Sir;;
A design for the Chinese Arch to be erected
at the corner of Swanston An \
to-morrow evening. Ine
-t.°n Committee to mor of arehitec
on the to P pTis proposed to place
aTduse, in which a band of Chinese per-
formers will discourse musical selections
rlave of the celebration.
Ho jlfrL SvdV^ce^oT
- v^j, ic\j \)c b* beW so
zJoouT T^’^t^«7oo.^liser'^^k
idite | >^j, €i's •'fiir *+ KdkS'f' 3
Oar "tfjlbKs (t'is •'/ei "tuye
lp flklii H reveal e<t
- f., 'f m
MELBOURNIANA.


•'
$-4 UNDER*
*°*do
Lever
mm
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new |-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s, 17 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders,
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
mu
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Baby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Broooh.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
ere
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
a. Saunders. «
Wedding Rings and Keepers <
Solid Gold, 6s od, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 16c Go
16s , extra heavy, 26s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : ext
heavy. 80». 36», 40e. Send lor canL
A. Saunders.
Registered 15c. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10s ;
3 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, similar
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, t'3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
OOOvj
-gr
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting- Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4. £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, liaised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Lon”- Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 16c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
if
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
erx>c
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
A. Saunders.
“ Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 25a. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
ħ
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, J Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Oharm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6s 6d. Very Neat.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or
phires, 10s (id and 12s 6d each ;
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each,
and Size of Diamonds.
Saph-
Larger
Price
h
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
-. 20s ; 15c. Gold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 ss;
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
g®
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Oharm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
Oharm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £4, £5,
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold King, 21s.
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s; 18c.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l6, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3: 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
. 30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby 01
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15e., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
LEADING
ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
VRail way Station/?
SYDNEY.


One of the text-books set for second-class
N.S.W teachers is not obtainable in Sydney and
inquirers are referred by authority to a firm which
expects early arrival of said book by English mail.
Complaints are numerous amongst intending
examinees and the fact that all are referred to the
same firm is much commented on.
Writes “ Veteran ” *
“A Mon Prae Scotland,” in taking up the cudgels (B.
17/3/01) for the Highlanders is both right and wrong ;
but not nearly so wrong as his opponent. It is not the
courage of the individual men in the ranks that deter-
mines the fighting value of regiments ; but the discipline,
training, and traditions of the regiments as fighting
machines. The winning of the V.C’s. by men of a cer-
tain regiment is no criterion of the regiment’s collective
fighting value. The colonel of a rifle-battalion in the
Crimea, when asked to recommend 16 or 20 men for the
V.C., said, “I cannot single out individuals. No officer
or man of the battalion ever failed to do all that could
he expected of him.” No soldier, as Gordon said, can do
more than his duty, and to single out one among many
for special recognition implies that all the rest have
failed to do their duty. Highlanders, Guards, Marines
are regarded as corps d’ Hite, and they try, as most men
with reputations do, to live up thereto. Also any com-
mander who knows his business can turn any set of
men into a corps d’ Hite.
Melb. R.C. authorities have bought 30
acres of land near Broadmeadows (Vie.), and.are
sending the hat round for a Foundling Hospital
to place thereon.
The House of Commons has borrowed one
practice from the Leg. Assembly of Victoria.
Formerly if a Commons member wanted to reserve
a seat * for himself he used to put his
hat on it early. Some members used to keep
hats at the House for the purpose. The Victorian
practice has always been to pin a card or ticket on
the seat reserved. A Vic. Parliamentarian
Duffy ?—suggested the ticket _ system to tne
Speaker of the Commons, and it is now an estab-
lished custom.
“H.V.D.” : A grimy little boy about six
was howling at a terrible rate the other day in
Pitt-street, Sydney. As I passed, a woman in
front of me stopped and asked him what was tne
matter. He was standing in the gutter and said
lie had dropped his penny down a grating. »ne
told him not to mind, and gave him another
penny. As I saw the same child, a. day or two
later, howling over a grating in King-street, I
have no doubt he found it a paying game. It is a
very old game, too.
jr.
/\>
1
Citizens of federated
Australia -—— ’!
Strengthen not
C°nstitotiorL !
Vi
1
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 ®ueen-st., MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
depilatory.
Tell your Tailor
that your clothes must be made with
“Belwarp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitations of this range of cloths,
in no & way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sir Titos Salt, Bart., Sons & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
“BELWARPS” can only be obtained from Messrs. LUCCOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford; _
and their Agents, Messrs. Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
of Australia
(LIMIT ED),
OA.PTO (Lalie Illawarra), “ear SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
till
PRODUCERS
OB’
fine silver.
h
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AMD
ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OP. .
SOFT LEAD.
„ ,_ rs of all classea of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PurC HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR GRES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eta., apply to P. S. Mobss!, Manage*, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
ħ
Before booking' your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
(Jazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne;
Hunter-st., Sydney.
h
G-O TO BCEXiJ,-
I NI) for Prelty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei?, I
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER, /'
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HA TS. HATS. hats,
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydne/,.
Have'always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARIVI——^
ĥ
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
Georgre-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Lands Dept, has on its hands
over 5£ million acres of country once held under
lease but now abandoned and yielding no revenue
whatever.
Melbourne unemployed recently passed
resolutions of confidence in the Hekald, of half-
ditto in the Age, and of no confidence at all in the
Arcus. Which sums up the situation to a nicety.
If Federation does naught else, it will
pare down ruthlessly the verbose O.H.M.S. wires
that have hitherto blocked the paid business in
the various States. Each dept, will now have to
pay for its own messages. In Q. alone the “ free”
business amounted to about £50,000 a year.
Hoyle, of the swollen head, by dividing
the Protectionist vote at South Sydney, thus de-
feating M‘Gowan and securing the seat for Free-
trader Edwards, who otherwise would have been
simply dog-licked, has earned for himself the un-
dying gratitude of the Protectionist party.
One thing is clear : the Commonwealth
must adopt the English ballot-paper, and enjoin
voters to affix crosses to the names of selected
candidates. To cross out 54 names (as in voting
for N.S.W. senators) with a blunt stub of blue
pencil is a waste of time, temper, and pencils.
In the N.S.W. Federal country-electorates
the producers were with the Protectionists all the
time ; the middlemen and their dependents in the
chief town of a constituency often decided the
contest in favor of Freetrade. As witness Goul-
burn, which beat Rose and practically elected
Conroy.
It is a great pity (from the Democratic
standpoint) that “Billy” Browne, leader of the
y. Labor Opposition, was not induced to run
either for the House of Representatives or for the
Senate. Browne is a shrewd, able man, respected
by the public at large, and very popular in the
ranks of his own party.
Barton’s note to Chamberlain on the New
Hebrides question is the first Commonwealth
LANDING OF CAPTAIN COOK.—TABLEAU UP-TO-DATE.
LONDON, 18th March —It is reported that the Duke of Cornwall and York is carrying with him on board the
Ophir presents to the value of £20,000 for distribution on his tour. His Royal Highness has also in his bosses-
sion, it is stated, a list of knighthoods, to be conferred on leading Federationists of Australia as [?]rewards for their
services in assisting to establish the Commonwealth.-CABLE.
“ They received the Englishmen in a civil manner, and in return some buttons and beads were
distributed among them.'”— COOK'S VOYAGES.
claim to a collective interest in all the islands of
the South Seas. The development of this claim
must be carefully watched by Australian Demo-
crats. It may be well directed or directed in a
s^sir&eXb 0 r mo, ‘ w “ 1 ! hll,e
i,.,- „ ~ , ,
Openly stated m English papers that
hardly any more recruits for S’Africa are coming
forward there, and that “ the colonies ” are
bemg looked to for the supply of men. Who are
the mercenaries, the Boers fighting for their own
country, or the Australians who are being paid
ss. a day to do the work that England’s own
people refuse to do?
Some time ago the Japanese vote at
Thursday Island was powerful enough to put in a
little brown man at the head of the hospital com-
mittee. A fortnight ago a certain local election
in a small northern town was carried by an en-
terprising candidate who, in place of advertising
and addressing the electors, simply went round
pool , collected Chinese proxies. Scooped the
A census of State and Sunday scholars
by the Vic. Govt, shows the bogus-
ness of the cry for the Bible in State schools. Of
children under seven, 73 per cent., and of those
®,° pe f. cen h regularly attend Sunday.
too And r as the °, dd 2 ,° per cent - probably live
too far away from a church of their own particular
denomination to go regularly, it is pretty evident
that the parsonical cry about “Godless education”
is mostly moonshine.
Several M.L. M.'sP. declare that they are
against federation, “because it will take away
our right of self-government.” These same
gentlemen a few months back, declared that they
were proud to belong to the first State Parliament
that passed the Colonial Securities Act, a measure
expressly giving the British Government most ex-
tensive powers to veto Maoriland legislation in
tne interests or supposed interests of- British
bond-holders.
The duel between Melb. Age and Akgus
in their appeals for particular candidates resulted
in favor of David Syme. Of the six successful
Senators, two (Simon Praser and Zeal) were
selected by both papers, and naturally polled well
Sargood was an Akgus selection. But three of
the Ages men were returned, while Dow its
other candidate, was seventh. The Akgus
triumph was the return of Knox, for Kooyong a
suburban constituency.
A clause was inserted in the Q. Amended
Sugar Works Guarantee Act, prohibiting any
coloured alien from working in a State Guarantee
sugar-mill. It now turns out that, owing to a
treaty previously arranged through the British
D° Vt - Wlth Japan, clause is invalid. How
p blip Govt, must have chuckled when they
allowed the Labor-party to insert it! The Q.
Centra] Mills, established by Govt, money in the
interest of small cane-farmers, are importing
coloured labor right and left.
The election resolved itself into another
fight between Sydney and Australia. Of thelsanti-
Bartonites returned in N.S.W. 11 come from the
county of Cumberland, while B. R. Wise’s defeat
in Canoblas was mainly due to the virulent spite
and opposition fostered in Sydney. Only three
other seats—Macquarie, "Robertson'; and Barrier—
were won in the country by Reidites, and the
last-named was merely a local affair, in which the
fact that Josiah Thomas has freetrade leanings
was pure bad luck for the Barton Govt.
Some of the Canoblas electors no doubt
still consider they did a smart thing in rejecting
Wise and electing Brown. But human nature
ever asserts itself, and you can’t now expect the
Barton lans, smarting under the defeat of their
nominee, the most ready-witted debater in all
Australasia, to be particularly enthusiastic about
the claims of Canoblas as a site for the Federal
capital. To say nothing about Bombala, Yass
will suit the Bartoniahs just as well as Canobla.s—
and it will suit the Melbourneites, Tasmanians
and S. Australians a good deal better
JtS*? two •**? N ' s -' v - c “" rt
wrestled with an ancient grievance of selectors,
and the squatter went down. When a selector
marks off the land that he wants and applies for
it, it is an old trick of some squatter to crowd
stock into the paddock of which the selection
forms part, and before' the selector can get his
lease recommended and gazetted the country’s
heart is broken ; and in that case the selector
often forfeits what he has paid and moves on.
The Full Court was asked to say that the selector
bad ?: tar ight to the land till he got his lease:
but lb ' v< ?- j } * udd tba ' fc SOOI)L as the land
was appnjM. for the squatter had no more right
than if it were 100 miles away,
. The result of the first Australian Federal
election should be long lease of life for the Barton
POLITICS IN KIDDUM-STREET.
THE RAT: 'Now then, Sparrow, crawl off. Lammel let’s ’ave a White
Govt. To have had any chancfe at all Reid must
have carried his own State from end to end, and
have entered the House of Representatives with
a thumping N.S.W. majority instead of a bare
four or so. With Holder provided for as
Speaker, there is no one from the smaller States
returned as an oppositionist capable of taking an
Australian portfolio. As a matter of fact most of
the low-tariffists are anything but Reidites. Reid,
Bruce Smith, M'Millan, and the rest of the
Sydney softgoods party can’t run an Australian
Ministry, even with the help of Brown
Edwards, M‘Lean, and Whelks—or is it Wilks ?’
The Victorian I ederal campaign has adver-
tised a flaw in the suffrage, and convinced the
electors that, under a perfectly democratic law,
the voter would be bound down to one constitu-
ency. Whilst a man has the choice of voting in
two constituencies, the one-man-one-vote principle
is often infringed. In the case of Melbourne
1 orts, for instance, the candidate was returned
without opposition, and scores of electors, having
practically elected one member, were left free to
carry their votes into the city, and do their best
to elect another. When a candidate is given a
walk-over, it must be assumed that every elector
in the constituency has voted for him, and to
permit any of them to vote again in another con-
stituency is to uphold dual voting plain and
simple.
Now that the Federal vote has been cast
and the people’s hands are tied for three years,
whispers of things to come are beginning to clothe
themselves in loud speech. Barton is counted
safe on the titles question, and the Duke’s visit is
looked-to to put handles to scores of names. In
his Federal address Barton said : “The time has
passed when the approval of the Sovereign and
the bestowal of a decoration were considered in
our democratic community as the mark of the
beast. ’ Hitherto Barton has kept himself apart
from pseudo-dignities ; but those words are taken
to be his recognition of the right of Australians
who nlay at politics to Imperial gewgaws. The
trouble is that to win Imperial favors Imperial
services must be rendered and an Imperial spirit
cultivated. This is where Australian interests go
to the wall.
In the whirlwind that is presently going
to knock the N.S.W. State Ministrv off its perch
Lands Minister Hassall may possibly have as bad
a time as tiie rest. Some remarkable things are
alleged regarding the administration of his depart-
ment. In one case (the facts were sworn to before
the Pastoral Lands Commission) an application
was made that land which had been “attached ”
to a pastoral lease should be made available for
selection, according to the conditions on which it
was “attached.” The Minister sent the matter to
the local Land Board for report; and, after hear-
ing the evidence of intending selectors, the board
recommended that the land should be thrown
open. The departmental officers also recom-
mended that course. That was nearly two years
ago, and the squatter still holds the country.
Meantime, the intending selectors, sick of waiting,
have gone elsewhere—some of them to Victoria.
Alex. Peacock, the democratic Victorian
Premier, and Bill Trenwith, the socialistic Chief
Secretary, must be feeling 1 awkward re the Govt,
celebrations committee for the reception of the
Yorks. How ever are they going to justify to
the people the squandering of £lOO,OOO on the
entertainment of a couple of Royal nonentities ?
Think of the gap in the finances at the end of
the year that £103,000 would have filled ! Also
think of the increases that could have been given
to the men in the lower-paid branches of the
civil service with that sum. Then if Alex.
Peacock and Bill Trenwith want to live up to the
grovel which they have let loose on the community
they will have to get into Windsor uniform. If
that is not enough to end their political careers then
the democratic spirit in Victoria is dead indeed.
Here you have a Democratic Government(in Wind-
sor uniform) spending thousands on tinsel and
flummery while the educational vote is cut to the
bare bone, and while the Schools of Mines and
technical educational institutions are rendered
useless for the want of an extra few hundred
pounds to buy apparatus.
When a Vic-
torian J.P.
gets fined for
being drunk or
for brawling in
a public place
(as several of
them have been
recently) the
Solicitor-Gen-
eral delicately
requests an ex-
planation, and
then courte-
ously suggests
that they re-
fra i n from
mounting the
bench for a
month or two,
until the aroma
of the beer and
the scandal has
somewhat eva-
porated, as it
were. But.
among the
State’s Old
Age Pension-
ers are a few
who were
J’s.P. in better
days, and who
still retain the
i n d i gn ity.
They have
been promptly
struck off the J.P. roll without any request for
an explanation whatever. A J.P. mav be drunk
it liL & gr , eat CO ? sfcerna tioii of Victorians
I s/ 1 Sh -° Wn that the Chow population of
that State is increasing by running high imnm
despite supposed effective restrictions. China-
increased mt °J be countl T ’done guarantee an
increase of something over 2000 since ’92 'mrl
swarms have leaked in from neighbouring States
The Chow population is increasing at a greater
ratio than the European, and a “White Aus
asln thfhmT fT K adly needed in Yarrafand
“, , n , le hitid of the banana. Premier Peacock
vS d has J »T akenS t 0 tL £, discovery that although
•; q 1L : s a law gainst Chow immigration across
opeSti d on S th i^ Pr ° V f° n ~ as "ever been put into.
Australia to stick’to lief color? ° M “* bte
thoSdoSa W? a ‘ he beSt thi "« »
Recent Sydney D.T. ad. :
““ Wh ° Weaw » oa P' meet
diffp l e ?'![ the census was taken on
j ® ®“j f days - Convicts were “mustered” ono
18415 that I'd 6 peo P]; e 011 another. It was not till
1840 that all were taken together on one day.
g° vt - P r Wter has had so much
work to do that he has been obliged to utilise con-
vict labor m Pentndge Stockade, where there is a
1 K rl +i tln m °? i<je l T aßains t which complaint is
made by the Trades Hall periodically. 1
Queen Victoria’s coffin weighed half-a-ton.
waa S Part i V account s for the horses jibbing. There
was nearly another contretemps in carrying
the coffin to the Chapel. Some of the Guards as
had r to S ru q sh te br ° ke d ° Wn basically, and others
Dear Bulletin : In a recent article, W M
es, Sydney M.P., is reported to have said
that after so much training, etc., the local volun-
Sw” h °n d u‘ a l a: * a fair soldier and respectable
I°}' , Y an . t Australia breed a respectable soldier
and a fair shot ?— Coronella.
The Cremation Society of N.S W made
a start recently with a meeting at its rooms, 82
King-street, Sydney. The stated “Object of the
Society is to substitute for inhumation some
method of corpse-disposal “which shall rapidly
resolve the body into its component elements in a
manner which cannot offend the living, and shall
render the remains absolutely innocuous—crema-
tion being at present the best available means to
such end. Any information on the subject can
be obtained from the secretary, Mr. A. H. New-
man, at the above-mentioned address.
Remarks from a Barrier miner serving
Teuth C (l5/3/’1 ®™ bant s Horse > printed in Barrier
We are supposed to get five biscuits, a pound of meat,
af Bu B' ar » and a quarter oz. of tea as a day's supply.
For 18 days we had only three biscuits a day 7, and no tea
or sugar. My Christmas dinner was one biscuit, some
maize I ground up myself, and four hours’ fighting VVe
are on the move sometimes 18 hours a day. We are
v, r th „ ree , months I have not slept under
cover, and I have been wet for days at a time. The man
who comes here soldiering is a fool. As for work,
m? e „ re n ° ne ’ and . Wlll he none for another 12 months.
The poverty here is really appalling. You can buy a
woman for a tin of jam, and .many good women have
Thl r l U m^ Se their virtue to feed their children,
these are Dutch women whose husbands are in Ceylon or
prisoners elsewhere. J
This surely can t be the kind of thing extolled by
bhiny-billy Inglis in his verses recited at N.S.W.
.Highland SociGty , s concert, telling how
Our brave Bushmen once again the flag unfurled,
And splendidly, beneath the sultry Afric sun,
Compelled the admiration of a wondering world
Honor our brave—returning battle-worn—
Our annals to remotest times shall tell
POW |)orne ” hail of death” our victor flag was
And how Australia’s choicest spirits fought and fell.
I ought and fell to make “ the world wonder ”
among other tilings, at the spectacle of women
selling themselves to buy their children bread !


VITADATIO.
HOW IT WAS DISCOVERED.
It is frequently a matter of wonder upon the part
of the public how particular remedies, classified
generally under the title of Patent Medicines,
have been discovered. It is well known that this
has more often been effected by chance than by
the more patient analysation of the properties of
herbs. And let not the reader of this article sneer
at the use of the word “Chance.” It would be
extremely difficult to say how far this same
“ chance ” has been instrumental in the discovery
of much that goes on in the scientific world,
despite the dictum of the Philosopher that what
is discovered by chance is seldom of any value.
Chance, we are told, led to the discovery of the
Rontgen Rays in Photography, and it certainly
led to the no less important discovery of Vita-
datio. Under what circumstances this actually
took place in the first instance is, and will ever
remain, a mystery, but the events which led up
to its wonderful properties becoming known and
being presented to the public are too fresh in the
memories of its proprietors to be speedily for-
gotten. A certain gentleman in Launceston,
Tasmania, found himself one day under an
obligation to a gentlem .n of that town, and
offered to place him in possession of a secret
which he had long held. This secret, he declared,
had enabled him for many years to cure his friends
and acquaintances of long-standing diseases, and
had kept him also in the best of health up to what
was a ripe old age. Eventually the secret of a
peculiar blend of certain herbs was revealed, and
the medicine put to a severe practical test, which
test, it may be stated, resulted in the most extra-
ordinary success.
From being the secret fad of this amiable old
enthusiast Vitadatio gradually spread to becoming
the popular remedy of a large number of people
in Tasmania, until, at length, the demand becom-
ing so great, business negotiations had to be en-
tered upon for an enormous supply to satisfy the
wants of its ever increasing number of friends.
From Tasmania it spread to New Zealand, where
it quickly became in such great demand that a
central depot for its distribution had to be estab-
lished. Its history in Australia is almost too new
to need recapitulation here. From a modest start
about three years ago it quickly caught the public
taste, disease after disease was conquered by its
peculiar properties, and it was evident from but
six months working that Yitadatio had come to
stay. The public are doubtless well accustomed
to hearing of cures being performed by some
patent medicine after the medical faculty has de-
spaired of success. But these cures appear chiefly
in the advertisement columns of the daily news-
papers, and will but seldom bear the investi-
gation which a little publicity and enquiry makes.
Vitadatio, however, has this advantage in its
financial and commercial arrangements, that almost
everyone connected with it, from its energetic
Australasian Distributor at its head down through
all the depannents to the lowest office, all are able
to testify what this wonderful medicine has done
for them.- Mr. Palmer, who is the Sole Distributor
for Australasia, will show incontestible proof that
he has been cured by Vitadatio, and by nothing
else from this scourge: known as Hydatids, and
this after his case had been given up by all the
medical men whom lie consulted, and after under-
going a painful operation which was quite ineffec-
tual, Yet after a course of this medicine not only
was he completely cured but he was accepted by a
leading Life Insurance Company as a first-class
life at their ordinai'y rates. A similar story can
be told by others now employed by Mr. Palmer at
his many branch establishments for the distribu-
tion of this medicine, so that it is quite easy for
the public to satisfy themselves that all the cures
claimed can be substantiated. One peculiarity of
Vitadatio is to be found in the fact that the
various herbs of which it is composed of grow in
Tasmania only , as far as is yet known, and are
indeed peculiar to that healthy little island. It is
perhaps in this fact that the reason may be found
why Vitadatio has not been discovered before in
this very old planet of ours, where, it is stated,
there is nothing new under the sun. Tasmania
is about as old as Sydney, that is, about 100 years,
since our settlers have occupied it, so that it is not
surprising that this remedy has only within the
past few years been discovered, An advantage
to our colonial population in purchasing this
medicine lies in the fact that the manufacture and
distribution of Vitadatio employs many hundreds
of people in all parts of the colonies, and that the
money spent by the public does not have to be sent
to other places, but stays here. This, of course, is
but a minor point in comparison with the far
more important fact that, no matter what your
disease may be, Vitadatio has proved itself to be
worth a trial. This is the main fact which
justifies the confidence all people feel who have
once given it a trial, and far outweighs any other
argument which may be used in its behalf.
For further particulars,
S. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Missing Friends.
CHARLES QLENN, of Longford, Tasmania —Any-
one knowing whereabouts communicate LWi.au «
DOWNING, Moir’s Buildings, Perth, W.A. Last heard
Mt. Lyell. .
JAMES GALWAY,
SON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was bom while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
EORGE NICHOLSON~(NuIgen), last heard of at
Ballina, New South Wales, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with Messrs. Thomas
Russkll and Frederick Way, of Ballina (the Executors
of the Will of James Nicholson, deceased), or Messrs.
OHENHALL & EDDIE, of 60 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney,
Solicitors. ’
Legal Notices.
OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
Petition has been presented under “ The
Presumption of Life Limitation (Scotland) Act,
1891 ” to the LORDS of COUNCIL and
SESSION in SCOTLAND (First Division—Lord
Stormonth-Darling, Ordinary ; Mr. M'Caul,
Clerk) at the instance of Mrs. HELEN SPEIRS
or HOOD, residing at Devonport Place, Millport,
widow of Archibald Mason Hood, Butcher, Glas-
gow ; Mrs. MARGARET SPEIRS or REID,
residing at No. 96 Clyde Road, West Didsbury,
Manchester, widow of John Reid, Millstone,
Builder, Glasgow ; and ALLAN SPEIRS, Baker,
Millport ; setting forth that their brother,
ANDREW SPEIRS, Junior, son of the deceased
Andrew Speirs, sometime Baker, afterwards re-
siding in Millport, and of Mrs. Helen Gibb or
Speirs, his wife, was born in Millport on 10th
January, 1849 ; that after he grew up he was in a
situation in Glasgow ; that subsequently —about
1874 —he went to London, but almost immediately
proceeded to Christchurch, Canterbury, New
Zealand, or the neighbourhood thereof, but did
not remain there as he was employed after-
wards in a store in Apia, Samoa, and there-
after had employment in the Caroline Islands,
and latterly in Melbourne, where he was in
1890 ; and that some months thereafter he
was last heard of by letter from Sydney or
Melbourne saying he was there. In these cir-
cumstances the said Petitioners ask Decree that
the said ANDREW SPEIRS, Junior, has dis-
appeared and that it should be found that in or
about December, 1890, was the date on which he
was last known to be alive, and to find that he
died in or about December, 1897, or if not, to find
that the said ANDREW SPIERS, Junior, must
be presumed to have died exactly seven years
after the date on which he was last known to be
alive, and to find therefore that the said
ANDREW SPEIRS, Junior, must be presumed
to have died in the year 1897. In the said
Petition the following Interlocutor has been pro-
nounced : —lsth February, 1901.—Lord Stor-
mouth-Darling—Act A.S.D. Thomson. The Lord
Ordinary appoints the Petition to be intimated,
advertised and served as craved, and allows all
parties interested to lodge answers, if so advised,
within three months after such intimation, ad-
vertisement and service.
(Signed) MOIR T. STORMONTH-DARLING.
Of all which intimation if hereby given.
MACRAE, FLETT & RENNIE, W.S.
Petitioners’ Agents.
57 Castle Street, Edinburgh,
15th February, 1901.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
milE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Medical
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
MILES AHEAD OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative i ypowritei a . >
BhE&§s
,
£
The Dost .
, Qensmore
.. [|euj (Jentury
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Ton
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue— Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARCEST DEALERS IN AUBTRAUA)
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
THE SMARTEST MAH
OH EARTH^
Can’t keep count of every detail in a business which
has a dozen, six, or even three assistants, but the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTER
h
Will do it for him, and do it
thoroughly, Keeping Record
every hour, Year in, Year out,
never getting sick of
“DOING A LOAF”
It earns its own Cost in
less than a year 9 and after
that still goes on saving
for you.
National CaSb Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
ĥ
OCEANIC
ħ
h
TYRES
• CHEAP
AND
DURABLE
The
Second
Best
TYRES ON THE Market are
Oceanic Tyres
They will be found to give far
better wear than any other
Cheap Grade Tyres.
If You Want
The Best
Buy.
Dun iqp Tyres
OF COURSE THEY COST A LITTLE MORE, BUT
Tbgy are far tbg Cheapest ip tl>€ Lopg ROp.
FROM ALL CYCLE AGENTS.^
•• • •
The Qunlop pnuematic Tyre (Jo. of ]|us. [td.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
Jit?
4J*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
3KT.S,A7V.
Iflont deplete p.sl.E°*»Gtl
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4,
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
GvVVA) " ‘
3* Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
STABUSHED 1879.
Manager.
THE—.•
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
„ FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—pciuitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Don. W. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NCW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GlilOllGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Baymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
|)eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
file gank of ||ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director- JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, April 6,12N00n.
Peregrine, Sat., Aprii 13, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buniii3'ong, Tues., April 16, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
- i ’■ Vi
Buniriyong, Tues., April 16, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, April 6, 12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tuesday, April 9, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 13,12N00n.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, April 6,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 13, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter*
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Tb<r TrGst€€S, Cxc^OtorS,
AND
BgSOCy Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£160,000 0
£90,000
£150,000
0 0
0 0
£8312 0 0
0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED..
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trustsj
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ... £6,326,343
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-st.reet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£2,600,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. .Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, 11.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances °n aii cWs of
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks °“ Wool Merchandise Hulls
—————— of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Row.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of 'London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : h. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
i J bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr, ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Call inn at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to Sail First Week in May.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
lor rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
3XT. ID. X-..
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO HONGKONG, via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
The fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 tons,
Captain Gosewisch,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL 24th NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
V’K'l
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
h
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “ crow’s feet ” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts op the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHd MERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
V'V
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DON'T POISON*
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide, Thursday,
April 4.
S.S. Marloo, Thursday,
April 4.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
April 12.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
cnangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
and ROOKIIAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norman ton.
tvnw™’ NEW caIe DONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er A ceotnmodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelmde S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
»UDJ e ct to Miditions to be ascertained on application.
, Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, lit Bridge-
at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports. '
. With Permission to call at Brindisi.
'‘Calling at Hobart.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7llosto£l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
... to jjomuay, AHUlct, unilia.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker g go’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares_and. Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
(Tns i Commander.
EASTERN
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
.. . 3600 Winthrop Ellis ... April
...|25OOSt. John George May
.. .3000 P. T. Helms ... May
Leave Sydney
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator. . .
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S S. CO LD
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID‘|luiraith, & go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KZALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
OOOIILO-AIRiIDIIE!, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M'ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle,
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EF
ĥ
for the blood, skin,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury'.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, “ ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAmEE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope ■
of the Alfaline
Remedies. j
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
r*
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK
“ ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
conttii mosfvaluablt ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
PLAINTS, and a large
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeih
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable
to Hans Rassmussen.
APVICC FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent tree.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidnev Affections ; 425. and 6as. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thia
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tima
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
peter RASSMUSSEN,
Herr Hans
HEAD
OFFICE
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 309 Queen-street (near Creeh-street).
MELBOURNE : 150 Boarhe-street (opp. Eastern Markets >
ADELAIDE: 151 Bundle-street (neat' York Hotel),
~N~Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lamhton Quay.
KEIiTH: 4:81 Hay-street.
~KALGOOKLIE: Hannan-street (next Lintlell’s),
BOULDEIi CITY : Piesse-street.
EKEMA JSTLE : Henry-street.
According to the just-issued N.S.W.
census-papers : “A Chinese is to be set down as
never married, unless lie has or has had a wne in
Australasia.”
He was a IHaorilander, a down-souther,
and all the energy of the Plutonic Isles, in his
case, had gone to thirst. He had, with Maori
foresight, invested his remaining cash m board
and lodging. Dodging the George-street tram on
his way home one day after a drouthy search for
“ a chance next week ” in the wool stores, his
thirst surprised even himself, and his tongue hung
down on his waistcoat and served for a watch-
pendant. Suddenly a man in a heavy suit of
Roslyn tweed crawled out from between two
trams and addressed him in a familiar tongue:
“Hae mon, d’ye ken the whurraboots o the
place th’ call th’ Marble Bar ; aam gae anxious to
see yon ! ” Dropping back into the lingo of his
own youth the dry one responded; “Dee 1 ken
it! Dinna fash yersel’, but just gang after me.
And he led to the Marble Bar at top speed. All
the way delightful visions of long, deep quarts
floated on in front through the haze, and disap-
peared round the corners till they vanished into
the haven of wet. They entered the Marble Bar.
The cool, placid .shimmer of its walls was like the
sound of a grand amen, and filled his soul with
peace, and while the stranger gazed round, and
touched the walls with* his finger, and gasped at
the, goddesses and nymphs, the thirsty one stood
drinking his long quart over and over again m the
great stomach of his mind. At last the stranger
cast round one sweeping look, and remarked in a,
whisper, “Mon, whusky is a verra wonderful
thing ! ” The dry man agreed with him, and tired
of anticipation and hankering for realisation, he
edged towards the bar. Again the stranger looked
round, and exclaimed: “Eh, but laddie, its a
rael monument, dunno ye think; ’aam rael prood
tae hae sin sic o’ place afore ah dee. We 11 just
gang the noo’ an’ see if thar’s ony ither remairk-
able public-hooses like this that ye ken ! Anri
he drifted out into the sweltering street and lett
his helpless compatriot so utter a wreck that he
tottered feebly into the lavatory and drank from
the tap.
HAVE YOU
AMDLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed ‘to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL.. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&C. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd, per box. Prepared by
ALBERT. 73, Parripgdon-street, London, England.
Agents s ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ħ
FRINGES,
Natural Curl;, from 8 (6 far*.
PLAITS and TAILS,
iCin. lone, 6/0. all real hats.
CUTTINGS A C011U1H&3
. worked up, 5/6 per oz.
Wo aro the eheapeStlo 6s»
Walla for all Hair Worts.
Soad Color of HaU.^
w. Hawaii,
110 Whaiau Street,
corner of Pal mer-»tre«t,
_ SYDNEY.
Co bio Tram trill stop at Dnat
Seed stamps (or full Price LtsV
nw jt ottention’given to Country Os4n%
h
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
iM XIYE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
a COMMON SENSE EAli DIiUM.”
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
I benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
pnn
DEAF
I MEM I
Moub. GrouraudL’S
FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT BUT SURE REMEDY. Universally used
by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies —wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution. —G enuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
ĥ
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ħ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin A /
Nasal Ointment, only ■”/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. E ng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Oyer
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
dse Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. 1 Jd. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
'T'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
SUB
DEAF
OTiJ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
f how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING yourselves.
ddress.— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


STILL UNBEATEN.
G. Sutherland, the New Zealand champion, on
m
the UNAPPROACHED RECORD of havings NEVER RFFN - 'RT?A r FT?\T •
DURING THE WHOLE SEASON. gr Adelaide Wheel/} BEATEN m a Scratch Race
It is the speed of the easy-running MASSEY that tells when?' thelast-lap-belfrfngs EY '
DEPOT ; 385 GEORGE STBFft
Striking a Gold Mine.
Mrs. Harrison Got on to Good Property.
—Struck it Rich and Unexpectedly.
Creates a Sensation.
The surprise of a man who sinks a hole to make
a well and strikes a gold mine is no doubt a
pleasant one. Such a surprise was held in
store for Mrs. Harrison, Alexandria-terrace,
Victoria Parade, Fitzroy (Vic.) They say that
truth is found at the bottom of a well. In that
case, Mrs. Harrison went down a well, for she
undoubtedly grappled with the truth, and fortun-
ately for herself, struck something better than a
gold mine. What she gained was health. She
writes “ About six weeks ago I first tried Dr.
Morse s Indian Root Pills. I must state that I
found them a most superior medicine. My
complaint was _ peculiar to women, languor,
debility, and bilious attacks, which combined to
make my days perfectly wretched. Indeed, there
were spells when I used to wonder in the morning
how I could manage to set about my household
duties; but they had to be done, and I would
e through the day when I should have been
in bed. You can imagine by all this how agree-
ably surprised I was to get such a valuable
medicine, especially after the failure of so many
others. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
made me vigorous and well. I noticed the change
from the first dose. I have since recommended
them to many of my friends, and they have
given perfect satisfaction in every case.” Dr.
Morse s Indian Root Pills positively cure Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Head-
aches, Liver and Kidney Complaints. Piles,
Pimples and Blotches. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers price Is. lfd. per bottle, or six
bottles os. od., or same will be mailed, post paid,
HE 01 ! receipt °f price. Sole proprietors, The
W H Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot),
5 8 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
A MIL-: in lmin. 34 l-ssecs.
31 MII.ES 1390 YARDS in 60min.
These are the new Austra-
lasian Records captured
by \V. Martin's
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Two Australs, the A.N.A., the 5 Miles Australasian Championship, and all Records from 9
Could a bicycle secure these if it was not a highest grade Bicycle ? OUR TERMS ARE .EASY UP '
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydnev
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents :
J . Barre J ohnston & Co.
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Gozo—Cerise and Blue 4-year old gelding
caifon SaturiLv*!^v,* 0 1 annexed “ ’Oxbro’ ’Mlandh
castle , ' V t ; K 7 eas,ly - This - with a "'in at New-
account oflhe dayS > bef ° re ’ must ha '' e swelled the bank-
account of the nag s new owners. Lygon was bred and
but n Droved >00l i Ua d 6 - r ° xe, . lham U P t 6 a few weeks since,
to ! d ? a disappointment- though often looking
ani Water cl ?ance—t h at £'loo bought him. Laur'a
and Water-Color, similarly owned, did better after their
Rn d nd ha '‘ Parted with them. Syerla, at present in
fhereunder h^ on < &nd unsuccessfully ran
has chanted 0 y Colo 7 s f ? r a lon z time. Now that he
owners, it is quite up to the big
Ifyers luck in this respect that his cast-off
should shortly win one of the ’Ome plums.
* * * *
r “ 01d Timer”: “Tommy” Kelly, owner of
bff°h’nTh ICh r n ,, Hawkesb ury Handicap on Saturday,
is a brother of old-time Sydney bruiser Charley Kelly
flourished ir!”a b< V Bt ?? °F, ™ ore - vears When sculling
flourished in Australia “ Tommy *’ Kelly figured promi-
nently as backer and trainer, and among others prepared
Beach and Ned Trickett in their best days. He was also
f °. re 1,1 all hig fifrhts of years back, and invariably
much h- ger J 80u * ht after b .V both sides when
much money hinged upon the result of a match.
lmy w v a , s Ee ter Jackson’s chief second on the night
the famous black beat Tom Lees for the Australian
championship 15 or 16 vears ago
* * * *
JJhfTxn ‘i pape F ” certainty existed, Wakeful,
for the A. J.C. Doncaster, looks one. The Trenton mare
has such a big pull in the weights that ’tis positively
asserted, with conditions fair, she has only to be herseif
F° P l «n U|) A a nevv n l lle re 9 ord - Same owner has the Wal-
lace fi ly Aurous also going, and is standing by her in the
Sagacitv tfmdhhappening to go wrong with Wakeful.
nnrH^n^Vi f u th humor > might upset the “ moral.” A
Fprrvmfln y dan ? erous ° ne - as here stated last week, is
h ° Slnce got away with Hawkesbury Claren-
Sfi" a d fnda" f man " er that brought him down from
fit m B i® f ? r to i d . ay s bl ff mile - Sequence is very
fit, and would look a fair show with Wakeful out of the
t u° U^ h heh . as to hump 9.4—131 b. more than
if th 6 « r ’ Yf len ,’ appearing all over a winnerat the opening
of the final furlong, Parapet pipped him on the post.
* * * *
Wakeful’s presence in Doncaster and Sydney
Cup is responsible for a record in double-event betting on
these races Twenties have been freely taken “the two
w»t! US ’ u'wVY! of ib t° r the stable. Aurous and
Wakeful, and Wakeful and Clean Sweep, San Fran, and
hen^?h b il ? ii R Ve i re Toently been coupled for big sums,
w hho °.° Ikejr getting a “skinner” looks
anything but assuring.
* * * *
Wakeful’s Cup chance strikes one as particu-
larly good, especially as victory in the Doncaster would
"Ymcrease her load beyond 7.10—a handy burden for a
well-seasoned 4yr.-old who is a great stayer. Victory in
the big mile event will cramp her price for the two-mile
race very considerably.
* * * fi
S ; A> f na ?, Gimga Din is being pecked at by cute
punters for Sydney Cup. Twice recently attempts were
“2F®. to f 1 secure a fair sum about him, but Mo wasn’t
sufficiently liberal—would give nothing better than 100’s
acc ° f E - Brewer bringing him over says much
n °, r oga Din s capabilities, and indicates that it is con-
fidently anticipated he will at least pay ex’s. As a 3yr -
old Gunga Dm finished second to Paul Pry in S.A. Birth-
day Cup (Dm.), and in Alderman Cup (ljm.) was beaten
half-a-length by La Carabine. He hasn’t done anything
worth mentioning since, but Caulfield touts are very
sweet on him. J
• * >
a F?-. 08 ? 6 * 0 * 3 -N"-®-W. nags in w.f.a. events at
A.J.U. Autumn meet seem none too bright, but there’s
a possibility of Severity, Sequence, Tom Morris, Grass-
pan, Ibex, or Dandy scoring. This lot are in the All-aged
Stakes. Supremacy over all distances looks like resting
with Scobie s contingent. Victoria’s chance of scooping
the pool never appeared so rosy as on the present
occasion. *
* * * *
Khaki much fancied and tipped for coming
Sydney Cup—went out a red hot favorite for Hawkesbury
Handicap on Saturday, but was in trouble a quarter-mile
from home and finished fifth. Same nag gave his followers
a similar set-back at Rosehill a week before. Though
-Khaki will have 131 b. less in the Cup than in the Hawkes-
burv, he II need to travel faster and stay better than
public form indicates him capable of doing to have a
show in the big 2-mile event.
* * * *
Reckoned that about £70,000 would have been
notched bvM.L. punters had Advance won at Fleming-
ton. One backer who had snakes in his boots for three
weeks afterwards has been as.vlumed, and a hot female
punter was obliged to flit to Sydney.
• * * *
The new M.L. owner of Melb. Cup-winner
Merriwee (Mr. E. J. Watt) is dabbling in the great horse
sport in no uncertain fashion. Rolling in wealth, he
can indulge his ardent, youthful passion to the top of
his bent. He fell into a common error lately, however
by asking stewards to hold an enquiry as to w'hv Nobility
should be given 8.2 in Wanganui Cup. Officials refused,
and next day Nobility smothered his field.
* * ~ *
A relic of the departed grandeur of Murrum-
bidgee T.C. The gold cup won by Lord Burleigh in ’80;
inscribed with T. Ivory’s name, is for sale as old gold at a
Market-street (Sydney) jeweller’s. The cup was valued
£lOO on the race-bills.
• * * «
You may as well talk about the abolition of
rain, by doing away with gutters, as of the abolition of
gambling by doing away with races.”—Rosebery.
.** * *
The naming of Fast Lady, winner of Kyneton
(\ic.) Cup, was an inspiration. The mare is by Veloci-
pede from Not Much.
* • * •
Apropos turf nomenclature. Someone has found
that there are fully 20 instances of four Australian na-s
owning the same name, and 30 more where three have
been similarly dubbed. Eleven strut under the appella-
tion of Jack, eight Starlight, seven Federation, seven
Larrikin, seven Ruby, six Doreen, six Daisy, six Lady-
smith, five Shamrock, five Mermaid, five Planet, five
Trilby, five Victory, five Vanity, five Chester, five Glen-
coe, and five Lyddite.
» « * *
Somewhere or other in this hemisphere t’other
day, a well-known co.’s secretary and accountant was
found, on audit, to be badly “ out ” in his cash balance.
He had used practically the whole of the shortage in
betting with bookmakers. The man (married) had no
money or property, and made no attempt to clear out or
conceal his deficiencies. He just waited till the fusty
auditor tripped over a deficit of about £lOOO.
The only offer the sorrowful embezzler could make his
astounded directors was quite seriously a £lOOO
double,” which, if it came-off, would cancel the short-
age. The first part of said “double” did come off but
as khe second event went ver3 r wide, the position is as it
was. The man still gnes about as perky as ever, however
expecting sympathy for his bad luck.
* * * •
Not for many years has N.S.W. public dis-
played such little interest in cricket as during the season
just closed. Evidence that the popularity of the game is
S . a , bu t nd ? nfc : most convincing is the fact
r«ir.h f'r'Ti.- GrlCket Association’s bank credit doesn’t
towhich AW B r as v° nl ': to be expected after the manner
during h 1 has been surfeited with bat and ball
crickef ff e -W y . ea l S ' The c l ualit >' of Australian
oT pTSLh? 1 efc * norated one whit > though the absence
d r. e - emS !.° much affect the keenness of some
wifww j 18 ar *ticipated that enthusiasm will revive
hishia m- nt * f nex ! year ’ s En lf lish team, but writer
l,; 8 bls , d^ ubts ; for . given that cricket may be taken in
. oses > *t ca n he overdone just as was sculling,
cycling, and as looks likely with boxing.
?A roui )d of Sydney senior-grade cricket eom-
oa ® at l u s day supplied one sensational result.
t i Ch ! C lu oo a^alnst Redfern, and in the early
fhtff 9 a^ er lostthree wickets for five runs, but the next
fcrihnf-pH^nQ 0 / 1 f 2 7», hich Poidevin brilliantly con-
-09 b^t d 2 S?J not °, ut )- Redfern won by four wickets and
Hi o Thl f ranks as about the best thing yet done by
one Sydney club against another. y
* • * •
East Adelaide (Clem Hill’s club) is now prac-
tically sure of Adelaide cricket premiership for the third
year in succession. Clem is himself responsible for most
average of over 100 > ftnd more
tnan /00 on the sheet for the season.
• • * *
Ranji s definition of a throw is: “ You use the
elbow as well as the shoulder and the wrist in propelling
the ball whereas you could only use the shoulder and
the wrist in bowling proper.”
* » » •
T other day in Adelaide Yankee wheelman
Martin clipped all Australian bests from sm. to the hour.
He got over 31m. 1425 yd. inside 60min. Previously none
had reached 30 miles. Before this Britisher Relph owned
the hour record (29m. 450 yd.), done on Sydney Cricket
Ground. The world’s speediest exceeds 40m., and belongs
to Stinson. Fact that Martin had motor-pacing, while
those who preceded him could get nothing better than
multicycles, was much in his favor. The Murkan’a figures
for sm. are 8.57 1-5, and for 10m., 17.59 J. Former is
11 l-ssec. and latter 44 4-ssec. less than those knocked
out.
* * • .
Saturday, at Adelaide Cycling Carnival, Martin
further showed his present wonderful form by cutting 1
4sec. off lvalue's Australasian mile record (lmin. 30 l-ssec.),
and brilliantly appropriating the final of Australasian
five-mile supremacy from F. O. Beauchamp and J. M.
Chapman.
* * * *
Up to date Yankee riders have won two of the
three Australasian cycling premierships decided. Lawson
got the mile and Martin the 5 miles. The 10 miles is the
only one uncontested, and this looks a fair thing for
Hugger Bill, who has won upwards of £lOOO prize money,
and knocked out all previous principal Australasian re-
cords. So much spoil never before came to one rider in
this section during a single season.
* * * *
Re par. herein 13/3/’01: N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen got a nasty knock from the M.L. body, over
Mother-State representation in amateur events of coming
M. L. Championship meeting. League entries were re-
fused and N.S.W. s Union’s accepted. So Kershaw and
Turnbull will ride for N.S.W.
* » * •
English cyclist Hales’ record 12 months’ grind
tiunng which he covered 100 miles daily (Sundays ex-
ce P teb )’ bas b ?en wiped out by Yankee Stannard, who
9?q7 3 p B i? 7 S S i? a year made U P as follows Jan.,
2137, Feb. 2281, Mar., 2661, Ap., 2839, May, 3154, June,
?onc’ J A l y ’ Au B , -> 3402 - Sept., 3819, Oct., 4174, Nov.,
4005, Dec., 3999. 181 miles was his best day, and the
daily average reached 106 J. Stannard’s weight at the
start was a little under 2001 b., which increased to 2071 b.
rood was mainly a glass of milk and three slices of toast
each meal. He is just over 6ft. in height, and broad in
proportion.
• * * «
The latest Yankee mail tells that there was talk
of another struggle between Australian bruiser Cribb and
Aii 01 ! s ’? ?" sca P Thurston. Thurston gave Cribb the
fight of Ins life a few months since, and had him in sore
straits once Writing to a Sydney friend last month,
Cribb stated that if he ever met Thurston again he’d
lay the American out.” Otto never was particularly
modest when talking of a prospective-opponent’s chances.
J udging from the best accounts of their previous meeting,
it is quite on the cards that the laying-out may be done
Cribb hCI " man ’ Wh ° 1S exactly of tbe same kidney as
* * * .
X. : Have seen it stated that only one of
Otto Cribb s parents was of the “Chosen.” Writer han-
pens to know that both. were. 1
* * « *
Westralian “feather” fighter Tommy Cox had
a ba, r ralS go wifch Californian Herrman at Oakland
(U.S.), Feby 19. From end to end of 13 rounds each
poured in hot shot, closed, wrestled, roughed, and
thumped while 1500 spectators howled like maniacs. Cox
maiie pace from the jump, never let up an instant, and
did the Cribb act with vim and vigor. Ultimately the
thing became so cruel that the police chipped in Cox
was declared winner on points.
• • . ,
Conditions of projected match between fore-
most little ’uns of their day—Ben Jordan (Eng ) and
Terry M‘Govern (U.S.)-show what a land of mUk and
honey present-time pugs live in compared with those of
the ring s so-called palmy days half-a-century since If
Jordan crosses the Atlantic he’ll get 4000d01., win or lose
That s certain, but over and above, should he win there
are considerations, such as a percentage of the “’gate”
and an interest in Kinetoscopic pictures.
* .*...* ’ •
One : time Maitland (N.S.W.) blacksmith pug
P. Slavi u, who looked like owning the world’s champion-
ship until Peter Jackson beat him in the memorable
struggle before London National Sporting Club, still
finds time to fight, despite his reported Klondvke saw-
nnll and butchering interests. From U.S. comes word
that Slavin and one Davis were to have decided the bruis-
ing supremacy of the Yukon on March sth.
, . * * *
In ’Frisco they do the thing properly. Boxing-
promoters must get a permit from the “ police committee ”
b ® f °f® . they may bring off a fight. Only one match a
month is allowed in the city, the pros and cons being first
well sifted If either principal has a crooked reputation
there s no hope for him-the controlling body insists that
he must be dropped or sanction is withheld. Sydney
badly needs something like this. J y
* * * ,
Balmain Swimming Club for years held the
water-polo premiership of N.S.W., and proved so much
better than others that all interest in the annual com-
petitions ceased and they were allowed to drop. Early
this season the newly-created rival local body-Mort’s
Dock S.C.—sprung a surprise on followers of the game by
putting down the previously unconquerable team. “ Lack
of condition and “ out of form ” were excises advanced,
and a second match saw Balmain secure a bare win As
it was now one and one, a third had to be arranged,' and
this took place last Saturday, when Mort’s Dock won bv
3 goals to L Secret of Balmain’s continued success was
that they practised often together and almost every
morning during two or three weeks immediately preced-
ing convincing date. No other club hitherto prepared
anything like as systematically, but Mort’s Dock swim-
mers did all through this season
* * « .
xr P?/ Uick Cavill, in 500yds. supremacy of
N.S.W. at Elkington Park Baths, Balmain, Saturday
afternoon, topped everything before done by him. Time
recorded was 6.29 1-5 —13 1-5 speedier than the previous
best (6.42 2-5), which belongs to Englishman Jarvis. Un-
fortunately Cavill’s figures won’t stand, owing to the silly
blundering of officials who made a mistake of 4yds. lOin.
in reckoning up the distance. It was a simple sum in
multiplication that the smallest schoolboy might be
trusted with. Second man (Read), 40yds. from-Cavill,
also got inside Jarvis’ performance. Cavill could have'
nearly covered thrice the difference between the distance
actually gone over and that required in the time he had
to spare. Unfortunately this fact doesn’t help him, and
Jarvis’ achievement still remains on the list as the world’s
absolute best, though, but for the bungling referred it, it
would surely have been reduced by seconds. Prior to
the race it was reported that the world’s record would go
if Cavill won, as Read had shown something much above
the fastest Dick was suspected capable of.
M.L. swimming rep. (Champion) at recent Aus-
tralasian championships in Victoria, upon returning home,
disabused his fellow-swimmers’ minds of the notion that
the cold water of M.L. was much less conducive to speed
than the warmer ditto of Australia. Champion said he
noticed no difference whatever.
• * * «
C. C. writes from Colombo : “ The late W. J.
Leverett did not row in the Albert Park ‘unbeaten
four.’ It won for 3 successive years. First year was
‘ Sam ’ Gowdie (stroke), Ohomley (3), ‘ Dave ’ Gowdie
(2), and Oxlade (bow). In the second and third years
Watson rowed in Dave Gowdie’s place. W. J. L.'did all
his senior and intercolonial rowing from Melbourne
Club.”
**- • *
Sworn during the examination of a Melb. insol-
vent, that he had lost £244 at poker, in a 15-hour sitting,
at the Victoria Club, most of it to a man from W.A.
Now, who was the simple stranger who went to a Melb.
betting club, took on a Hebrew clothier at poker, and
cleaned him out ? They must grow some smarties among
the Gropers.
* * » *
Homing-pigeon liar takes a turn. “ But you
can t beat the homer for instinct. I gave a pair of my
breeding to a friend in Bathurst, telling him to be sure
and cut their wings close, as, if they got out, they were
bound to come home. About a week later my wife and I
were sitting at breakfast when we heard a scratching at
the front door, and, upon my opening it, in fluttered mv
pair of beauties with corns on theirfeet as big as walnuts.
They had walked home from Bathurst! ”
* * *
Bondi sewer is a great resort of fishermen.
The turbid, oily stream flowing from it can be traced out
in a long curve for over a mile before it appears to merge
into the ocean. When the sea permits, a fleet of boats
can be seen anchored in the stream, some within a few
yards of the mouth of the sewer, while the rocks at the
entrance are . also crowded with fishermen. The fish
caught are almost entirely black bream. The Board of
Health officer some time ago declared these fish quite fit
for consumption, but it is hard to imagine that anyone
who has ever seen, or, what is worse, smelt that sewer at
close quarters would ever eat another black-bream.
* * * *
Bridge-jumping crank Brodie, who originated
the craze, died in the U.S. last month. Modus of bis
business was to don heavily-weighted boots for preserva-
tion of equilibrium and cork jacket for floating purposes
then hang from the edge of a bridge by the hands till
steady, and drop. Waiting boat, with newspaper reps,
aboard, would pick the crank up, and columns of matter
re the mad act would be wired from one end of the Con-
tinent to the other. In his later days he ran a gilded
saloon noted for its extravagant embellishments, where
money was raked in and squandered at a great rate. He
died of consumption.
* • • •
Not content with riding 31 miles 1390 yards in
60mts., W, Martin, at Adelaide on the 30th, rode one
mile in lmt. 311-5 secs.—4 secs, less than Australasian
record made by Walne ; and then did the hat trick by
winning the 5 miles Australasian Championship Bill
as usual, rode his Red Bird in all events.
• * * *
At Adelaide the Massey-Harris crack, Teddy
Wilsch, won the Lap Dash Handicap; F. S. Beauchamp
secured 2nd place in the Australasian Championship, also
°h a Massey; G. Body, of Victoria, won the Adelaide
Wheel Race on his Massey in brilliant fashion.
A recent fresh in the Brisbane River
carried acres .of the water-hyacinth from the
Bremer and tributaries down to Brisbane, where
ferry traffic. was completely stopped for some
time. Ipswich people smiled in a gratified way
when they heard about it.
A side-light upon the quality of what
water was left in the Broken Hill reservoir before
the February rains. In spite of its droughty
situation the silver-town is fairly provided with
small gardens; the chrysanthemum especially
thrives there and throughout the inlands. But
the local society has been compelled to “pass”
this year’s autumn show (for the first time for 10
or 12 years), as the water had become so mineral-
ised that it killed what plants other plagues had
spared.
A hideous pig- story is reported from
Nathalia (Vic.). A housewife left her baby in
the yard to answer a call in the front, and when
she returned it was being attacked by three pigs
Ihe animals were beaten off with difficulty, and
the baby was found shockingly mutilated—flesh
torn from face and head, and one hand badly
chewed. That horrible scene of the pigs amongst
the wounded on the battlefield, drawn by Ambrose
Bierce, in hi.s story, “The Coup-de-Grace,” was
probably close up to truth. The terrible pig takes
his own where he finds it.
The “ business-juryman ” at the Coning-
liam divorce trial which as The Bulletin went
to press was fast drawing to a close :
If the heart of one juryman had bean opened at anv
time during the trial, the word “ business ” would have
been found written there in large letters. On several
occasions this juryman has pathetically appealed
to his Honor as “a business man who was being
kept from his business.” On Tuesday, the man
of business broke forth into a tearful oration from
the box. This is what, in a deep, guttural voice,
he said : Your. Honor, speaking for myself as a
business man, I think it is not right to keep businessmen
away from their business so long. If this case keeps on
like this we 11 be kept away—l am speaking as a business
man—from our business for a year. I speak as a business
man, your Honor, as your Honor will understand that
this means ruin to a man’s business. I’m only speaking
as a business man, your Honor. The men sitting here
and laughing are not business men. It’s more like a
theatrical performance than a trial, your Honor I don’t
mean Mr. Coningham, your Honor. But I’m a business
man, your Honor, and speaking as a business man, I’d
like to know, your Honor, when the trial is to finish as I
want to get back to my business, your Honor. As I said
before your Honor, speaking for myself as a business
liian, I d like the ease to be cut short. My business will
be ruined if I stay here for ever, your Honor.” Judge
Owen (the one man in Court, save the speaker, who had
not rocked with laughter) said he “quite agreed with
every word the gentleman had said. It was very hard on
himself, although he was not a business man.” —Truth.
Can anyone reconcile Gen. Roberts’
two books, “ The Rise of Wellington ” and
“Forty-one Years in India,” with each other,
and with his conduct in S’Africa —except
on the hypothesis that there are two or
three Robertses, as there were two Nelsons ?
day it will be necessary to analyse Roberts’
character as displayed in his writings and actions,
and the result will probably be surprising to
the little man’s admirers. The small military tin-
gods of the British public have a way of getting
knocked out of shape like that. Wellington—
about the most unpopular general the British ever
ha-d is the only one whose reputation has stood
the test of time.
The return of that awful Tory, the hide-
bound bigot Simon Fraser at the top of the Vic.
Senate poll, was a spectacle to make democrats
weep (it paralleled the return of nonentity
Gould almost at the top of N.S.W. Senate
poll). Fraser was favoured by inclusion in the
lists of both Age (he is a personal pal of D. Syme,
ye ken) and Argus —neither of which papers
think enough of him to report his speeches in the
local Leg. Council. He is merely an incompetent
reactionary, utterly incapable of finding reasons
for his obstruction—a man who steadily blocks
progressive legislation with the same intelligence
as a mule blocks traffic. Why, if the world is
controlled by an Omniscient, Omnipotent, and
Beneficent Power, was an artist like Millais
allowed to paint on canvas so ridiculous a politi-
cian as Simon Fraser ?
The power of scientifically-used printer’s
ink was never better shewn than by the respective
positions held by Labor candidates Barrett and
Barker on Vic. Senate poll. Both are adherents
of the Labor-platform in its entirety, and both
personally are obscure bores of the most tiresome
sort. Neither is well-enough-off to canvass the
State properly ; and, as the Labor-ticket included
both, there was no reason to show why one should
receive a preference. There was not a ha’porth
to choose between the pair, save that Barrett
has mutton-chop whiskers, while Barker wears a
beard ; but when D. Syme ukased that the public
was to vote solid for the man with the mutton-
chop whiskers, it obeyed with the docility of a
well-trained poodle. Barrett was returned in the
favoured six ; and Barker, half-way down the list,
scored half as many votes.
i The brightest all-round joke of the Federal
Elections in Victoria was old johnny Wallace’s
advt. circular, which appears to have been dis-
triouted by the million :
Dear Sir, --If you think lam worthy of your vote and
interest I will be glad to get it. I have been nearly 50
years in the colony, and over -j years a member of the
Leg. Council. I was elected without opposition and never
had a contested election. I have continued to do my
duty and have never had a mark against my name, so
please, when you are drawing the pencil through the
names of those whom you do not want to vote for, do not
mark my name out so as I can read it after the Election—
said the circular. This awful literary production
ought to be posted outside Melb. Parliament
House to show the world what sort of intellect
serves to satisfy a Leg. Council constituency for
25 years. A vignette portrait of the uncomely
old squattah tells its story in the top left-hand
corner of the document. There’s the man—the
John Alston Wallace, whose sons a while ago
ousted him from his arrogant bull-headed trustee-
ship of the family property. Wallace, the un-
grammatical autocrat, who used to flourish a stout
walking-stalk at his offspring when they ventured
upon a mild demand for reasonable treatment.
How pitiably stupid seem the scoffs of Austra-
lian Democracy at the hereditary legislation of
a British Peerage whilst such as Wallace can
*u Ul ?t iemse^ves , on having been elected to
the Upper House without opposition for a quarter
of a century ! The circular which set forth Wal-
lace s pretentions to a seat in the Senate was a
joke at the expense of the Vic. public. His
claim to compose it by the sweat of his own brain,
and issue it with his portrait in the corner thereof,
was based on the solid merits of political achieve-
ment. lor all that Wallace can be expected to
know to the contrary, he has done his duty well.
He is a valuable legislator, else why do his con-
stituents endure him from generation to genera-
tion ? And if anybody “marked his name out
(which somebody certainly did) so as he couldn’t
read it after the Election,” the Bulletin considers
it a very unwrong act.


TH€ MOPERN IRT JEW€LL€RY CO.
Telephone 3490. ia7 ]PITT STREEI*.
Gold and Silver Nellie Stewart Bangles-
15ct. Gold Nellie Stewart
Bangles, with invisible
snap and joint, as worn
by Nellie Stewart. Price,
£3 15s, £5, t6los.
15et. Gold Nellie Stevvart
Bangle, jointless. Price,
37/6.
gttjou, aru) rnaKg
9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart
Bangles, with invisible
snap and joint. Prices,
47/6, 62/6, 75/-
9ct. Gold Nellie Stewari
Bangle, jointless. Price,
21/-
Open all day Wed-
nesdays till 6p.m.
On Saturdays from,
6 p.m. to 9.30 p.m.
Silver Nellie Stewart Bangle, with Shakespearean Quotation,
Price, 12/6.
Silver Nellie Stewart Bangle, Plain, Child’s, 4/6 ; full size, 5/-
Write for . .
Illustrated Souvenir
Catalogues.
Sent Post Free.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
ppsjisi
ai '
m
If
.
Contains no Dye
Prevents Hair Falling
gpgagen?€Qt
h
llliv
fW|
ĥ
Are Our Special Study
We Save all Intermediate Profits and so are able to produce them in Sydney at London Prices.
We buy the loose Gems in quantities.
We mount them in Sydney.
We employ Ring Specialists and Mounters.
We make them in quantities.
We make saving’s in every department.
We only mount in 18ct. Gold.
We sell for Cash, no Bad Debts.
We mark in Plain Figures at London Prices.
Fairfax & Roberts,
VICE-ItEOAL JEWELLERS,
23 Hunter Street , Sydney.
The inconvenient time at which the jury s
decision in the notorious Coningham v. O’Haran
divorce-case was given precludes extended com*
ment in The Bulletin’s present issue. The
verdict, which was in favor of Dean O Haran,
and was “quite concurred in” by his Honor
the presiding Judge, is the only one which could
possibly have been arrived at on the evidence by
any jury of sane and dispassionate men, inas-
much as Mrs. Coningham’s practically-uncorro-
borated story, however convincingly circumstantial
it may have looked when first presented to the
public was not one which would have enabled her
to get an order for three half-crowns a week from
any sober Police Magistrate had sne come
forward, not to aid her husband in his suit
for divorce, but as a single woman claiming sup-
port for the alleged illegitimate offspring of the
co-respondent. The co-respondent is, after all, to
be congratulated on his luck in failing to secure a
verdict at the first trial, in which the jury was
grotesquely allowed by the Court to wander off into
the consideration of a number of theological ques-
tions quite apart from the point at issue ; for had
he succeeded on that occasion he would have been
deprived of the benefit of the startling light
thrown upon the case by the convincing docu-
mentary evidence produced at the second hearing.
The Melbourne firm of Younghusband and
Co. is about to absorb the Co-Operative Wool and
Produce Co. and all business appertaining there-
to.*
Melbourne shopkeepers, with characteris-
tic’cuteness, have not only insured their stands
and decorative gear against loss by fire, but have
also effected insurances on the life of X orK, so
that, in the event of H.R.H. not materialising as
expected, the whole gaudy outlay won t be a dead
loss.
Broken Hill, the one big town towards
the heart of Australia, is surrounded by such
utter desolation, in spite of recent rams (which,
of course, haven’t had time yet to improve condi-
tions), that to supply its meat-market buyers have
had to travel as far afield as Hay, 320 miles south-
east.
The dodges of political canvassers are
many and weird. A distinctly refreshing circular
was issued by the doting papa of a gallant Colonel
who strove vainly fora N.S.W. seat mthe Senate.
Assuming the air of a confidential communication,
it expressed the opinion that “we should be
represented by men of ability and mtegn y,
having a stake in the country. Then it went on :
“My son has proved himself to be a man of
marked ability in everything he has undertaken,
and I am proud to say his straight-forwardness is
beyond question.” If parental certificates were
worth anything, who would not be a Senator .
The treasurer of Sydney Cabmen’s Union
calls attention, in the Evening News, to the
hard measure meted out to ’bus-drivers in the
matter of small breaches of the traffic regulations.
A ’busman, he points out, will be promptly and
heavily fined for having even a couple of passen-
gers over his number, whereas a tram-conductor
may with impunity overload by half-a-hundred or
more.
“ Yiking ” : Discussed N.S.W. Senate
elections with 11 men last Saturday. Six of them,
apparently sane, admitted R. E O’Connor to be
the best of the candidates, but said that, owing to
recent events, they could not vote for a R.C.
“In good sooth, sir, your principles are merely
prejudices.”
W H Woodfall, the defaulting teller of
the Union Bank’s Grenfell (N.S.W.) branch-he
was charged with stealing £4lOO-was found gm ty
and was sent to gaol for 18 months. What luck .
Not long ago a N.S.W. bushman got three years
for “ stealing ” ninepenn’orth of baking-powder
—which he took when he and his mate quarrelled
and broke up camp.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Wav to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Dep6t, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
Melb. Age made two glaring “ bloomers ”
out of five mistakes in its 19 commands to the
people of Victoria. The finger of King David
Syme pointed to Parson Ronald as a traitor
unworthy the vote of any respectable working-
man in Southern Melbourne. All the same 3211
disloyal subjects returned pro-Boer Ronald at the
top of the poll. The selection of L. L. Smith was
another inexcusable error m tactics. Even though
he had been a “dead-bird ” for the three-cornered
contest, the Age could have afforded to remark
that the House didn’t want a Protectionist from
Flinders if Smith was the man. And the aged
“ L L.” was not a “ dead-bird.” He finished 300
votes in the rear of the Argus candidate, A. G.
Groom.
Election results in Victoria, as in most
other States, upset all calculations. For the
Senate three Fat Men were returned, two
Liberals, and a Laborite. The elector seems to
have been unable to shake off the ingrained habit
of regarding the Upper House as a sort of club
for large, stodgy men of great social tonnage ;
also he seems to have been too tired to consider
things for himself, and so took the first “ticket
shoved before him, as evidenced by the fact that
the Age got five of its nominees in, the other being
seventh on the poll. The Akgus pulled through
three of its nominees, two of the three being in
pets, Fraser and Zeal; the third, Sargood, is the
only Freetrader. For the Representatives but
three Dry-Doggy men got home, two through tne
splitting of votes. Only in one sohtarycasedida
Freetrader win a straight-out fight, in the Fat-
Man constituency of Kooyong, where Fat-Man
Knox beat Fink as easily as he would had the
latter posed as a Socialist or a Prohibitions .
Curious that, though the democratic metro-
politan electors, as the detailed returns show,
took Syme’s Senate ticket, they turned and
smote him heavily when he attempted to dictate
as regards the Lower House. For days the Ag®
had savagely vilified the Labor candidate in
Southern Melb.— Presbyterian Parson Ronald—
but the workers rolled up m force, and shot their
man in by 3211 against 2256. Democratic
“Yarra” also sent Syme’s selected about his
business ; Tudor—without the heavy Catholic
vote—beating him by 423. And
it was doubtful whether Laborite, Liberal,
or Freetrader would win at Bourke. Unly
Cook’s personal popularity and his demo-
cratic programme pulled him through, lhe
Akgus was also rebuked in no tender fashion for
interfering in the selection of the people s Cham-
ber. In large letters, day after day, it placarded
Cook, M‘Cay, Higgins and Ronald as Pro-Boers
and disloyalists—and every one of them got home.
That dog didn’t fight! But all this is understand-
able. The one incomprehensible fact is the posi-
tion of the Tory Simon Fraser. What he has
ever done that he should get a vote from every
second elector in the State, not even those voters
can say. Probably Fraser himself is as much sur-
prised as anyone.
ħ
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there Is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office*
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by aIL Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
At Poverty Point.
The picture on the wrapper of the published “ Floro-
dora ” music shows Dolores garbed in tights during the
“ Prapses ” entertainment. Dolores was therefore a leg-
part in the original London production ; and the only sup-
posable reason for the change here is that Carrie Moore
has been growing beautifully thinner since her last
appearance in a boy’s part. Carrie, as The Bulletin has
a dozen times protested, needs a Rest, and the best thing
that could be done for such a bright artist is to send her
to a country farm in the Mallee for 12 months, and let
her, after" she has stayed in bed for the bigger
part of a month, gradually slide into some open-air
manual work, milking quiet cows for preference. The
same advice applies to Joey Cassellis, one of the most
promising dancers Australia has turned out for some
years—who has already sacrificed some of her undeni-
able beauty of face and figure by overwork. Both these
girls are little more than children, and have been doing
the work of grown women for years. Are you listening,
Carrie Moore ? The Bulletin hates attending funerals.
The pretty Nina Boucicault, whom Australia knew a
dozen years ago, was married some time since to Mr. K. H.
Kelly.
Melba, it is now quite plain, isn’t coming. Why should
she? Australia is only meant for people gravitating
towards crutchhood. Nellie M. will be here before the
year 2000 and fast asleep. Irving at 70 will have plenty
left to dazzle us with. Naught can kill an actor in these
advertising days—except Death. It is premature for
anyone to go buzzing round Ellen Terry. Wait till she s a
great-great-grandmother. Then airy, fairy Olivia will
come bounding on to our stage. Jefferson notes a pathetic
confab with Charles Kean in Albert Park, Melbourne.
Kean said, “ I’m too old.” It took a lot to make him find
that out. Barry Sullivan, as a charming young man of
50, had to caper round him with rapier logs. But C.
Kean wouldn’t be too old now, if he had lived right up to
this time. A man’s (or a woman’s) histrionic ability has
such a tremendous comet-tail!
Announced somewhere that bright, clever Peggy Pryde
was lately married to a Melbourne youth named Pearson.
Then the step-father of Peggy’s hopeful son must be her
third husband. Anyhow, The Bulletin always under-
stood that the Mr. P. P. who accompanied the lively little
woman to Australia was her second experiment in matri-
mony.
Mr. Guenett, many years musical critic for the Argus,
has mercifully retired from the field of journalism, and
will henceforth teach music to his private pupils only.
Morrison, the self-satisfied “ Nono ” of Melbourne’s even-
ing ’Erald, is to take Guenett’s place ; but meanwhile
Argus readers are being refreshed by some conspicuously
sane and judicious criticisms, for which Carlyle Smythe
gets the credit. Seems that Morrison’s successor in the
Herald chair of music will be Hartung, chief apostle by-
appointment to Marshall Hall, and an exponent of scien-
tific warbling on the serious German system. These
changes are somewhat awful things to contemplate.
They apparently mean that Melbourne will have to put
all its faith in Wagner and the prophets, or be d d
everlastingly.
Long, long ago in the days when the local Herald was
a morning journal, R. S. Smythe (he was not then the
Much-Travelled) gave Melbourne its first criticism of “II
Trovatore.” It would be interesting to read some of
those early notices on singers who were absolutely bril-
liant in some cases, and compare them with the nonsense
written about third-rate voices in the grand (!) opera of
to-day.
Hazon and Geo. Allan had to make their round of the
Italian opera-houses (starting from Milan) on the right
side of Feb. 20th, when the shows everywhere close for
Lent. Their trouble now is to arrange reasonable terms
with the artists they are most anxious to secure, and the
most particular trouble no doubt is to get the right
woman whose contract doesn’t involve the engagement of
an undesirable husband, or vice-versa.
Snazelle, who has Charles M'Mahon for business agent,
is putting in a while in Adelaide with “ Our Navy.” By
the way, Snazzy must be praying devoutly for an out-
break of naval war to stimulate public interest in the
Handy Man afloat and ashore.
Harry Monkhouse, who visited Australia with a Gaiety
co., died in London of acute pneumonia Feb. 18. The
stout man left the Gaiety crowd for the Lyric Theatre,
and was playing in “ Florodora ” until a month before his
death. He was only 47.
“ Theorbo ” : Why doesn’t Musgrove produce the
greatest of all operas, “ Giovanni” ? Oast: Donna Anna,
Coomber : Donna Elvira, Lorraine ; Zerlina, Slapoffski ;
GioVanni, Eugene; Leporello, Tilbury; Ottavio, Salvi ;
Commandant, Mooney ; Masetto, Leumane.
Dick Stewart, sen., who remained awhile with William-
son as Melb. treasurer after the dissolution of the firm,
lately went over to Musgrove at the Princess’s. The
veteran’s place at Her Majesty’s was taken by E. J. Tait.
The story that Lady Hall 6 had decided to turn her
back upon England and end her career in Germany
turns out to have been as false as the report that Edward
Lloyd was going to make a tour round the world before
settling down upon his farm.
Tyrone Power and Edith Crane will appear shortly at a
leading Sydney Theatre with an entirely new company
and a big new repertoire, including “ Nadjezda” (a Polish
play), “The Charity Ball,” “The Wife,” and “ Taming
of the Shrew ” (including the Induction).
Willie Edouin, after tripping to America, has returned
to his old part of Tweedlepunch in the London production
of “Florodora.” Re the London Florodora, George
Allan writes that if it had been produced in the same sty e
in Melbourne it wouldn’t have lasted three weeks. But
then the patriotic Australian abroad ever writes in that
strain.
That awful man, Paul Pelham, who happened at
Rickards’s in the first throes of Australia s jingoism, and
used to exhort us to
“ Fight for Freedom’s cause,
Down with Kruger and the Boers !
has not yet been called to his long account byastern
Providence. Little Paul P. is heard °f from London
Tivoli as the author of a postscript verse of the National
Anthem :
“ God save the King !
May his reign be glorious,
Born to mighty destiny.
Heir to fame Victorious.
Britannia’s sons on every shore
His praises loud will sing,
With heart and voice to Him above,
God save the King ! ”
This, it appears, was “ capitally sung by Bessie Bonehill,’’
the enthusiastic Bessie being a reliable old music-hall
warbler who can put her soul into anything.
The death of the Queen inspired Wilson Barrett to—
poetry? Anyway, the following was published in his
name.
Well-beloved Queen and Mother 1 Mother more than
Over-bnrthened with our sorrows hath thy great heart
been.
Oft thy tears flowed with thy children’s; now alone we
For the Father, in His mercy, gives His Loved One sleep.
We, like sick and wounded children, gathered at thy
And'ourfailings, faults, and follies, all were laid on Thee.
Thou, great Mother of the nations, gave the nations
peace ;
But of all this lavish giving there is now surcease.
&c., &c.
Barrett’s announcement that the deceased monarch gave
peace to the Chows, the Boers and humanity in general,
was so well received by the Jingo press that he broke
out again in the Morning Post with a long poem to the
King, requesting His Maj. to “ Take up the Sceptre and
reign abundantly.
George Rignold is due at Pertfi Theatre Royal for
Easter, and will tour the goldfields later. George follows
on the track of Johnnie Sheridan, who got such a warm
Westralian welcome in “ When the Lamps are Lighted
that first performance had to pause whilst he fired off a
speech.
“ Stager ”: Satisfactory to hear of an Australian
actress touring in a number of “ star” characters, bean,
Camille, Juliet, &c. Miss Ada Lawrence is declared by
some people to be tbe brightest and most versatile
tragedienne Australia has produced, not even excepting
Essie Jenyns. I have it from a man who lately saw Miss
Lawrence playing in Tasmania, that she is a most inter-
esting artist, strong, unaffectedly emotional, and
possessed of a natural humour. She is the daughter of
Bob Lawrence, who supported G. V. Brooke in the early
Melbourne days. As a child she got her first Shakespenan
experience with Oreswick, playing one of the princes in
Richard the Third.
“C. C. ” : The “ Highland Legacy ” at Sydney Palace
proved once for all that a Scotch accent is not to
be attained merely by calling a cow a “ coo,” or remark-
ing that anything the speaker approves of is ‘ braw.
A genuine Irish brogue may be heard ten times on the
stage for the once that you will listen to a correct in-
tonation of the Scotch “R” or “Ch.’ The reason is
that the Scotch do not take readily to a histrionic career,
their natures being too open and sincere—writer is
Scotch, so believes this must be the reason. A genuine
criticism was given of the “Tom, Dick, and Harry . in-
volvement by a nice girl in the D.O. who was perceived
at each fresh joke enthusiastically slapping the knee of
the man beside her—a man who was a perfect stranger to
her. The real finale of “Tom, Dick,” &c. took place
that night after the curtain descended when the gentle
maiden realised the unauthorised chastisement she had
given to an unknown person, and fled blushing from the
theatre.
The 100th performance of “Florodora” drew the abso-
lutely biggest crowd on record at Her Majesty’s, Melb.
And it looked as though the occasion had more to do with
the rush than the Souvenir, for the Souvenir (a tastefully
wrappered set of “Florodora” photos by Talma) was a
throw-in for “ ladies only.” The proportion of men who
came early on their own was just about up to the average,
and many more were turned away from the doors.
Marie Lloyd enjoyed her 31st birthday three days
before she started for Australia. Seems that Mane was
taken suddenly ill on her birthday night, and had to miss
her turn at one of the London halls. Next afternoon,
when she came to be farewelled by her admirers at the
Tivoli Restaurant, the sprightly little woman burst into
weeps. But a presentation silver coffee service had a
consoling effect, and, in the words of the historian,
“ Marie bucked up.”
Tyrone Power is at least a foot too tall for Napoleon,
otherwise he might have made the part as great a success
as he did Sydney Qarton in Melbourne.
An eminent Australian actor-manager once had some
business with a Brisbane firm of lawyers. Rushing
up stairs, perspiring and puffing, he ignored the office boy
and the office etiquette and in his stage voice announced
himself to the senior partner thus : “My name is George
; I am an act-orr.” “ The devil you are, said the
s.p., “ then go out and wait until you’re announced.”
“Stroller”: Compressed drama as advocated by the
“ B.” is very much in evidence now at the London hails.
Sketches —original or boiled-down adaptations of other
plays—are regularly produced; running from 30 to 40
minutes. The writer played Macari in a4O min. sketch of
“ Called Back.” All the scenes were in it, the compres-
sion being brought about chiefly by omitting the comedy
and leaving only the “situations.’ It was on Boxing
Night, to the roughest, drunkest audience in .London.
Previous to our sketch a pint-pot was thrown on to tne
stage. But they listened with surprising attention and
despite the rattle of coin and glasses, the smoke, and an
occasional beery scuffle, it was on the whole an enjoj able
experience. .
A Woman’s Needs.
A very eminent surgeon lias declared tnat he
never lets a day pass without thanking Heaven
that he was not born a woman ; and this dis-
tinguished man probably knows more of woman s
trials than any living person. Yet how sweet and
gracious is the gift of womanhood ! To woman
belongs the joys of girlhood, love and beauty—ot
wifehood and motherhood. “ Angels are painted
fair to look like thee ! ” But the penalty of her
sex has to be paid, and the tribute it exacts is
heavy with pain and weariness. Too
payment leaves her ruined in health, bankrupt m
happiness—a lifelong invalid, for want of a little
timely help, perhaps a little timely knowledge.
For the sex thereof is the life thereof, is the case
of women. When childhood is over and girlhood
begins, the burden must be taken up and the first
crisis of a woman’s life met. It should make the
blossoming of womanhood into the lovely strength
of early maturity ; too often it is the beginning of
a lifelong struggle with pain and ill-health. At
this and every critical point, a little help may
make all the difference between happiness and
misery—between health (in short) and disease.
The purpose of this article is to suggest the
tried means of help. The one thing which will
tide over the difficulty and give health and
strength just where they are needed. A lady s
experience and advice is a safe guide for ladies,
and the following letter from Mrs. Annie Harris,
of “Charlton,” George-street, Norwood, b.A.,
gives both:—“About seven years ago I con-
tracted a severe internal complaint and was in a
very critical state. The doctor attending me told
me that if I lived I should be a sufferer all my
life. His treatment was quite useless. It gave
me no relief. After two or three years suffering
I got tired of paying doctor’s fees and deriving no
benefit, so, hearing of Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave
it a trial. I took, in all, five bottles, and am now
thankful to state that lam perfectly cured, lhe
medical man was genuinely surprised at such a
wonderful result. lam now as well as it is pos-
sible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure the
whole credit of accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies suffering
as I did will profit by these few lines I am writing
to you now. My mother considered that her life
was saved by Warner’s Safe Cure, she
taken it for a somewhat similar complaint.


One Taste Is Enough.
Th ' (vriter never had a taste of rheumatism but
once—about four years ago it was—and it laid
me up and made me groan for six weeks. And I
am not praying for it any more. I can get a heart-
load now, just by thinking how it felt. But, oh,
what a lot of folk catch it worse than I did.
Here is Mrs. Annie Hill, she is one of them.
Or rather she ivas ; she is right enough in these
a} s. Her idea of talking of it is to cheer some
other sufferer; and show him the way out. And
we thank her for that. It’s the proper feeling to
have towards our fellow-travellers through this
vale of tears—and pains.
„ ‘ Some eight or ten years ago,” says Mrs. Hill
1 was a perfect martyr to rheumatism and indi-
gestion. As if they were not enough for one poor
woman to bear I often had frightful pains in the
chest, with weakness all over my body. It was
awful, and I didn t know what the end of it was
prostrate )0 " W anc * t * lea * w as completely
“ We hunted everywhere for a cure, and I tried
medicines, until the empty bottles in the house
rattled wherever you put your hand out; all to
no earthly good. We spent money and spoiled
hopes, and that s the story. F
“At. last I saw an advertisement of how Mother
beigel s Syrup had cured a man of rheumatism
and other ailments—just like mine. He told the
tale himself, as lam telling this. I will try it—
so I said to myself. J
It acted splendidly, and I kept on with it
until I was nearly well. It cured my rheuma-
tism, my indigestion, and my liver complaint—all
lu a , ‘ Sometimes I bought the Syrup by
the half dozen m order to get it a little cheaper
I am an old resident of this district, having
lived here for the last fifty years. lam now
seventy-five and in good health. lam known
tar and wide, my husband and sons being in the
farming and dairy industries on a fairly large
scale I am never without a bottle of Mother
oeigel s Syrup m the house. There are plenty of
medicines in Australia, goodness knows : almost
as thick as the rabbits used to be, but none, so
tar as I know, to compare with Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. Mrs. Annie Hill, Kayuga, near Muswell-
twook, N.S.W., Sept. 21st., 1899. Witness, A.
Halpin. ’
“I have known Mrs. Hill for eight years. Her
testimony to the virtues of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
tmplicity relied upon. She is altogether
incapable of making any statement that will not
stand the closest investigation.” C. J. Suratt
Auctioneer for the Farmers’ Association.*
Publications^
THE BALLETGIRL
h
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
D
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
mi) SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, 7
complete, tae greatest collection of Bongs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
bongs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
. 'vjwre. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d.. posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO Wat
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
NOW READY.
Y HE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK, 1901.
THE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK, 1901,
■ and Shippers’ and Importers’ Directory.
32nd year of publication. 10s. 6d., nett.
GORDON & GOTOH, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth (W.A.), Wellington (N.Z.), London, and of all
Booksellers.
A Jady (not Australian) writes about the
Australian man m relation to his womankind •
whicf tr m ™ a he°neff,Cr Sio T tely f ° r , half an hour^
always drink). He ocea S ionanv? ( f T SleepS (he can
KfvSy'“6,s““' l* n «A'» &£&££s
doe. no! mi, T ‘l,!,,",''!' ? 1 “ b '*' d = Olmmber“e
a? fnss
aaa^“^tp^!n3s«
wonaer if they can be really married. Tirm thev los=
then- reputations, but as the average Australian reouta"
tion is a sort of thing that, is shed annually like a snake-
sk 3 'V S t matter ° f small consequence,
lne Australian wife is generally in a state of great in
hu f a " d ' When thfothefwoman
entures to defend him she says she only wishes the other
nn thi'c for a We f k • bllt she never offers to give him up
, myj Sa P e ’ aid when the unmarried lady friend seems
at all desirous of depriving- her of her Curse she gets very
mnfp« Tn - Ba *Y B something about women being cats, and
When a h n er A° bS f erV r tlons to the feline species.
one that U L n‘ an '? lan love . s he the idored
one that she is the starry universe to him. He also
emarks that when they are married he is going to insist
obiecthiL-^h 61 h lbh ! ’ ear ', S and ° lJals ’ There is no use !
Afllf thi ’ H has ?'g I P I ,.V got to have those pearls, j
rnn« r J?«f are ma ? ne ? she disoovers that his trousseau
consists of one sock,that he has to avoid certain streets I
for reasons connected with coin, and that the time-payment
man is shooting after him to take violent repossession of
and work M J he Au stralian husband would set to I
and work the mortgages off himself, and then buy her
theip thl,lff i ?\ ea " and ordlnar .V that cost half-a-erown i
mere might be some satisfaction in him, but lie merely
fields° of ad °h l; s U T hGr W l th °^ als and S in the'fertile
nelds of his beer-nurtured imagination. When an
husband” 1 man d ° eS this he is said to be a devoted
.i 0 ”! 0 affection is quite an institution in this
° >■ .d , ma 7 be described as friendship witli
a good deal of frill and ornament about it, and
it means anything or nothing according as your
l l !“ d l?L e „ n u^ le i are talking to you, Quite a mass of
■ '■••v.uuco die LcUK.llli'- DO you. <
phraseology has grown up around this institution. The
two parties are “ best boy ” and “ best
r . - uvou ,ju j tiiiu best flfirl” whatever
wara/hw' f ' The i m ° r - e ex P erienced Australian woman
wains friend against Mr. Smith because he may
o umi UP ' and lf the other does not accept the warn in->■
afrahl Mi«R y °" e bhe striotesb confidence that she is
a ;X, • . Br °wn is carrying on with Mr. Smith.” The
really nice Australian woman does not do this ; instead
she goes round to everyone and informs them in the
C’ d - fc n 'fy that she is quite sure there is nothing wrong
between Mr. Snnth and Miss Brown. There is nothing
™° re . hav .°? on a woman’s reputation than for a
number of nice girls to go round and say that there is
nothing wrong with it. Among the female sex platonic
rs ff dan^erm,ff nera H J reg^ded as the sort of affection that
is dangerous for other women to indulge in.
Nervous sufferers, will iind it worth their
wlule t 0 peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
•so of tins issue *
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills .are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one'
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
temedy'.ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
.development, and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjiout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies. ;
E
DWARDS’
i
ĥ
a
THE GREAT HASR PRODUCER AND RFSTnnriT
Pa’ace throughout the World. every Koyal
iiPS
monsieur Philosophow
- oy
HER BVBAifIESTV
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
t 0 f ° rW “ b d° ttleS ° f
H.R.Hi MnaenWgto Edwards’
j ** i'itsi},) Greece.
- , _ . . <~rown Princes Palace
tL*J±- PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs Ed d
reparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction. W&r
H.R.H. The DUKE OF SPARTA
‘ Harlene ” for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, Athens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHicNLOHE
11 Harlene ” for the Hair by return.™™™"™"
Esterhazy Uteza, 30, Bvda-Pest.
writes : Please send r..e three bottles
jfRKPRINOgjgiEORGE of GREECE <*■** c^JZZjcZ
writes : Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” forlh7Hair afbnce.
2/S » and <3 times z/6 size), 46 per Bottle, ever-ywHet-e.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
‘ l '° OESFY comjpstitxokt.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BALDNESS.
A GUARANTEED CURE.
j. al , 7.° who are sceptical we are prepared to give a written guarantee that CAPILLA will
a f ? r Jt -T - rhose who have uaed CAPILLA are amazed at its wonderful effect
upon the Haar and Scalp. It gives renewed life and vigor to the hair, and gives to it that lustre so
much desired by persons troubled with Premature Blanching, Grey ness Hair etc One
or two applications arrest the fall and clear the Head of Dandruff. It makes thin Hair’thick and
FWI . I” p r -°w Teatimomala from Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business Men, International
1 ootballers, Cricketers, Actors and Actresses, etc., etc., with each Bottle. CAPILLA is registered
under the provisions of the Trade Mark Act of 1900. registered
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. 2/6 and 5/- per bottle, by post 3 2 and 5/8.
Leading Sydney Cltemists and from the Proprietor—
W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Reader. man Hollow Ground
fifth
ħ
4l^ n ys, o
fo '
h
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEi
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON i r .
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THB A IVT OTTSI -«=» -cr. -r» rm-
-A? "-A_3MCOTLJ" is* if? 'giivnnn'v 3F"OH
COUGHS, BBONCHmS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are. amazed at its W rmrWf„i a 0 „ .
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief - and In lle , nce ’ u . . ele f an y f° r ™-°f Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice -md‘it n C °, ds °* If < l eB t ,tls ]nvaluable > as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with I ) [. neither . alk,W! L a Cou 8 h or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain. 1 17 edted Wlth fclu ' s n,edlcme - No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
B!Ej'VI7" w A.R.E o jr* CJOTTU* ttq •
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARWE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
BRANCH DEPOT-
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f °»
Infants
9
a.
V ■
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
AND
THE AGED.


ĥ
rfP't
UMy
itO'
.-,V
a
•-<
Ensures a
‘Hafaby
Oid A|e
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
n is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
It is a revelat o vears been endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing,'Te', afterthe teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus” is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from. .
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERBS AND SEAWEED.
~.. . ~ Hisenverers of ‘ Sanoalmus ”do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
S 7& Provided The means O P f perfect health. An elixir of health has been
established. W|RELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-OLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus ” is equally simple,
«taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
Tf vou suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right For
-An y emil Blushing; Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone may LOQK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoalmus ”
I will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
. Ull iess in a verv advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
I considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache. Coughs, Colds.
Sore Throat Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regu'ar working to the
functions of the boWels. Last but not least “ Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the f r-reaching effects of
this “Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalmus’’(as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin ; 'a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
ħ
THE
‘ PLUM’
thffr merits/ 6 WE e GUAKANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made tor this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNiNC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
| Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful cise, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
|£©“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I
"I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS,
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
jagT" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 CEOR3E STREET, SYDNEY
GRAIG & AITKEIM«
The Royal Agricultural Society of D.S.UI.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
FIRST O-RAKTO
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901
£3500
IN PRIZES
EXCURSION RATES on RAILWAYS
from all Parts.
Tattersall’s Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney,
F. WEBSTER,
Secretary.
ON OUR SELECTION.
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
THI!
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SCrgical IpStitOte.—
IN AN AGE Which is so remarkable for its progress in all deihorabi v i'n t herear, white thousands
lIN ft IN gcknce , t , s gurprisinfr t 0 find the practice of Medicine » deplowblj Thg Freenian
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the “nveationa^groove of code of ethics which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical institute: consultingstaff comp iaints they still con
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and anno Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Euzabeth and natnu s
■ S'' ;
, T-t'J
I
SyjjV
.:
■. ' " ;
i i
m
!, -,*3
nr o
3a
1;
fMj
jJil
r" ♦ * -r* * v *s3£&
< i
- 1
v s:
. <?>
i
: ■ f
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE .
The Specialists tuho conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE. JJC are'gfven IfREE OF CHARCE?and*Strictest * pXuy
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every co Py - -
40 S
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
RuJrtureandPlhs Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
r 7-™— 7
m
..... HnUCDTICE f Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
WHY WE ADVERTISE ! to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants If a man has a
■■ 7 ... . . „ Hpvnted vears of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
Speciality, and has devoted years otn t-rpatino- pertain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
purchasing the necessary ’’ ■ •• lly " We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
the fact, an dd^>“tets^o^l^^ 8 e^ I gi e f'^ > ,^ 1 e afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
this advertisement and otherwise of t e , ■ f r lne dical advisers, our method of treatment may
however opposed to y? ur own preconceived to those ine * of testimonials received from
be, the fact still remains that it is successful.and thisi is me^ e J on l y cl aim to have utilised in a common-sense
grateful patients We make* no ex lienee. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
may but remember if vm. aliow the .hsease to run not in your system, you
ire LOiiltV of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration fiy Government
N Medical Boards of New South Wales Victoria, »outh Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
_. n 'I'MFNT —lf you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
HOMh of •j.jjg b ene flts of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
, . . • „r,H plpptvicitv a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
of combining medicine and electri y P , rtul home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
jiasses that
Possible and fromlt beXle to accurately diagnose .your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are of
have e8 nottog nS to rec£mn§nd Wm but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too consult
aHVinmrb libertv of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE tBEEMAN AND
WA h T T ADF FLECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shal
receivethe advice of those fitted by superior skill and education the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
S^Elizab€tb*Batb<irststs,Sydi)sy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B. —QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person f Institute® *** WaNaC ®
=-- Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


Bunny has a poor time of it now—quoted
in the London market as flat at 7id., he is bundled
out of existence in Victoria with the assistance of
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., the big iron-
mongers in Melbourne. That firm supplies guns,
ammunition and traps, and, in cases of dire need,
can turn on a full blast of destruction with Dixon
Gould’s Vacuum Destroyer. This machine is the
Jim Dandy of its kind, is beautifully made,
certain in operation as a Waterbury watch, and
counts its victims by thousands. Poor bunny !*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-at., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The workers haven’t always the short
memories they are credited with. It would hardly
bethought that the bucolic John Kidd would appeal
much to a radical mining community; and yet,
outside R. E. O’Connor and the Labor-men, there
wasn’t a candidate for the Senate who got more
support at Broken Hill than he. The explanation
is that during the great strike of ’92 Kidd, then
Postmaster-General, got at variance with his col-
leagues and the newspapers for speaking out on
the men’s side, just then the unpopular one, and
for franking telegrams between the strike com-
mittee and the city people who at various times
tried to bring about a conference between the
parties.
Baronet Rupert Clarke surprised Mel-
bourne by taking the chair at one of Dr. “ Billy ”
Maloney’s city electioneering meetings just prior
to the Federal elections. The titled rich man
spoke of the Radical Labor-member as “my very
old and dear friend,” and mutual expressions of
respect and affection were exchanged freely to the
wonder and delight of a large, horny-handed
audience. S’Rupert of Rupertswood is posing of
late as an “advanced” landlord with Socialistic
sympathies, and Dr. Billy’s Radical friends accept
his patronage as a hint that capital is not going to
be scared out of the country by politicians like
“ the great little man ” of West Melbourne.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
This valuable paper rises to acknowledge the
receipt'from the publishers, Messrs Gordon and Gotch,
of the Australian Handbook for 1901. The Australasian
Handbook would be a better title, seeing that the volume
includes the statistics and all other particulars of Maori-
land, Fiji and New Guinea. The present number is
quite up to the usual high standard. In addition to
Australasian information there is a considerable fund of
knowledge relating to Britain and its metropolis which
is always useful in a newspaper-office when the tired
editor wants to fill in space with comparisons between
the Sydney Municipal body and London County Councils.
There are maps of all the States of Australasia, and every
town in each State is taken individually, and carefully
described, in detail. When you wish to know if your own
particular little sect has a mothers’ meeting in any little
out-back one-horse show that is dignified by the name of
a town, you can find out at least if the sect has a place
wherein to meet in that remote hamlet. Particulars
are (.iven of all the tariffs, and maps to show
one where he may find gold, iron, copper, antimony and
mica, and many other valuable minerals. Whole sections
are devoted to Australasian Banks and Govt. Securities
and the comparative statistics of the various States and
dependencies of Australia.*
The Modern Art Jewellery Co., of 187
Pitt-street, Sydney, have a splendid and extensive
stock of watches; the principal line being the
famous Rotherham and Sons’ English levers,
which have been made expressly for the Modern
Art Jewellery Co. and bear the firm’s name.
These watches combine durability with accuracy
and are a pleasure to the wearer. Bangles, the
firm has in endless variety—Nellie Stewart
bangles; gold and silver bamboo bangles; bangles
for ladies, girls and babies at moderate prices.
Other lines are gold lucky bells, hearts, elephants
and envelopes, Federation charms, and hundreds
of others in most novel and dainty designs.
Country friends are cordially invited to inspect
the stock.*
That most welcome mine of information upon
all matters Australian, the Year Book of Australia for
1901, is now to hand. The amount of brain-sweat that
the Year Book of Australia and Publishing Co. has put
into this work deserves to be rewarded with an over-
whelming demand. Any fact about the Commonwealth
of Australia which cannot be found within its covers
must be a very small and remote incident indeed. All
the principal events of last year are arranged in calendar
order. There is an opening sketch in which the Federal
movement is outlined, and the different tariffs of the two
great parties are held up to the dull, fishy eye of the
general public. There are vast heaps of statistics from
which the general public can dig out news as to the con-
jugal condition of the great Australian nation—and find
out how much the great nation aforementioned owes the
British and local creditor. It is also carefully states what
the money was borrowed for, and he who wishes to do so
may read and see if the country got its money’s worth.
This is a very important portion of the work indeed;
but, more’s the pity, it won’t be read much, as the
Australian has a horror of seeing his liabilities walk about
in their naked hideousness.. Even the Sportsman (five
sixths of the community is a sportsman) can get par-
ticulars of matters equine, the scale of weights-for-age,
principal courses, comparative’racing time-table, winning
sires, winning owners, and a whole cartload of informa-
tion about records and cricket, cycling and every other
recognised form of sport. Section XIX, relating to In-
dustries, should be read by everyone ; it talks with a
louder voice than all the candidates for the Senate in one
breath. Altogether, the Year Book is an indispensable
volume.*
The Jingo Australian press, which insisted
on the allegation that Queen Victoria’s death was
felt as a “personal loss” by everybody in this
far-off country, seems to have gone further in its
grovel‘than the London County Council, or any
other purely British institution. An address from
the Lord Mayor and Aldermen to the new King
merely expressed a “feeling of the deepest
regret’on the lamented demise of our late, &c.,
&c.” The Co&nty Council said “to us, as indeed
to all her late Majesty’s subjects, the national be-
reavement appears to he almost personal.” The
pretence of national “grief,” “affection,” or
“distress” on account of the Queen’s death was
mainly a journalistic fraud.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Ed. Bulletin, — R e delivery of Wednes-
day’s milk on following Sunday (8., 16/3/’01). No
need to go to the police-court to learn that —our
“milk-oh !” told us himself. Wednesday is a
half-holiday, and the milk which would ordinarily
be delivered that afternoon is cold : stored until fol-
lowing Sunday. Have seen it afloat with lumps
frozen solid, and, so far as could be judged,
not ling wrong. I presume that Sunday’s supply
is frozen until Wednesday, to keep matters
craight.— Fattt.'
Return of the World-Famed Soprano.
TVTT~>T-T.TFTI
ANTONIA (TREBELLI) DOLORES
(Better known, to Australian audiences as ANTOINETTE TREBELLI).
Mr. ROBERT CLARENCE NEWELL, a New American Pianist, will
accompany Mdlle. Trebelli Dolores.
Third Tour of Australasia
COMMENCING—
SYDNEY (TOWN HALL) ... ... WEDNESDAY, 10th APRIL, and following dates.
ADELAIDE ... APRIL 24th, and following dates.
MELBOURNE ... ... ... MAY 14th, and following dates.
BRISBANE ... _ ... ... EARLY IN JUNE.
Western Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand to follow.
JAMES TAIT, Manager.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
( strTn r d Irclde). Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
SA/VIHsTG- OIF 1 25 PEB GEPTT.^
WALKER & HALL’S SILVER-PLATED
FORKS AND SPOONS.
-,V;
OLD ENGLISH OR FIDDLE PATTERN.
Write for our 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue—POST FRBfJ.
“Flag Brand”
Table Forks, 26/- doz.
Dessert „ 20/- „
Table Spoons 25/- „
Dessert „ 20/- „
Tea „ 8/0 „
Amusements.
THE A T~ft E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
LAST NIOIIT OF
TWO LITTLE DRUMMER BOYS.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 6,
Tlx o World’s Verdict.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Riokards
THIS SATURDAY, at the MATINEE, First Appearance
in Australia of the Great
MARIE LLOYD,
and the ■ Coster King,
ALEC. HURLEY.
TED BOX, SARINA AQUINALDO. Re-appearance of
Albert Whelan, Alf. Lawton, Maggie Fraser, and all Our
Great Co. MATINEE SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Riokards.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT.
SACBED~CON'CEBT ♦
by and under the Direction of
M. E. Napoleon-Boffard
Assisted by
Mrs. PALMER, MINIE WAUGH,
M. CHARBONNET KELLERMANN,
Mr. and Mile. SUMMERHAYES, JAMES WADE,
SIGNOR REBOTTORA, and others.
Prices—3s., 2s. 6d., Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, APRIL 5, LAST NIGHT of
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, the Universally Famous Melo-
drama, THE WORLD.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FAREWELL SEASON, FAREWELL SEASON,
of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA 00.
Thursday, April 4, MICNON.
Friday, April 5 (Good Friday), Sacred Concert,
STABAT MATER.
Saturday, April 6, MICNON.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
RETURN of NANCE O’NEIL.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, INAUGURAL PRODUCTION,
LA TOSCA..
NANC’I O’NEIL as FLORA TOSCA
t-.-'or the First Time in Melbourne).
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
AT H ENAcU M HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
RETURN of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Mr. H. 0. Wyld will arrive per R.M.S. Victoria with
New and Varied Pictures, including Vivid Reproductions
of the QUEEN’S FUNERAL PAGEANT.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
with WEST AND
SON’S
SNAZELLE,
“OXJR NAVY ”
A.ustraliaxi Tour.
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, Three Weeks from March 15.
CHARLES MAOMAHON, Manager for Mr. SNAZELLE.
CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
Miss Ada Law re DCS,
The Greatest Tragedienne, Comedienne and Emotional
Actress Australia .has yet produced.
Supported by
MR. WILSON FORBES' DRAMATIC CO.
“ Leah,” “ Camille,” “ Romeo and Juliet,”
“East Lynne."
Broken Hill, EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 8.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Leasee and Manager Alfred Dampier.
FAREW EI.I, PERFORMANCE.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
SATURDAY, 6th APRIL, to SATURDAY, I3th, inclusive.
FAREWELL!! !
pA L ACE THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce Comedy,
the Great Anglo-American Success,
THE GLEEFUL PLENITUDE,
WHY SMITNJ-CFT NOM€.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Mr. C. M. RODNEY,
THE SOCIETY ENTERTAINER NOW
TOURING VICTORIA,
WILL* OPEN .IN SYDNEY,
SATTJBDAY, APBIL 13.
-|-HE TALK OF THE TOWN.
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
Royal Circus and Menagerie.
The Performance on Saturday last Created A FURORE,
and is now
THE TALK OF THE ENTIRE CITY.
TO-NIGHT & EVERY EVENING (Commencing at 8 Sharp).
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY & WEDNESDAY at 3.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
RESERVED CHAIRS at Nicholson’s, Is. EXTRA.
Carriages, 10.30.
A. MIDDLETON, Business Manager.
J. A. MARTIN, Treasurer.
QENTTEINrA RY HALL
(YORK STREET, SYDNEY).
EASTER MONDAY NIGHT.
mss KATE ROONEY’S
LAST APPEARANCE in Sydney prior to her De-
parture by R.M.S. Omrah on 10th inst.
VW POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Gorgeous Operatic Fairy PANTOMIME,
CINDEBELIiA.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SPECTACLE EVER SEEN
ON ANY STAGE.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION —Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance), 10 to 6.
Em pire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Magnificent New First Part, TH E ROSE BOWER.
New Artists Every Week. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, Business Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 6,
Return of the
WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY,
Presenting for the First Time in Sydney the Most
Fascinating Musical Attraction ever /witnessed on the
Australian Stage, the Successful Musical Comedy, entitled
FLORODOR A.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
OUR WINTER SPECIAL,
The “FEDERAL”
GUINEA OVERCOAT
Made of HIGH-CLASS QUALITY MELTON
CLOTH, lined Italian Cloth throughout, Silkette
Linen Sleeves, VELVET COLLAR, Strong Poc-
kets, full back with two vents, PERFECTLY
TAILORED-
ALL FOR 21s.
COLORS— Navy, Black, Browns, Fawns & Drabs
A “look in,” then a “ try on,” and the result
will be that you will waik out well “suited”
with au Overcoat for
One Guinea.
(If you cannot come in, send us your size,
enclose a Guinea, mention color, and we will
post you one by return.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 200, 211 PITT BT., BYDNEY.
THE ROYAL VISIT
Secure
Lasting
Mementoes
Of this
Great Event
With a
KODAK.
KODAKS at all Prices from
ss. to £7 15 0.
FR€€ INSTRUCTION
. . IN . .
PHOTOGRAPHY
GIVEN TO PURCHASERS.
Write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LIST, Post
Free, and Mention This Paper, to
KODAK
——
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
and of all Photographic Dealers.
Publications.
WOMB
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED* NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES.
d their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION.
price 5s. 6d., posted.
h
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands.
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
A RATIONAL REFORM IN TEACHING
FRENCH.
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.)
Therefore use PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d.)
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. 0. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
36 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.


An Engineer in
Difficulties!
TRIES, LIKE MANY MORE, HEAPS OF
SO CALLED REMEDIES
Meets with Final Success.
The Case of
MR. JAMES BURNS.
fU;/ Our Reporter.)
No invalid is so difficult to deal with as
the one who has “ never known a diiy’s
sickness." For the most part he resolutely
puts away the suggestion—“ That his time
has comeat last, that his smooth wot king
machinery has broken down, and i hat active
repair is at once required.” No ! the
chances are the sufferer battles on, getting
daily worse and worse, till final collapse lays
him on his back.
“My husband never would have that
anything was seriously the matter with him,
that he was bilious, or that his liver wus not
as sound as it ought to be,’’ said Mrs. Bums
as our reporter interviewed that lady and
Mr. Burns. “ Not till he was really bad
and desperately ill would he give in, and
admit that something was radically wrong
with him.” Mr. Burns, it may be men-
tioned, is an engineer by profession, living
at 107 Stanley-street, North Melbourne,
and well known in that locality. Some time
ago he was engaged in a very arduous
undertaking, where he was exposed to all
kinds of weather, continually knocked up
by excessive travelling, and left for long
periods with poor and irregular food. In
the pride of good health and an iron con-
stitution, Mr. Burns thought nothing of
these hardships at the time ; but later on,
like many more before him, he had good
cause to recollect. “ I fell,”said Mr. Burns,
“into a low lethargic condiii n of body
and mind. I had pains all over me. Ido
not think there was a pait of my frame free
from an ache of some kind. I was bilious
with an excess of bile that seemed to numb
all my faculties. I did not care to work, to
move about, to do anything. Yet when I
braced myself to active exercise I felt better
—that is, while the work lasted ; but when
the excitement and stimulant of exercise
was over I was done, prostrate and desti-
tute of all hope and energy. I suffered
from & pain below my neck and between
my shoulders, that cramped up my body.
At the least excitement my heart was
deranged, and went thump, thump, thump
against my ribs like the beat of a hammer.
My stomach and digestive organs behaved
very strangely, as though they had gone on
■trike and quite given up work. No sooner
had I eaten a meal than I had to run to the
back yard and vomit it all up just as I had
swallowed it; so that my assimilative pro-
cess was absolutely paralysed. At times I
would go giddy in the head, like a child
that turns rouud and round; I could not
stand on my feet, and felt the sick deadly
sensation of one about to faint. If I had
been resting any time in one position, and
went to get up, I was held fast by a stiff
gripping pain in the small of the back
Gradually I lost all taste or inclination for
food ; I would go for two or three days con-
tinuously without eating. This starvation
greatly added to my weakness, and at the
same time I rapidly lost flesh, and became
reduced to a shadow of my former self. My
nervous system suffered with the rest of
my body, and I became morbidly sensitive
to the least sound. A loud knock at the
door would make me start and jump as
though a camion had suddenly been fired
-close by. My temper became very irritable,
I was vexed and upset at the least thing.
1 slept well, in fact I was always drowsy ;
but the sleep app a red to do me no good. I
was never rested, bleeping for one hour
was aa good as eight for all the benefit I
derived, and in the morning I would be
more tired than at night. A tenor that
haunted my night’s rest was nightmare.
Even when I awoke, or, what won d often
happen, my wife woke me, I soil for a time
experienced the cruel pains of suff cation
and strangulation. This general upsetting
of my whole system affected my eyes ; there
were times wh»u they were quite dull, my
sight becoming blurred, and it was with
difficulty that 1 could see to read. When I
stooped down there followed pains aero s my
loins like the piercing of sharp instruments.
My palate always iiad a nasty flavour, my
tongue was parched and dry. I became
wonderfully chang d in outward appearance
and was depressing, to look at, thin, worn
and emaciated, a skeleton of what I had
been.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mr. Burns?’
enquired the pressman.
“Heaps of things, various makes of bitters
and blood purifiers, all warranted to cure
cases like mine and all useless, also a
uutnber of patent and much 1 aided cure-alls,
with a like result. None did me the slight-
est good, iu fact I became day by day
steadily worse. It was about this time,
when 1 concluded that there was no medi-
cine in the world that would relieve my
ufferings, that a book was left at the door
descriptive of the virtues of Clements Tonic.
“I wonder,” said my wife, “ if that would
do you any good, let us have one more try.”
She went over to our chemist and asked
about Clements Tonic, and that gentleman
told her she could not go wioug in buying
it, that it was :lie best remedy be knew of,
that Ins sales of Clements Tonic were large
and increasing, and he had ieceived the very
best reports from his customers who had
purchased it, and that there was not the
shadow of a doubt that Clements Tonic did
all that it claimed to do. After that, you
may be sure I purchased a bottle of Clements
Tonic, for I know that chemists are not
naturally inclined to give credit to propiie-
taiy medicines without good reason. My
health began to mend from the very first
hot tle I took. I gained a good appetite, and
my stomach retained the food. My sleep
refreshed me, the pains all over my body, in
my back, head, and heart were all subdued.
I regained energy and flesh and lost my
sallow appearance, my nerves were strength-
eued, and at night 1 slept soundly, undis-
turbed by dreams ; and very soon my cure
was complete.”
“I report this for the papers, Mr. Burns,”
said our representative.
“ I am glad to hear it, and I hope it will
be read and do good ; it’s all true, and you
can publish it how you I ke.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, James S. Bukns, of 107 Stanley-street, North
Melbourne, in the Colony of Victoria, do solemnly
and sincerely declare th.t I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of six iolios and
consecutively numbered from one to six, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my iduess and cure by Clements T mic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
manner my statements—which I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the nrovisio .s of an
Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
making a False Declaration punishable for wilful
and corrupt perjury.
effosfy Jr/9'3< tnu <i
Declared at Melbourne, in the Colony of Viet uia,
this 27th day of December, one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
CHARLES E HIRST. j.P.
A Justice of the Peace in and lor the Central iiahi-
wick of the Colony ol Victoria.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
h
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.'
TESTIMONIAL.—“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
\aiue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED. SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION . — See capsule marital ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.' Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
I’r’rared only by J. 0. F,NO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
yow
Jleady.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
PRICE 6d, POSTED Bd.
Business Announcements.
(Hood Tailoriog.
AUTUMN.
Hough Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & Yoi’k Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
So
u
Medical.
Header, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? Bv uiy method you can l< arn
to II pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
'amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensi \ e thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in . A postal card will bring it
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
no ize. It is a chance of a
lifs-time. Address—
QJ&
M
Prof. R. H. BARR ADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
+\'*o
A*
%
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Nlver Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS.
ITjRUNKENNEgg
eSfP' Positively CURED by Adn
by Administering
EUCRASY.
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write, TO-DA I ’for Free Book
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney
It can be given in
drink or food with-
Business Announcements
lT WILL PAY YOU TO GO Til EKE.
Follow the footsteps of tha wise and buy the Be t.
Cheapest, and Most s-tvlish OLOTtIIKG in Australia.
moPHIETAI'T LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 4is. U
marvellous value: made from
a 1 wool '1 weeds Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finish* d.
A splendid Knit to Older from
any class fi< ater»al £.l 3i To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns I2s. 4>d.
Dress Suits to measure £*«
Clerical Suits, to measure. £./.
Rding Bre ches. 25a.
hiding Habits Ac.
We supply re .dy made. Elen's
.capital • beel Suits 2l*. A 25*.
} Fain us Hal arat Ser.e Suits,
Indict dye. 2 s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Serge ette 'uits.3l'B.
Exce.lent tweed or Serge
Trousers. Si s, I Id.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests IDs lid.
Mens Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. IDs Ud. W ite l»r»U
Sacs and Trousers. lOs (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. I * lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca > cs.
(is. Dd. White and Brown * rill
Trousers 3s. Dd.,4s Dd. 5s lid.
Travelling Trui ks, Ba s and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White shiits, colored
front and cuffs 2s Dd.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs. , r »s. ».d.
Wnite Mare Shirts collar and
pocket. 3s. (Jil.
So t Alpine Hats, 4 s'. 6d.. all
colors
Hard Hats. 4-- (id. Caps. Is,
erino Undershirts or Pants,
Is. Dd,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
gs. Dd . Os. tfd. , „
We Hue to write letters; so don’t be af*aid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “The Phildsm hv «f I ress ” and
patterns of a.I kinds and self-rne au-ement forms posted tree
r
WOODHEAD’S^
=“ CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, Ac.
No. 5, 355; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Ceiling), 25s each.
Ci
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
Brisbane
S|
paten
Weak
Men.
There is nothing- like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief ; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak, parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ I>r. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. 11. SOUL & CO., Asbni’S.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdas., LONDON
=gS*UI
SUOI3
m
A
N
O
rs'
%
VH
QM
c/>
hanns
S£
SKHft
d 7
aio
-77
o
“ The Moat Charming Australian Book of Verse ”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
By WILL OGILVIK. 4s 6d.


i
ĥ
NO MIDDLEME.N
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
ħ
h
SSiLVe pw#S
STOG
THE SIX
PREMIER
E STAR Ll S H'M ENTS
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 82618.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307 —Solid Silver-Top Blotting
Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 ss.
No. F2727—Sterling: Silver Hall-marked Cake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
15s 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A.—Fine Quality Opal and 15ct. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in 9ct. Gold, £1 ss.
No. E7302.—9c.
Gold Heart set with
Pearls and
Turquoises, 16s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, £1 ss. £1 15s, £2.
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4.
Ud (M
j|
No. 198 A.
SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, Iss 6d ;
15c Gold, £1 10s;
Silver, 4s.
No. E 7061. —New Design, 9c. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
2S
m
m
fk
2®,
SK
£
ic
PEIi!
No. E 3938. —Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3£in. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver-
plate, 17s 6d each.
No. E 9248.
Out Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining,
£1 17s 6d and £2 ss.
%'junf
11 I i> ■unTHii
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6d.
No. 153 A.—Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds.
3 Opals, £4 17s 6d.
No. E 7058. —15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. 157 A Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 145A.—9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7s 6d.
No. E 6728.— Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £2 15s.
No. E8308.—9c. Gold Curb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E9l37.—Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 128 A.
15c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 163.—5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
388.—Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long, 3s.
No. 345 A.
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass Butter Dish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast Cruet,
complete with Spoons,
13s 6d.
No. E 7072.
6-Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Rattle, with
Ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 2
Is.
No. 136.— 9 c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No-178.—Wedding-
Ring, 18c. Gold,
No. E 3777.
Combination Lamp and Fern Pot,
£2 12s Gd.
No. 122A.—15c. Gold Brooch, Fine Set Amethyst.
£2 7s 6d.
STEWART
LONDON ffljr
No. 326.—Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£1 10s.
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening- Spoon, in Case,
15s 6d ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 267 A.—Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 295.—Silver-plated Serviette I
8s 6d ; i in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in
tings, 2 in Case,
Case, £1 sa.
Write for Free Catalogue-
All Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


LIVES AILMEN
exact/size
ofthebouls
wsrz
S9I
iffimmas
>
KUTNOW’S
proved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
- I
71
m
*A
%
&
ft
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap*
W
i" "' LonooN?, J f
*§K«s* 41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.^t
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.** |
'EXACT SIZE.
OFTHE BOTTLE
KUTNOW’S POWDER Restores Health and Activity to the Liver, and Drives Away
the Diliousness, Headache, Hervousness, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Low Spirits,
Insomnia, Lack of Appetite and Energy, &c., which a Disordered Liver causes.
An active, healthy liver means pure blood, a stomach and kidneys in good working order, a healthy appe-
tite for food ability to sleep, capacity for work, and freedom from headache, nervousness, biliousness, dyspepsia,
constipation, and a hundred other ills that make life miserable. Those persons, however, who are engaged m
sedentary occupations, or are in the habit of indulging too freely in rich foods, or even plain foods, seldom have
bodies that are in this healthy condition, and hence a very large proportion of the people of the. well-to-do, well-
fed, brain-working class suffer from a disordered liver.
It is useless to attempt to remedy liver derangements and their symptoms by taking malt, pepsin, and
other preparations, which give nothing more than mere temporary relief. In order to restore the liver to healthy
activity, it must be freed of the impurities which weaken it and hinder its action ; and nothing does this more
effectively and less unpleasantly than Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. It is the most speedy
and certain remedy for all derangements of the liver.
Everyone is aware that when a sponge has been in use for some time the pores become clogged with soap
and other matter, which make it almost useless. When, however, it is soaked for several hours in a solution of
sa j t or> better still, in a warm solution of alkaline sulphated water —the soap and other impurities are dissolved
out and the sponge becomes clean.
Exactly the same thing occurs when a sufferer from a disordered liver takes a course of Kutnow’s Powder.
It increases the action of that and other digestive organs by freeing them of the waste matters that cause their
derangement. It renders them, as it were, like a clean sponge. The moment this derangement of the organs
has been rectified, and the liver has been restored to a healthy condition, the sick headache, biliousness, nervous-
ness, dyspepsia, constipation, low spirits, insomnia, loss of appetite, &c., which liver disorder causes will disappear,
and renewed health, strength and vigor follow.
After using Kutnow’s Powder the digestion becomes stronger, the excretion more prompt, and the
assimilation more complete.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors . See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Beer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTJSOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KUTNO W’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS
s. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A ——.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Father’s Diamonds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Father’s fad was Co-operation. That was the
reason he gave up his work as a baker and took a
contract for breaking stones. You see, he had a
family of five boys strong enough to use a hammer,
and there were others coming on.
Father appointed himself Treasurer.
Stone was stone in those days, and the co-
operative company was a success. So much so,
that father began to develop a scorn of all white-
handed occupations.
“You begin when you like, knock off when you
like, have a holiday when you like,” said father,
“and there’s no boss to come interfering.”
Father always spoke like that a day or two
before the monthly pay. No doubt he was think-
ing of the fortnight’s holiday he always took after
the settling-up. It would have been longer,
father said, if the surveyor hadn’t cheated him.
His opinion of surveyors was unprintable.
“ And it’s a healthy occupation, too. Gives
spring to the boys’ muscles, and makes ’em indus-
when he returned to work, and noticed the
growing heap of stone from the boys’ hammers.
6 The boys’ did not dare to take holidays them-
selves Father was against it. Jack tried to
rebel’once, but father quelled the insurrection
with the hammer-handle.
Then the record-pay came —sufficient to keep
the old man on the spree for three weeks. He
even omitted to hint that the surveyor was a
tl 'wiien he turned-up again the supply of coarse
stone was nearly exhausted. Father always did
the quarrying himself. He reckoned he knew a
thing or two about stone. “ You can’t trust
them boys,” he said. “ Like as not they’d pick out
the hardest. Catch me, though ! ”
Father was pleased about something when he
got home that night. lie talked of becoming the
richest man in Australia before the end of the
year Father’s talk didn’t make much impression
on the rest of the family. He was of optimistic
temperament, and usually had a scheme that
would enrich him some time in the future.
“ I’m the man the slianty-keeper refused a drink
to yesterday—and, to-day!” Father stopped
short and chuckled. . , , T ,
Suddenly he ordered the boys to bed. lie
wanted to be quiet and think.
Father did nothing but quarry, and grew hap-
Next pay was the smallest in the history of the
co-operative company, and father’s credit was
gone at the end of the first week.
He sulked for a day, and then went off to the
shanty-keeper. ~ ,
The shanty-keeper frowned, but father called
him aside, and drew.something wrapped in paper
from his pocket.
The shanty-keeper was interested, lie sus-
pected half-a-sovereign.
Father tore away the paper and displayed a
glittering quartz crystal.-
“ A diamond ! ” whispered father. ,
“Diamond be hanged ! I’ll get you a handful
for sixpence. Get out! ”
Father got.
JACK ASH.
Our Boarding-house.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.'S.W.
There were six of us fellows ; all young, in good
billets, and with fine, healthy appetites.
We had engaged with Mrs. Cluny on the under-
standing that she took no other boarders, and
then, when we were settled, she went back on us,
for one night, at dinner, we found another pay-
ing guest,” and, worst of all, a lady.
We called a meeting upstairs, in Smiler’s bed- :
room, and decided she would have to go. This
was the first night, and, after we had stood her
for a week, we made a deputation to our landlady.
She was very sorry, etc., but the lady-boarder was
a “monthly-paid-in-advance,” therefore it could
not be done, and we must put up with it. We
called another meeting, to lay our plans. Our
first grievance was that, at breakfast every morn-
ing, she had two hot, buttered rolls while we had
the’ plain, or garden, bread. One morning, the
plate was seized by the literary man, and handed
to Fatty, who had to eat them both. He did not
seem to relish his breakfast as much as he thought
he would. If the murder in the lady-boarder s
eye could have taken effect there would have been
six corpses for the cold-storage chamber.
When we all met at dinner there was a frigid
silence. For the first time since her advent, the
lady-boarder did not tell the story of her great
connections at “’Ome.”_ After dinner the Cynic
kept muttering about poisons that killed and left
no trace. The Dazzler told a story about a man
he knew who had married young and then re-
pented, and had lured his wife to the edge of a
cliff and pitched her over. Some of us could not
quite see how this conversation could help us m
our dilemma, but at last, with a knowing wink,
Fatty invited us up to his room. He had dis-
covered that the “She’s” bedroom was exactly
underneath his. We all set to work with a wilf.
The carpet was taken up, furniture moved to one
side, a chalk ring drawn, and a boxing contest
begun, which was to last indefinitely from 9 to 12
every night (she went to bed at 9).
The old girl stood it like a brick and made no
complaint. We had nearly tired of our own
sport when, on the third night, we heard a
timid knock on the door. To our united yell of
“ Come in,” entered Mr. Cluny. He was a little,
knock-kneed man with an immense idea of his
own prowess. He uttered a poor little squeak of
remonstrance —“ Gentlemen, gentlemen, there
are ladies in the house!” We promptly caught
and stripped him, clapped on the gloves and
started to play football with him. Told him he
was a Hercules in the buff, and to put em up.
He did and so did Billy. When he had one eye
bunged-up and his nose streaming with gore,
there came another knock on the door. We stood
paralysed as to what would happen. Mrs. Cluny
opened the door suddenly, gave a fearful scream
and fled.
The next night we lolled on the floor at ease,
smoked our pipes, and rolled dead marines up and
down the floor. They made a lovely row, and it
was not nearly so tiring as boxing. Suddenly the
gas went out. Wo went to investigate with
matches and found it turned off at the'meter, and
the key nowhere to be found. Held a meeting at
midnight on the roof and made the night hideous
with our suggestions for revenge. We finally de-
cided that we would all give notice to leave. We
drew lots as to who should be the first to speak.
Our Artist was the winner. _ He was a man who
went in for wild bohemianism, and only shaved
when he was asked out to dinner. In the morn-
ing we were all out of bed at the first stroke of the
gong and hanging over the bannisters awaiting
our turn. We heard our Artist pleasantly pass
the time of day, and then, ‘‘ Er Mrs. Cluny,
doosid sorry y’ know, but —er —I shave each night
before retiring, and—er —I find it quite impossible
to do without the gas y’ know, so l am reluctantly
compelled to give you a week’s notice; too doosid
risky y’ know to shave by the light of a candle.
We could not hear her reply. Then the Beau
went down and in exactly the same words (only he
always varnished his boots at night) also gave
notice. When five of us had been represented
Mrs. Cluny got hysterical and burst into tears.
She said we could have the gas-meter taken up-
stairs to our bedrooms —we could have the whole
house, anything for peace. As we felt we had
won a victory we graciously consented to stop, it
only the lady-boarder left. She promised, and
home was once more “ Home.”
The following week the lady-boarder’s month
was up, and she left for Maoriland. Mrs. Cluny
thought she would like a change and went with
her. She gave Mr. Cluny particular instructions
to look after our comfort, which he did m a bitter
spirit by reason of the famous boxing-lesson.
One night we gave a party. We sent in two
big bags of oysters and several dozen of beer, w e
carried them into the finnicky man’s room, in-
vited a few fellows in and made things hum We
put our visitors out with difficulty at about o
am., and then started to clean-up. _We stacked
the oyster-shells on top of the stairs, and then
sliding dexterously down the banisters we went to
our several couches and slept the sleep of the just.
Eatty, who was too fresh to get downstairs, we
left on the landing sleeping like a cherub. Me
woke about 4 a.m., feeling cold, and started to
erope his way down. In the dark he fell foul ot
the oyster-shells. They went clattering down,
and so did Fatty, and all night long was heard the
drip, drip of the shells falling into the hail.
We went down to breakfast feeling very happy,
and Mr. Cluny growled out “ that if we were
going to chuck our boots up and down stairs all
night we could chuck ourselves out of the house.
We took him at his word and decided to
That night we drew up an advt. for the
Herald :
q IX Young Gentlemen, good positions, desire Board
O an d Residence in good house with quiet family ;
good table and absolute quiet essential. Apply by
letter or personally, after six, to Integrity, Dash-
street, Potts Point.
For the next three days bell and knocker were
never still. In three days we received 197 letters
■and fifty personal applications. Some ladies were
so kind as to bring their daughters for inspection,
and in one instance the old lady brought three.
We took it in turns to interview them, and we
never had such a roaring week in all our lives.
The people sent in repeatedly from next door to
complain about us, so we climbed on the roof m
the dead of night and dropped lighted crackers
down the bedroom chimneys. I forgot to men-
tion that the house next door was a ladies school.
We found a place to suit us with two old maiden
ladies, and Saturday being half-holiday we hired
two carts to move us. We condoled very much
with old Cluny, and recommended him a good
hair-restorer. We also clubbed and presented
him with a set of boxing-gloves.
The two old maids were taken away to Callan
Park last week, and,"Mrs. Cluny having returned
from Maoriland, we all came into our own again
last Saturday, . . , ~ •
r Oluny is now sleeping m the coal-cellar.
ELESE ESPINASSE.
Queensland Salvation Army offers a bed for
a shilling a night; a bunk for 4d. or 3d. a night;
refreshments, all prices down to a penny - -Not
much chance for a working-man’s eating-house
that has to compete with the Harmy, which pur-
veys at such a price victuals of ten procured gratis.
N.S.W. compositors have had a long run
of lean years, and, taking them as a body, they
have borne-up spiritedly enough. Labor-saving
inventions they do not rail against; but if there s
a kick in them it ought to be delivered at a com-
paratively new, but rapidly-growing, system under
which the.matrix ” of columns of matter set-up
in cheap dens in England is received m Sydney at
a trifle a column and issued in N.S.W. news-
papers.
“ J.S.” to The Bulletin
That- Montenegrin youth who can see certain satellites
of Jupiter with the naked eye, is one of a small number
of visually-gifted persons possessing an optical peculiarity
which overcomes the glare from the adjacent planet.
Such cases are occasionally recorded. A
tailor of Breslau, who lived in the early part of this cen
tury, could distinguish the third satellite at a glance, the
first with great clearness when at its maximum depres-
sion, but never the second or fourth alone. As P oin ted
out by a correspondent (8., 2/3, ’01) Jupiter really has five
moons, but the smallest, discovered by Barnard in 1892
with the Lick telescope, is only visible to telescopes of
the greatest power.
Certain stars are also to be seen only by persons pos-
sessing exceptionally strong sight—one of the Pleiades
for instance. The group consists of one star of the 3rd
magnitude, two of the 4th, three of the sth, and two be-
tween the 6th and 7th, besides numerous smaller tele-
scopic bodies. Of the two last-mentioned, one is too
close to Atlas (4th mag.) to be seen but the other,
Celseno, is visible on clear nights to those possessed of
strong sight—the present writer is an example. Com-
paratively few people seem to be able to see this seventh
Pleiad with unaided vision. Alcor, in the tail of the
Great Bear, was called by the old Arabian astronomers
Sadak— “The Test”—since, from the fact of its being
overpowered by the adjacent large star Mizar, it formed
a good standard for sharpness of sight in pre-telescopic
dl The new star lately reported in Perseus is an instance
of another rare phenomenon. About 22 instances of the
kind are recorded in the last 2000 years, taking the
ancient Chinese records into account. Tycho Brahe in
1573 observed a new star of extraordinary brilliancy and
various colours in Cassiopeia, which gradually faded away
after 17 months, and a pupil of Kepler in 1604 discovered
a big new star in Ophiuchus. Other stars have
shown periodical variability, suddenly flaming up
into unusual brilliancy. Some stars change color, Sinus
being the best-known example. In Ptolemy’s time it was
described as a “ fiery-red ” star, but by the 16th century
had become pure white, remaining so to this day.
Astronomers cannot explain the phenomenon, but the
best accepted theory implies some alteration of the clouds
surrounding it, which has affected the passage of its light-
rays The appearance of a “ new ” star probably depends
on the sudden ignition of a dark oosmical body. Many
of these “dark stars” are known to exist, but they
are of course, invisible to the telescope. Perseus, the
constellation in which the latest example has appeared,
has no previous pranks of the kind recorded against it,
but is somewhat famous on account of the extraordinary
number of shooting stars it has contributed to the
November displays. The new star will probably fade
and disappear as its predecessors have done. In ancient
days some catastrophe would have been fathered on it,
but Man is becoming less magnificently egotistical


STRAIGHT TALK
3Y SYDNEY PEOPLE
ABOUT
.. DOAN’S . □
Backache Kidney Fills.
w
t=
711
*
7.
P'S
m
K
s
X
0
**
c*
r
\
Hull
E
<n
\f ~h
W
II
jm \ u
-t \
/A
i,/\
NS
i ■ !
n m
5s *', <
HEARD IN TRAINS, ’BUSES—EVERYWHERE ARD ALWAYS- DOAN’S.
When incidents like the following occur here in Sydney, and
Sydney men and Sydney women relate their experiences in a
Sydney paper for the benefit of Sydney people, the genuineness of
the statements cannot be doubted. They have the ring of truth
about them that there is no getting away from.
Here is the case of Mrs. Fred. Russell, 7 St.
Andrews-street, Balmain: —“My husband has
been bad three or four years with kidney trouble.
He was such a sufferer that he could not stand up
straight, and all his movements were fraught with
great pain. Unable to sleep at night, he used to
try all manner of positions, and would get up next
morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed.
The best position for him to lie in was face down-
ward, but he would soon have to change that.
Sometimes the pains were a lot worse than others.
To stand up straight was wojse than hard work.
When well, before he got bad I mean, he used to
do heavy work, but he had to give up, his back
having well-nigh crippled him. He went to hos-
pitals one after another ; and when they failed to
give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all
manner of remedies advertised, excepting one.
We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments
and other things for outward application,
but he was still as bad as ever after using
them—aye, worse. It is now over 12 months
since that lucky day when we got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
King-street. At that time he was unable
to sit down or lie down, and when he walked
he held his back all the time. His pains were
frightful. Well, the first few doses of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills rid him of those terrible
pains, and after a time he became much improved.
In all he took six boxes. Then he left off the
medicine, and has taken none since, and that is
over six months ago. A few days ago he said to
me, ‘You never hear me complain of pains now ;
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.’ ”
Then there is the case of Mrs. Spear, of 32
Goodsell-street, St. Peters, Sydney, who suffered
for a good while with her back, a constant dull
ache about the kidneys, who was at last cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
And there are the cases of Mrs. M. Isaacs,
21 Albion-street, Surry Hills; Mrs. Gregg, 9
Enmore-street, Newtown ; Joseph Grieve, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills, Mr. E. Hansen, 41
Rosser-street, Balmain ; Mrs. F. May, Excelsior-
street, Woollahra; and hundreds of others, all
cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills of illness,
the full facts of their cases having already been
published in the Sydney papers.
WHY?
AND THEY ARE All SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Is there not food for reflection in the above, for anyone who is ill ? Do other medicines publish
in Sydney straight out, honest statements from Sydney people ? No j they publish names of people
from some far away town.
Why?
Be Sure You Get DOAN’S. The kind your neighbors endorse. Don’t accept
a substitute. All chemists and storekeepers sell them at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or if you
cannot obtain them locally they will be sent on receipt of price by Foster-M‘Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-st.,
Sydney, Sole Proprietors.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms'of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemmorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound dan-
gerous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a bonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratah, Orange-street,
Randwick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged 10 years,
was cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the disease
at school. It affected her scalp, which was terribly
inflamed and all broken out, which irritated her
terribly. She obtained some of Doan’3 Ointment
at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, and after
thoroughly washing the child’s scalp applied it.
The result was the scalp entirely healed in a few
days, and left no scar, much to their joy.
“I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Eczema—and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, or will be posted on receipt of n-Ve by
the proprietors, Foster-M‘Glellan °itt»
street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
A Love-Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Now that our lives are one in daily use
And household duties claim our mutual aid,
Existence is too level to induce
The rain of song,” she said.
“The unwedded lover must unpack his heart
Of words fire-purged from dross of common speech;
The husband needs no ardour and no art
To impassion and beseech.
“ Week after week the little temple bells
Tinkled and called me to devotion due,
The while you prayed in faltering syllables,
And bade me kneel with you.
“ Here am I, kneeling by your side, and here,
With downcast eyes, my crimson beads I tell;
But shall I, at the accustomed season, hear
The tinkling of the bell ?.”
* * * *
0 fragrance of my life, my spirit’s light,
Eacli act, each word, each heart-beat is a note
In song as wide and wonderful as Night,
Though I sing naught by rote.
My very self is music. Through your eyes
I see a universe by Love made whole,
And splendour shining softly through them lies
On my Memnonian soul.
N.S.W.
J LE GAY BRERETON.
My Valley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last week I was out walking up the North
Shore line, when I came to the bottom of a steep
path suddenly, and—it all seems like a dream.
Half an hour from the city, and you leave the
red red road, and turn away westward.
The path falls steeply, falls, falls, falls ; all in a
moment you are there. The Valley lies at your
feet, the mysterious Valley, strange whispers of
which have come floating to the outer world. I
have often heard of the valley where everybody
marries everybody, but I never believed it existed.
And here it lies, a wide, green, laughing place,
miles wide, miles and miles long. Here and there
on the hillsides, and up the valley itself, are
houses ; they look like homes. They rear them-
selves so gently, with such fronts of woodenness
and peace, from luxuriant melon-slopes and
orchards. Their golden smoke goes curling up
through the afternoon sunlight, and you long to
go in and become part of them, even as they are
part of the beautiful closed-in world outside them.
Low hills lie all round. The world is shut right
off. You are out of everything altogether.
Here in this valley the ordinary ways of life—
Australian life as we know it—cease ; something
foreign, something French, a trace of the Maupas-
sant or Flaubert steals in. They do as they like
here. You see two women with bare feet, dig-
ging in dull brown dresses on a green slope.
Their blue sun-bonnets are bent till the field of
peas throws up an emerald background behind
them. You come to a little grave with a rail-
ing round it at the bottom of an orchard. She
was a daughter who died thirty years ago, but
fresh flowers are in the bottle at the foot of the
grave. You pass wooden oases, the lids open to
show the gleaming scarlet of ripe tomatoes, or the
dull amber and pink of peaches. You feel an in-
tense, exquisite silence in the midst of work and
life. You watch men picking plums, and a woman
washing at a stream away on the left hill. She
works as if life were all before her and yet throws
an agility into her movements, and hums happily,
while her little crippled son lies on the grass near.
You look all along the valley and you see a cottage
up the slopes, and you are told how that was the
house Grandfather was born in. Fancy a grand-
father being born in a land where most- grand-
fathers belong to a prehistoric age, and are, in fact,
merely conjectural! Great-Grandfather lived there.
Mother, and uncles, and aunts, were born there.
Everybody is related to everybody.
Is it Poe’s valley—that “ greenest of our valleys
by good angels tenanted,” we have stumbled into,
five minutes from the station, half-an-hour from
Sydney. Years ago—9o years ago—Great-Grand-
father Owned the valley, Just fancy a great-
grandfather ! Years went on, and Grandfather
married, and his children married, and cousins
married cousins, but they all clung to the valley.
The sons brought their wives, the daughters their
husbands, and they built new houses on its sloping
sides, and it began to be a hive of homes. Aunts
and uncles, brothers and sisters, they went on
marrying among themselves until relationship got
lost altogether. They are all mixed up now.
They don’t know what they are themselves. But
they stayed on there in the Valley; and they stay
there still, and one name predominates.
In the Valley they live by fruit. They rise
before dawn, they dress by candle-light, they
breakfast by the earliest rays of the sun. Men
and women alike, they begin their picking and
packing, peaches, apples, melons, tomatoes, plums
and pears, and when it is half-past 10 in the
morning they take a rest and sit down to their
mid-day dinner of vegetables and a peach or
apple pie.
They work on after that till five. Then they
take their tea. And early, almost with the sun-
set, they go to rest—the sweet still rest of a harmv
valley.
The utter peace of this valley of orchards creeps
into one’s soul. And these relatives live in har-
mony, and love each other. They go in and out
of each other’s houses all day long, and at Xmas
they gather in the old homestead, a stone’s-throw
away. If you try to realise where you are you are
lost. You cannot do it. You may not convince
yourself that you are not in another world. You
are in another life altogether. And again the
women in brown, digging peas, flash before you,
and Great-Grandfather’s cottage, the house Grand-
father was born in, and away to the left, a little
white place where the valley buries its dead. For
they die in the happy valley. What else would
you expect ? They marrv and intermarry, and grey
mists rise from the creek where the willows shed
red needles on the banks, and their roots turn
yellow like sponges under the creek waters, and
they die, many of them in early youth.
But in death, as in life, the valley is not divided
It dies, and is buried, here among its own It has
its own little cemetery, its own pastor to bury
aU d who r ik herJv!f rS ’ mothers - little children,
them 1 here belong to some one who lovei
them, close at hand. Over the graves grows such
a luxuriance of violets that I think to lee the
place in spring, and the blueness thrills through
my senses. Headstones of purest white mark all
the graves, little and big. The quiet place is full
fence Ap ' A f ’ ~t e £ um looks ov er the
tence. Acacias droop silently all around. And
in the winter, when the frosts come, loving hands
p °™ and ky Ws across the graves—for the vio-
AnH in +1 ? ay ~ to keep the frost from the violets !
Post 1 n} n f \u l6y not half an hour f «>m our
if i nakes the ni &kts loud, and
Streetfpf trama tkat run People down in the
1 k g i raSS ' If ever y° u w ant to go any-
my vaire a yl yWllere ° Ut th ® world ~&° a " d find
SYDNEY.
LOUISE MACK.
He took to the Track.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We all knew there would be a row soon between
the old man and George; and when George re-
fused to help in some chaff-cutting, saying it was
too hot, the storm came. The old man bucked
about and swore he was going to kill the lazy dog.
George grumbled, and said he wasn’t going to
a of himself for anyone.
1 he old woman cried and tried to mend matters,
even offering to take George’s place ; but the old
man wouldn t listen to it. At last he said, “ This
is wot it amounts to : you either give us a hand
or take to bluey.”
George, amidst crying from the old woman and
gaudy language from the old man, took up his
swag. I hat night he got out as far as Whelan’s
(three miles from our place). Next night he
-j past EWncl ge’s in a spring-cart. The
hid ridges live two miles past Whelan’s. George
was taking to the track in earnest. Five miles in
two days !
Ihe next night, as Jack and I were sitting on
the doorstep, we noticed someone sneaking around
about 40yards from the house. We were watch-
ing the figure when the old man came out. On
s 'eing it lie called out, “ Hey ! you ! come ’ere !
\v ot yer want? ”
1 he person addressed sidled up, when what was
our surprise to find out it was George ! Shame-
• and in a plaintive voice, he asked,
‘ Could I have a clean shirt, Dad, an’ another tie ?
I only took one of each with me.”
Come inside,” said Dad. “You was never
cut out for the track.”
“I’m off again in the morning,” said George,
hnng-up.
“ We ll see ! ” remarked Dad.
In the morning he went to George’s room. It
was empty. “By Gum! he’s gone,” bethought.
,1 ust then the ring of the axe caught his ear. He
went out. There, at the wood-heap, stood George
working- away for deal life. “Father,” he said,’
j r eckon y ouie t°° eld fer too much graft, so
111 help yer.”
So George stayed.
But what a change has come over Dad ! He
seldom works now, so George has to do his work
too. But he doesn’t grumble much.
• Yesterday Jack and I suggested that he should
give Dad Ins choice—the bluey or a bit of fencing.
Wy leg bears the mark of a pick-handle, and
Jack’s nose the mark of George’s fist.
RIVERINA.
At St. Arnaud (Vic.) they are taking up a
collection for a public fountain to commemorate
the deeds of Australia’s warriors in S’Afriea.
“ There is a Fountain filled with Blood.”
A warder in a certain Australian lunatic-
asylum recently underwent a severe ordeal. He
and a few of his colleagues, male and female, had
arranged for a quiet evening’s entertainment, and
provided suitable and unsuitable refreshments, in-
cluding a small barrel of beer. The festivities
went off splendidly, and when dancing was in full
swing this warder suggested to a female attendant
that they might find in his room further bottled
gladness of a better character than that in the
cask. The lady was nothing loth, but they had
scarcely entered the room when somebody else
was heard approaching. Concealing themselves
hurriedly, they saw an inferior attendant enter
stealthily and ransack the occupant’s belongings,
finally wrenching open a cash-box and abstracting
several sovereigns. The thief left as silently as
he came, and ever since that warder has been in a
quandary. He cannot tell the truth because he
would have to reveal himself guilty of two dis-
missable offences —introducing liquor into the asy-
lum and permitting a female attendant to be in
his room. But the whole asylum knows the offen-
der, and if the latter should be violently assaulted
one night in the dark by a dangerous lunatic
nobody connected with the institution will be a
bit surprised.
The recently-cabled discovery of a new
first-magnitude star in the northern constellation
Perseus is only worth the fuss of wiring-out
because of the brilliance of the stranger. These
new or “ temporary ” stars are not so very uncom-
mon, but as they generally are telescopic objects
they only attract attention in astronomical circles.
The sudden apparition of a star brighter than
Capella or Vega, the leaders of the northern stars,
would naturally hold public attention. In the
southern sky is a star known as “ Eta Argus ”,
Usually of the 6th. magnitude this stellar point
occasionally blazes up brighter than Sirius the
Dog-star. This is known as a “ variable ” star
with “maxima” of greatest brightness every 70
years, the' next flare-up being booked for some-
where about 1910. But for the new star to be of
this class would mean that it had a period of
enormous length for there is no record of its previ-
ous appearance in modern history. So the prob-
ability is that Nova Persei is but a casual brilliant.
Already it is on the wane, and soon will be lost to
sight. As to the cause. Human reasoning, based
on terrestial analogies, can only think of a collision.
Suppose two worlds in terrific impact, or a body
like oar earth precipitating herself into a body
like our sun ! The resultant explosion and com-
bustion would beggar the imagination of even an
O’Sullivan. Still, scientists are loth to think of
such a run-away in the well-ordered thoroughfares
of the interstellar spaces, and only put the theory
forward to account for the instantaneous character
of the appearance of the new star. Though light
travels at the inconceivable rate of 180,000 miles
per second, it has taken years, maybe centuries,
for the spectators on our planet to note the effect
of this supposed collision. Earth-dwellers can
contemplate the risk of such a mishap to their own
little speck in the universe with complacency.
The nearest “ fixed ” star is too far off for us to
observe its motion except with the most delicate
instruments, and it is pretty big odds against
one of them coming this way.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
a
“ Some time ago I bad a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of'medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I-tr ied Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
U I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family WBedlcine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER'S PILLS “A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
ft POLICf FOR TH€
Beipg a series of articles reprinted
from “Tbe Bfilletio,” witb aij
appendix d'aliQg witb tb« Fiscal
QdgStioo.
PRICE 6d.! posted, Bd.
ĥ
PLAIN NOty€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr, E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Cbromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public, speaking made easy. i 8 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dp, Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress,etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Maiio.mkt’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
Ho-w to Dance, new work. 1 s posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEV.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
CUBE BILIOUS AND NERVOUS DISORDERS.
BEECHAM’S PILLS , TT , ,
Cure Constipation and Sick Head ache.
BEECHAM’S"PILLS 77 . ,,, .
Ensure proper Assimilation of r ood.
BEECHAM’S~PILLS
Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers and
Dispel Pile.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Strengthen the Stomach. _
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Cure Stomachic Troubles, such as In-
digestion. Want of Appetite, Dys-
pepsia, Fulness after Meals, Vomit-
ings,..Sickness at the Stomach, etc.
BEEC HAM’SPILL^
Give almost instant relief.
BEECHAM’S PILLS .
Cure Restlessness and Insomnia, and
give sound and refreshing sleep.
Eeec ham’s pills
Arc suitable for both young and old.
BEECHAM’S PILLS „ , , ,
Will make you look well, feel well, and
keep well.
BEECHAM’S PILLS’ ~ ~
Purify the Blood, and remove Scurvy,
Pimples, and Blotches on the Skin.
tVeeciiam’s pills
I) Give tone and energy to the Muscular
. System.
TIEECHAM’S PILLS ~ 777T
1) Are the'Most Reliable Family Medi-
cine, and should bepept in every home.
T) EECPI AM’S PILLS
Jj Are specially suitable for.the Diseases
and Ailments common to Females of
all A ges, and they remove the cause of
much suffering to the sex.
bEECIIAM’S PILLS .
Improve the Complexion, and restore
the “ rosebud of health ” to pallid
cheeks.
7>EECHAM’S PILLS .
I) Assist the Kidneys to perform their
special functions.
BEECHAM’S PILLS, ~
If taken in time, will ward off many a
serious illness.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Have stood the test of over fifty years.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are sold everywhere in boxes, Is. 1.V1.
and 2s. 9d., containing 56 and 168 pills
respectively.
B
S. rP L'J^R
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPW’f A I,TI KS :
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
.CO
0£ 111
111 _l
£0
OQ.
a.
ħ
WS&SSMZ&Sm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ol tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Grout and Gravel; the
safest and most g-entle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
J
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
an
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
MO
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
| Ask for Bonn mg ton’s
| and seethatyou get it
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
asthma.
M mi IK . mmnm


SYDMEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECT lUCAL ENGINEERS,
M AN HE ACT U R,EItS
AND .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady hs& contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
" How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
WORTHINGTON
*„* . IS THE ORIGINAL.*.*
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
-
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAN'GYES
DUPLEX
PUMPS
ARE UP TO DATE
BENNIE, TEARE& GO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE,
And carry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
4
C A
IkS' %',£/
YEARS DYEIMG
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 y 015 Iv ST It Id KT, RiVEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Order* by post; from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Ss. per Day.
LU N C H E O
12 olclock till 2.30.
h
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
OIME SHILLING UPWARDS.
'ect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
dal FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.
Fir
Ltd.
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N’.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST.. SYDNEY.
Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers,
H. PATEBON, Manager.
ĥ
HORSEPOWER . .
. . MINING WHIM
Will raise a load of from 5001bs. to 7001bs. at a speed of
from 60ft. to 70ft. per minute. Fitted with patent auto-
matic safety attachment. Drum will carry 500 ft. of fin.
steel wire rope. Weight 12001bs.
Price £2B
including necessary sills, sweeps, extension rods, set of hand levers
with castings and bolts, and three sheaves.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS*
And at
cisco and London
•■'.l -.-
larence St., SYDNEY
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bourke st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
sole Agents JL A. FAY & CO.’S Wood work! ng Machinery.
harvest Stock of Woodivorkiny Machines in Australasia.
Baud Saw
Circular S
Tenoning
Sandpaper
Planing 1 and Moulding Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
Supplies and Furnishs
/V IH
V" ;
Of
Every Description
and Ail Other Woodworking Machinery.
above
jsSSisy
