

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
.
BEAVER
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity,”
The Lancet.
J&ExStm
Mining
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL
Engineers’ and
IRONMONGERY. NEW
Sawmill Machinery,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS
Mining Requisites,
AVAILABLE.
'j&m.
***?*;•. v
wastm
Fittiftg-N o/lft^fofFastWhefels.
at ehds. rivettei?
Watch Repairs by Post
K-r
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. Gd. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. Ail work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’Gold Keyless Watches. . Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. ' Send tor catalogue.
d. s. mm,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Opticiai
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86Piltstreet , SYDNEY.
Sole Agents, for Samuel Osborn & C 0.,, Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Too! Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
castings, hammers, files.
That’s All!
1
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THECOMMQNWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
3E*ric<3 SI3C ATOB = E>os tedl, ’ St3L-
Sole Wholesale Agents : EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
df
1
ƒ
HOT3ART.
jjadleys Orient ftotel.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from. 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, STTDKTBY.
AHI l/S K9llt NT for OLD and 1 O UNCI.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or-Siamcse Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjurin': Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
71S George-street, SYDNEY.
XIT L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
sd
LEATHER
belting!
Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by f
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches: —P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
I AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
G
11l
G
fds
A MACHINE THAT
: : PAYS ITS WAY.
There is no Concentrator now on the market
more effective and economical than the
WILFLEY ORE CONCENTRATOR.
MINE OWNERS
DIRECTORS .. .
SHAREHOLDERS
TRSBUTERS .. .
You all know the value of your Tailings and Slimes.
Do you know the capacity of the WILFLEY?
It is from 15 to 30 Tons per Day.
■All information "ive will supply you with if you will send or write, to us for
...a CATALOG.
MELBOURNE
486 COL LI N S S T
fd
FREMANTLE ♦ KALCOORLIE
214 HI GHST T M 9 DONALD ST
śd
JOSHUA’S
ERANG BRANDY.
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet: “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal': “A Pure Product,-well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOUS..
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
ifnTTn-lliW:»iUfll
f
Reasonable
Terms. .
ties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to nse
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Itheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it, MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CtybrOcatioQ.
The Ways of Many Waters g
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which lE. J. Brad r has contributed
to The BuldEhn and the Sunday Times, S vdney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the storv of
How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will <m
into a pocket without squeezing ; and the price is 5s
post-free. "
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1101.]
("Saturday, March 23, 1901.
Registered at the Genera? Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
NO W READY.
A New Booklet of Verses by RODERIC QUINN,
THE circling hearths.
Dedicated “ To the Commonwealth.”
CONTENTS:
iiie uirouiig iiMtww
Love’s Legacy
I Shall Remember
The Voice of Spring
At End of a Holiday
Love and Intuition
As the Tide Turns
The Furnace-Room
Derelict
Irony
A Caress
In the Gardens
The Craft of Blue
Mid-Forest Fear
The Glory-Call
The Currency Lass
The edition is limited to 500 copies for sale.
Of the author’s first booklet (out of print), Mr. W. B.
Yeats writes : “ Mr. Quinn lias real imaginative energy.
. . ‘ The Camp within the West ’ has a true solemnity
and beauty In its fundamental thought.”
Of the form of these booklets the Melbourne Age says
(15/12/’0) : “ The manner of appearance . . . deserves
comment. Paper, type, and decoration, are admirable
. . . the Muse invested with such delightful dress. . .
In envelope, Is. 6d. ; post-free Is. 9d. from the pub-
lishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 Georqe-st., Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
.*nd the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
73. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
" ’ney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
Alphabetical Verset—the Loiter B.
Since thou, O fondest and truest,
Hast loved me best and longest,
And now with trust the strongest
The joy of my heart renewest;
Since thou art dearer and dearer
While other hearts grow colder,
And ever, as love is older
More lovingly drawest nearer :
Since now I see in the measure
Of all my giving and taking,
Thou wert my hand in the making,
The sense and soul of my pleasure ;
The good I have ne’er repaid thee
In heaven I pray be recorded,
And all thy love rewarded
By God, thy Master that made thee.
1844- Robert Bridges.
♦
Serene, I fold my hands and wait,
Nor care for wind, or tide, or sea ;
I rave no more 'gainst time or fate,
For lo ! my own shall come to me.
I stay my haste, I make delays,
For what avails this eager pace ?
I stand amid the eternal ways,
And what is mine shall know my face.
Asleep, awake, by night or day,
The friends I seek are seeking me;
No wind can drive my bark astray
Nor change the tide of destiny.
What matter if I stand alone ?
I wait with joy the coming years ;
My heart shall reap where it has sown,
And garner up its fruit of tears.
The waters know their own and draw
The brook that springs in yonder height;
So flows the good with equal law
Unto the soul of pure delight.
The stars come nightly to the sky ;
The tidal wave unto the sea ;
Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high,
Can keep my own away from me.
1837- John Burroughs.
What, must my lord be gone ?
Command his horse and call
-r His servants, one and all.
“ Nay, nay, I go alone.”
My lord, I shall unfold
Thy cloak Of sables rare
To shield thee from the air J
“ Nay, nay, I must be cold."
At least thy leech I ’ll tell
Some drowsy draught to make,
Lest thou should toss awake.
" “ Nay, nay, I shall sleep well.”
My lady keeps her bower :
I hear the lute delight
The dark and frozen night,
High up within the tower.
Wilt thou that she descend ?
Thy son is in the hall,
Tossing his golden ball,
Shall he my lord attend ?
“Nay, sirs, unbar the door,
The broken lute shall fall; *
My son will leave his ball
To tarnish on the floor.”
Yon bell to triumph rings !
To greet thee, monarch*; wait
Beside their palace g.-.c.
“ Yes, I shall sleep with kings.”
“ My lord will soon alight
With some rich prince, his friend.
Who shall his ease atlend.
“ I shall lodge low to-night.”
My lord hath lodging nigh ?
“Yes, yes, I go not far, —
And yet the furthest star
Is not so far as I.
1862- A. C. Benson.
——
I would not, if I could, be called a poet.
I have no natural love of the “ chaste muse.”
If aught be worth the doing I would do it;
And others, if they will, may tell the news.
I care not for their laurels, but would choose
On the world’s field to fight or fall or run.
My soul’s ambition will not take excuse
To play the dial rather than the sun.
The faith I held I hold, as when a boy
I left my books for cricket bat and gun.
The tales of poets are but .scholars’ themes.
In my hot youth I held it that a man
With heart to dare and stemaeh to enjoy
Had better work to his hand in any plan
Of any folly, so the thing were done,
Than in the noblest dreaming of mere dreams.
1840- Wilfrid Blunt.
+
Little fly,
Thy summer’s play
My thoughtless hand
Has brush’d away.
Am not I
A fly like thee ?
Or art not thou
A man like me ?
For I dance
And drink, and sing,
Till some blind hand
Shall brush my wing.
If thought is life
And strength and breath,
And the want
Of thought is death ;
Then am I
A happy fly,
If I live,
Or if I die.
1757-1527. William Blake.
South Australian “English.”
A DOCTOR of medicine sends this to The
Bulletin- re the linguistic tendencies of
9.A. residents—
In the Adelaide district the pure and
compound vowel sounds are usually pronounced
by native-born whites as follows:
A (long, as in pldte) is pronounced as long I, or
as ay-d : e.g., sigh for say ; Ray-ul-wy.
A (short, as in bat), as ay-a or e-d, with the
accent on the second sound and a falling inflection,
as The-at m&an. Among the less uneducated it
takes the sound of Sre in there, or of in air ;
thus — Air-nie for Annie. • %
Ah (Latin A) is used much as is a ; provided with
an antesyllabic short 6or long a. Example:—
F6-a-ther for father.
E (long, as in feet) is sounded often with a post-
syllabic 8 short; e.g., see-6n and bee-'6n, for seen and
been. Here the accent is on the first syllable with
a falling inflection. In he and me long eis cor-
rectly pronounced.
E (short, as in get) is pronounced as ay-3 or ere
in there. Examplesa. couldn’t gay-et fit and
yS-ou bairt (I couldn’t get it;you bet).
I (long, as in bite) is sometimes sounded as dh-ee,
a very long nasal sound produced with the false
palate and back of tongue almost touching, for
. instance — orrdight for all right. The ai in rdight
is even longer than the Italian a, and very nasal.
Occasionally one hears -l antesyllabised by 8;
thus : bd-dite for bite. When used as a pronoun /
is sounded dorft as often as ai. Examples : A
she-an’t for I shan’t, and ai d&-oo for I do.
I (short as in hit) is dropped wherever possible.
Otherwise it is sounded as u, or antesyllabised by
8. Examples : ,St6-6p ut for Stop it, and M-it for
bit. In words like silk and milk it becomes i-u,
thus—.Sl-fit/fc and Mi-Xilk, with the accent on the
second sound and a falling inflection.
O (long, as in hope) is pronounced S-o, or ow, the
former most frequently. Examples: EltS-mo for
blow and ne-ow for no.
O (short, as in top) is most commonly altered
into aw, though it is sometimes antesyllabised,
and other times split into the sounds 6 — 3. Ex-
amples :—Dawg, De-3g, or Do-3g for dog.
But in words like knock and doctor it becomes dr
thus : knark and darkter. (By the way, is not
narked merely Australese for knocked?)
U (long, as in flute) is usually made to sound
eu, as in tre-uth for truth.
U (short, as in hut) is often pronounced 3-d;
thus, ce-ut for cut.
Intermediate or diphthong sounds such as aw
(as in awt), ow (as in cow), ou (as in mountain), and
oo (as in spoon) are pronounced respectively as :
aw, either correctly, or as ore ; e.g., sore for saw ;
ow, with an e before it, c3-ow for cow; ou, similarly
to ow; 00, with an ante-syllabic e, thus, sche-00l
for school. But such words as water, daughter
and thought are pronounced wptter, dotter and
that; and room, broom, and some others are
changed to rum ( u as in pull) and brum similarly.
There is no written accent for this sound of u.
* » • »
Speaking generally, the antesyllabic sound is
inserted before all vowel-sounds with a falling
inflection; and when a postsyllabic addition is
made it is with a rising inflection. The ante-
syllable would seem to break the shock of the
main sound.
Consonants are not systematically mispro-
nounced. They are simply omitted if possible,
and the words cut down to their “least common
denominators,” as one might say. There .appear
to be no rules for this process, which is also
applied to whole words in the making of sen-
tences. Thus many words are reduced to single
letters and many sentences to single words. This
can only be indicated by an example :
“’L6-ow Ern’!” “’L6-ow Perce!” “G’n 5 ’ome!”
HM’yGh!” “’J’laike cig’rette ? 55 “ Theanks.” “ Gorra
may-fttch?” “N8o.” “E’yar!” “Tar!” “S’laight
aid it?” “ M’ygh.” “ WS-ell s’long Ern ! ” “GS-bai!”
Translation: “Hello, Ernest!” “Hello, Percy!”
“Are you going home?” “Yes.” “Would you like a
cigarette?” “Thanks.” “ Have you got a match? 5 ’
“ No.” “ Here you are.” “ Ta.” “ It’s late, ‘ ain’t 5 it ? 5
“ Yes.” “ Well, ‘so long, 5 Ernest!,” “ Good bye ! 55
This is given as accurately as carefully-selected
letters and accents will serve.
In this (Adelaide) district, all classes, rang-
ing from fairly well-to-do and moderately-
educated business and farming persons to
“cookies” Who leave their mallee sections
about once a year, are more or less given
to using their English as described above.
The Adelaide gutter-snipe and the sand-hopping
son of the “blocker” are much alike in their
speech, and supply “types” of “Australese.”
The less uneducated people deviate correspond-
ingly less from the “normal.” Respecting age
in this connection, it is noticeable that children
use the most exaggerated forms of “Australese.”
Children are allowed to “ pick up ” their English;
are not taught it. Hence they know the meanings
of numbers of words which they never learn to
pronounce, and from infancy acquire a scrappy
language of their own which may develop into the
type described. The writer had a family of four
brought to him, ranging in ages from eight to
three, who spoke a language which their parents
could not understand. The parents thought the
children were “ tongue-tied.”
Anyone visiting Adelaide will notice the
“ gamin ” who runs after him offering a “ BdcJx o’
may-aiehes, sir ! ” But even fairly-educated Ade-
laideans may be heard saying, “Air-nie ! yBgB-oin’
t’ Ad’lid ’r G’lnairlg ? ” (Annie, are you going to
Adelaide or Glenelg?). A “ten-year-old ” from a
scrub-farm will say “’B ther darkter in?”
“ Way-ell, wfi-rrime j ’lrSckin T be bay-aek ? ” (Is
the doctor in ? Well, what time do you reckon he
will be back ?).
The writer has lived for ten years amongst the
“ cookies’"of the “lower north” of 9. A. ; but he
never heard school pronounced schee-00l (vide
“ Alex. M.,”27/10/’0). He would reproduce the
pronunciation in this district as sche-001. How-
ever, this may be hair-splitting.
* * * *
Of more interest are the causes leading up to
these methods of speech. The chief cause is lazi-
ness. One can ascertain by experiment that the
production of an antesyllabised vowel is easier
than that of a clean, pure, properly “attacked”
sound. Another factor is the nasal sound so dear
to the lazy speaker. There is a sound produced
by bringing the tongue well back and approaching
the anterior half to the palate without shutting
the pharynx, and then phonating through both
mouth and nose at once. It is typical of the Aus-
tralian accent here; and is used to fill up ft gap in-
a sentence, or to commence a new .one, or as a
sympathetic exclamation. It cannot be spelt,
but can be indicated by the letters H’ng ! sounded
as above witli a falling inflection. Australia has
the distinction of being sole possessor of this
charming sound. This, like the antesyllable, acts
as a sort of point d’appui from which to lever out
the vowel proper.
The habit of talking with the mouth half-open
all the time is another manifestation of the national
“ tired feeling.” Many of the more typical
bumpkins never shut their mouths. This is often
a symptom of post-nasal adenoids and hyper-
trophy of the tonsils : the characteristic Aus-
tralian disease. Such speakers produce pseudo
b, m, p, with the lower lip and the nipper teeth.
Sentence-clipping is, of course, not a national
trait; but “I don’t think” and “1 think,” for
“ I don’t think so” and “I think so,” are, so far
as present writer is aware, purely South Aus-
tralian, though commonly used here.
To summarise: The S.A. dialect is a poly-
hybrid of American, Irish brogue, cockney,
county-, and broken-English. But the more or
less distinct type it has acquired is mainly due to
(1) Rapid acquisition of vocabulary by the
children; (2) Tongue-laziness; (3) Anxiety to
communicate as much as possible by means of the
fewest and easiest sounds ; and (4) National pre-
disposition to naso-pharyngeal disease.
The method of producing sounds with the
tongue near the false palate, the vibrating column
of air leaving by both mouth and nose and slurring
into a sound by means of an antesyllable, requires
much less care, exertion, and expenditure _of
breath than that of making “ clean ” sounds with
the open mouth and proper use of the tongue and
larynx. The exaggeration of the first method is
omnipresent in varying degrees in lower S.A. ;
that of the second is the familiar and much-
caricatured accent of the Oxford graduate. “ Aus-
tralese” represents in this connection the “line
of least resistance.” Nil.
A Publisher’s Recollections .
GEORGE MURRAY SMITH, head of the
famous English publishing house of
Smith, Elder, and Co., is publishing
reminiscences of his firm’s heyday, when
he was issuing the work of Thackeray, Charlotte
Bronte, and “George Eliot,” and of a galaxy of
writers less eminent. One of the most charming
of his stories relates to one of the most charming
characters among English writers —Leigh Hunt.
Business was by no means Leigh Hunt’s strong point.
In this respect, but not otherwise, he may have suggested
Skimpole to Charles Dickens. On one of my visit's I
found him trying to puzzle out the abstruse question of
how he should deduct some such sum as thirteen shil-
lings and ninepence from a sovereign. On another occa-
sion I had to pay him a sum of money, £lOO or £2OO, and
I wrote him a cheque for the amount. “ Well,” he said,
what am Ito do with this little bit of paper?” I told
him that if he presented it at the bank they would pay
him cash for it, but I added, “ I will save you that
trouble." I sent to the bank and cashed the cheque for
him. He took the notes away carefully enclosed in an
envelope.
Two days afterwards Leigh Hunt came in a state of
gyeat agitation to tell me that his wife had burned them
He bad thrown the envelope, with the bank-notes inside,
carelessly down, and his wife had flung it into the fire.
Leigh Hunt’s agitation while on his way to bring this
news had not prevented him from purchasing on the road
a little statuette of Psyche which he carried, without any
paper round it, in his hand. I told him I thought some-
thing might be done in the matter ; I sent to the bankers
and got the numbers of the notes, and then in com-
pany with Leigh Hunt went off to the Bank of
England. I explained our business and we were
shown into a room where three old gentlemen were
sitting at tables. They kept us waiting some time,
and Leigh Hunt, who had meantime been staring
all round the room, at last got up, walked up to one of
the staid officials, and addressing him, said, in wondering
tones, “ And this is the Bank of England ! And do you
sit herq all day, and never see the green woods and the
trees and-flowers and the charming country ?” Then, in
tones of remonstrance, he demanded, “ Are you con-
tented with such a life ? ”
All this time he-was holding the little naked Psyche in
one hand, and with his long hair and flashing eyes made
a surprising figure. I fancy I can still see the aston-
ished faces of the three officials ; they would have made a
most delightful picture. I said, “ Come away, Mr. Hunt,
these gentlemen are very busy.” I succeeded in carrying
Leigh Hunt off, and after entering into certain formali-
ties, we were told that the value of the notes would be
paid in twelve months. I gave Leigh Hunt the money at
once, and he went away rejoicing.
Towards the close of the fifties Smith started
The Comihill Magazine, which at first had aston-
ishing success. Of the first number 120,000 copies
were sold —a sale then without parallel in English
serial literature. Smith’s terms to authors were
commensurate with this success. Thackeray was
editor at £lOOO a year; and Smith asked Tenny-
son to write another set of “ Idylls ” for the first
number. Tennyson sat on his poetic pinnacle,
shrouded in his professional cloak, and smoked at
the publisher.
I offered to pay him five thousand guineas for as many
lines as were contained in the ’‘ldylls of the King” (in
fact for 4750 lines), on condition that the poems should
be printed in The Cornhill Magazine, and that Jl should
publish them for three years afterwards. That offer was
really a “ record ” as far as the market rates of poetry up
to that time were concerned. When compared with any-
thing Tennyson had yet received for his poems it might
fairly be described as extravagant.
Tennyson listened to my proposal with entire calmness.
He asked me to smoke with him, and chatted pleasantly ;
but gave me no idea as to whether my offer was accept-
able. Mrs. Tennyson presently came into the room, and
Tennyson, addressing her, said : “ My dear, we are much
richer than we thought we were. Mr. Smith has just
offered me five thousand guineas for a boqk the size of
the‘ldylls.’ And,” he continued, “if Mr. Smith offers
five thousand, of course the book is worth ten ! ” A re-
mark at which we all laughed. Nothing came of this
proposal, which I had no temptation to renew after the
rapid success achieved by the magazine. But Thackeray
obtained from Tennyson his fine poem “ Tithonus” for
When The Cornhill succeeded so well, Smith
doubled Thackeray’s editorial salary, and made
lavish payments to contributors. The largest
amount expended on the literature of a single
number was £llB3 3s. Bd. (August, 1862), and the
total expenditure under that head for the first
four years was £32,280 11s., the illustrations cost-
ing in addition £4376 11s.
The largest payment made for a novel was £7OOO to
Mrs. Lewes (George Eliot) for “ Romola.” The largest
payment made for short articles was £l2 12s. a page, to
Mr. Thackeray, for his “ Roundabout Papers.” In regard
to the payment to Mrs. Lewes, an incident seems to
deserve honourable record as a signal proof of the author’s
artistic sensibility. Mrs. Lewes read part of “Romola”
to me, and any one who has heard that lady read and re-
members her musical and sympathetic voice will under-
stand that the MS. lost nothing in effect by her reading.
On the following day I offered her £lO,OOO for the book
for The Cornhill Magazine, and for a limited right to sub-
sequent publication. It was stipulated that the book
should form sixteen, numbers of twenty-four pages each.
Before the appearance of the first part Mrs. Lewes said
that she found that she could not properly divide the
book into as many as sixteen parts. I took exception to
this alteration of our arrangement, and pointed out that
my offer was based on the book being in sixteen parts,
and that my calculations were made with regard to the
Magazine being able to afford a payment of so much a
number. She said that she quite understood that the
alteration would make an difference to me, but that she
supposed the amount of the difference could easily be
calculated. George Lewes and I did all we possibly could
to persuade her to reconsider her decision, but in vain.
We pointed out to her that the publication in the Maga-
zine was ephemeral, and that the work would be pub-
lished in a separate form afterwards and be judged as a
whole. However, nothing could move her, and she pre-
ferred receiving £7OOO in place of £lO,OOO for the book.
“Romola” did not increase the sale of the Magazine; it
is difficult to say what, if any, effect it had in sustaining
the sale.
Smith’s advertising rate for The Cornhill was
twenty guineas a page; and in this connection he
had a rather curious exposition of the science of
advertising at that epoch.
I found myself at a dinner-party sitting next to a well-
known advertiser, and I thought I would try to get a
solution of a puzzle. ■ I began by saying I was not a
canvasser for advertisements, but I wanted information.
“ You advertise largely,” I said, “in a certain magazine.
You pay five guineas a page, and you know that the cir-
culation of that magazine is not 10,000 copies. The Corn-
hill has a circulation of more than 100,000 copies; we
charge twenty guineas a page for advertisements, yet I
don’t find that advertisements come in to the extent I
expected. If a circulation of 10,000 copies is-worth fire
guineas a page, a circulation of 100,000 copies ought to
be worth fifty guineas a page. And as we only charge
twenty guineas, our rates are, proportionately, lower by
more than fifty per cent, than those of other magazines.
Why don’t advertisers take advantage of what we offer?’
“Ah ! ” said the great advertiser, “ you evidently know
nothing about it; ” and he proceeded to expound to me,
on the authority of his large experiencs, the true secret
of advertising.
“We don’t consider,” he said, “ that an advertisement
seen for the first time by a reader is worth anything.
The second time it is seen counts for a little—not much.
The third time the reader’s attention is arrested; the
fourth time he reads the advertisement through ; the
fifth time he is probably a purchaser. It takes time to
soak in. It is the number of the impressions that tells.
Now you see,” he said, “ I can advertise five times in
most magazines for twenty-five guineas ; bnt five times in
The Cornhill would cost me one hundred guineas.”
Smith’s papers will doubtless be collected in
volume form when concluded ; and they are so
full of interest that the book looks likely to stand
as one of the most readable of its class. .


PRICES^-**
.... FOB ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System .
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
SB° 4
5a oo
Z§°3
■ifyM 5607
SBftaa
(so&raofeecl ooT fe or boro.
C B B
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
l application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
MICK SIMMORS
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
df
Rare Books?
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF ROOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ‘ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m" For' EGZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
£W For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ERASMIC ——-
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
LEA & PERRINS’
SAUG
58WE54
SAUCE.
See that this Signature
'&TMvU>
is on every Bottle.
Agents
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN.
DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc. ), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... ...
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments of ... .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Fer Cent, to the GJ-rowera.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
9
fii LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
**
OU2MM
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Pelt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
13 1*. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON'S RE-INVIGORATOR
y.
r
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price —ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- <31717*11*
CUT
RATE
DKTJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
0 to
V?
Mlfllg
i l 'i i&
- j
C i
2 «
When
writing
please
mention
Tub
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
; strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
j CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
■ LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and (
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and,
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. i
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 {
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 330 (
ladies' Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— {
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
DONCASTER H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the
£
SYDNEY 0. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
. Name
Address
£
CITY TATTERS ALL'S H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address •
Adelaide C. May 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : shares in above.
N ame,
Address
Turf Club H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to the Queen’s Death.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


WOODHEAD’S^.
IMPROVED
PATENT
CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, Ac.
No. 5, 355; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Celling), 25s each.
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock
direct to us—
PERRY RROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Brisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
o*
-*v°
*
ds
Like the flight of the
swiftest bird is the prog-
ress of a hacking cough
into consumption. First
a cold, then a settled cough, then slow
fever, night sweats, and hemorrhages.
Don’t neglect your cough. Stop it
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as possi-
ble—the sooner the better —to take
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
the most effective remedy for coughs
of every kind and in every stage.
One of the most annoying coughs is
a throat cough, where you have that
constant tickling in your throat. It
comes on worse at night, keeps you
awake, and makes you have that
smothered feeling in the chest. It
hardly seems possible what one dose
of Cherry Pectoral will do for this
kind of a cough, it brings such marked
relief.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When the cough gets down deep in
the chest and the lungs are painful,
put one of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Plasters directly over the tender lung.
It will draw out all the soreness.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lovell, Mass., U. S. A.
“DOWKIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Publications.
TRICOC9GI
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addrbss —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on ApplioatioD
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
AOstraliao tytittial Prov/ideijt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fd
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
B2W Send for a
Catalogue.
sfd
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works ; MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours femon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth,W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900, British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
Die
highest jflward
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
BRITT RFC F
BP
Appointment
to
t)inip \
TT
fuK
Per majesty Cbe Queen and fi.R.fi. Cbe Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive.
TVJ.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf- Oo3m. ] E>a < xi.y
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Gieveland-street, Kedfern, SYDNiiK
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a (close to Redfern Railway station).
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send ior our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’ Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaeton? (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 p»r
cent more lor your requirements.
OUlt SPECIAL Ko. 2
£8 18/6
f
Delivered at any Wharf or
iV.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Summer Eves.
On summer eves!
0 listen ! listen! listen! to the healthy Life a-singing
Its loud exultant song of love and mirth,
All a-cooing and a-sighing, till the Heavens with
rapture ringing
Set the Stars a-throwiny kisses to the Earth 1
The sweet rose holds her petals out to win
Love-favours from the - butterflies and bees ;
The amorous violets kiss and cuddle in,
And sigh their perfumed pollen on the breeze.
The little cricket chirps a cheery note
To say his love is lasting and sincere ;
The bright-winged buzzing beetle strains his
throat
With frantic serenades to someone dear.
Sly kookaburras crack their loving jokes
And wake the mountain echoes with their laugh;
The owl in love attunes his weird “ mopokes”
To charm his brown, coquettish better-half.
The bullfrogs plunk fond love-calls to their mates
With perseverance that deserves success ;
A thousand Edwins sighing at the gates
For Angelina’s melting frog-caress.
Thus cheery Nature lilts for us the strains
She sings for all who listen to her song ;
Love is her antidote for many pains—
O let us love ! we are not here for long.
O listen! listen! listen! to the healthy Life a-singing,
A -carolling its song of love and mirth,
All a-cooing and complaining till the Heavens with
rapture ringing
Set the Stars a-throwing kisses to the Earth—
v.
On summer eves 1
ALONE.
The Grey Bush Army.
Do ye hear the rhythm of tireless feet,
The tramp of the Grey Bush Army ?
Oh, there’s many a heart beats stoutly there,
And there’s many a face to charm ye !
And it’s I that, if Fate so will it,
Would fight where the Bush Flag flies,
In the ranks of the brave Bush Conscripts
Under our thick-starred skies.
0 bold youth, come and ’list with me !
O maiden, hands together !
And we’ll march along to the Grey Bush Song,
Nor feel our bond a tether;
And, the well-loved flag defended,
We can die in deep content,
For Her flag is the Great Grey Standard
Veiling a Continent.
Let the miners to the vanward go !
Let the axemen quickly follow !
And we’ll greet each daring deed they do
With a loud exultant Holloa !
Marching to Northward burning ;
Wheeling to West afire ;
With the lights of our bivouac camps alway
Circling the Bush Empire.
Though we war and are war-worn, never
Our long campaign may close ;
But we’ll bury our dead in the battle-wake
Where the scent o’ wattle blows ;
And still we’ll follow our leaders on
Through the witching, wide expanse
Of stretching plains where the Sun-God laughs
And the wild Winds whirl and dance.
We will madden with sweet of gum-leaves,
We will sadden with poignant smart
Of the weird, grey, whispering forests
Held close to the Grey Bush Heart.
And it’s Oh ! to be out and with them,
Through the silence and the fray—
With the Grey Bugh Army conscripts
Beneath the Bush Flag Grey !
W.A.
ROSPECT AND I.
The evidence of a husband petitioning for
divorce at Ballarat is worth the attention of every
Australian who may be called upon to try his
fellow-man for a capital offence. This witness
asserted that his wife had been a heavy drinker,
and on one occasion, whilst suffering from the
effects of alcohol, she levelled a charge of criminal
assault against a young man, which he (the
husband) had to finally square by giving the young
man a lump sum of money.
Discoursing on the respective qualities of
the British and Australian swaddies, ex-war-scribe
Wilkinson, of Sydney Daily Telegraph, feels
certain that when British Tommy is hit “he
doesn’t feel the pain very much.” With reference
to the wounded Highlanders brought in to Modder
River after the Magersfontein affair Mr. Wilkin-
son says that
After lying out in the sun, without food or water, for
quite 24 hours, suffering what in others would have been
the tortures of the damned, from broken arms and what
not, nine out of 10 put in an appearance, smoking furiously
all the time their short clay pipes, and cracking obscure
jokes in that dialect which is at once the wonder and the
despair of the mere Englishman. Men of finer suscepti-
bilities would have died from shock to the system.
And hereupon Mr. W. instances the case of a
young Australian shot at Diamond Hill:
His wound was not of the kind that kills. The thigh-
bone was badly fractured, but this would probably have
been set right under an operation, if an operation had
been possible. It wasn’t. His nervous system hasn't
equal to the occasion, and he died from sheer collapse.
The “inferior-sensibility” theory is indeed a
handy one at times. It isn’t always wise to talk
about stamina and grit.


. 9K2&S
S^DODG-E^/
SKSr D PULUES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 » n wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE & LflCy Co Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
A GREAT INDUCEMENT
TO BECOME ENGAGED IS THE UN-
APPROACHABLE PRICES OF OUR
UP-TO-DATE GEM RINGS.
18c., 3 Fine
Diamonds, from £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire,
Ruby, Opal, or Pearl
from £3 15s.
20 Different Patterns
Our QUERY
RING (Note of
Interrogation).
18c., set with 11
First-water Dia-
monds £8 & £9 10s
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £5,
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and
3 Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
18 CT
18c., 2 Fine Dia-
monds, from £5.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire,
Ruby, Opal, or Pearl
from £4.
NOTE.
Kindly cut out this
advt. and forward
■when ordering.
ART JEWELLERS, KING ST., SYDNEY.
Please send for Illus-
trated Sheet of Rings
and Size Card.
All Goods Post Free.
ft
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
dsf
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
Registered under the “ Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £921,230.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONIIYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
INDEPENDENT ODDER « FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great Internationa! and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
/ Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74- and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, ivith full Table of Rates, <&c., on Application.
Smart business men may find employment as Organisers upon making 1 application to above address.
t -Jr
]P
When your friend advises you to build your house of P & B RuLeroid
li-oofing, and particularly when ho tells you to use wire netting Cor »
foundation to lay it over, remember this all-important fact and
!e Sure
et the Genuine
OUR
TRADE
MARK.
vi
OUR
TRADE
MARK.
A duplicate of this TRADE MARK will be found on each roll of' the
GENUINE, and is the only guarantee you have that you are getting a-
light, cheap, waterproof roofing that is known to stand the Australian climate.
Write to ua for testimonials from the- Govern nont Architect of N.S.W.,
tho Under-Secretary for Works, and many, other men of local repute.
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY.
Vfcif
4


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1101.
SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1901.
Pbicb 6d.
“LOOK HERE UPON THIS PICTURE-AND'ON THAT!”
Cj
>y-C
IN MO,dT
UCjHTJMJNQ
[ n/SCALCULAT/OAls!
l>y Dry-l) 0 j
Hcuopuc 2 J C
Exj>eyd ~3] </ <jt v
Melbourne - , Sunday.— -A ' mixed
i Melbourne audience refused to hear
Louis De Rougemont, the exploded
Australian romancer, at the Bijou
Theatre on Saturday night. He was
just about three minutes on the stage
altogether, most of which he spent in
listening to gratuitous advice from the
audience to “Lose himself" or “Go
off.” The gallery kept up a running
fire of rude and contemptuous com-
ment, and finally the “ star ” inclined
his head to the left wing,- as though
someone was calling him, and then dis-
appeared,, amidst the ironical cheers of
the whole house
•Rat mark what a different reception tftVother one gol in a, jQneensland town the
«am6;evening, when he gave one of his marvellous exhibitions of figure-faking and
Dry-Dogism. “Mr. Reid was'received with a wild ovation. He thanked the,
audience for the right royal reception
accorded to him.” (Xoud cheers.)
Stft. PoLLlif: “.I see that awful Bounder Paynotte is up for the Pena te.”
Mr. Yoxpop : “Ah, well! Heaven has sent us the Commonwealth, hut the Devil,
it Beems, is to make our laws ! ” v
THE TRUE AUSTRALIAN!
SPIRIT.
First Sydney Youth) (last
Monday) “ Hooray for
St. Patrick I’*
2nd Sydney Youth : “Why,
I thought you was a Pro-
testant 1 11
First : “ So. I am, but I’m
precious catholic in my taste for ’olidaya! ”
THOSE KNIGHTHOODS—A FORECAST.
WHICH WILL TURN BACK 1
Ix>NDON, Wednesday Afternoon. —While Mr. Kinder, an English engineer,
was engaged in constructing a railway siding at Tien-tsin, General Wogaek,
a Russian, claimed that the land belonged to the new cohcession acquired by
Russia. ...
General Barrow has ordered Mr. Kinder to proceed, by armed iorce 11
necessary, while General Wogaek has appealed to M. de Giers, the Russian
Minister at Pcki».
The Juke or Yohk, Cornwall, and other things : “ Kneel, sirrah.”
Australian Statesman,: “Oh, that’s all very weli for them as is light on their feet,
but I was thinkin’ couldn’t I take mine standin’ 1 ”
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
i’he National Australian Newspaper.
M Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... ... ••• "" “
Quarterly ... ... ••• Dob
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Hlaoriland.
In consequence of the, imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Offl.ce, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
mil be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplyitig to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
'.e., an j picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions. under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SuT^txlleZz/71.
SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1901.
Why “The Bulletin” Votes for Barton.
A week hence the first Federal election
takes place, and then it will be decided whe-
ther or not the Barton Government is to
endure. The Bulletin hopes to see it
returned, not only by a majority, but by
such an overwhelming majority as shall make
it reasonably sure of a long lease of power.
Even the best policy often produces little
good when it depends on a majority of one
or two, and has no stability or permanence,
and is always tottering on the brink of
reversal. A very small majority is sufficient
to enable a Government to do a great deal
of harm, but the rule is one which doesn’t
apply both ways.
* * » *
The Barton Government deserves a fair
trial first of all upon its policy. That policy,
as set forth by the Premier at Maitland
(N.S.W.), and later, and still more empha-
tically, by the Treasurer at St. Kilda (Vic.),
includes, among other things, these ten :
The Federal territory on which the new capital will be
built to cover at least 1000 square miles (it should be at
least 5000) and to be reserved as the people’s property for
ever. No private landholding whatever is to be allowed.
No more black labor to be admitted into the Common-
wealth, and the existing alien to be discouraged off the
premises by instalments. The existing Kanaka to be
shifted back to his islands inside ten years.
No further subsidising of mail steamers which employ
coolie labor.
A Federal franchise, based on the extension to the
whole Commonwealth of the most liberal existing State
f r&ii cli 1S 6.
The Federation of the railways.
The taking over by the Commonwealth of the State
debts. , ,
The establishment of Federal courts of conciliation and
arbitration for the settlement of trade disputes.
Federal Old Age Pensions as soon as the money can be
to Australian labor and Australian industry
against the cheap sweated labor of foreign lands and the
products thereof. . , . ,
No financial juggling, but a straight, honest, economi-
cal policy of keeping 1 the public cash and. the public
accounts.
* * * •
The policy is good enough to earn the
support of every decent and intelligent de-
mocrat in Australia, if only the men behind
it are good enough to give reasonable assur-
ance that the policy will be carried out.
And on this ground also the Barton Govern-
ment deserves support. As to the Premier’s
administrative abilities Australia knows
little. What it knows is chiefly to the
effect that he was a member of the
Dibbs Government which abolished the
curse of the plural property vote, and
which was also the only N.S.W. Govern-
ment for very many years past which made
a serious effort to diminish the ruinous
foreign loan insanity; that he has been a
steadfast Federalist ; and that he has never
been known to wobble or go back on his
political principles in any particular. As
to his colleagues, they include 0. C.
Kingston, who has a better record of
democratic measures to his credit than any
three other Premiers that ever ruled in
Australia ; George Turner, the only honest
and capable Treasurer that Australia has
produced in 20 years, the founder of the
Victorian State Bank, and the creator of the
only minimum-wage law on earth ; Alfred
Deakin, the brilliant democratic dreamer
whose intentions, even his enemies admit,
have always been of the best, though his
record is rather that of an honorable vision-
ary than a man of action ; and Drake, of
Queensland, who, if he has wobbled on
many things, has at least gone reasonably
straight all his life in the cause of a White
Australia. The Barton Government in-
cludes every front-rank statesman in Aus-
tralia (except, perhaps* Isaacs, of Victoria,
who was crowded out) who has done great
things for the people’s cause. If there is a
rather lamentable tail to it the sufficient
reason is that the supply of front-rank demo-
cratic statesmen is limited, and the material
ran short.
• * * •
The Barton Government contains two
men who created prosperous State banks ;
three men who passed in their respective
States valuable Factory Acts for the pro-
tection of the workers ; four men who
belonged to Governments which abolished
the plural property vote, and another who
made four distinct attempts to do so only to
be blocked every time by an immovable
Upper House ; also the only two State Pre-
miers who established Woman Suffrage;
and the only Premier in the world who
established a legal minimum wage. It in-
cludes the only two Australian State Pre-
miers who passed Old Age Pension laws,
and three men who are at least partly re-
sponsible for the passing of Early Closing
laws. It includes the author (Kingston) of
the best Workmen’s Compensation Act, and
of the only graduated land and absentee tax,
in Australia. Among its members are two
State Premiers who passed measures for
the resumption of big estates for closer
settlement. In fact it may be summed up
as containing practically all the leading
Australian statesmen, now living and not
disabled by old age, who have ever done
anything for the good of the masses, and
who have systematically fought for the cause
of the People against wealth, monopoly,
Toryism, and retrogression. Men of that
kind are unfortunately so rare that it was
impossible to make a whole Ministry out of
them, but so far as the materials go they are
included in the Barton Cabinet.
* • * *
To some of the people of New South
Wales, Tasmania and Westralia the prospect
of voting for Lyne, Neil Lewis and John
Forrest may not seem inviting. But no
State can measure the Federal Cabinet by its
own contribution, or one of its own contri-
butions, to it. Lyne, Forrest and Lewis
are the unavoidable accidents of the Federal
Ministry. If the electors vote against these
three they are voting against the Federal
Government and its policy as a whole. They
are voting against Old Age Pensions, against
a Federal franchise based on absolute man-
hood and womanhood suffrage, against the
abolition of black labor, against railway
federation, the taking over of the State
debts, against the nationalisation of the
ground on which the Federal capital stands
and the surrounding territory, against Federal
conciliation and arbitration courts, against
Protection to Australian industry—against
the whole programme, in fact. And the
man who votes against the Federal Minister
from his own State because he is a mere acci-
dental circumstance at the fag-end of the
Cabinet is also voting against all the
Ministers against the men who did
practically everything that has been
done in Australia during the last 10
years in the democratic cause. The Federal
Government programme is a democratic pro-
gramme in all essentials. If it doesn’t go so
far as it might it must be remembered
that the practical men who do things can’t
promise a quarter so much as the theoretical
men who only talk about them. And the
Federal Ministry includes almost every
capable Australian statesman who has a good
record for doing things. The Bulletin
could pick out twenty politicians who
would advocate a far more advanced
programme than that of the Federal Govern-
ment. But, among them all, it doesn’t
know of one who knows enough to carry out
a programme even half as democratic as those
which Charles Cameron Kingston and
George Turner, actually put into force.
• * * ♦
If the Barton Government is defeated it
will probably be oyer the fiscal issue and
through the defection of New South Wales.
In that case the whole Cabinet retires, and
the new Federal Government must be made
out of what remains. Very little save the scum
of politics will remain if the Barton Cabinet
goes under. The only apparent leader of
the new Cabinet will be George Reid, the
man who was always going to do something
for the democratic cause, and Who never did
it, and who was twice sent into power with a
strong majority to reform N.S.W. Upper
House, and left it unreformed. It is difficult
to remember any valuable democratic measure
that stands to* Reid’s credit. He had the
longest period of office in the N.S.W. records,
yet N.S.W. owes to him neither its early-
closing law, its old age pension law, one-
man-one-vote, payment of members, nor
anything else of importance. He certainly
promised a good Local Government Act, a
State Bank, a State note issue, and a mea-
sure for the resumption of large estates for
closer settlement, and he was supposed at
times to favour an absentee tax and
graduated land tax that would fall
most heavily on large estates and help
to discourage land-monopoly. He was even
supposed by some to favor a minimum-wage
law such as Turner passed in Victoria. But
none of these ever happened. Reid was never
anything definite save the political pimp and
parasite of the big English and German
importing firms. And his possible colleagues
are a sorrowful lot, if all the statesmen
who now form the Federal Cabinet are sent
into Opposition. From N.S.W., he might
possibly get M‘MiLLANand Sunday Brunker.
The only possible Victorian representatives
in his Government seem to be the broken-
down public wreck Duncan Gillies, of the
Boom, and some lone Tory from the House
of 48 Rich Landlords. The Victorian poli-
ticians of Reid’s way of thinking are so few
that the choice seems to go no further than
these. In South Australia he might get that
lamentably incapable lay-preacher, Holder.
Tasmania could supply the ancient Tory and
extinct volcano, Braddon. If Drake is sent
into opposition there is no man available in
Queensland except some second-rate poli-
tical obscurity, and it is difficult to say
where Westralia could furnish another
Minister of even Forrest’s limited mental
dimensions.
* * * *
The people of every State have to bear in
mind that they will be governed more by the
representatives of the other five States than
by the representatives of their own. If
George Reid, through the casting vote of
N.S.W., becomes Federal Premier, the
majority of his Ministry must come from the
other five States, because they constitute the
great majority of the people. In the other
States every politician who has led the demo-
cratic cause, and has fought for the people
against monopoly and Toryism, is either
in the Barton Ministry or definitely com-
mitted to support it. The material left, out of
which a rival Cabinet can be formed, con-
sists almost entirely of the scum and dregs
of the Tory parties. If New South Wales
wants to be governed mainly by people of
the stamp of Duncan Gillies, and Robert
Reid, Victorian M.L.C., and property-vote
Braddon, and Kanaka Cowley, it has only
to signify the fact by supporting the George
Reid and M'Millan and Bruce Smith push
at the local polls. If the vote of New South
Wales gives George Reid command of the
Federal Parliament the result won’t be that
the Commonwealth will be governed by
George Reid — it will be governed by him
and one or, at most, two local colleagues,
and by the four or five men who join him from
the other States and who will necessarily
form the majority of the Cabinet. What
that majority will be like can be ascertained
by considering the composition of the Reid
party in the other States. In Queensland it
consists almost solely of the Kanaka party
which is against Barton because of his hos-
tility to black labour. In Victoria it con-
sists of the Upper House perty —the party
which rejected Turner’s One-Man-One-Vote
and Womanhood Suffrage Bills, and fought
hard against the State Land Bank, the
Minimum Wage, and Old Age Pensions. In
S.A. it is also the Tory party ; the demo-
crats unanimously rallied round Barton,
partly because of his programme and partly
because their leader, Kingston, was in his
Ministry, and the Tories rally round Bar-
ton’s opponent because the hated Kingston
can’t, by any possibility, be in his Ministry
should he form one.
* * * *
So the moral is ; If N.S.W. wants to be
governed mainly by men of the stamp of
Duncan Gillies the boomster, Frederick
Sargood the military softgoodsman, and by
Tory landlord Robert Reid, Kanaka Cowley
and “ Turncoat Bill ” Copley, it will vote
for George Reid and for whoever will sup-
port him. These are the kind of men who
are rallying round Reid in the other States,
and the other States must supply the larger
half of the Ministry. And if it prefers to be
ruled by such men as Kingston and Turner
—the creators of State land banks, old age
pensions, minimum wage law, absentee tax,
graduated land tax and Factories Acts, and
the consistent advocates of manhood and
womanhood suffrage—then it will vote for
Barton and for whomsoever will support
him. The N.S.W. democracy has a free
choice before it. The strongest men of the
Barton Government are men whose careers,
even since they entered politics, are a
guarantee that, if.it commands a majority, it
will prove itself the most liberal and pro-
gressive Government Australia has ever seen.
The materials which compose the rank and
file of that majority are a secondary con-
sideration. Where the choice lies between
voting for a personally good man who will
support the bad cause or a bad man who will
support the good cause, the latter should get
the vote every time.
How Freetrade Has Not Reduced Prices
in N.S.W.
The Freetrade or semi-Freetrade policy which
New South Wales has followed since Ist January,
1890, has just one possible justification—that it
has reduced prices and thereby “ lifted a burden
off the people.” It hardly pretends to have any
other justification. If it hasn’t reduced prices,
then it has no redeeming feature left, and the
only things that remain to be claimed on its be-
half are these:—
(1) It has deprived the State of £700,000 a year customs
revenue. The only possible return the people could get
for this loss is in the form of reduced prices.
(2) It has made the imposition of land and income
taxes necessary.
(3) As these did not nearly make good the gap in the
Treasury created by the loss of customs revenue, the
shortage has been made up by using loan money for
purely unproductive works (works formerly paid for out
of revenue) in a huge and alarming fashion, and thus
heaping up a fearsome interest-bill for posterity. Accord-
ing to Coghlan’s annual “ Statistics of the Seven
Colonies ” for 1595-6 (page 21) and for 1899-1900 (page 26)
in the five years of partial Freetrade (1896-1900) £2,939,694
of loan money was used for purely revenue purposes.
Before Reid’s time less than a fifth of the loan money was
misappropriated to fake the accounts with, and save taxa-
tion, and make imaginary surpluses. During Reid’s time
about two-fifths was thus misappropriated as the only
way of making it appear that the Shoddy tariff had really
“ reduced taxation ” and “ eased the public burdens.”
(4) The partial Freetrade of George Reid lost N.S.W.
its supremacy as the boss manufacturing State of Austra-
lasia. In 1894, when N.S.W. was still a Protectionist
State, it had 1751 more hands employed in its factories
and workshops than Victoria had—this without counting
those small establishments which employed less than five
hands, and not reckoning milliners, dressmakers, and
tailors. In 1899, when N.S.W. had enjoyed four years of
partial Freetrade, it had 4424 fewer employes in its fac-
tories than there were in those of Victoria—this despite
thefactthat from 1896 onwards N.S.W. factories employing
less than five hands were included, and milliners, dress-
makers, and tailors were reckoned (Cogiilan’s “ Seven
Colonies,” pages 598 and 599).
(5) The partially Freetrade Reid tariff made N.S.W.
a lower - wage State than Victoria. A comparison
of the maximum and minimum wages paid in all
industries as set forth in the latest N.S.W.
“Statistical Register” (pages 967 to 1013) and in
the latest “ Victorian Year Book,” (pages 602 to 606) and
reproduced in The Bulletin’s “ Policy for the Common-
wealth,” shows that in 106 occupations wages are now
higher in Victoria, and in only 68 occupations is the wage
higher in N.S.W.
(6) The same beautiful tariff has made the cost of
living higher in N.S.W. than in the adjacent Protec-
tionist States. According to Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies”
(pages 419 and 420) living costs £39 14s. lid. per head per
annum in N.S.W., while in the five Protectionist States
living on the same standard (Coghlan specifically de-
clares that the standard is the same), is so much cheaper
as to bring down the average cost for all Australia to
£36 19s. sd. annually for each inhabitant.
*** * .
And if, as a set-off to all these things, the more
or less Freetrade policy hasn’t at least reduced
prices in N.S.W. to something less than what they
were under the Protectionist tariff that existed up
to the end of 1895, then what in the name of all that
is wonderful has the more-or-less Freetrade policy
done, beyond enriching M'Millan and the rest of
the swarm of English and German importers who
live on the suffering State ?
• * • *
The N.S.W. Statistician, on pages 523 to 528 of
his “Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” (the latest
edition extending up to 1898), furnishes some
interesting information about retail prices in that
State. His list, unfortunately, covers only 19
articles, but these are all commodities in constant
use by all classes of the community. Among them
there are 12 on which a heavy customs tax was
levied up to the end of 1895, and which started
1896 subject to no duty at all, and under the full
and blessed influence of the cheapening policy of
Freetrade. And these, according to the official
Statist of N.S.W., were the results :
Price Price
under Duty under
Protection, Taken off. Freetrade,
1895. 1896. 1897.
-« b»*p*w {™s,sr«r“}-* -»
1/- Butter, per lb. 2d. per lb. 1/- 1/-
-/8 Cheese, . „ 2d. „ -/8 -/8
4/3 Potatoes, per cwt. 6d. per cwt. 5/6 5/3
2/9 Maize, per bushel lOd. per cental 2/7 2/3
-/7| Bacon per lb. 2d. per lb. -/7$ -/8
1/- Eggs, per doz. 10 per cent. 1/- 1/-
Rice, per lb. £3 per ton -/2 -/2£
-fi Oatmeal, per lb. £2 „ -/2 -/2j
-/0| Salt „ £1 „ -M -/Of
-/2 Soap „ 3s. per cwt. -/2 -/2|
-/4 Starch, „ Id. per lb. -/4 -/4
Twelve articles in all. As regards two the price
went up immediately the duty was taken off. As
regards seven the price remained exactly the same
when the duty was taken off. As regards two the
price went down when the duty came off and
went up again to the old level next year. And in
the case of maize only was there anything like a
permanent reduction of price. Two years after
the duties were taken off these twelve articles,
prices had gone up in five cases, had remained
stationary in six cases, and had dropped in one
case only.
* * * •
These statements have no resemblance at all to
the irresponsible shouts of Edward Puls ford,
and Max Hirsch, and other people who bellow at
large on their own unsupported say-so about the
cheapness that necessarily must come of Freetrade.
The Bulletin doesn’t say whether cheapness or
dearth must come by Freetrade ; it merely offers
a statement, on the best possible authority, of
what did come. The world is full of things
which, by the most intense possible logic, can't
possibly happen, yet which do happen, and also
of things which must happen but don’t. The
Bulletin simply lays down the facts, given on
the authority, not of an interested importer, or
manufacturer, or candidate, or liar, or crank, or
protected Freetrade newspaper, but on the
authority of the only Australian statistician
whose works have a world-wide acceptation—the
N.S.W. Freetrade Government’s own trusted
officer, whose book was printed by the N.S.W.
Freetrade Government at its own printing office.
It is a pity the figures do not cover a wider range,
so as to show the blessings of Freetrade all round,
but so far as they go the Reid and Pulsford
party is welcome to them. The State lost a large
sum of money through taking the duties off these
12 articles, and as in six cases the retail price re-
mained the same, while in five it actually in-
creased, it certainly appears that it is the importer
and the middleman on whom the blessings of
Freetrade descend like the gentle dew from
Heaven. The consumer—poor wretch ! —only had
the advantage of paying higher prices on the
average, and paying land and income taxes in
addition to make up for the loss of revenue.
That is where he came in.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Undelivered Speech of the Dry
Dog Party.
The Freetrade Federal candidates are now all in
the same ridiculous situation. They say: “Free-
trade is beautiful; it is what has made Britain
rich ; it is what will make Australia rich if we try
it; it is the only true and genuine and all-wool
gospel; and it is quite impossible, for we must
raise about £8,000,000 by Customs taxation to keep
the Commonwealth going.” The latter statement
is a wonderfully unanimous lie, and a wonderfully
stupid one as well. The following is exactly what
the Freetrade candidates are saying—every one of
them, from Carpentaria to Cape Leuwin, and
from Reid and M‘Millan and B. Smith, and the
Telegraph, Herald, Argus, arid Courier, &c.,
down to the unconsidered drunk at the tail of the
fiscal procession—when their statements are put
in plain British language
(1) It is necessary to raise £8,000,000 of revenue.
(2) If we raise it by customs duties, we thereby increase
prices to a most disastrous extent, and while the Treasury
gets £8,000,000, the people pay from £12,000,000 to
£16,000,000. Nevertheless we propose to raise the money
by customs duties ,
(3) Direct taxation is not liable to the ruinous draw-
back abovementioned. When a Government raises
£8,000,000 by direct taxation, the people only pay
£8,000(000; so collecting the required amount through
the Customs is-robbing the people needlessly of from
£4,000,000' to'■.-£8,000,000 annually. Nevertheless we
PROPOSE‘TO RAISE THE REQUIRED AMOUNT BY CUSTOMS DUTIES.
(4) Customs duties are bad ; they hamper trade and do
all pianuercj mischief, and we thoroughly disapprove of
' them,) j' Ml,the same, we propose unanimously to raise
The fe&qii&ft Fedrr/al Jievenue by customs duties.
(5) Direct-taxation is far better, and we approve of it.
It is" in icdnsenance with our principles, while customs
taxes are, not., ALL THE SAME, WE ADVOCATE
RAISING ALL THE MONEY THE COMMONWEALTH
REQUIRES BY (CUSTOMS DUTIES AND HAVING NO
FEDERALRIfiEOT TAXATION WHATEVER.
(6) Under the'BRiDDON Clause, which we utterly detest,
(and which -was drafted by one Freetrader and intro-
duced by another), .out of every £1,000,000 which the
Commonwealth raises in customs duties £750,000 have to
be handed back to the States. We denounce this clause
as robbery. Its allegedly nefarious effects could be wholly
averted by having direct taxation'instead of customs
taxation. But all the same WE PROPOSE TO RAISE
ALL THE FEDERAL REVENUE BY CUSTOMS TAXA-
TION.
(7) And the only explanation we offer is that “ the
Commonwealth need? revenue.” Of course 1 it- needs
revenue. But why, seeing that we all swear that raising
£8,000,000 by direct taxation is only taking £8,000,000
from the people, while raising £8,000,000 by customs is
taking some £12,000,000 or £16,000,000 from the people,
and thus involving them in a needless and ruinous loss ;
we should all advocate raising the money in the most
costly and disastrous way only the Lunacy Department
knows. YET WE ALL ADVOCATE RAISING THE
WHOLE FEDERAL REVENUE BY CUSTOMS TAXA-
TION.
(8) We all say Freetrade is good, and by our own show-
ing we are going to make the people pay from £4,000,000
to £8,000,000 a year extra to avoid having Freetrade. We
have explained to the public over and over again that if
the necessary revenue could be raised by taking from the
people, say, 3s. in every £ of their income by income-tax,
then to raise the same revenue by customs would
take from them 4s. 6d. to 6s. in every £ of
their income by indirect taxation. And we advocate
MAKING THEM PAY ALL THIS EXTRA MONEY, NEEDLESSLY, AND
SACRIFICE OUR PRINCIPLES TO DO IT.
(9) We say not only that we believe in Freetrade, but
also that the country wants Freetrade and won’t be
happy till it gets it. Vet not one of us suggests having
Freetrade.
(10) And whether we are hired traitors or only natur-
ally muddled idiots we leave you to judge. But we urge
you to vote for the Freetrade party which isn’t going to
give you Freetrade. And if you want to know why,
after asserting over and over again that Customs duties
are a hideously extravagant and wasteful and oppressive
way of raising revenue, we all advocate resorting to cus-
toms duties, we dunno. And if you are anxious to find
out why we want, by our own showing, to charge you
from £4,000,000 to £8,000,000 a year quite needlessly and
outrage our beloved principles to do it, we dunno.
(11) And if you are anxious to find out anything else,
we dunno either. We are in the extraordinary situation
of a Christian missionary preaching heathenism on the
ground that it is not only bad but is a lot more expensive
as well
4
The “ Telegraph’s ” 24J per cent. Free-
trade Tariff.
The following is from Sydney Telegraph of 11th
March, 1901:
It has been shown definitely how THE FREETRADERS
CAN RAISE THE REQUIRED REVENUE, which Mr.
Barton places at £8,500,000. Let us repeat the state-
ment which we based on William M’Millan’s formula.
The imports from beyond the Commonwealth in 1899
were £34,300,000, and allowing 10 per cent, for shrinkage
under the Commonwealth (some shrinkage is inevitable),
the following will yield £8,500,000 on £31,000,000 of
imports:—
Tariff
Imports. to Yield
£8,500,000.
Customs on stimulants and
narcotics ~ .. .. £2,500,000 .. £3,200,000
Excise on stimulants and nar-
cotics .. .. .. .. 900,000
Specific duties on produce not
raised in Australia .. 5,000,000 .. 2,000,000
12-j- per cent, ad valorem
duties 19,200,000 .. 2,400,000
Freelist.. .. .. .. 4,300,000 .. Nil
£31,000,000 .. £8,500,000
THIS IS THE PUREST REVENUE TARIFF POSSIBLE
UNDER THE CONDITIONS.
The utterly bewildering Freetrade organ and its
pet M‘Billion therefore propose to raise by a
Freetrade tariff £7,600,000 in customs duties alone
on £31,000,000 of imports. This is equal to a cus-
toms tax of per cent, on everything, which is
more than twice the weight of the present Vic-
torian tariff. And while proposing to levy twice
as heavy customs taxation as Victoria does
the Telegraph and Reid and M‘Billion
party holds out the consolation that every
possible care will be taken that the
tariff is so adjusted as NOT to create
any new industry that will supply the people
with work and pay them wages—which is a beau-
tiful consolation and about as satisfactory all
round as the promise of two floggings and a con-
fiscation. The Protectionist party in its wildest
dreams never proposed any higher tariff than an
average of over per cent, on everything, but it
promised to carefully adjust the duties so that
they would furnish local employment and wages
by way of a compensating advantage. Of course,
if the" Reid party gets into power and imposes
the Daily Telegraph’s Freetrade tariff of
per cent, all round, Protected industries will
spring up under it by accident. But in such a
case the Protectionist party would keep the duties
on, while the Freetrade party will always reserve
the right to promptly take them off where they
are found to be creating employment, and to kill
the new industries on principle. It tried to do
that with the sugar business in N.S.W. . A
Freetrade Government put a duty of £5 per ton
on sugar for purely revenue purposes, and con-
trary to all its intentions a great source of wealth
and employment grew up in consequence. It
was shocked at this because the industry
reduced imports and consequently import duties.
Successive Freetrade Governments watched
it growing up, and then, when it seemed
that the largest possible number of people
were dependent on the industry, and the
largest possible amount of capital
in ft, the brutally-cynical Reid reckoned that it
was time to take the duty off and ki ‘ •
His courage failed him certainly, but no* his bad
principles; he is still preaching them with un-
abated fervor. By the Telegraph s showing :
(1) The duties are to be quite as heavy if its alleged
Freetrade party gets in as they will be if the Protec
tionist party gets in. .
(2) Thev are to be so comprehensive as to coyer almost
everything. Under the Federal Freetrade regime it will
be practically impossible to start any industry which
won’t be a protected industry-.
(3) Yet every man who starts a new industry will ao ic
knowing that' the existence of protected industries is
contrary to the Government’s policy—that the object ot
the Government is only to impose duties which will
bring in revenue—and therefore, as soon as he is so suc-
cessful in supplying the corinnunity with his particular
article that imports cease, and the duty yields no revenue,
that duty will be taken off, and his industry will be
destroyed, if-possible, and his employes thrown out of
work, aijd hi? capital scattered to the four winds.
And even from the revenue point of view the
alleged NECESSITY for all this is a silly lie.
The Freetrade party is never tired of saying that
England owes its prosperity to its fiscal system.
And it is only necessary to adopt England’s fiscal
system, with its duties confined almost entirely to
alcohol and narcotics, and its enormous local and
national direct taxation, and the trouble is at an
end. Let the Federal Government abolish free
newspaper postage and take over the land and
income tax as the British Government does. 'Let
it relieve the Federal and State expenditure by
throwing the burden of police, charities, hospitals,
parks, roads, bridges, schools, wharves, dredging
works, &c., and all the debts incurred in connec-
tion therewith, on to the municipal bodies, as they
do in England. And let the municipal bodies meet
the bill, as they do in England, by putting rates
up to ss. and 6s. and 7s. in the £, and the business
is settled. If the Reids and B. Smiths and
M‘Millans have a shred of faith in their own-
boastings about the prosperity of England,
and about it being due to England’s fiscal policy,
and about the adoption of that policy being the
only way to make Australia prosperous, why
doesn’t some one of them propose adopting that
policy? The men who won’t touch even with a
long pole the thing they say they reverence so
much are a curious lot.
——♦
“The Bulletin’s” Incomplete Federal
Ticket.
The Bulletin doesn’t propose to attempt drawing
up any general ticket for the Federal elections.
The interval between nomination and election is
so short that its ticket would only reach the
remoter parts of the country in time to be a piece
of ancient history. Many of the candidates are
obscure persons, whose politics are still unknown,
and, at time of writing, it is impossible to size all
these individuals up. The nominations for the
Federal Lower House are not yet made in some of
the States, and the nominations for the Seriate, in
several cases, show a despairful crowd of fossils,
cranks, political dead-beats, and men of small ac-
count. But, by way of some approach to a ticket,
The Bulletin urges the people of N.S.W. to vote
for these six men (the Ministerial candidates) for
the Senate:
R. E. O’Connor John Kidd
“Colonel” J. A. K. Mackay “Colonel” Waddell
W. B. Manning Mark Hammond
For three or four of them The Bulletin has as
much contempt as it entertains for at least three
of the candidates selected by Reid and co. to
oppose them; the foregoing list only appeals to
this paper as containing the names of men pledged
to support the policy of the Barton Government.
That policy is strongly democratic, and that
Government includes almost every strong Aus-
tralian statesman now above ground who has con-
sistently fought for the people’s cause —-there-
fore every good democrat should vote for the men
who support the Government. And no decent
democrat should vote for any man not publicly
pledged as a consistent enemy of the George
Reid political leprosy, the George Reid policy of
broken faith, promised democratic legislation which
nevereventuates, of faked accounts, faked statistics,
public insolvency, foolish and mouldy jokes
and ridiculous clowning. As regards Victoria the
best advice that can be given is that no man who
is fit to be at large should vote for any member
of the House of 48 Rich Landlords whatsoever.
No member of that House can have a chance to
get into the Federal Parliament save by professing
principles which, in view of his doings in the local
Upper Hoilse, are a lie and a shameful hypocrisy,
and when there are enough real democrats to go
round it would be a sin and a public sorrow to put
the people's trust in the obviously sham article.
To the people of Queensland the best possible
advice is to abjure the whole crowd of Kanaka
advocates, Kanaka Cowley most of all; and all
the handful of mouldy Freetraders who are willing
to sell Queensland into serfdom to the English
and German importing gang for the sake of a
moth-eaten creed, learned parrot - fashion and
never understood. As regards the crowd of
mostly aged and fossilised candidates from
Tasmania The Bulletin cordially trusts to
see King O’Malley, Philip Fysh, Keating and
Moore among the elected. The rest don’t seem
to make much difference. For S.A. the drafting
of a ticket would be superfluous; if Kingston
can’t carry that State by storm in the Ministerial
interest then his right hand has lost its cunning
and he is very, very far from being the Kingston
he was. And as this issue can hardly labor into
the far wilds and wildernesses of Westralia in-
time for the election, The Bulletin reckons it
will let its ticket stand at that.
♦
Ikey Mo and the Club Tote.
The unholy trinity of the Bookmaker, the Parson
and the Policeman appears to be all-powerful in
Melbourne for the present. By the word “ Book-
maker ” is meant not the fellow who hangs around
tobacco-shops and street corners, battening on the
infatuation of impecunious punters, but the pro-
tected Ikey Mo who yells the odds on racecourses
and lubricates his leathern throat with champagne
at the Victorian Club. This bloated monopolist
has hitherto, by the grace of Church influence,
been able to prevent the legalisation of the
Tote in Victoria. Unmolested he follows
his calling on the racecourse and at the club —
follows it trickily, even dishonestly in his
methods of dealing with unsophisticated clients —
whilst the hypocritical Law prohibits, in the name
of morality, the introduction of a quiet, clean,
sportsmanlike system of Tote betting. Smug-
faced persons look on at this anomaly and give
thanks to the Lord and the Legislature. Police-
men openly invest their bits of gold with the foul-
mouthed monopolists whom they are protecting
from the competition of unlicensed bagmen.
Religion and the Law have conspired to make the
game of horse-racing a good thing for the book-
makers and “sharps” who live by it, and
a bad thing for the multitude who regard it
only as a means of obtaining a little
gambling recreation once in a way. Some three
or four years ago a section of the multitude found
what was thought to be (and which probably is) a
legal avenue of escape from the tyranny of Ikey
Mo. Totes were introduced at Melbourne Stock
Exchange Club, the Commercial Travellers’ and
one or two other clubs which, in point of “res-
pectability,” are infinitely superior to the gam-
bling-hell where Ikey Mo does his weekly
settling. The Tote at these clubs was res-
tricted to races of importance, and was never
open to the outside public. Only members
could buy tickets (10s. tickets) in it for themselves
or perchance for a friend. It was a “1.2.3.”
Tote, paying proportionate dividends on each
of the first three- horses, In short, it was the kind
of racing gamble which reveals to the unprofes-
sional punter the full extent of his foolishness in
accepting Ikey Mo’s'odds on the course Why
should a member of a city club drop a couple of
sovereigns into Ikey’s outstretched paw with the
hope of scoring a win over one chance, when he
could get a better price for a winning chance, as
well as two other chances of a profit, ora “ saver,”
by backing his fancy with the club to which he
belongs ? Naturally Ikey Mo, the bookmaker, and
his influential friend, the big backer, spoke to the
Police upon the subject of these respectable club
gambles that were calculated to lessen the inflow
of gold to Ikey’s bag. It was intolerable to them
that city men should be able to back a horse on
the 1,2, 3 co-operative principle for a big event
before going down to the course to see the race.
So the police were inspired to make raids, if
necessary, on the Tote at these city clubs, and the
club managers, getting wind of the plan, weakly
decided to avoid any risk of prosecution, whereat
Ikey Mo rubbed his hands and cursed vehemently
for very joy. What a power is I. Moses, the
penciller, thanks to the parsons and the police !
No Tote betting is permitted on the racecourse,
or at respectable private clubs, but at Ikey’s own
disrespectable haunt the “ calling of the card ” is
a recognised institution ; newspaper reporters are
in attendance for the purpose of chronicling every
artful betting lie that Ikey chooses to give them
for business purposes, and the negative blessing
of the Church rests upon it all like a dove.
♦ ——
Seddon’s “Victims.”
While M.L. Premier Seddon is prancing around
vaingloriously—wasting Maoriland money, wast-
ing Maoriland manhood, and growing more like a
petty little despot every day—this is the kind of
letter The Bulletin gets from a member of an
M.L. contingent in South Africa :
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —As you are no doubt aware,'
Mr. SEDDON'cabled to Lord Kitchener saying that the
Maorilanders at present in South Africa might he kept
there until the end of the war; he also cabled that he
was sending a sixth contingent, as well as details to bring
up the strength of the second and third contingents.
Now, sir, we have been in this country for about a year,
and have done a fair share of work ; besides this, many
of our men are broken in health and are utterly unfit for
the life of the “ veldt.” There are thousands of men in
Maoriland anxious to come out here, and we think it
Would be only fair if men were sent out to relieve us,
instead of being sent out to increase our now diminished
numbers. Mr. Seddon has not consulted us at all in the
matter. Please publish enclosed verses if you think
them good enough :
When Seddon bade us all good-bye, he said, with feeling
deep,
“ I wish you all a quick return, may God your good
health keep ?”
And yet when we for nigh a year have fought the wily
Boer,
And some have fallen from disease and some lie in their
gore;
When all are worn out by fatigue, by duty fairly done,
By fighting foes in climate bad, beneath a scorching sun ;
A chance is given to this man to bring the remnant
home,
He just has got to say the word, and that word should be
“ Come.”
But no, he thinks of Earldoms bright, of titles such as
lord,
He builds great castles in the air, he thinks of his
reward ;
He leaves us here to stay until they choose to let us go,
To lose our billets and our gold ; he strikes us all a blow ;
And while he sits midst glorious ease, he like a king does
reign ;
He’s generous with his brother’s blood, we suffer for his
gain.
A VICTIM.
One can’t have very much sympathy with this
“ Victim ; ” he is only getting the “glorious war ”
he bargained for ; and if Maorilanders are fools
enough to let themselves be used as a bait to get
Jingo titles and Jingo kudos for Seddon and Co.
—well, it serves Maorilanders right. But it is
curious to see how, while the fellow over
this side is tumbling head-over-heels in his
anxiety for “ sport,” the fellow on the
other side has long ago had his bellyful ot
“sport,” and is only anxious to get back again.
When Maoriland comes to settle up her bill for
crawling to the Empire, she will find that she has
given the equivalent of something like ten years’
practical progress, and has gained—a title for
Premier Seddon. But perhaps, after all, Britain
will “bilk” Seddon. The Bulletin hopes so.
It is the only thing that would hurt him. It is
the one soft spot in his awful hide.
♦
Re that famous fiction by Dry Dog Reid alluded
to by The Bulletin of 16th March :
I pity the workers of Victoria when’l go through the
factories, and see in them, not the workers of Victoria,
but their children. (Cheers.) I pity the industries of
"Victoria when I see man after man thrown out into the
streets, because they have grown too big for them, and
young children brought in to take their places—(cheers)—
and when I know that for every man you find in these
Victorian factories you find half-a-dozen children.
(Cheers.)
The maundering Reid may now definitely' leave
off weeping on this subject. He never saw these
alleged horrors, and what is more, he knew, per- <
fectly well that he never saw them. They were
pure invention. There dre a little over 60,000
workers in Victorian factories, and the latest re-
turn of Vic. Inspector of Factories reveals that
3135 (1818 males and 1317 females) are between
13 and 16 years of age. None are under 13,
for the employment of children under 13 in
Victorian factories is absolutely prohibited. The
proportions are about 20 male adults to one youth,
under 16, instead of one male adult to six children,
as the Dry Dog man asserted. A little dis-
crepancy like that doesn’t matter much to such a
seasoned fictionist as Reid, but it counts for a
good deal with the less hardened section of the
Community.
--
The latest piece of Jingo impudence is the
announcement by the Sydney press tha,t Colonel
Lassetter has been induced to offer himself for
election to the Senate : “ His services in the past
were of such a nature as to afford the people some
guarantee that he would be able to render to the
Commonwealth as a whole services that would be
invaluable.” The gallant Kernel was shelved in
the Reserve, from which he has just been re-called,
after some 30 years’ more or less active peace-
service, to command a contingent for S’Africa.
That means that he now holds, or will in a few
days hold, “ an office of profit under the Crown.”
And, in any case, the public knows nothing of
Col. Lassetter’s alleged services to it. An ex-
captain of a British marching regiment, who has
never had practical, experience of war, is not a
particularly reliable authority on questions of de-
fence. Col. Lassetter seems to be mainly a
nominee of the N.S.W. Permanent Staff, whose
interests he promises to advocate—a fact which
should ensure, even if he were eligible, his prompt
rejection by the electors.
• ♦
How Australia begins to talk. Extract from re-
cent letter in the West Australian (Perth)
The action of our new Premier in expressing himself
against the proposed recruiting of men in Australia for
service in S’Africa, deserves the loyal support of every
person in the State. Mr. Throsskll goes further, by-
stating that, in his opinion, Australia has gone far enough
into this South African business. There is a limit to
everything, and I think that limit has heen reached in
this South African trouble. This last request is unrea-
sonable ; in fact, England seems to be trading on our
loyalty. We, in Australia have a big task in hand —the
building of a nation—and nothing will retard the growth
of the Commonwealth more than loss of population, for
it seems to be England’s desire to induce as many Aus-
tralians as she can to transfer themselves to South Africa.
Also, from another letter in the same paper :
At last we have a Premier who has sufficient backbone
to object to Australia being dragged in the wake of Great
.Britain’s Juggernaut car. It is indeed time that this
accursed drain on our reserves of youth and energy should
cease. Every man taken from' this State is worth his
weight in silver as an economic unit, and at a time when
we are languishing for population this war business is
little short of suicidal. It is in truth a backhanded com-
pliment to democratic Australia to attempt to exploit her
as a recruiting-ground for policemen. Let Great Britain
devote her recruiting efforts to the millions of her own
population, and not seek to impoverish the Common-
wealth in her resources of bone and sinew, which are as
necessary to her proper economic development as the air
she breathes. Look at our returned soldiers—with few
exceptions a collection of invalids, and, in any case, un-
settled for honest work and endeavor. Australia has
indeed paid dearly for her war bauble, and the time has
come to hurl the accursed thing away.
4
Melb. (R.C.) Advocate
If, as is generally believed, Mr. Barton is desirous of
giving justice to every section of the community, he
might well be asked to recognise the claims of those who
number nearly a fourth of the entire people. With the
exception of Mr. O’Connor, who holds an honorary port-
folio in the Ministry, Mr. Barton has not included a
Catholic in his Cabinet. If the same system is adopted
in the filling of the many high official positions, it will
scarcely be the justice which Mr. Barton says he is eager
to give all round.
Another anxious question is whether any care has
been taken that the red-headed section of the com-
munity is properly represented. Also, Presby-
terians, hard-drinkers, footballers, people of no
religion, shearers, persons who wear ready-made
boots, the “straw-hat push,” euchre-players,
people afflicted with chronic snuffles, and that
large section of the community which goes to
pony-races are ten more very extensive bodies
whom Barton seems to have utterly ignored
when forming his Cabinet. And the question
arises : Can a Cabinet constructed without any
regard to all these important sections of the
nation —so important that they comprise almost
the whole nation —have any lasting qualities ? A
thick voice seems to come out of a public-house
saying unanimously “ No ! ”
4
Federated Australia evidently means to have its
own particular brand of epidemic, Sydney
leading the way. The well-known jealousy of
Melbourne is, however, spurring the city fathers
on to emulation, and the lurid reports of a recent
Board of Health inspection of abattoirs show that
the Smellful Village will not be far behind in the
race. Quarter-acres of ground “covered with a
conglomeration of fat, blood, bones, offal, and
other vile-smelling material” (vide Age account of
a recent prosecution) are met with a£s fine, and
the admission that such refuse was sold as manure
passed without magisterial comment. This pest-
ground is within easy range of Flemington race-
course, and its fluid soakage forms a tributary of
the Saltwater River. The City Abattoirs, not far
off, have several blood-gutters leading directly
into this pellucid stream —the Flemington health-
officer characterises it in his last report as a
“stream that civilisation should stand aloof
from ”; and the dessicator at the same
establishment is so constructed as to give
off the maximum of soul-devastating stink.
The fish and plant life of the river are mostly
dead, and the inspector for the council placidly
reports that anglers often hook up masses of de-
composing blood-clot. Sydney owns some fine
breeding grounds for epidemics about Rozelle,
Blackwater, and Johnston’s Bays, but Melbourne,
with her Saltwater River and her extraordinarily
incompetent Board of Shirks, is well in the running
for the first plague outbreak. Tied down by local
“vested interests” —mostly white-vested—Parlia-
ment is very chary about granting power to the
health authorities, and the eternal councillor with
the piggery is allowed to go oil jeopardising the
health of the community at his own unsweet will.
The lesson of last year has evidently been wasted.
4 -
A glaring instance of the N.S.W. free “news-
paper ’’-transmission abuse is furnished in connec-
tion with Colonel Lassetter’s Senate candida-
ture. The March 9th issue of the Australian
Field, which used to be Lassetter’s iron-
mongery advertising publication, and with
which it is still associated in the public
mind, has (without payment of postage) been
distributed broadcast over the State with Col. Las-
setter’s address to the electors printed as a full-
page advt. This precious manifesto contains just
13 lines about the Defences, and five about the
Tariff —which shows clearly the relative import-
ance of the subjects in Mr. Lassetter’s estima-
tion. His idea of State policy is 13 parts guerilla,
and five parts fiscal, and it’s clear enough that if
Mr. Lassetter has his way Australia must Cease
to talk of its “Defence Force,” and “Defence
Minister,” and substitute “Offence.” And it is to
ensure the dissemination of this sort of pestilent
rubbish that the N.S.W. taxpayer has to pay!
Bad enough to have the legitimate newspapers
carried free, but when the privilege is extended
to such a paltry combination of trade-circular and
electioneering-“ skite,” it’s high time the Public
Ass kicked !
4
Sydney Telegraph’s favourite argument nowa-
days is that during the ten years from 1889 to 1899
the factory employes in “Freetrade” N.S.W.
increased to a much greater extent than in Pro-
tectionist Victoria. Which statement is three-
parts true, yet has all the ear-marks of a falsehood.
N.S.W. was a heavily-protected country till the
beginning of 1896 ; the attempt to imply that
N.S.W. was a Freetrade country from 1889 to 1899,
and yet that Reid conferred on it the blessings of
Freetrade in 1896, is unworthy of any sane person.
And during the Protectionist years from 1889 to
1896 N. S. W. made vastly more progress in manufac-
tures than Victoria. Then, during the Freetrade
years from 1896 to 1899, N.S.W. got left by Vic-
toria every year. But when the six Protectionist
years during which N.S.W. got so far ahead of
Victoria, and the four partially Freetrade years
during which it only partly lost the advantage it
had previously gained, are added together, and are
called ten years of Freetrade, and the truly awful
Freetrade liar puts to the credit of Freetrade the
start that N.S.W. gained under Protection,
it is possible to make a pretty good showing. In


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSUKANGE SUUItiY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to «
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
q MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Austral! a and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
c. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Managrer for Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER
*
Va
MM
-
-
Premiums
Interest,
Fees, &c.
Total
Income.
Total
Outgoings
Added 10
Funds
1892
£15,157
£484
£15,641
£1,454
£11,187
ISflb
19.282
1,250
20,488
6.863
14079'
1894
36,602
2,388
81.080
12,872
1875 a
1895
40.816
3,274
44,090
17,663
36.427
18SH5
50,018
4,570
55.483
24,423
314K»
1897
04,07(1
5.S42
70,012
25,305
44,707
1S9S
88,808
9,954
08,262
39,386
AS ,877
181)9
115,395
9.440
174,841
41,377
•8S.4I4
1900
181.871
13,6(50
145,581
59,143
S8.388
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can he Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, T Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for harqe Parcels 01
Regular Supplies wider Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Makager
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
the same way, if the Telegraph changed Napo-
leon to Wellington, and changed Wellington’s
name to Napoleon, and shifted the names of two
capitals on the map, it could say that Napoleon
won the Battle of Waterloo and followed the
wreck of the British forces into London. What
satisfaction it would get out of it Heaven only
knows, but it seems to find some sort of joy in
that kind of crude prevarication.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
4>
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Shamus O’Brien.”
Tivoli Bickards Co.
Lyceum “ Two Little Drummer Boys.”
Palace “Tom, Dick and Harry,” and
“ A Highland Legacy.”
Theatre Boyal “ Cinderella. ”
Her Majesty’s “ A Boyal Divorce.”
Empire Fuller Co.
MELBOUBNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora ’’—Last Nights.
Theatre Boyal “ In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Bijou Bickards Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall Bio-Tableau.
Every year there is a struggle to make the
panto, a bigger spectacle than it was the year
before, and meanwhile the book, which appears
to take care of itself a good deal, becomes more
and more like a volume of old jokes that has been
edited by a committee of Presbyterians. “ Cin-
derella,” which succeeded the “Scarlet Feather”
on St. Whiskey Night at Sydney Royal, is a special
effort in the way of magnificence. It is not
adorned with great hunks of coarse glory, though
there are large effects in it as well as small ones ;
it is beautiful, tasteful, artistic, and money
and ingenuity have been poured out lavishly
to make it perfect down to the smallest detail.
The writer hasn’t struggled with any calculations
about its cost, though it doubtless cost a lot, but
whatever the bill was the result suggests that
Musgrove got value for his money. He might
have spent a lot more and merely produced the
effect of a coal-scuttle-full of diamonds. As for the
literary part of the show, it is rather ordinary and
rather dull. There are about a dozen hackneyed
panto, subjects, and thousands of managers ring
the changes on them year after year in thousands
of theatres till the struggle to build a fresh
story round them is like trying to make soup
out of the backbone of the plesiosaurus, or attempt-
ing to stew the diprotodon. The weary hanging
of different jokes on these old, dry remains is akin
to putting new side-lights on the Ark. The
panto.-book grows duller as the years plod on
down the halls of Time, because the bones of the
twelve subjects or so become more clean-picked
every year, and the wolfish dramatist who gnaws
his annual sustenance off them finds the meat
always getting scarcer. The present ‘ ‘ Cinderella ”
has variations, of course, but the principal
ideas are the same, and the principal characters
are the same, and to disturb them at this late
hour is like laughing a horse-laugh in a cemetery,
or seeing a hearse go by at a canter. It comes
under the head of irreverence. These characters
are old enough to deserve a rest. The ceaseless
re-cooking of the old old hash is like the struggle
of the last of many thousands of parsons to say
something new on the wildlv-novel subject of all
grass being fresh. The Bulletin moves that at
least 12 of the most hackneyed panto, subjects be
obliterated by Federal Act of Parliament.
** * *
Musgrove’s Co. is in keeping with the
outward magnificence of his panto, rather than its
inward dullness. Nellie Stewart as the prince,
Elsie Cook in the capacity of the weary heroine
whose name sounds like Burnt Umbrella, Emmie
Owen, and a multitude of other girls wear their
gorgeous trappings honourably, and sing their
love-songs pleasantly. Very few of these songs
are really worth remembering; the one gem is a
little bit of verse which Miss Stewart recites to
slow music in the ear of the brown girl who after-
wards rises to greatness. Mrs. Stanislaus Cal-
haem is a satisfactory representative of the hope-
less lady of bad character with the sugar-loaf hat
and hair like a grey avalanche, who curses in all
pantomimes and never gets any further forrard.
Berkeley, Godfrey Cass, Seguin and Fred Ellis
also stand out meritoriously, and the Dartos are
more important than all the rest put together,
Nellie Stewart only excepted. The sight of these
two artists toiling through “ ze polk-ah ” or cast-
ing new light and fresh information on ze hop
generally is like unto no previous entertainment
in the city’s recollection.
• * * *
One thing became painfully evident on the
first night of “Cinderella.” Jingoism is off.
Nellie Stewart put her fresh, clear voice, and all
the soul that the battered topic admitted of into a
cry about how the sons of this bright young land
had gone Absent-Minded Begging in S’Africa,
and somebody flapped one hand indifferently at
the other, and missed it, and let the matter rest
at that. About eight girls suddenly lifted their
upper skirts and showed themselves dressed in
the Union Jack underneath, and the result was
just plain silence. Why Musgrove should thus
struggle unprofitably to carry a large dead senti-
ment uphill where it isn’t wanted is just as under-
standable as why an ant goes nowhere in great
haste on a hot day carrying a bit of old carpet-
bag.
#* * *
The “ Royal Divorce ” is doing a limited
number of nights at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), as
per advertisement, with Cecil Ward as Napoleon,
and various other changes of caste. Some of the
changes are possibly for the better; the majority
are not. Still, while the four huge pictures are
there, it is impossible for the “ Divorce ” to alto-
gether fail. It lives mainly on these gorgeous
mctures, and the live-meat characters are to
a great extent a procession of expensively-dressed
lay figures carrying swords and cocked
hats and documents. Cecil Ward, as the
principal lay figure, is not an altogether satis-
factory Bonaparte. He is better than Brough,
whose struggles to play Robertoleon Broughaparte
are still sadly remembered in Sydney, but he is
seldom commanding, and he wants at least six
more Sydney Mails stuffed under his waist-
coat to make him the right size. The
time when he is most successful is when
he is the scared Bonaparte who sees visions
before Waterloo, and he also looks realistic on
his lonesome rock in the red sunset, like Prome-
theus in a big grey coat looking back on his past.
Ward does somewhat of an innovation by facing
the audience in that final tableau ; a previous
Bonaparte was only a drooping back view. Lis-
sant’s Talleyrand is as good as could be asked for,
save in one very important respect: he allows
himself to be hurried. Another and a greater
Talleyrand stepped out with a deliberate, passion-
less leg in his path of iniquity, and was much
more effective. Miss Linda Raymond, despite
her increasing massiveness, is very successful as
Josephine, and Miss Alma Vaughan is also excel-
lent as Marie Louise, the daughter of the Caesars.
Nobody can make very much out of Caesar’s dull
and monotonous daughter, who was a routine
female at best, and led an existence that was
like the constant dripping of water for 50 years.
Probably, however, the most wholly satisfactory
character in the long programme is bright, clever
little Rose Musgrove as Stephanie de Beau-
harnais ; and a kind word should be said for Cyril
Keightley’s Augereau. Augereau was a flaring
and be-ribboned idiot who is difficult to deal with
at any time. Also, George Majeroni makes a
long, gloomy-looking personage of the Marquis de
Beaumont, and suggests a tall thin dungeon in
a wasted land.
* * * »
Hawtrey’s term at Sydney Palace closes at
the end of next week, and the story of the three
red-headed men with straw hats who are all
suspected of lunacy will see the season out. A
single line advt. now begins to appear in the
papers demanding to know “Why Smith Left
Home?” whereby the public may infer that
Charles Arnold is about due. The reason of
Smith’s departure from his domicile is one of the
things which Arnold hadn’t time to explain on
his previous visit, but he promised to clear the
matter up on his next appearance in Sydney.
* * * *
“ The Ladder of Life ” comes to a blessed
end at Sydney Lyceum on Friday night. The
writer has no special grievance against the
“Ladder,” except that seven weeks of insane kilt
is too much, and the ladder that is too long is apt
to sag in the middle. “Two Little Drummer
Boys ” follows on Saturday. The title appears to
promise another weary shriek and blare of mili-
tary fury, but even the drum is a relief after much
furious skirling on the bagpipes.
* * * *
“Shamus O’Brien,” now on at Sydney Cri-
terion, is one of the usual Irish plays wherein the
peasantry are shown as declining violently to pay
their rent, said peasantry consisting generally of
six men in worsted stockings and battered hats,
and two nice girls, the latter attired in very
stylish garb considering the general destitution
of the land. When the Irish nation, which con-
sists of six people, meets the English nation when
it consists only of three, then the English nation
conquers in the battle that ensues; but when
there are only two or three persons with shille-
laghs against eight red persons with guns
the sons of Erin are certain to score a vic-
tory. The persecuted Irish seem a good deal
more cheerful than their circumstances warrant,
and when the hero, whom they love fondly, is
waiting inside somewhere to be hanged, they
while away the time by dancing an Irish jig. The
hero is led to execution in every act or so, the
only variation being that sometimes he is going
to be hanged, and sometimes he is going to be
shot, and sometimes he is going to be plain
executed, without details.
* * * •
There is nothing too reminiscent of ’9B
about the play except that one of the characters
occasionally makes a longish speech, saying that
things will have to be arranged differently in
Ireland somehow. He stops pursuing the Irish
on one occasion to express these sentiments, with
the result that these personages have time to come
back and pursue him. Dampier is not a gay and
dashing Irish rebel, but in a quiet way he makes
it evident that he is ready to die for his country,
though he also leaves the impression that he
would just as soon have no country to die for.
Rose Dampier plays, in a sad sort of fashion,
the heroine who wears the same dress through-
out the piece. She even goes to see her
husband before execution in the old pink
garb, which is anyway a change from the
clothing of the usual stage-heroine who buys her
mourning before her husband is scragged. Miss
Katherine Russell enacts the part of a strong-
minded Irish lady, who thrashes English officers
whenever she feels so inclined. The persecuted
Irish are allowed a good deal of latitude in such
directions —as, for instance, when Dampier, dis-
guised as an old servant, is permitted to comment
on the calves of gentlemen visitors, and also
throws the laundry about. In Sydney, where the
peasantry are not persecuted, a servant is not per-
mitted to throw the laundry about.
* * * *
The ancient Sydney Royal Standard has
now become the Empire, and gone in for the
variety business under the management of John
Fuller and Sons. The general effect of the new
show is one of brightness. It slips along easily,
and great care has been taken that the items
shall not be dragged out till one is tired and feels
a great hunger for the next item, no matter what
it is; as is the case in most variety shows. A
charming little girl in white and old gold, billed
as little Vida Provina, does some wonderful
juggling tricks a la Cinquevalli, with three
balls that revolve symmetrically around her
and over and under her fan, a tumbler that is
jerked out of its box and made to crawl all over
Vida, a bottle that takes healthy exercise round
the edge of a dessert plate, two billiard balls that
dance on the end of a cue while the cue stands on
the lady’s countenance, and other props. Lennon,
Hyman and Lennon are gymnastic specialists,
and twist, themselves into knots that are even
more knotty than the average, and the miscel-
laneous performers are mostly above the usual
level. The Empire show deserves success.
** * *
Harry Rickards made the speech of his
life at Melbourne Bijou last Saturday. It hap-
pened that Johnson, Rians, and Bentley, who
were billed fora “monkey act,” had left their
fixings at Albury and couldn’t take their turn.
Rickards brought them on in accordance with
music - hall tradition to convince his beloved
patrons that he wasn’t deceiving them re the
cause of the omission, and having deeply regretted
this unavoidable disappointment, and so forth,
the beaming orator proceeded to offer consolation.
“I called upon Mr. Tallis,” said Rickards, 1 “and
he kindly consented to lend me the services of a
lady who I had the honor to bring to Australia—
Miss Irene Franklin. (Loud applause.) I saw the
lady about half an hour ago, and she is now get-
ting dressed —(shouts of laughter, further shouts,
pleased astonishment on the face of H. R., who
remarked that he “seemed to have made a hit.”
Then silence restored). So, trusting, ladies and
gentlemen, that you will take the word for the
deed “ ” (More shouts. Exit Rickards to
get the joke explained to him.).
** * *
The pantomime which came in at the tail-
end of the summer season, and perspired for a
month, has passed away from Melbourne Bijou,
and the Rickards entertainment is back in its old
groove. Saturday night’s programme was remark-
able for the first and last appearance on the
variety stage of Munchausen de Rougemont—the
man who rode across Northern Australia on a
bounding turtle, and persuaded a London editor
to take him seriously. De Rougey, as Will
Whitburn sketched him of yore, was not a
bit like the great original. The Explorer is
a mild, worried-looking person with a grizzly
beard. He came forward on Saturday in a
swallow-tailed coat, and began to relate his
extraordinary experiences as though this was the
awfullest situation he had ever faced. A bold De
Rougey with a voice of thunder might have com-
manded the awe of the Indians in the gallery
until he had got fairly going, but this unhappy
stranger couldn’t roar worth a cent. His pose
was apologetic, and his yarn almost inaudible.
A few bits of broken accent borne on the wave
of popular derision revealed the fact that Rougey
had come prepared to talk dull journalese, if the
savages upstairs would let him. They objected to
being bored by the unassuming romancer, so within
four minutes of his first appearance he got the
managerial order to consider himself dead, and
the stage knew the shark - snatcher no more.
Otherwise, the bill at Rickards’s includes
Albert Whelan, Harry Shine, a new alto
singer in the first part, the De Wynne acro-
bats, Ted Box, &c., &c. Saturday was Box’s
first time in Melbourne, and they liked the funny
little man in two songs. Then he introduced his
“champion whistle,” and called attention to a
number of metal trophies which it had won for
him, but Box’s whistle-song made the world
wonder why so clever a comedian should take a
particular pride in a shrill, uninteresting specialty.
»* * #
“Carmen” started the second innings of
grand opera at the Princess’s on Saturday, chorus,
principals and scenery being duly appreciated as
before. To-night (Thursday) “II Trovatore ” will
be revived, to-morrow “ Lohengrin,” and on
Saturday the charming “ Mignon ” is to take
place for the first time in Australia since long ago.
Ambroise Thomas’s opera has never been pro-
duced anywhere hereabouts in a Musgroveian
manner for many years. To the great majority
of Melbourne people it will come as a new show,
sparkling with musical quotations.
** * *
The nights of “ Florodora ” at Her
Majesty’s have been numbered up to April 2nd,
which is Tuesday in Easter week. Also, the
management announces that the 100th perform-
ance (including matinees) will eventuate (D.V.)
on March 28th and the public must watch for it.
Meanwhile the public seems to be watching for
each performance in turn. Last Saturday night
was very like all the previous Saturday nights,
and the audience seemed to know their “Floro-
dora ” so thoroughly that The Bulletin begins to
think they must live in the theatre and pay for
their seats day by day.
** * *
Bio-Tableau at the Athenaeum Hall
has added Queen Victoria’s Funeral to its pro-
gramme, which is presented 12 times a week with
unfailing regularity. The Funeral, however, is
under orders for an Australasian tour, and Mel-
bourne will have to hurry up, or be too late for
the spectacle. Queens nowadays seem to live and
die in the interests of biographs and illustrated
newspapers.
** * »
The burning of the Panther’s Den, like-
wise the other lurid effects “In Sight of St.
Paul’s” get a joyful reception at Melbourne
Royal. It seems that the city was much im-
pressed by the Panther drama aforetime. The
birthday supper for ladies only, where all the
guests are highly improper and prosperous, and
appear in low-necked dresses, and drink cham-
pagne to the. confusion of their natural enemy
Man, has a particular attraction for the female
half of Melbourne. Women like to see their side
bossing the show, anyhow. The spectacle of
those fallen sisters enjoying a wicked, expensive
buret among themselves brings a faint blush of
satisfaction to Virtue’s cheek. Man, for the time
being, is the despised profligate who has been
shut out in the cold. He is paying for the supper
and the birthday presents, whilst the giddy girls
wish him all the bad luck he deserves. “In
Sight of St. Paul’s” commends itself somewhat
to wives and mothers-in-law, present and prospec-
tive. Miss Harrie Ireland is not quite such a
tame, domesticated sort of Panther as she was the
first night. Moreover, she now lays herself out
on the floor to be roasted when the conflagra-
tion comes along, instead of taking a chair
amidst the flames. This is an improvement.
Harford, who plays the Panther’s husband,
doesn’t improve to any noticeable extent, al-
though the part offers great opportunities.
When Harford wanders into the burning Den
and kneels beside the frizzled Panther there are
several square holes in the floor from which
flames issue freely. He might give a howl of
despair and drop himself down a hole. The floor
yawns for Harford. The tongues of fire seem to
be telling him that he can only die once, and this
is his one chance of knocking the audience. But
Harford continues to kneel and throw his arms
about aimlessly. Bland Holt, as a cockney cab-
man with a kind ’eart, is a valuable item in “St.
Paul’s,” and Arthur Styan gives a bright perform-
ance of the stereotyped Adolphus who draws a
delicate distinction between an ass and a fool, and
prefers to be the former. One night last week the
parlor scene—the scene with boiling water and
winkles in it—was strengthened by a comic acci-
dent. Walter Baker’s bedstead, after being
pushed violently into the wardrobe, lost its per-
pendicular and fell upon Bland Holt, and for the
next two minutes the fate of the management was
shrouded in mystery and blankets.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney has at last found a Mayor with sufficient
courage and common sense to face the situation. Mayor
Graham proposes putting up the rate from Is. 6d. to 2s.
in the £, and at latest advices the Council had declined
to do anything sudden in the matter and was thinking
over it. In 1890 the municipal revenue of Sydney was
sufficient, on a one-and-sixpenny rate, to pay all reason-
able outgoings and to leave a small surplus with which to
reduce the city debt. The aldermen were so shocked at
the idea of reducing the debt in this hurried fashion that
they promptly reduced the rate to Is. 4d. Things might
have kept about square at that figure but for the great
fall in property value, which made a sixteenpenny-rate
just about as productive as a fourteenpenuy one used to
be. The very first year of the reduction there was
a shortage of £11,050, but the aldermen refused to
go back to the old eighteenpenny tax. The shortages
continued for nine years, till about £150,000 of deficits
had accumulated, and till the city streets, through the
desperate attempt to make ends meet by stopping re-
pairs, were in a truly awful condition. Even George-
street began to have holes in it that a stray infant might
be lost in! In 1899 the rate was put up again to Is. 6d. in
the £, but the extra 2d. just about covered the interest
on the accumulated deficit. It didn’t make the income
meet the ordinary expenditure, nor leave any surplus
with which to make up arrears of street repairs, for
Is. 6d. in the £ in 1900, with interest to pay on a
£150,000 overdraft, and with the whole city in
the last stage of decay, was a very different thing
from Is. 6d. in the £ in 1890, with no overdraft to
pay interest on and no huge arrears of street maintenance
to catch up. Moreover Is. 6d. in the £ doesn’t bring
in nearly so much money now as it did on the higher valua-
tions of 1890. So even with the increased rate there was
a shortage in 1900 of over £20,000. Mayor Graham now
tells the Council the solemn obvious truth —that if the
old eighteenpenny rate had been maintained all along it
might have sufficed, but with lower valuations, interest
to pay on £150,000 of old deficits, these deficits to wipe
off, and practically all the streets in the last stage of
accumulated decay, nothing less than 2s. in the £ will
keep Sydney solvent and habitable. Even the re-
formed Council doesn’t feel sure that it is quite reformed
enough for that. It seems half-inclined to start shirking
the difficulty again.
* * * *
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. (Sydney) pub-
lishes a balance-sheet for the year 1900, which, in many
respects, is ahead of anything it has previously accom-
plished. So far as concerns the Ordinary Life Depart-
ment results compare with previous doings as follows
Citizens’ Ordinary Lire Department.
At the beginning of 1892 the funds of the Citizens’
Ordinary Life Department were £8993. They are now


-
Total
Income.
OlaiiiiN.
Deprecio-
Mon written
off.
Expenses.
Added
to
llNinds.
£109,000
£11,008
0229
073,390
£24.159
i«rty
11 a.057
211
6(3.421
21,703
1891
120,008
8-2,662
0,743
77,013
10,060
laofl
183,104
51,135
3V4
71.402
10,603
1800
116,617
00,862
260
74,3(51
11,065
1597
16(1, HI
72.022
208
83,687
107
1808
150,101
M,mV7
170
78,131
20,033
1889
105,611
53,125
400
U2,tn2
10,278
1000
1711,40(1
411,808
597
98,312
28,11110
Pre-
miums.
lu-
tereafc.
Total
Itieomc.
Expen-a't.
Added to
Funds.
3691
£47,868
£1615
£31,913
£7,265
£19.212
3698.
26,821
6519
31,740
7,717
17,216
l&W..
2*3,001
0575
88,576
8.030
10,021
ISO*..
27.77S
6243
34,013
11,843
13,140
lBUft,.
29,179
7670
30,849
10,697
11,078
IHIHJ .
81,859
7131
39,290
9,900
13.318
3to*7..
32,845
8384
■11,229
9,488
19,201
1B9S..
36,689
aso
45,884
10,306
12,786
mi..
40.46S
9610
50,076
1 1,03
11,140
19M..
49.637
10,4*18
60,040
13,298
Hen york [ife Insurance (}o.
Special Representatives lVanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
Apply— THOS. P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sound Progress of 17th August, 1900, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ Everywhere it is making rapid progress and is meeting
with a proper response from those who understand sound
investments.*
* * * *
There appears to be no abatement in the number
of contracts for dredging plants required. The Austral
Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne, have completed a large
number of plants, and have still a great number of con-
tracts in hand for New Zealand and Victoria, including a
bucket dredging plant for the Ovens Valley Gold Dredg-
ing Co., whose manager is Mr. Walter Hardie, Pitt-street,
Sydney.*
■ * * •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example. *
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option.”
Melbourne.*
*** • '
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * * •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * m
The comuletion of the Chillagoe line brings the
rails within 90 miles of the Einasleigh, and the building of
a tram (2ft. gauge), to connect with the line, is to be
started shortly.
» » * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To he obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
» * « «
Mt. Garnet: Directors say tonnage of ore being
gradually increased and the recovery of metals is good ;
stoppage of furnaces not due to the baseness of the ore
but to the metallurgist’s attempts to produce
a higher-grade matte in the first smelting operation.
When this was found impracticable a change of
policy took place, but the new method of treatment would
not add materially to the cost. Admitted that the
oxidised ores contain per cent, zinc and that the
arerage over the whole is from 6 to 7 per cent. zinc.
Proposed to issue reserved shares to make a railway
‘ connection with the Chillagoe line. As a rule the mine
that starts with an average of from 6 to 7 per cent, zinc en-
counters the zinc trouble before it is half way through.
Writer never heard of zinc leaving a mine, and it may he
taken for granted that when it has made so early an
appearance, as in this case, it is there to stay and will be
a serious fly in the ointment before all is over. The pro-
posal to have railway connection is a wise one. It would
be wiser stop smelting altogether until it is made.
“ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
a
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate ot Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting’ Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-at., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; #7 Eagle-street,
Brisk. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites*
Candles, etc.
£383,947. Not only has the income increased every year,
but every year a larger sum ha 3 been added to the assur-
ance fund. The expense rate of the Citizens’ Ordinary
Life Department is now down to £l2 ss. lOd. per cent,
on the total income—the smallest rate among Austra-
lasian offices, the A.M.P. only excepted, and even its rate
isn’t much below that of the Citizens. There seems to
be no doubt, however, that this result is arrived at by
charging an exorbitant share of the expenses to the in-
dustrial branch ; for this is how some of the expenses are
divided :
Paid by Ordinary Paid by Industrial
Branch. Branch.
Directors’ Fees .. .. £2OO £2200
Auditors’Fees .... 30 270
Advertising .. .. 155 1736
Government Taxes .. 115 1210
Rents, Rates and Taxes .. 352 4101
Dividend to Shareholders Nil. 2000
Depreciation of Furniture Nil. 369
Salaries .. .. .. 1442 16,092
The tax items are especially glaring, for taxes are
largely' based on property, and the Citizens’ ordinary life
department, which has considerably more property' than
is owmed by the industrial branch, pays less than one-
tenth as much of the taxes. Under these remarkable
conditions it is no wonder that the expenses of the
ordinary branch are kept low. Still, however the result
is arrived at, it is a comforting thing for the ordinary
policy-holders.
* * * *
One unquestionably good feature about the
ordinary' branch is the improvement in interest, rents,
&c. In 1899 the returns under this head represented the
ridiculously low figure of £3 13s. lOd. per cent, per annum
on the average funds—a result partly ascribable to the
fact that a huge proportion of the funds were invested in
a building that was unfinished and unproductive. The
interest earnings for 1900 were at the rate of £4 os. 2d.
per cent, on the average funds. This is still a very low
rate—the lowest rate earned by any large Australasian
life office, and if it doesn’t improve considerably it seems
to imply that a writing down of the assets would be
beneficial.
* * * *
The progress of the other branch is as follows:
Citizens’ Industrial Life Department.
The funds of the Industrial Department have increased
from £106,165 at Ist January, 1892, to £258.182, so the in-
dustrial branch, which has to carry the thick end of the
expenses, has accumulated £152,017 in nine years, while
the ordinary branch, which carries the thin end of the
expenses, has accumulated £374,954 out of a much
smaller income. The expenses of the Industrial Depart-
ment for 1900, not including’ depreciation, are close on
56 per cent, of total income—a very heavy figure. This is
only a shade less than in 1899 and more than in 1898. In
each of the last nine years expenses' have absorbed more
than the sum paid to policy-holders and the sum set
aside for the future security of policy-holders put to-
gether. Industrial business is an expensive kind of life
insurance, especially when the industrial department has
to carry more than its fair share of the expenses in ordei
to lend assistance to thefavored Ordinary Life Department.
The interest earnings of the Citizens’ Industrial Depart-
mentforl9ooare about£3l9s. lid. percent, on theaverage
funds. If this item does not show a substantial increase
next year, this is another case where the advisability of
writing down the assets should be considered.
The Citizens Co. has now in its hands £622,129
of policy-holders’ money. Over this sum the policy-
holders have no control whatever ; the sole control rests
with the shareholders who have £20,000 in the concern.
The policy-holders have the protection afforded by this
£20,000 and by the £lBO,OOO uncalled capital, or as much
of the latter as could be called up if an emergency arose.
In return for this protection they pay, say, £looo* a year.
That is to say the shareholders’ capital doesn’t earn more
than £lOOO (5 per cent.) in interest, and the shareholders
take out £2OOO (10 per cent.) in dividends. Any
losses on investments are borne by the policy-holders
only. If there were no shareholders, and the' £lOOO a
year which the policy-holders pay for the alleged advan-
tage of having shareholders was put to a reserve to accu-
mulate at 4 per cent, compound interest, in about 54
years there would be a reserve-fund of £200,000, which
would be vastly better security for the policy-holders
than the present arrangement is. The proprietary system
of life assurance may have advantages ; it certainly has
very serious drawbacks.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania shows a
slight improvement for the half-year to 28th February,
1901. Some recent records have been after this fashion :
Profits Dividends, Dividend- Total
Tax, &c. Reserves.
June, 1895.. .. .. £190,332
Dec., 1895.. £3700 5 per cent. = £3712 190,320
June, 1896.. 4199 5 „ = 3766 190,753
Dec., 1896.. 3833 ’ 5 „ = 3714 190,872
Aug., 1897.. 4969 5 ~ = 4952 190,889
Feb., 1898.. 4463 - 37u} *>0,638
Aug., 1898.. 4823 gS} W
Feb., 1899.. 4885 I = 37 w} 190 > 918
Aug., 1899.. 5519 = 100 ’ 980
Feb., 1900.. 6611 101,634
Aug., 1900.. 6828 =' 5200} 101 . 792
Feb , 1901.. 7502 - gg} 102,564
The earnings are at the rate of £6 3s. 4d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the half-year. The reserves consist of reserve
fund, £lOO,OOO, and undivided profits, £2564. During the
past 3J years £90,000 has been written off securities, and
£B5OO off the paper value of the bank’s premises. The
process of writing-down is still going on, and the unwis-
dom of putting the dividend up from 5 to 6 per cent, in
the same half-year when £91,000 had to be written off,
and further increasing it to 7 per cent, while there was
still depreciation to be provided for, stands out very
conspicuously. During the past half-year, deposits, note
circulation, and profits have all increased materially, and
cash and liquid securities now stand at £s73,lo2—equal
to the very substantial figure of 36 per cent, on all liabili-
ties to the public. The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
has a splendid reserve (£190,019) of Government securities
—more than equal to its whole paid-up capital, and it
looks a most satisfactory institution in every way, except
for its top sudden hunger after large dividends at a time
when it was much more important to start re-building
the sorely-damaged reserve fund.
••• ' *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society (Syd-
ney) presents a rather disappointing balance-sheet for the
year 1900. The main features of the business in recent
years are as follows :
The most startling feature in these figures is the heavy
increase in the expense rate. During the period covered
by the above table the City Mutual s record in this
direction has been as follows :
Expenses Compared With Totau Income.
1891 ..£22 15 3 per cent. 1896 .. £25 311 per cent.
1892 24 6 3 I* 1897 .. 22 17 0 ~
1893 '• 27 8 9 1898 .. 22 13 9 „
1894 I: 34 16 3 ” 1899 .. 22 0 3 „
1895 .. 29 0 7 „ 1900 .. 27 110 ~
All the progress made in the last four years in the way
of reducing expenses has been more than undone, and the
figures have almost got back to the disastrous level of
1895. ....
Another unpromising circumstance is that the
City Mutual has gone back on its good resolution of 1898
that it would make no further additions to that very
dubious paper asset, “deferred instalments of annual
premiums. ” This item is based on the theory that though
a policy-holder may pay his premium quarterly or
half - yearly in advance he should pay it annually
in advance. Therefore, if J. Smith, just before
the end of the year, takes out a policy bearing
£6O a year premium, and pays a quarter’s premium
(£l5) in advance, the other £45 is set down as an asset
under the “deferred instalments of annual premiums.”
If he takes out his policy in August on the quarterly pay-
ment plan, then he pays two instalments (£3O) before the
end of the year, and the other £3O is set down as an asset.
If his policy commences in May he will have paid £45
before the end of the year, and the other £l5 is put down
as an asset. Of course he may drop the policy and never
pay the balance, in which case the alleged asset has to be
written off. But as long as Smith and everybody else so
circumstanced remain in the society, each man’s
balance of annual premum (even if he doesn’t
pay his premium annually) is put in as an
asset. Only one or two offices in Australasia adopt
this dubious practice. In 1898 the City Mutual re-
pented of it and announced that the very hazy paper
asset would be gradually written off, and it did write off
over £7OO, reducing the alleged asset to £6785. This year
the item swells up to £ll,o36—an increase of £4251. If
it had not swelled the addition to the funds would
have been only the very small sum of £14,047 ; the income
would apparently have been only £55,789 ; and the
expense rate would have reached the enormous figure of
£29 3s. Id. per cent, on total income. This seems a most
lamentable case of throwing overboard a good resolution
' and thereby disguising a rather bad situation.
The best feature about the City Mutual is that
its interest earnings are at the rate'of £5 3s. 9d. per cent,
per annum on the total average funds for the year. This
is the highest rate earned by any Australasiau life office,
and it does a little, though not very, much, to counter-
balance the extravagant expense rate. Another good
point is that losses are written off annually. But taking
everything into account the position of the City Mutual
doesn’t look nearly so good as it did a ye&r ago. The
business has been extended to Victoria, and the expansion
policy appears to have been very costly so far.
* * ¥ *
The Standard Fire and Marine Ifisurance Co.
of Maoriland:
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1890 £11,661 7£ per cent. = £5625 £28,667
1891 9,768 7* „ „ = 5625 32,810
1892 17,908 | Witten off _ 40001 39)21 8
1893 11,751 10 ” ” = 7500 43,469
1894 8,176 10 „ „ = 7500 44,145
1895 5,134 7% „ „ = 5625 43,654
1896 5,822 7} „ „ = 5625 43,851
Loss.
1897 4,872 6 „ „ = 3750 35,229
Profit.
1898 4,373 6J „ „ = 4687 34,915
1899 11,409 7| „ „ = 5625 40,699
1900 13,494 10 „ „ = 7500 46,693
Two good years have made up for the disastrous period
between 1894 and 1898, and the Standard Fire and Marine
Insurance Co. has now built up more solid reserves than
it has possessed for very many years. The total share-
holders’ funds are £121,693 (capital £75,000 ; reserve fund
£25,000 ; reinsurance fund £15,000; and undivided profit
£6693). And with its usual reticence as to assets the
management simply says that these funds are mostly
planted in “ Investments, £74,210.” The interest-bearing
funds amount to £99,935, and they yielded last year
£4114, equal to £4 2s. 4d. per cent. This isn’t a high
rate, especially if the “Investments £74,210” consist
largely of mortgages, but it is reasonably good.
* » * »
More of the troubled career of the Mutual
Store, Melbourne :
Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1900 .. £1,967 £3 6s. Bd. per cent. = £1,875 £6,844
Jan., 1901.. 2,448 „ „ = 1,875 7,417
This is at least an improvement, but the troubles of the
Mutual Store are still very great. It has a paid-up capital
of £112,500, and practically the whole of this (£110,559) is
buried in land and buildings. Of these, £48,000 are
specified as representing “book values,” while £62,559
are put in “at cost.” Nothing is said as to present values,
and what this £110,559 alleged value may he really worth
is an interesting mystery. Having buried practically all
its capital in buildings, the Mutual Store has naturally to
trade almost entirely on borrowed money, and its over-
draft at the Bank of Victoria is £69,047. The overdraft
has increased by over £4OOO during the half-year, and the
interest bill (£1925) is a grievous drag on the profits.
Also, the Store’s customers owe it £20,113 —equal to a
quarter of the gross sales for the six months. What with
the credit business, the huge overdraft, the heavy inter-
est bill, and the almost entire want of any trading capital
of its own, the outlook is none too good.
• • » *
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Building
Society (Launceston) is now 42 years old —very few Aus-
tralian institutions of the kind have survived to all
these years—and is still prospering. The record for the
last two years is as follows :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1898 £13,596
1899 .. £lBO2 about 7 per cent. = £1347 14,051
1900 .. 1782 „ = 1335 14,498
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Building Society
certainly seems much more permanent than most institu-
tions which bear that ill-fated name. Its long survival
is probably due to good management and to the compara-
tive absence of these wild and glorious land booms which
have left so many Sydney and Melbourne institutions on
the rocks. The shareholders’ funds total £35,370 (capital
£20,872, and reserve fund £14,498, so the reserves are
very solid considering the size of the institution), and
deposits are £47,643. This latter item certainly looks a
trifle top-heavy in case of a run by depositors, but it may
be that the Tasmanian depositor is too slow to run.
* * * *
“Jimmy S.” re the coal-hewing and miners’
pay : —“ The minimum N.S.W. selling price for big coal
is 11s. per ton. The hewing rate paid to the miner is 4s.
2d. per ton. Now, the coal as it leaves the bord consists
mainly of big coal, but owing to the skips bumping,
getting off the road, &c., a good deal is broken into small
before reaching the top. When it gets to the top it is
tipped into the screen, and it is for that which does not
go through the screen, but into the wagon at the mouth
of the screen, that the miner gets 4s. 2d. per ton ; for
that which goes through the screen he only gets, J of Id.
per ton, notwithstanding that the minimum selling price
for small coal is 6s. per ton, and the demand is the biggest
on record. What a splendid inducement is thus held out
to the miner, perhaps working in as low as a 3ft. Bin.
seam, by the munificent rate of 8 tons of screened
coal for Id! Proportionately with the hewing
and selling rate for big coal the miner
should get 2s. 3d. per ton for slack. The
expenses incurred in dealing with slack are far less than
those incurred in dealing with big. Very often the seam
of coal is very crumbly, and a shot is often fired bringing
down lumps and a skip or so of slack. If the miner filled
the slack he would get slightly more than the usual rate,
perhaps about 3Jd. per skip, but it wouldn’t pay, as it
would leave him short of skips for his big coal. There-
fore the slack is thrown back in the ‘ gob,’ but it doesn’t
remain there long before it is filled by daymen, and the
miner gets * nixey.’ Again : In the ordinary screens,
when a lump of coal contains brassband, or stone (gene-
rally termed ‘ chitter’), the screener lifts it out and the
‘ chitter-picker ’ easily separates it without breaking
the coal to bits, but on the ‘ travelling ’ screens it
is all hurry-scurry, the chitter-pickers standing near
the ‘ traveller,’ and if one misses banging the chitter
it passes on to the next, and so on, each hit breaking-
the coal up and making twice as much slack as on the
ordinary screens. From the traveller the coal passes to
the ‘ shaker,’ which bumps the coal about still more and
makes more slack. An instance of the value and demand
for slack The miners are entitled to a coal-ticket per
month, allowing them a ton of slack, for which they have
to pay cost of carting. Some of the pits are too far away
from their homes for these tickets to be of any use, so
they generally sell them ; but recently the secretary of
the coalmasters’ association wrote to the miners’ general
secretary stating that, in future, any miner selling a coal
ticket would have his tickets stopped for three months.
This threat has, so far, been taken for its worth and the
miners still do that which they are justified in doing—
selling their own property.
■ft * * *
Another little effort is being made to “do some-
thing ” with the Euriowie tin-field, on the Barrier out-
skirts, far-west N.S.VV. The stone is there ; the trouble
so far has been to strike the right dressing machinery.
* * * *
To “ P.K.,” an enquirer: Woodlark shares are
very cheap for the bonanza the thing is said to be.
* * * *
The new patent prospecting-dish, invented by
W. G. Collins, has no solder used in it; it is made of one
continuous piece of black iron. It has also on one side
“a flange or lip, which facilitates washing and prevents
the loss of any metal.”
* * * *
N.S.W. dredging: Some little yield from this
industry which is taking so long to grow that it is doubt-
ful whether it will ever be great. No. 1 Turon, 21oz. ;
No. 2, which has had a rest, is just about to re-start, and
arguing from history it is reasonable to assume that
No. 1 will then go to sleep. Araluen Proprietary, 200 z.,
and not even a whisper of a div. Araluen Valley, 240 z.,
which probably pays, until something goes wrong with
the machine. Sofa'la, 130 z., hardly good enough under
the best of circumstances. It is poor business to spend
£6OOO for 13oz. of gold a week. Macquarie No. 1, three
days for lOJoz. ; this is a big drop, but as the shares have
only had a small one, it is no doubt only temporary.
Shoalhaven River, 15oz. ; Colombo, 14jOz.
• • • •
Sons of Gwalia: 8485 tons, 50410 z. What a
falling off is here 1 Strange, too, that the tonnage this
month should be so. great. And writer is not aware that
the mine has made any recent increase in its crushing
plant; has the old game of lowering the tonnage for the
purpose of enlarging the result been played ? When
the shares started to drop in London two months ago,
the management there cabled to Westralia the usual
query, “ What’s up ? ” receiving the conventional reply,
“ The mine was looking well and there was nothing the
matter,” and the shareholders were satisfied. It seem 3
very easy to play with J. Bull. But, as a N.S.W. poli-
tician used often to say, “ What are the fax.” The
Sons of Gwalia paid a dividend of 2s. last May.
It never paid one before nor since, although it
had a monthly gold production of from 3000 to
6000 oz. ! It has 350,000 shares which have been up to
£6, and are now under 1 3, and would probably be dear at
30s. Working expenses are heavy, and always will be,
chiefly on account of the want of timber. Would be a
good thing if the mine closed down for some months to
enable the manager to get it into a condition for safe
working? Writer understands that he made this recom-
mendation some months ago, but the London manage-
ment could not afford to wait for fear of a fall in the mar-
ket, which has taken place in spite of them. Co. recently
acquired the underlay blocks for 18,000 fully-paid shares.
The firm of Bewick Moreing were the founders of the
Sons of Gwalia, and that enterprising firm appears to be
very much concerned in the underlay blocks. There is a
yarn that there remains a strip of land between that has
not yet been taken over.
• » * *
Brookman’s Boulder : “ A partial clean-up of
370 tons from the cyanide plant shows an average of
6idwt. Good enough, as this mine has many thousands
of tons of sands and slimes which did not come out of it,
but, nevertheless, are the mine’s property. It has
been running a custom mill for the last two years, and
the tailings are its “bunts.” Mine itself a bitter disap-
pointment. Nearly a year ago it pierced with a bore a
big lode which averaged nearly an ounce, and lode has
since been reached with a crosscut. There is a little of it
worth over an ounce, balance only a few dwts., and it is
being driven on with a faint hope of improvement.
* * * *
Great Fingall: 2166 tons, 26850 z. A little
lower average than usual, but good enough for divs.
Mine looking remarkably well at No. 7 level; big reef
maintaining an average of 20z., and it would seem that it
only needs two or three winzes put down at certain dis-
tances in this level to establish the permanent greatness
of this property.
* * * *
Long Reef: Another Westralian steady pro-
ducer—ls3o tons, 12540z5. Owned in England, so nob
much known about it, except that it has been making
regular returns for over a year; therefore worthy of
respect.
m * * *
East Murchison United : Another mine of same
category—2loo tons, 17910 z. Like the Fingall Con-
solidated, it is an amalgamation and resurrection of some
W.A. mines that could nob live individually after the
boom.
* * * *
Ivanhoe : Maintaining the average of a little
over 8000 oz. per month, and, with a view of increasing it
to 10,000 oz. exclusive of any rich ore for shipment, it is
proposed to erect 40 more stamps and increase the weight
of the 60 now running ; cost estimated at £38,000. “The
decision to go in for battery treatment, in preference to
erecting a costly sulphide plant, is a significant one, and
shows that the sulphide bogey, which some years ago
threatened to play sad havoc with the field, has disap-
peared.” How pleasant and yet pathetic ! Pity ’tis nob
true. The Diehl sulphide process largely consists of
battery treatment. The battery already does a big part
of it, buif not all, at the Ivanhoe, which has its cyanide
and filter-pressing plant. True, it has no roasting plant,
and while its lodes remain so silicious, and comparatively
free from tellurides, it will be able to do without ;but if a
change occurred and the ore became like that of the Boul-
der, Lake View, and other mines, it would have to adopt
roasting. There is another consideration which the pro-
posed increase of power involves : adding to the weight of
60 stamps, and increasing them by 40, would surely mean
doubling the output, so that the gold production, if the
average remained the same, should be 16,0000 z. a month
instead of 12,0000 z. as officially estimated, and the public
may bet its bottom dollar it is not going to be any more.
It is only a neat way of preparing for a fall without
saying so. Aloreover ; the accumulated sands and slimes
which have been the means of increasing the Ivanhoe’s
gold production for the last 12 months are now nearly
exhausted. The Ivanhoe’s average,: like all others of the
field, has come down, must fall lower still, and this is a
wise means of meeting it.
* * * *
Perseverance: Over B,oooozs. for the month—
the record for this mine which, since the sulphide plant
started, some six months ago, has averaged less than
6,0000 z. Directors issued a circular in reply to “so many
unfounded statements ” relative to the co.’s indebtedness.
For 11 months ending Nov. last the profit made was
£48,000 ; during which period £26,000 was expended on
development work, and about £116,000 on machinery
including cost of new sulphide plant. The real indebted-
ness is thus clumsily veiled. At the end of Jan. the share-
holders are only given the financial situation in Nov. Any-
how, take £48,000 profit from £142,000 expenditure, and
there remains nearly £lOO,OOO debt to account for, and, no
doubt, this was increased in Dec. and Jan,, otherwise we
should have heard about it. Costs : Mining oxi-
dised ores, Bs. per ton ; treating oxidised ores,
17s. 7d. ; tailings from ditto, 9s. lOd. ; treating sulphide
ores, 28s. 5d.; mining ditto, 12s. 4d. A further reduction
is promised, and if the mine can maintain the output and
average yield of last month, a big profit might be shown
by a year’s run. That is the question. At one time a 2oz.
average was anticipated, then ljoz., and, so far, a single
oz. has represented the true state of things. The co. has
had trouble with its sulphide plant; ore needed finer
grinding, This defect is remedied, and now that the
plant is admitted to be right, people who ought to know
say that something has gone wrong with the mine in the
lower levels. Shares less than half the value they once
reached, and, some say, double their real value now.
* » * *
M.L. Chief justice Stout recently, in the course
of a summing-up, commented severely on the practice of
mining companies in paying their men by cheques, thus
placing in their way the temptation to spend their money
while cashing the cheques at hotels.
* * » •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.


Com plete
Outfits.
m
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
6«org« St Barrack Sts., Sydney
“ARDATH ** The Highest Class Tobacco.
Has no Equal
in
Quality
and
Aroma.
Will not affect
the Nerves.
&
P=3
$
mi
m
The most
Luxurious
Form
of
Smoking.
Free from all
scented matter
In Three Strengths—Mild, Medium and Full.
Name of nearest agent post free on application to M. RUTTY & CO., Sydney.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
NOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LAQUEUR
BRANDY
Gov.-General Hopetoun has utterly lost
the respect of Bendigo by fixing upon Ballarat as
the field where H.R.H. the Duke would have the
best opportunity of investigating a deep mine.
Bendigo prides itself on the depth of its shafts,
and one big local mining authority who might
have got a knighthood out of a Bendigo visit
sneers fiendishly: “Deep mines at Ballarat!
Why, the blessed Duke, if he were only a few
inches taller, couldn’t get his head underground
at Ballarat ! ”
• * * *
Melbourne’s Town-hall authorities are
circularising all-Australia for pence to erect a
Queen Victoria memorial statue (with the usual
title for somebody looming in the distance). And
the circulars are mailed gratis by Vic. Postmaster-
General ! In this professedly-democratic com-
munity why should the Post-Office carry for
nothing any private mail-matter whatever ? Let
greasy “Grovel” put its hand in its own pocket
instead of sponging on the tax-payer.
* • • *
Premier Lyne has taken the bull by the
tail and informed N.S. Wales that all the waste
and extravagance of his Commonwealth display
cost only £92,000. The Bulletin, for one, frankly
disbelieves him, pending the Auditor-General’s
report, and knowledge of what accounts have been
cooked and transferred. And only £92,000
only £72,000 more than Parliament gave
dubious authority to spend— only £92,000 splashed
about in garish tomfoolery, and eating and drink-
ing for the favored few, and backgrounds for fool-
ish oratory of the penny-in-a-spout description !
Only £92,000 thrown in the political gutter, while
useful public works and crymgly-necessitous calls
of public charity are neglected for want of money !
* * * *
For though on grovel Melbourne’s bent
she has a frugal mind. She will indeed trick her-
self out gorgeously for the Yorks if. all her citi-
zens are moved by the cautious spirit that ani-
mates the wool-brokers, who, being invited to
erect an arch or otherwise advertise themselves,
generously offered to “lend some bales of wool
and offer expert advice but the citizens would
have to build their own arch and put the wool up
themselves ! Also, the brokers want their pro-
perty returned “in good order and condition.”
• * * *
Jlelbourne suburban municipal and shire
councillors threaten to fall into sulky silence re
the Inauguration decorations and the combined-
municipalities arch. One of their grievances is
that the Yorks are not to be driven through each
and every “city” or ten-acre town, and planted
on the town-hall steps for an hour or so for the
edification of the multitude and to receive the
humble obeisance of the councillors aforesaid. But
the chief trouble is that invitations are to be issued
only to the mayors or presidents and the secre-
taries, whereas it was expected Govt, would invite
and banquet the whole 5000 odd councillors of the
State. Wherefore the Kookaburra Ministry is
unpopular just now. But thfe Ministry knows it
has to meet the bill, and is sitting tight on the
Treasury accordingly.
Already Melbourne municipalities squab-
ble over the site of the Queen’s memorial statue,
each wanting to put it in its own back garden.
However, the immediate question is—where is
the money to buy the statue ? At the rate it is
coming in (Age fund £l4OO to date) they will have
just about enough to get a plaster model, which
will look all right as long as the paint is kept nice
and clean.
* * * *
Dr. Arthur MiKenzie Wilkinson, M. 8.,
8.5., of Melbourne, has been gazetted physician
in extraordinary to the Duke of York for the 10
days or so of the Federal Parliament festivities.
If that august, but not robust, visitor should
acquire indigestion or grovel-rash during his stay
in Melbourne, the fortunate Wilkinson will achieve
a knighthood by curing him. In the event of the
Dook falling distinctly ill, it will mean a baronetcy
for the Wilkinson who puts him on his royal legs
again. Also, there is the Duchess to be con-
sidered. She may suffer an attack of what used
to be called “the vapours.” The 10 days’ life of
a Physician in Extraordinary offers glorious pos-
sibilities to the gazetted one.
* • * •
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) municipal person
is even a more fearsome phenomenon than usual.
During the proceedings at the recent reception of
some returned contingenters, a high civic official
waved his hat over his head and called for “ three
cheers for Henry the Eighth.” Also, at the recent
banquet to the Federal Ministers, the royal arms
had the words “Edward Regina ” plastered in
huge letters underneath.
•** . *
In Melbourne somebody suggests that an
overhead cable be run along Swanston-street upon
which York and May may be conveyed in a sus-
pended basket, so that the vast assemblage may
all feast their eyes upon royalty. This desire to
feast the popular eye upon suspended royalty
hints at high treason.
• ■* * *
“Australian ladies are accomplished
horsewomen, and it is proposed to organise a
thousand of them as a body-guard for the Duchess
of York at the opening of the Commonwealth
Parliament.” — English Paper.
* * * *
A trader right in the heart of Melbourne
proudly displays in his window a colored design
to commemorate the death of the Queen, the
establishment of the Commonwealth, and the
visit of York and May, all in one lot. In the
letterpress he tells Australia that Lord Hopetoun
is Scotch, and that the “ Countess is of irish
decent.” A short distance away this notice is
displayed in a medicine-shop : “We cure the fol-
lowing diseases which are reliable liver and kid-
ney complaints, bright disease, &e. . . . our
syrup will remove worms. . . . our special No. 1
tonic is the best that can be found a speciably
special tonic pills for same.” What more does
anybody want ?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —I am one of those who
are ever inclined to thank God that the Plague is
with us again. Prior to the last outbreak it was
the custom of my particular suburb to empty only
weekly the awesome house-box and ash-barrel,
but when the Great Funk set in the cart called
twice and even thrice weekly. With the summer,
however, the Funk disappeared—and so did the
man with the cart. Thus all through this hot
weather the contents of such barrels or boxes as
did not care to wait from Saturday to Saturday
crawled earnestly and actively abroad. If one is
compelled to pass a block of small houses in a
narrow street in this suburb the effect is fearsome;
yet the local municipal person crows loudly over
his two-penny-halfpenny surplus, and between
whiles wonders supinely why his particular stink-
pot has the largest typhoid percentage within the
metropolitan area. But now that the plague is
again with us, my boxes were emptied twice this
week. Think of it! — Volcan.
THE POET’S FRENZIED EYE.
HER: “I’d never have taken him for a poet.”
HIM: “No, nor I either; he looks quite a sensible fellow.”
One of the appointees to the clerical staff
of the newly-created Sydney Harbour Trust is an
official in one of the public departments. His
advancement is a case in point as
regards the allegations that poli-
tical influence is far from
dead in N.S.W. public ser-
vice. This officer was a short
time ago in receipt of a
salary of £360. He appealed
unsuccessfully to
the P.S. Board,
but a personal
application t o
the Premier re-
sulted in an in-
crease of £ll/0 a
year. The Board
declined to recog-
nise this unusual
rise, but a com-
mand from the
Premier silenced
them. The favored
preferment of the
officer concerned
was pointedly al-
luded to by G. H.
Reid in a recent speech
in Sydney.
• • •
A decision was re-
recently given at Nu-
murkah (Vic.) by P.M.
Morrison which, if
sound, makes ducks and
drakes of the supposed
law on the subject. In
a suit for maintenance
of an illegitimate child
the alleged father plead-
ed simply that he was
workless and penniless,
and the magistrate, on
that ground, dismissed
the case. This may not
have been law, but it
was at any rate a lot
more common-sensible
than depriving the man
of any chance of finding
work by locking him up.
* * *
In pulling down an
old house in Singleton
(N.S.W.), recently, there
was found a rat’s-nest
completely bordered
round with wax-matches,
placed perpendicularly
with the heads up. The
whole structure is to be
deposited in Sydney
Museum, as a proof that the rat-and-match
theory of the origin of mysterious fires may have
a good deal in it, after all.
♦ * * *
The assaulted female dates from Mel-
bourne this week. The alleged victim asserted
that she was in her bedroom in a West Melb.
boarding-house when the usual bold bad man
broke in, with the usual results. Luckily for
accused there was a second girl sleeping in the
room, who swore that she locked the door ere
turning in, and denied that anything happened
throughout the night. The police discovered that
complainant.had a weakness for preferring accu-
sations of this kind, the present being the third,
and a former employer of hers remarked casually
that she quite expects to hear of a man being
hanged on prosecutrix’s account. Case dismissed,
with a tip from the P.M. re the advisableness of
“ dealing with ’’ the accuser.
* * • *
Re the physical degeneracy of this effete
country. Complaints were made in Brisbane re-
cently of the height of Queensland recruits
for the Contingent. It seems that a con-
siderable number of these degraded sons of
Bananaland ran about sft. lOin. By the
way, out of 30,000 London applicants for
admission into the S’African Constabulary,
the authorities could only get 2600 suitable
men.
* • * *
In South Australia, too ! “Andrew
Callaghan, a very feeble old fellow (86),
pleaded guilty to having no visible means
of support. The police said he had no money
and nowhere to go ; he was too old and ill
to work. Sent to Adelaide gaol for one
month.” Curious that S. Aus., reckoned
the State best provided with philanthropic
institutions, should lag behind N.S.W. and
Vic. in the matter of Old-age Pensions.
* * * »
It is only a matter of time when a
certain Sydney ferry Co. will have to pay
heavy damages for the inevitable accident on
its Sydney wharf. The wharf is certified to
carry a certain- number of persons, and it
occasionally has on it that number, or almost
that number, but as vehicles are allowed
freely on the same wharf and among the
passengers, smash-up is being daily invited. It is
no uncommon thing for a couple of big trolly
horses to take fright on the wharf at the noise or
bump of an in-coming or out-going steamer.
WAR-ITEM.
SHE: “And did the Ambulance Corps do any
shooting"
HE: “ Well — er—we did a, little rifling .”
There seems to be a doubt in some
Sydney shops under the regime of Sunday Lyne
and Sabbath See whether to sell milk on Sunday
or not, and the consequence is that the household
baby cries a great deal more than it would in a
country that was Pagan. When a baby cries it
annoys, on an average, about eight persons, and
even in the lamented dwindling state of the birth-
rate there is still a large swarm of babies to upset
respectable citizens. A strong feeling is arising in
the community that the State should either forbid
a baby to be hungry on Sunday or supply free
chloroform so that the Sabbath-breaking infant
may die peaceably and without creating the
present disturbance.
* * * *
Victorian Crown Law authorities un-
earthed a choice witness the other day at Castle-
maine. A man had been tried at Bendigo for
assaulting a girl, when the jury disagreed. At
the second trial, after the former evidence had
been repeated, a man who had not appeared in
the case before turned up and deposed that he
had witnessed the whole assault, had actually
heard the girl scream, but had taken no further
interest in the matter till that very late hour.
Judge Williams; summing up, referred in wither-
ing terms to the Conduct of this violently im-
probable Crown witness, if what he alleged was
true ; and the jury decided that what he alleged
wasn’t true, and promptly acquitted the prisoner.
Nothing happened to the surprising witness.
Nothing ever does happen to a Victorian Crown
witness.
m • * •
The powers possessed by N.S.W. Judges
of committing for trial a witness whom the
Judge considers'guilty of perjury was exercised
once, and once only,' by the late Judge Forbes.
There was a row—departmental and Parliamentary
—over the committal, and the press took so many
liberties with the Judge’s name, fame and judicial
ability, that he publicly announced he would
never again commit any witness on such a charge.
■‘ Yes,” he would say, when his attention was
drawn to a flagrant false swearer, “I know he


FRESH AS A ROSE!
dsf
to your Bath or Foot-Bath.
TlieCooling, Invigorating
and Health-giving
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of >ll Chonilsf* Stores
Insist on having “COBDYS FLUID.”
The name Condy A Mitchell, of London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
Beware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
ds
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.3.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Stylish Boots
Solid Boots
Economical Boots
k
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
has committed perjury, but I’ll not commit. A
little before he retired from the Bench, the
Crown Prosecutor asked him to . commit a
prevaricating Chinaman. “No,” said the Judge,
“ not even a Chinaman.”
* * * * :
In the Australian press cable reporting
the trouble which befell the German Emperor in
Bremen the other day, it is stated that “the
piece of iron which Wieland threw measures Bm.
by 2in width, and 3|in. in thickness. It weighs
190 z.” Now a piece of iron of that size and weight
must have been very hollow, indeed, for a solid
prism of that size would contain 8 x 2 x 3£ = 5l
cubic inches, and weigh 52 x o'2B = 14'56 lbs.
Moreover, the injury sustained by the volatile
Kaiser is said to amount to little more than a
good-sized flesh-wound, whereas a missile weighing
14|lbs. moving at the rate of, say. Oft. per second,
and meeting in its flight an obstacle travelling at
only a jog-trot (say 6 miles an hour = B'Bft. per
second) in the opposite direction, would cause an
impact of 17'8 x 14'5 = 258 foot-pounds, which is
more than enough to smash every bone in any
man’s face.
» * * *
A witness at Wellington before the Maori-
land Federation Commission :
He had come to the conclusion that he was in favour of
a Commonwealth of our own. Maoriland was self-
contained and self-containing, and the people here were
peculiarly adapted for nation-making. Australians dif-
fered from us in character, disposition, and sympathy.
They were not of the high moral and physical
type of the Maorilanders, and Maorilanders were likely to
become higher in character and more independent than
the people of Australia.
The Australian thinks no small beer of himself—
but for real frozen cheek you must go to a cold
cli mate.
• • • *
Everything comes in cycles. Even poison-
ings.
* * * *
A man, especially an ordinary, non-repre-
sentative man, lias to be very careful in Mel-
bourne now-a-days. A laborer, having a day off,
bought himself a new shovel in “ Sowth ” t’other
afternoon and carried it about with him till he
went home. Making up Bourke-st. about “ clos-
ing-time ” an extra-zealous bobby, looking for a
case, promptly ran him in on suspicion, and,
what’s more, locked him up all night, and couldn’t
be choked off until the shovel-vendor had proved
everything square and above-board. Melbourne
has such a great and abiding respect for its police
that nothing: has happened to that constable, but
the laborer magisterially desired to consider
himself lucky he hadn’t got a month, on general
principles.
ONE IMPERISHABLE KISS.
Your eyes were flint and mine were steel,
Oner glance our love ignited;
A passion ice could not conceal
Our very souls invited.
From, ruder loves one breath of bliss
Our better angels glean us —
The mem'ry of our first pure kiss,
The boundary fence between us.
NARRANCHI BOORL.
The course of alleged justice in Victoria.
Last week in one day Melb. City Bench sent to
gaol for 15 months, as a petty larcenist and
vagrant, a man who presented every appearance
of msuiity ; also, Judge Williams ordered three
years’ hard labor and a whipping of 20 strokes to a
lad of 18, of small, apparently weak intellect,
while a bench of wiseacres at Coburg imposed a
103. fine, in default 48 hours, on a baby of nine
for taking home a fence-picket for firewood.
* * * *
Concerning Australia’s most prominent
graveyard memorial
<« f 0 ” ' Melbourne has temporarily abandoned' its
Sunday‘afternoon tr'p to St. Kilda or Brighton and now
to the great profit of the Tram Co troops out to Kew
cemetery to inspect the mausoleum, built, by Ur. Spring-
thorpe to the memory of his wife. That memorial pile is on
a slight rise, and catches the eye immediately on entering
the ground. The marble sculpture—an Angel placing a
wreath on the brow of the dead woman while Grief
crouches at the foot—is inside an open building supported
by 12 polished green-grey granite columns, with arched
roof of crimson glass. The floor is a beautiful mosaic,,
with eulogistic memorial lines and verses worked therein.
Entering between massive blue-stone slabs, eight marble
steps lead to the platform surrounding the mausoleum.
Above, eight almost transparent copper snakes heads
project, with forked tongues and fangs; between these
on each face is inscribed, “ Light Evermore,” “Love Ever-
more,” “ Life Evermore,” “ Peace Evermore.” One leaves
impressed by sculptor Mackennal's transcendent genius.
Deeper and more lasting than “ Circe,” the figures of the
dead woman and the angel haunt the beholder. So per-
fect is every minute detail that the beholder is seduced
into believing that he is looking on the just-dead, lying
there cold and serene as the marble form. The tesselated
floor is profuse with verses, as “ Good-bye, mother. Nor
speech nor silence nor marble sigh of art avail to soothe
my grief, O Sweetheart mine.” Coming away one almost
stumbles over a nameless, grass-grown grave, a mass of
living, blossoming roses still tended by the hands and
watered by the tears of bereaved ones. Then, turning for
a last look, the tremendous monument loads the emo-
tions, insistent, almost blatant, and one thinks dully of
the dead woman, ten feet below, on whose bosom it must
press so heavily. Only its artistic beauty, only Macken-
nal’s consummate genius, could have saved it from de-
scending to the level of a gorgeous advertisement.
* * * *
The assistant acolyte who was, the other
day, examined in the Coningham divorce case at
Sydnev, stated that a certain person, now
deceased, was only ill for three days previous to
death, but “could have been ill for longer if he’d
liked.” What the budding saint meant was not
what he said—but no matter!
From correspondence received, Sydney
Harbor Trust seems to be the first official body to
drop the antiquated “Sir,” and “I have the honor
to be, sir,” &c,, for the more commercially usual —
“ Dear sir,” and “Yours faithfully.” No truer,
perhaps, but shorter.
Sample of justice retailed
at North Melb. police court. A
summons B for recovery of
horse lost by him and found by
B. Proves that horse is his,
and shows receipt for 15s. paid
by him for it years before, when
the animal was dog-poor. B
says he bought horse at pound,
but produces no receipts. Bench
adjudges A to be'owner ; orders
that horse or 15s. must be re-
turned to him. The horse is
now worth £5, so A gets 155.,
which is immediately captured
by his solicitor, who wants to
know when he is to receive bal-
ance (155.) of his fee. A has
pleasure of winning his case,
losing thus the horse, his time,
and about £2.
* * *
A trip to the ocean baths
is sometimes enlivened by little
incidents like this : The hour
had come for ladies to leave
certain baths, and a knot of
men were waiting outside. Most
of the ladies were in an ad-
vanced stage of toilette, so the
bath-keeper, who is regarded to
a certain extent as a sexless
creature, had started to take
down the curtains hung before
the dressing-boxes during ladies’
hours. They were nearly all
down when a suppressed squeal
startled the group of ladies,
who, looking up, were horrified
to see a plump figure, nude as
the Medici Venus, revealed in
one of the boxes. The bath-
keeper made a frantic effort to
replace the curtain, failed, and
bolted. A commentary upon
conventional ideas of modesty
is afforded by the lady’s action,
which was not to conceal her-
self, but to hide her face from
recognition with her hands.
* * *
The complacency with
which Federal candidates in the
interior of N.S.W. wire down
to the Sydney dailies after a
meeting : “ There were many
ladiSs present,” shows what a
humorless set they are. “ There
were many ladies present” is
the stereotype for trials like
those of Jimmy Governor and Blue Mountain;
Butler.
* * * *
Helen I. : Re recent Ballarat (Vic.) stone-
throwing “mystery.” About 17 years ago the!
same thing happened in Forest Lodge, Sydney.
For several evenings stones were crashing through
the windows of several adjacent houses, int
Mount Vernon-street, and it was some time
before the culprit was discovered in the 18-year-
old daughter of an occupant of one of the bom-
barded houses. Like the Ballarat young lady,!
she could give no reason for her little capers..
But the “ghostly” stone-thrower is always a
girl.
Census re
turns admit-
tedly unreliable
about the re-
ligious convic-
tions of the
population—
are accuracy
itself compared
with the returns
of ages and
marital rela-
tionships. Un-
married couples
living as mar-
ried in hotels
and boarding-
houses will not
give their true
relationship to
the “head of
the house.” A
fig for his (or
her) obligation
to preserve se-
crecy. N.S.W.
Statistician
Coghlan points
out that at the
’9l census 1768
persons did not
specify their
ages. But these
were few com-
pared with
those who gave
false ages. The
present system
of conducting a
census is well
enough where
one family is
concerned.
There, a return
made up by the
“head of the
house ” may
often be taken
on its face-
value. But in
a community so
addicted as this
is to hotel and
boarding-house
life, the “ head
of the house ”
is the last party
the boarder will
trust with a
personal secret.
Also in num-
bers of Sydney
boarding-
houses the
“ head of the
house” can’t write, and gets somebody else
to fill up the return. The cure for all this
is to adopt income-tax methods, causing each
person in hotels and boarding-houses to fill
up his or her own paper and post it.
would much increase the number of papers; but
accuracy is what is wanted at any cost.
* * * *
Under its new municipal management
Sydney—backward, somnolent Sydney—is likely
to be municipally electric-lighted at last. Mayor
Dr. Graham says the Council is prepared to plank
down the £250,000 for plant.
, » * *
After four months’ delay Adelaide again
has a Mayor. Brewer Ware, unseated last Dec.
for calling himself a “gentleman,” instead of a
liquor - dealer, defeated his rival, undertaker
Wells, and now has undisputed right to welcome
“the Duke” and receive any knighthood avail-
able. Ware is a big shareholder in Adelaides
chief brewery, and is also licensee of one of the
best-paying local hotels, and it was probably
owing to the indirect advantages connected there-
with that the local Council refused to increase his
allowance in view of the extra expenses in con-
nection with the Royal visit.
* *. * *
A certain brand of whisky is being well
advertised in Melb. by its traveller cavorting
round in a motor-car completely covered with
artificial scented violets 1 When the motor-car
becomes frequent and popular, presumably the
decorated ditto will become so too. How would a
motor-hearse look tricked out with white lilies
and violets ?
* * • *
Victorian Wesleyan Conference, in Melb.
lately, authorised its presidents for the future to
wear official robes, “after the style of an Epis-
copal bishop, minus the lawn sleeves.” How the
love of millinery and gaudy uniform grips all these
weaklings ! Even the Salvarmy bosses now wear
kharki.
* * * *
Columns upon columns of “ Situations
vacant” in the Sydney dailies make it evident
that the domestic-servant difficulty is becoming
very serious for those middle-class families who
cannot pay the high wages now obtainable by
anything like a, decent “general.” Which m
most cases serves the said families right, because
when servants were abundant, they were, as a
rule, badly paid, fed, and housed. Great is the
change now, when such inducements have to be
offered as— ‘ ‘ All holidays, ”“ no children, com-
' fortable room,” &c.
* * * *
One of those charming women who don't
- know their own minds two minutes together
happened at Melb. Divorce Court recently. She
got married in ’96 and was a happy bride for just
)a week ; then she and her husband started to live
their own separate lives. Finally the lady sued
for divorce, and his Honor had just pronounced a
.decree nisi when her lawyer rushed into Court
' and said she had altered her mind, and didn’t want
any decree, and wished to return to the happy
home some more. Whereupon his Honor re-
marked that she needn’t take out the decree
“ THERE'S ’ AIR .”
MR. LONG : "Well, anyhow, that's a fact!"
MR. BALDRY : “ You astound me, sir! You make my hair stand on end!"
unless she wanted to, but she’d probably change
her mind again later on, and if she didn’jt she’d
likely wish she had, anyhow. Also if she die) it
is pretty certain that she would shortly wish she
hadn’t,
* * * *
Adelaide Advertiser lias been enlivening
the dull season with correspondence on the popula-
tion problem.
Sir,—These are some of the reasons why I remained
single. I could not see any sense in bringing forth male
children to be trotted off and shot down like dogs, so that
some person or persons might coin dollars out of their
blood. I considered that I would be a fool to bring forth
male or female children to be sweated slaves to other
human beings, who came into the world as I did, and
who will have to leave it as I will* Lastly, lam glad that
I did not bring children into the world who, after going
through a miserable life of draught-horse toil, would run
the risk, as paupers or poor people, of getting burnt like
the rubbish and garbage which we send away from our
back yards, while the rich, who have drained their life-
blood', got carted in pomp to the Norton-road Cemetery,
—I am, &c,, An Ou> Maid.
* * * *
H.8.T.” to The Bulletin :
Re the recent striking on a rock off Schouter Island
during a fog by a coasting steamer, the vessel’s speed at
the time of the disaster is reported to have been ten
knots. Now, where does the regulation about moderate
speed in fogs come in ? It is also stated that the accident
occurred (at 3.30 a.ro.) during the second mate’s watch ;
and in the circumstances it would be interesting to know
how long that officer had been on duty. Seeing tha,t
departure was taken from Hobart at 10 15 p.m. of same
night, it is quite possible—l make no direct assertion,
but only say it is possible—that, coasting-fashion, the
second mate had been on deck from, at any rate, 6 a.m,
of the day previous (Saturday), looking after cargo-stow-
ing operations. So that, if this theory be correct, the
lives of passengers, leaving out all other considerations,
are entrusted to the care of a man who has already puf
in 18 hours’ duty out of 24, and is then considered
to be capable of looking after a ship and her human
freight for another four hours, under weather conditions
necessitating a full alertness of the faculties. The factory-
hand and shop assistant ashore has his hours of labour
well defined by a Factories Act, but the man who has
under his care maybe hundreds of lives is utterly outside
legal enactment, and when disaster happens he—not his
grasping employer—has to stand the racket in the loss or
suspension of his certificate, to say nothing of, perhaps, a
charge of criminal negligence.
A British Imperial officer’s say-so (after
six whiskies): “Your people have all been very
kind to us. and we ought to be grateful, but most
of us will be glad to clear. Australian loyalty is
just a little bit too thick and —hie—treacly for
us.”
* * * *
“ A Member” sends this to The Bulle-
tin :
“ The Ishmaels,” the new Bohemian club in Melbourne,
works well on its own line. Members meet in the even-
ing, and feed at a river-side pub., and then, assembled in
the presence of their Joss, the humorous creation of an
artistic member with a turn for carving, read short papers
on men and things—papers that will never be printed
whilst Mrs. Grundy lives—and discuss and dogmatise,
philosophise and lie to the accompaniment of beer and
tobacco. The club succeeds because it is a boon and a
blessing to the freelances, providing them with a centre
where they can curse editors and 6e glad at a cost that
does not entail retrenchment in the weekly wash. Out-
side the Ishmaels the respectability and chokered aloof-
ness of the pursuers of art and literature in Melbourne
are deadly attributes, and betray a passionate longing to
attain to the elegance and gentility of the neat-handed
Bertie who sells socks in the city.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your -wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing l
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloos and attention as If you bought amongst the daily crowds at the counters.
The mission of Art is to beautify—oftimes
to conceal and suggest rather than display. Thus
the rude form wrought by the sculptor fails to fire
the imagination. Besides, woman’s most charming
contour is pourtrayed by the P.D. corset. P.D.’s
and smart gowns enable figures to assume the
virtue of Beauty, even though they have it not.
Nature has no chance against the P.D. when the
latter is bent on deception.*
Il
.
US
j| have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
_ ~ Sydney, March 19, 1901.
My Dkak Myee.—
The A. J.C. Meeting on St. Patrick’s Day was
sparsely patronised by Society, most of which is
getting up its social strength for the coining
season of strawberry-leafing —or will it be
leaving ? and refuses to waste itself on the
commonplace little flutters we always have with
us.
An absence of mourning marked the frocking,
which was mostly end-of-tlie-seasonable. Mrs.
Robert Moss was in a light-grey silk, with a smart
black toque, and her sister Mrs. Laurie Moss wore
a pale-blue muslin; Mrs. Arthur Verdon was
frocked in cream serge, tucked downards bn skirt
and bodice, and a black velvet toque, and was
accompanied by a semi - professional also in
cream and black - hatted ; Mrs. “Ted” Samuel
wore a heliotrope muslin, and another of the
smart Chosen was Mrs. Harry Levy in mauve
with a white hat trimmed with black. Madame
Darto hugged the stand in a peach-pink frock
with a big pink hat; Mrs. Bailey Macarthur was
in black. A new fad that everybody followed
with great docility was the bunch of milliner’s
violets, with long green stalks, worn at the waist-
belt.
Violets, by the way, have been brought to life
after a particularly purple season that has just
paled to a close. After the acres of violets that
have spread themselves on Sydney’s hair and
corsage for the last two years, it is a little hard
that the same flower has got to be flaunted through
another winter—or perhaps I should say a little
unluck} 7 that we did violets to death ere mourning
set in.
Apropos, Society seems likely to get some nastv
knocks over the invitations to meet the Yorks.
Exclusiveness is to be the watchword. And on dit
that to aid him through the skirmish-list Captain
Better Not Wallington will seek the aid of the
Lady-in-Waiting who was said to be responsible
for many of the Potts Point heart-burnings.
The Society of Artists has at last rung-down
the curtain—a French night proving the last
straw. The hostesses were well-known, and the
French community mustered strongly, and whether
or not they understood the jokes, warmly ap-
plauded the little comedietta performed by Ma-
dame Aengenheyster and M. Duriux. The
lady showed considerable agility in getting away
from a mouse, and the gentleman no mean know-
ledge of the art, lately more than once illustrated
in Sydney, of entering a room by the window.
Mr. Musgrove is the second theatrical manager
to invite the select few to dress-rehearsals. Mr.
. Hawtrey set the fashion here with his “Message
from Mars,” which was submitted to two audi-
ences before the actual first night. And then
last Sunday night the Theatre Royal was the
scene of a gorgeous full-dress rehearsal of “ Cinder-
ella,” to which Musgrove invited a little coterie
of press-people and others, giving a distinct knock
to the old traditions about keeping everything
dark till a play was ready for the paying public.
Monday night saw the public opening of
“Cinderella,” Monday being chosen as St.
Patrick’s Day, and a holiday-night. The
Royal was intensely crowded, and again the
dress-circle broke out naughtily into colors, the
few black dresses merely punctuating the lines
and lines of blue, pink, and white raiment.
“Cinderella,” as an undress spectacle, is mag-
nificent, which doesn’t mean that the play itself is
wanting. It goes briskly, is full of pretty songs,
and has only one flaw—too much of funny men.
Nellie Stewart’s dresses are a procession of
beauties. She holds up the first act in a tight
black jersey suit, with a white cloak hanging from
the shoulders, a dazzling ruby crown on her head,
with a lion (in rubies) standing across the front,
and a gorgeous lion (rampant) worked in rubies
on the black jacket, while two wide girdles of
rubies go round her waist. In the second act, she
courts Cinderella in a daring mustard-yellow suit,
with white revers, worn with a turquoise girdle, a
white cap and little spangled brown feather, and
long white gloves. She wears the prettiest and
unwiggiest of flaxen wigs, curled at the back, and
a flat fringe in front, and looks—well, there was a
demure and legitimate twinkle in her cobalt eyes
as she sang “to the woman of forty”—and she
never looked less like it.
Nellie’s third suit is all white with diamond
buttons and a black girdle, and an adorable white
felt hat, with an immense white feather to point
its moral. In this dress the prima-donna sings—
in her favorite attitude, sitting on the arm of a
chair—a ballad about Waiting in the Twilight,
and the extraordinary sweetness of her voice in
the high notes rings as true apd delicious as ever.
The Ballroom Scene sees Prince Nell in a costume
that eclipses all—even herself. Nothing has been
spared—no extravagance, I mean. Her neck is a
blaze of diamonds and turquoises. Her black-
satin suit has a wonderful long black train hang-
ing from the shoulders, lined with a pale yellowy
green, and embroidered gorgeously with jewels
and heavy peacocks’ tails. This is the costume in
a play that just throws costumes at you from every
square inch of stage. The last tableau, the Fairy
Wedding, shows Nellie in pale-blue tights and a
glittering tunic—-and there’s another creation we
may see later on, if nobody in Sydney makes any
nasty remarks about undressedness, as they are
alleged to have done in Melbourne, thereby
frightening the costume aforesaid off the boards.
“Cinderella” gets off a new apostrophe—
“ Great Lewis Scott! ” It also works-in an advt.
for the Palace with “ She goes off with every
Tom, Dick and Harry, and will be coming home
with a Highland Legacy some day.” And, of
course, innumerable allusions to the Yorks scin-
tillate through its verbiage.
The programme remarks that the wigs were
made by Gustave, London, who sends to Austra-
lia his best assistant to dress them every day!
That accounts for the noticeable softness and
prettiness of the bought hair and its charming
tints, especially the nut-brown wig worn by the
Fairy godmother and Nellie’s well-made, flaxen
locks.
Miss Elsie Cooke, who plays Cinderella, clothes
her thin form in a dream of a wedding-dress,
ivory satin, with a long train embroidered nearly
all with vivid green leaves of lily of the
valley. The ugly sisters are palpably men, quite
unlike lovely girls whose faces got twisted in the
washing, and Fred Ellis, as Lily, contrives to look
a little less hideous than Maude Cole as Gertrude.
Mr. Chas. Seguin, who was a trifle slow in
“Scarlet Feather,” is much brighter under the
influence of a red nose and a lot of comic stuff in
his throat.
In the ball-room scene Madame Darto intro-
duces a new dance—the sun dance—which I can
only describe as a series of spiritualised Catherine-
wheels with a wonderful apricot and many other
colored frocks flying over a hint of turquoise pet-
ticoats and the inevitable little scarlet heels.
The boundless gratitude of Lord Beauchamp for
the smallest favors from anyone in “ the colonies ”
is continued in his sister, Lady Mary. The
quality is evidently real, although it often seems
excessive, and is part of the Beauchamp tempera-
ment. Ever since our late Ex. left we have been
seeing letters in the papers in which he
thanked captains for their great kindness
to him on his voyages, just as if captains
were accustomed to put their titled passengers
in irons. And now Lady Mary writes to Mrs.
Docker (of Sydney) to say that she has received
the address from the women of Sydney, and in
her own words; “I am quite overwhelmed. I
had no idea it was to be anything so magnificent.
But, of course, the valuable parts to me are the
signatures and the very kind words that accom-
pany them, which I have read very often since I
have been in Eugland. Assure Lady Harris and
all the ladies who signed it how very much I prize
it as a token of all the friendship and kindness I
met with from everybody during the eight months
I was in Sydney. With again many grateful
thanks.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Duke of York is going up to Kilmany
Park, Sale, Gippsland, the residence of Mr.
William Pearson, for his one-day shooting in the
country. It is expected that the hair of Plain
Bill will go grey in the knight.
“ The Duchess, methinks, gave herself aw ay
when she divulged the details of her Opening-of-
Parliament costume. Forewarned and forearmed,
we’ll prepare imitations (or travesties) of Victoria
Mary’s black brocaded gauze, and velvet mantle.
In consequence, the royal toilette, instead of
blazing in unique splendor, will merely be a
richer (or, perhaps, poorer) version of surrounding
suits.
“ The Countess of Hopetoun, Lady Brassey and
Co. must tell awful tales at ’Ome of our barbaric
taste in dress. Otherwise why should the powers
that be keep on waving danger-flags re our Royal
Welcome plumage? We women are officially
warned against hats ‘ spangled with gold or
colors. ’
“Very few people saw Lady Hopetoun during
her visit to Melbourne. Certain ladies have for
some years professed to have been bosom friends
of the dear Countess, who, they made out, could
hardly bear to go away and leave them. But
they, like the rest of society, knew nothing of her
intended visit to Melbourne, until she had been
and returned. Her Ex. looked over all the pri-
vate arrangements for the Duke and his wife, and
pronounced them satisfactory.
There was disappointment in the office of a
big Melbourne illustrated weekly when Hopetoun
wired over that a particular photograph was on no
account to be used. Permission had been given
to a photographer to take certain views of Govt.
House, Sydney, and of his Ex. for the paper.
While the camera man was at work his Ex. fell
asleep in a garden chair and was palpably snoring.
The picture was snapped and would have been
amusing ; but by arrangement proofs of the views
were sent over, and when Wallington saw the
sleeping beauty one he said, ‘ Better Not.’
“ Consul Carl Pinschof, the Austrian represen-
tative in Melbourne, and Marshall-Hall’s bosom
friend, has bought Bertram Mackennal’s ‘ Circe ’
for £lOOO. The National Gallery trustees were
prepared to ask Govt, for £BOO to buy it, but
while they were negotiating Pinschof snapped up
the piece of clay. Everyone was deluded in
thinking that the statue was a finished bronze.
It turns out that it was only clay bronzed over
with powder, and Mackennal takes it to London
to be cast in bronze, which will then be shipped
to Pinschof to adorn the hall of his fine mansion
at Kew.
“By the way, in a letter written by Mr.
Lamgton, President of the Vic. National Gallery,
it is averred that Mackennal verbally placed Circe
under offer to the Gallery trustees and then sold
it over their heads. Mackennal’s answer to this
will not be receivable until the whole incident is
forgoten, but, anyhow, the sculptor did not regard
the Gallery as over-friendly to him in the past.'
It was owing to what he considered its shabby
treatment that he left for England ten years ago.
“ Melb. professordom has abandoned the ex-
pected boycott against Prof. Franklin Peterson,
even if it ever intended such a thing, and he and
Engineering Prof. Kernot, one of Marshall-Hall’s
strongest supporters, became quite friendly on
the voyage out. Mr. Peterson is a thin, lanky,
wizened man with a small face and a thin,
straggling, close-cropped beard. He looks like a
schoolmaster rather than a musician, and talks
cheery commonplaces in a braid Scotch accent.
He is inclined to be genial in conversation, and
will certainly make no enemies if he makes no
friends. Mrs. Peterson is a plump and pleasing-
looking Hungarian lady who has a ‘voice,’ and
whose personality will doubtless tend to establish
her husband’s position.
“There are two Liedertafels in Melbourne.
The chief one is called the Melbourne Lidertafel,
and Marshall-Hall is its conductor. The other
and rival little affair has a very pretentious
name—The‘Royal Metropolitan Liedertafel.’ It
wants to get hold of Prof. Peterson. Conse-
quently it gave him a dinner the other day. It is
to be hoped that Peterson will give a taste of his
quality by conducting a concert. Marshall-Hall
is going to conduct a great concert in the course of
a few weeks, and it will be a challenge, for the
best orchestral players are loyal to Hall.
“Some have greatness—and others popularity—
thrust upon them. Grace Palotta is one of the
latter fortunates. Sassiety has lose its head about
her. Not since the superb and scornful Elliott-
Page trailed her skirts over grovelling Toorak has
any actress caused such a stir in smart circles.
Some families are pressing in their invitations to
Grace to put up at their mansions as a guest of
honor till the end of the Melb. season. Even
Miss Ruby Madden wakes from her advanced
dignity and warms into cordiality when the ‘Floro-
dora ’ star swoops down upon her.
“The race-week set theatrical stars revolving
wildly in their courses. One sweet Thespian was
so overwrought by her winnings on Thursday that
it was with some difficulty she got through her
songs the same night.
“The handsome manager of a Naice hostelry
saves a certain beauty from a swarm of admirers
by closely attending her hiniself. He even takes
the trouble of calling for her every evening to the
theatre, and driving her home. And woe betide
any man that anticipates or circumvents him!
“The glamour of the pretty ‘Florodora’ girls
at Her Majesty’s, Melb., has been considerably
dissipated by the discovery that most of them
are newly-married, or soon will be. One dark-
eyed damsel has hooked a prominent hotel-keeper
with an income of £5OOO a year from city
property.
“‘ln Sight of St. Paul’s,’ without Elizabeth
Watson’s Panther, is chutney minus chillies.
Harrie Ireland, that picture of a nice girl, isn’t
meant for a stage adventuress. When she kneels,
life-preserver in hand, advocating her senseless
husband s murder, she- looks about as dangerous
as a revolted Sunday-school teacher, bent upon
administering a ‘good hard knock ’ with a brass-
bound Bible to a tripped-up superintendant.
Miss Ireland not only Looks unlike her part but
she’s monotonous and wanting in subtlety. An
effective stage she-villain needs to ‘smile and
smile,’ laugh unexpectedly, shrug her shoulders,
and whenever contradicted heave her upper chest
like a pair of bellows. A monotonous sinner is
even less attractive than a monotonous saint.
“In melodrama how on earth can the per-
formers put up with the idiotic situations pro-
vided for them by the playwright ? ‘ln Sight of
St. Paul’s’ is guilty of a scene where, just as
Bland Holt is making eyes at Mrs. B. H., Baker
hugging Frances Ross, and Styan gloating over
Miss Kerr, a transparent curtain falls in front of
them as if they were a transformation scene and
there they stick like three treacly sandwiches,
while an invisible choir takes its time over ‘ Home
Sweet Home.’ This tableau is perpetrated in a
poor lodging, so it’s hard to guess how the
choristers happen to be there.
“First performance of the Carmen revival
(Sat., March 16th) drew a snug but not dense
crowd, so it seems that during present season only
new favourites can hope to boom. Salvi, Mooney,
and Eugene are all plumper than ever. The two
former kept consciously pulling down their short
military jackets as if yearning for merciful coat-
tails. The sight of so many well-nourished figures
made one think of David Copperfield’s brutal
schoolmaster, “who could never resist a chubby
boy.” Mesdames Janson and Crichton also
seemed uneasy in their Swiss belts, and smoothed
them down whenever they thought the audience
wasn’t looking.
“Talking of figures, do you notice that the
fashionable corset doesn’t bother as much about
wearer’s bust and waist as about her hips and
back. It’s just a very pliable French stay as far
as the waist, where it merges into a broad belt so
as to give the hips more freedom. This band,
however, is stiff enough to discourage frontal
rotundity and to keep the hips back, the latter
being regarded as a necessary adjunct to a modish
rounded back.
“‘Carmen’s’ welcome-back audience included
many musical people. The Pinschof-Wiedermann
group filled a box. Mrs. Scherek brought a small
spectacled son ; L. L. Lewis' moustache and black
mittens were conspicuous as usual; and violinist
Bertie Zelman escorted a very pretty girl. A
batch of Naicest also leavened the lump Mrs.
Bingham wore pale violets in her mourning
corsage. Miss Eva Robertsqn, just back from her
travels, affected all-white, and looked very pale,
thanks to measles, fever, etc., contracted at
Colombo.
“F. T. Sargood’s shrewd wife, with her
daughters and maid, accompanied the dapper
chiffon merchant on his recent canvassing-tour
through the country, and watched the meetings
with meek-eyed timidity. Madame is reckoned
strong-minded, but her quiet disinterested manner
always persuades strangers that her thoughts are
really far away among the pansy-plants in the
garden of ‘ Rippon Lea, ’ or some other domestic
haunt.
“ The just announced engagement of a sprightly
musical widow recalls the sad sequel to her former
marriage. Superstitious people tried to explain
that tragedy by saying that husband and wife, in
company with two other newly-wed couples, were
caught in a cycle of ill-luck at the honeymoon
resort where they began their married life. In a
year, two of the three pairs were parted—by the
death of the bride in one case, by the suicide of
the bridegroom in the other. The third couple
seemed to prosper for a while. Then the husband
(a bank-manager) murdered his children, left his
wife for dead, and took his own life. His widow
recovered, and again ventured into matrimony,
but did not long survive her second marriage.
“An interesting sequel to a divorce case, in
which a well-known Australian proved the in-
fidelity of his wife and secured the guardianship
of the two boys, has recently come about. The
husband lately died after a good spell of freedom,
and the two sons have since sent to England to
restore their banished mother to the head of the
household gods.
“ ‘ These men, these men !’ Plaintiff in a re-
cent Vic. court-case was a maid-servant or si'ch,
handicapped by a baby ; defendant was a high-
toned beau, with a fancy moustache and a horror
of bad grammar. Letters read in court divulged
casually that baby’s Papa had severely criticised
the diction of an epistle penned after her day’s
work by baby’s Mamma. The billet's weak point
was a sentence reading something like this:
‘ Cats is fighting outside, so no more at present
from yours truly.’ The recipient, in reply,
lamented to this effect: ‘I am indeed grieved
and disappointed that, after your many advantages
of the past year, you are capable of writing “cats
is fighting.” ’ What on earth did his Lordship
the Censor mean by ‘ many advantages ’: Surely
not the baby !
“The fashion of wearing only a bit of lace or
very open-meshed muslin over the chest, spreads
among Melb. women. Only a few lines of cotton
and an inch or two on the bottom of the skirt
keep the ladies from dressing like the shepherd-
esses of Watteau and the damsels in the illus-
trations to ‘ Boccacio.’ It looks cooler than it
really is ; and at an evening party you can tell a
damsel who, in the day-time, wears lace on the
chest, by her tanned skin. It looks curious when
a girl has been out on a hot day and the sun has
stencilled the pattern of the lace on her lower
neck. Perhaps in time that may be aimed at—
there’s no knowing what some women will do.
How would it be, for instance, to go to an evening
party with a crown and the word ‘York’burnt
on the skin by the sun ? The Duke might like to
see it.
“Melbourne Conference spent some time re-
cently in disturbing hymns. Various old
favourites are to be flung overboard as not
in accordance with the practice of the
times. It seems inconsistent, for instance,
to pour one’s whole soul into the words 4 Take my
love, my life, my all!’ prior to dropping a
4 thripenny ’ into the plate.
A while back, a local Presbyterian authority
discussing hymns for State School use, described
as ‘too pessimistic’ the ditty ‘Work for the night
is coming when man works no more !’ Depends
on the singer’s temperament, doesn’t it ? Everyone
may not shrink from the prospect of ‘eternal
silence.’ Longfellow wrote: 4 Rest, rest, oh give
me rest and peace! The thought of life that
ne’er shall cease has something in it like despair.
Better the undisturbed and deep tranquility of
endless sleep 1’
“ Inspired by the Wesleyan Conference, every
local journal trots out its hymn-story. Here’s one
for our page, originally told of Rev. Evelyn
Snodgrass, Janet Lady Clarke’s brother. The
popular Canon asked his Sunday-school children
to name the hymn they wanted to sing next. A
small voice squeaked out ‘ The little she-bear ! ’
His Reverence knitted his brow perplexedly—if
he’d been a vulgar man, he’d have scratched his
head. Then he pumped Sissy for further details,
but her affections were tangled tightly round the
‘ little she-bear ’ and apart from that mysterious
beastie, her memory was a blank. The other
youngsters were consulted and patched up among
them ‘ Can a mother’s tender care cease towards
the child she-bear?’ a juvenile interpretation of
the original ‘Can a mother’s tender care cease
towards the child she bare !’
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.
Concerning certain benefits and well-
advertised testimonials: It is bad enough to be
Lazarus and have your sores licked by the dogs
of Society ; but to be Lazarus and have your
sores publicly licked by those dogs and then to
have it all printed in the papers, is simply
H 1.
The most protracted announcement on
earth (barring that about the death of Queen
Anne) came from Melbourne last week. A year
or so ago J. H. G-rey, a pious Geelong solicitor,
melted into the unknown, and something between
£100,000 and £200,000 of other people’s cash was
found to be wanting. The Govt, didn’t move
and the Law had a sudden attack of paralysis.
One huge forgery after another was alleged against
Grey, but the Law wouldn’t even look for Mr,
J. H. Grey. He remained so adjacent that when
his signature was wanted a local firm of solicitors
got it at a day or two’s notice; yet the Law,
though thus informed that the alleged boss
criminal of Victoria could be found at any moment
if it wanted him, put the cotton-wool of ignorance
in the ear of profound abstraction, and refused to
be aware of anything. But at last some private
person got angry and three warrants were issued,
and now the Law has taken the wool out of its ear
and become aware of Grey, and he is “ wanted.”
“ Onlooker ” writes from Melbourne :—
It the talk one hears in this city is any guide to public
opinion throughout Victoria, the Federal Parliament
voting will favor candidates who are “ weighty,” rather
than democratic. Party-feeling is less evident than an
all-round leaning towards “weight” in the individual
candidate. “ Weight,” as far as I can understand, means
wealth, influence, social or commercial importance, and
all that is denoted by a frock-coat and a bell-topper. A
character for personal honesty of the capitalistic kind is
demanded of these weighty ones, but the honesty of their
political protestations will not be closely inquired into.
Many voters, who are Radical in the ordinary way, appear
to think that the first duty of patriotism is to make the
first Federal Legislature thoroughly bell-toppered and
“respectable.” The mild cry for the moment is for
Responsible Men in Position— i.e., positions based on big
banking accounts. When the second Federal Parliament
comes to be elected the people will doubtless have re-
covered their natural scepticism re the virtue of
“ weight,” but just now they are pursing their lips and
knitting their brows, and regarding the Interests of the
Country from a Tory-Liberal point of view.


BEFORE INSURING ELSEWHERE ASCERTAIN WHAT
The Mutual Life Insurance^-
Established Over
Half-a-Ckntury.
Company of New York
CAN DO FOR YOU.
FOR YOURSELF—
An Income for Life.
An Endowment for Early Retirement.
A Pension for Old Age.
FOR YOUR WIFE—
A Definite Amount at your Death, and
A Fixed Income for her Life.
FOR YOUR SONS-
Money to start in a Business or a Profession.
FOR YOUR DAUGHTERS-
Marriage Settlement Money, or
An Income for Life at your Decease.
FOR YOUR BUSINESS—
Additional Capital at your own or Partner’s Death.
All Policies noio issued by THE MUTUAL LIFE embody conditions of guaranteed Automatic
Paid-up Insurance ; Extended Insurance Free of Further Charge ; Loans ;
Liberal Cash Surrender Payment.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE— 2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE— 377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —38 Macqoarie Street.
TN THESE VARIABLE AUSTRALIAN CLIMATES KEEP COOL !
-L AND ALWAYS MAINTAIN YOUR PRESENCE OF MIND.
PRESENCE OF MIND in sudden emergencies depends
on the placid condition of the faculties. A Weak
Throat, a Faulty Chest, a Wasting Lung, an Exhausted
Nerve, an Ache in the Bones or Kidneys, a Headache,
Earache; Toothache —are fatal obstacles. They deprive
you of your Strength, give you the “Shakes,” and
make you “ go to pieces.”
Eaffan’s Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
rejuvenates the whole system, and makes you feel
yourself a “ New Person.” 2/-, per post 2/6.
It has to he Tried to be Believed.
R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE. Agents wanted Everywhere.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Pan
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
On his brief at the first trial of the Coniiig-
ham case Mr. Want, K.C., got 200 guineas, with
75 guineas daily “ refresher.” This time he is
getting it again.
Cabled from S’Africa that “ Milner con-
firms statement that Herzog flogged a native at
Calvinia, with fatal results.” Probably Herzog
wanted a bridle, and the nigger wouldn’t bring it
to him.
The Age bitterly opposed a subscription
for a statue to the great George Higinbotham,
years ago. It is, therefore, poetic justice to see
its subscription for a Queen Victoria statue lag so
feebly.
London Sphere prints a full-page block
of the Commonwealth Ministers, carefully omit-
ting George Turner, one of the first three men in
the Federal movement and Premier of his State
at the time of its fruition.
Oversea statesman on steamer (returning
from Australian Commonwealth celebrations):
“ Brisbane was the only place where we didn’t get
a champagne turn-out.” Mrs. Statesman : “Yes,
Brisbane is a ’orrid ’ole.”
Died recently, near London, aged 83, the
wife of veteran Australian-liistorian James Bon-
wick. The interesting old couple (who returned
from Australia to England in 1870) had been
married for over 60 years.
One of Victoria’s bitterest anti - Jingo
journalists and most inveterate railers against
royalty has joined the Dookoyork Reception
Committee and gone into actual training for the
great Grovel Competition.
David Syme’s Shilling (Age) Fund for a
Queen Victoria memorial remains under £l5OO, and
the shillings dribble in at the rate of two or three
pounds a day. David must contemplate with
horror the possibility of his movement still hav-
ing to go a-begging when the Duke is here.
“A Contributor” : To avoid further
mystery—/ invented Zadkiel’s prophecy about
Queen Victoria and the Prince of Wales, in this
paper, on the principle of every man his own
Zadkiel. Anyhow it was not the after-game.
Notes and Queries traced the invention of
Shipton’s Prophecies in the year 1862.
Barrister P. H. Higgins, who was to op-
pose Barton for the Hunter, but thought better
of it, is a young man who will get on if nerve and
pugnacity can help him. He was prominent in
the recent Sydney School of Arts debating club
break-up, and may be remembered as the winner
of a medal for a well-recorded rescue on Bondi
Beach. ,
Ex-Gov. Carington, one of the four special
ambassadors appointed to tour foreign courts for-
mally announcing the death of the Queen and the
accession of King Edward VII., has the door to
further preferment now wide open. The spend-
thrift fashion in which he scattered gold in early
manhood in the Prince of Wales’ set will now
obtain suitable reward. The King is a good-
natured man, and Mount Rennie Charlie just
hungers for a dukedom.
Among the almost-forgotten graves in
Devonshire-street cemetery, Sydney, is that
of John Hubert Plunkett, who cut a big
figure in Australian politics and law over
half-a-century ago. Daniel O’Connell,
who, though “agin” every Government
on principle, knew his way up official
backstairs as well as anybody, obtained
for Plunkett, then a Dublin barrister, the
appointment of Solicitor-General at
Botany Bay. Plunkett’s name is on the
ceiling of N.S.W. Parliament House, and
his likeness is in the President’s room, but
his grave is almost undiscoverable. He
died poor and left his widow ’poorer.
After many years of Parliamentary fight-
ing a small annuity was provided for her,
and the old lady in black lived to be a
familiar figure in Sydney. Plunkett had
a hand in some of the greatest hanging
cases in N.S.W. annals.
“Pegasus” (the late Mr. Harry
Mostyn, the fine old Englishman whose
“cheeks like a ripe cherry” privileged
him to wear a red necktie as it has never
been worn in Sydney since his death)
used to tell some good stories of the
lately-deceased C. C. Skarratt, who once
owned and was host of the Sydney Royal:
Mostyn once related how he had often
known Skarratt to wager that he would
catch any pair of rats which could be
found behind a cask in his cellar, with
his bare hands only, making but one
attempt at each rat, and that he had
never been known to fail in his efforts.
Skarratt, unlike most people who mort-
gage their property for speculation, be-
came very wealthy. He hypothecated
the Royal to take up shares in Mt. Morgan
gold-mine—result, the value of his N.S.
Wales property alone was sworn at
£380,000.
The'. Cooper, of Auckland, M.L., lately
elevated to the local Supreme Court Bench, has as
good a record as Dr. “Jack” Quick in raising
himself above “those twin gaolers of the daring
heart —low birth and iron fortune.” In ’65 he
began life as reader boy for the Southern Cross,
and became a compositor. Articled to J. B.
solicitor in J • rru p nartnership was dis-
tin p rs; j. a**
practice.
“Palette” writes from London In art
circles all manner of good things are expected
from the advent of the King. The late Queen
could never be considered a patron of good wor
and in fact had not a particle of artistic taste.
But there’s a good time coming now.
“ Smiler ” Hales is printed as having told
a London interviewer that one of _his fingers was
shot off in S’Africa. But Randolph Bedford
gives a circumstantial account of how Smile
foJt that finger in Adelaide years ago Never
mind if a returned warrior loses a button ott a
shirt it seems to be a fair thing to put it down to
the Boers. . .
It was generally understood in Adelaide
that in the event of S’langdon Bonython’s nomi-
nation for the Federal Parliament W. J. Sowden,
editor of the Register, intended to oppose him.
Bonython’s nomination, only an hour before
time took the wind out of Sowden s sails, how-
ever,’ and the public were robbed of a gory news-
paper fight.
A very well-known personage who will
contest the elections for the Senate takes his
morning ablutions in a somewhat ostentatious
manner. He stands in the back yard mother-naked
and is hosed by his devoted wife. Gentlemen
living in the neighborhood have been compelled
to forbid their wives and daughters access to the
back windows during this performance.
The life of the N.S. Wales M.P. who
would keep on the right side of the free and inde-
pendent elector is not all beer and skittles.
Writer saw a note addressed to a member who
has his business letters headed “Parliament
House,” and who plays the game for all it is
worth, asking him to keep his eye on the sale of a
dozen pairs of fowls which were being sent to
Sydney at Christmas. Fact!
Melb. Age proprietor David Syme began
life as a junior reporter for a Greenock news-
paper. He was soon obliged to relinquish the
position on account of bad health, but he picked
up enough of the business to know how to boss his
own scribes properly in later times. When in
charge of a gang of navvies (also in Scotia) he
used, it is related, to preach religion to them on
Sundays in the open air.
Rev. George Walters, Pope of the Aus-
tralian Church, Sydney, announces that he will
contest a Parliamentary seat at next N.S.W.
State elections. He intimates that, if successful,
“it will not interfere with my duties as minister
of the Australian Ghurch in Sydney.” The souls
of Mr. Walters’ sect must be a particularly white
lot to enable their pastor to flirt so lengthily with
the drama, literature, and politics.
“ The Duke of York,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “ does• not share in
the widespread popularity of his Royal father
with London pressmen. At all public functions
here it is the custom to place the journalistic
pearl-collectors close up to the chairman’s table.
It was at the banquet of a charitable institution
that his youthful Grace had the scribes removed
to a side table because the ‘ scraping of the record-
ing pencils disturbed him.’ King Edward VII. is
much less easily ‘disturbed.’”
TRUE TO HER PROMISE.
HE: “Do you see that charming girl over on the
left side of the stage? She promised her
parents she'd never be an actress.”
SHE: “ Well, she’s kept her word.”
Rev. Sam. Thornton, just
presented to the fat living of
Blackburn in Lancashire with one
of the finest churches in England
in which to hold forth—it is now
cabled that lie' has been appointed
assistant-bishop of Manchester—
should feel happier than he was
during his quarter of a century as
Bishop of Ballarat, most of which
time he spent in fruitless attempts
to induce people to call him “My
Lord. ” Quarrels on this point were
frequent and sore. He has been
known to order a plumber’s work-
man out of his house for addressing
him as “Sir,” when reproved for
offending the episcopal dignity by
neglecting to remove in his pres-
ence the square paper cap em-
blematic of his trade. And as the
pipes had burst, and the kitchen
was flooded, and the master
plumber could not spare another
man, the Bishop and Mrs. Bishop
and the bishoplets were in a ter-
rible pickle. He would poke his
nose into politics, too, and made a
special mess of things by attempt-
ing to take a prominent place at J.
B. Patterson’s last public meeting
in Ballarat. The audience was
noisy, and invited him to “ pull up
his socks,” and “turn over,” and
“ come down.” This annoyed him
so much that the next week, when
a general gathering took place to
raise means for feeding the poor
th rough a bitter winter, he refused
to attend. But his greatest trouble
was the selection of Moorhouse, of
Melbourne, who never wanted to
be called “ My Lord,” and never
has been so designated, for the
See of Manchester, worth £4200 a
year, in which poor Thornton now
has to settle down as one of
Moorhouse’s subordinate clergy.
“Smiler” Hales, who has got
his second war-book out in England
—an account of the doings of Dris-
coll, the scout—has apparently
broken down in his old weak spot,
which is an utter inability to sepa-
rate fact from fiction. Hales has a
big heart and a clear eye, but a bad
ear ; he thinks nobody will or can
listen unless he shrieks. It was
just that defect that made his
mining-reports such marvellous
things. (Hales did more and
better work as a mining reporter
than at any other sort of press-
graft in Australia.) And, when
the shriek is cut out of his “ copy,”
Hales regards his sub-editor as his
deadly enemy—which, in spite of
his big - heartedness, makes him
rather hard to get on with.
Still another Tyson yarn. Tired newchum
(throwing down his swag at Felton): “ You the
proprietor of this farrum?” “What do you
want ?” said Tyson. “A boit to ate and some
wurruk on the farrum.” “Howlong have y’been
out?” “Nearly a yair, yer ’onner.” “Go and
work for tucker.” Sundowner strolls along:
“ Day, Jimmy ; kin y’ let us have some rations? ”
“ How long have you been out ! ” “Me ?37 year
an' 6 mund come last Janooary.” “Go to the
store and get some tucker.”
No more do we read in the Sydney dailies
eloquent election-addresses signed by men whom
the world knows never wrote them. The old pro-
fessional pobtical-speech-makers seem to have
died out. The last of them probably was the
veteran Sheridan Moore, who used to write Bur-
dett-Smith’s orations. There is a man still alive
and in N.S.W. politics for whom “ Sherry ” pro-
vided speeches about “the Grakes” and the
Romans. In olden days, whenever you heard a
N.S.W. orator begin with: “Whin the ancient
Phoenacians ”—you could bet he was talking
Sherry Moore.
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s London cor-
respondent
All the Royal Family are extremely anxious that Queen
Alexandra should emerge from the retirement of recent
years and take her proper place beside the King. This, it
is feared, she would never do were the Heir Apparent’s
wife (the Duchess of Cornwall and York) to come much to
the fore. Instead of her not unnatural feeling against
the young Duchess for transferring her affections so
rapidly from poor Prince Eddy to Prince George having
died down, it has (as all at Court know) grown with the
years. Unquestionably it took all the influence of the
late Queen and the tact of the Prince of Wales and Prin-
cess Beatrice to preserve outward conventionalities be-
tween mother-in-law and daughter-in-law of late years.
Kingston’s health, which has been very
poor of late, is now troubling many of his friends.
During the last month he has suffered greatly
from insomnia, and the heavy work in connection
with customs and tariff matters has left him hag-
gard and worn. At his first meeting in Adelaide
a fortnight ago his absence of “ form ” was notice-
able to the whole audience. Kingston has
exaggerated ideas of a working-day when well,
and frequently puts in 16 consecutive hours of
heavy brain-work before retiring for rest, re-
peatedly going from breakfast to his evening meal
without any refreshment whatever. Nature
sooner or later takes her revenge.
Of the 50 candidates for N.S.W. Senate
one is a knight—W. P. Manning. Eight desig-
nate themselves “ gentlemen ’’—Terry, Walker,
W. T. Quinn, Hammond, G. W. Waddell, Cox,
Richardson, and Gash. Five—Norton, Holland,
Milieu, Edwards, and Brown —are journalists.
There is but one avowed colonel—Mackay; an-
other colonel—J. C. Neild—sets himself down as
“arbitrator.” Four —A. J. Gould, R. E.
O’Connor, R. Mackay, and Francis Abigail—have
been Ministers of the Crown. One—O’Connor —
is a Commonwealth Minister. Six—Close, Gould,
THAT MISSING LINK.
(Free-Ad mission Day at Zoo.)
DOMAINTTE (in disgust, who has been watching monkeys
receive their customary luxuries): “ Hang it all,
talk about luck! Ter think I jest missed a square
meal every day by a blanky link. It’s ’eartr endin’.”
R. E. O’Connor, Shipway, Moriarty, and Fealy—
are lawyers. What the 329,615 electors on the
rolls think of the 50 will transpire at the end of
the month.
The handsome New Issue of Will Ogilvie’s
“Fair Girls and Gray Horses ” (with portrait of
author, post free 55.) completes a total publica-
tion of 8000 copies of this popular book of verses
in little more than two years ; and the book is de-
servedly selling faster than ever. Though a
Scotsman by birth, Ogilvie’s 11 years’ residence
in Australia (during the whole of which time he
was earning his livelihood in the bush as station-
hand and drover) brought him closer to Australian
earth than most men born in this country; and
no other writer has sung some aspects of Aus-
tralian life and emotion so truly and sweetly.
The claim made for him to have written “ the
most charming Australian book of verses ” is—
with due stress on the adjective—thoroughly
warranted.
p • • bad substituted for “fin
Parisian society Has substituted tor tm
de Sl | cle - jeune siecle,” or “young-century
tQ re4ect that the raighty con .
Aeration, to which was probably due the recent
appearance of a new star in the constellation
Perseus, took place years ago—such time
being required for the light (travelling, roundly,
200,000 miles per second) to traverse the incon-
ceivably vast intervening space. Light is calcu-
jatod t o re q U i re about two years to reach the
earth from what is considered the nearest of the
fixed-stars—Alpha Centaun (easily identifiable m
the brighter of the two stars which “ point ” to
the Southern Cross).
UJ H ERALD lately quoted
g T . j ames ’ s Gazette to the effect that the great
gt. Paul’s bell is only tolled for the death of the
Sovereign, of a Primate, of a Bishop of London,
or a ] ) ean G f St. Paul’s. As a fact, the big bell
j s tolled f or the death of any member of the
b>oyal Family, of a Lord Mayor of London, or of
a S p ee j a lly distinguished person. Writer heard
tolled for Lord Beaconsfield’s death. The bell
—made in 1716—is 6ft. in diameter, and weighs
over five tons—not, as stated, three tons,


MACONOCH lE’S
““
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
PRESERVED _FISH_ OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce.
MACONOCHIE BROS., Ltd., LONDON.
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring-St., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Hotel Australia is the
ideal rendezvous for Squatters
and their families who need
rest and change at the close
of our enervating summer.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Mick Shay”: Having lost a pony for
some time, and advertised a fair reward, an animal
somewhat corresponding to the description was
brought to me by a man who displayed great in-
genuity in explaining away every difference I
pointed out. He said the split hoof had healed
up; the short tail had grown long; the “star”
had been got by clipping the “ blazed ” face; the
coat had changed from black to brown by short
clipping ; and the old scars had worn away. He
was sure he had me beaten till I informed him
that, while the animal before us was a horse, wliat
I had lost was a mare. He went away growling :
“ Well, I suppose you think that settles it. Per-
haps, after all, the four weeks in the bush can’t
have changed that ! ”
Dear Bulletin, — Re flesh-eating wallaby
(“H.,” B. 3/11/’00). I have found that bears,
’possums, kangaroos, wallabies and ’roo-rats will
all eat cooked meat. A tame emu 1 once had ate
four legs of mutton —small legs from travelling
sheep, dead from poverty. This emu relished live
frogs and mice, and would eat tobacco if offered.
Apropos, my father used to tell of a stag in a park,
in Aberdeenshire, which always exacted atoll of
tobacco from the casual pedestrian, who, if with-
out the weed, was not allowed to pass. —Xerxes.
[This latter assertion is not so absurd as it seems.
The red stag, when solitary, is much given to
“bailing-up,” and no doubt the tobacco occupied
his attention.]
* •* * *
“Drover” : Possibly only backblox and
butcher readers know that there is never any fat
or suet on a bull-even if he is in the “pink” of
condition. All lean meat—not an oz. of tallow ;
hence the demand for “ bully ” for small potting-
works. Many a respectable and well-brought-up
bull, who had lived on the fat of the land until
you couldn’t count the rings on his horns, and had
perhaps helped to develop our dairying-industry,
is now to lie found labelled (in small cans) : “ Ex-
tract of Meat,” “Primest Corned Beef,” “Best
Pasture-Fed,” etc. How does he eat ? Pretty
well —he is generally boiled for 72 hours before
canning.
“ Exul ” to The Bulletin from
London:
Talk about Australians as meat-eaters ! Why,
the average “ steak for one,” as served in a Lon-
don restaurant, would make a dinner for a
cookie’s family ! It is large, juicy, and of molten
tenderness, and in a sharp frost even a modest
Australian is equal to it. I have never eaten so
much meat anywhere in Australia as here. Eating
is part of tile constitution—a recreation, like
cricket and politics, with drinking as a side-
issue. For alongside that beefsteak place splen-
did beer at 2Ad. a pint, and no wonder a Lon-
don street exhibits the primeest humanity in
existence. There are processions of fat men—
utterly unlike the Australian type—for they
are highly-coloured, keen-eyed, and amazingly
strong and energetic. During five weeks’ con-
tinual rambling about London I have never
met a face expressing that “tired feeling,”
and advts. pertaining thereto are rare. It is
essentially a bulldog breed with all that animal’s
good temper—for an elaborate politeness reigns.
Bump against a man witli a face like Buller ; he
apologises—you ditto—and hats are off. Nobody
swears—or feels like it. No one is irritable and
nervous, but alert, active and cheerful. The
typical Londoner is the hobby who directs a
maelstrom of traffic and gives you elaborate direc-
tions at the same time. The day after the Queen
died 1 asked a policeman what the crowd in
Trafalgar Square was expecting. “ They don’t
know, sir,” he replied, while two converging
fines of ’buses bore down upon us —“ They’re too
illiterate, sir.” And J. Bull’s better-half has the
same qualities feminised. A ’busful of London
women would paralyse our Sydney johnnies with
their ice-cream complexions, tinted with straw-
berry, their lips of ripe blood clear-cut from
the Parian skin, and—their open, unashamed dis-
play of ankle. For the London woman, in winter,
grabs her skirts with both hands, hoisting petti-
coat and all half-mast-high, and trips over the
muddy pavements displaying not ankles but
calves. But nobody minds—it is the custom.
A London crossing in Australia, however, would
draw better than a Gaiety ballet.
* * * *
“ P.G.T.” : What can cows not
digest ? Have seen a cow come across a
clothes-line about 20yds. long in a fairly
green paddock, and, after much patience
and perseverance, swallow it. Cows also
like newspapers, and though they do not
read them, they strive hard to digest
them.” The cloth with which a cow’s
udder is washed,
before milk-
ing, is to her
—if she can
get it—a very
dainty mor-
sel. In some
districts
round Mel-
bourne, the
dairy- cow
acts as street-
scavenger and goes
her rounds regularly
to clean up the horse-
droppings, which,
but for this provi-
dential arrangement,
would be allowed to
dry and blow into
the houses. And
doubtless some of
these are cows kept
specially for invalids
and children !
* * *
“Trellis”: At
a Mornington (Vic.)
hotel a most extraor-
dinary friendship has
sprung up between a
duck and a turkey ; the
d. being so attached to
the t. that she helps the
latter to hatch her eggs,
and afterwards shares in the
care of the young brood.
* • * •
“ Koudar ” : Re flesli-eating horses (B.
20/10/’00). I knew a racehorse that used to eat
mice killed by the stable-boy in the haystack near
the stables.
The kangaroo has a memory. An “old-
man,” kept in a paling-yard in a western town,
was much teased by the school children and by
one little girl in particular. Sometimes the others
ventured into the yard, and the ’roo took no
notice of them, but one day when the small tor-
mentor’s hat blew over the fence and she followed
it, the ’roo immediately attacked her, and,
though help was speedy, succeeded in ripping her
face and shoulder before she was rescued.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Once tasted “native-com-
panion”—but never again. By the way, did
anybody ever tackle grilled jackass ? Try him !
* * * *
In a recent case before a West Coast
(M.L.) Justice, one lawyer made fun of the
othei-’s grammar, whereupon the Court : “If
you are one of them what thinks grammar
runs this court, you’re barkin’ up a wrong
tree. If I ’ear any more such remarks, I’ll
fine you £5.”
* * * *
“ Sydney-Sider ” : At my Perth hash-
house, the other day, while I was waiting the
alleged soup, something gave me a nudge
under the table, and looking down I was
amazed to find a huge kangaroo lying
complacently there and licking my boot.
It turned out that it was customary
for “ Joe ” to join the family at dinner.
* * * *
A Hawkes Bay (M.L.) ram-fair-auc-
tioneer catalogues the breeders of Lincolns as
“ Esquire,” and those of Romneys as plain “ Mr.”
* * *, m
Billy the boundary-rider, referring to
the penmanship of the new jackeroo : “ Write ?
Can’t ’e ! Why, the flourish at the end of ’is sigin-
ture sounds like the crack of a stockwhip ! ”
Prom Maoriland (not Yankeeland) :
A horse belonging to Mr. Field, of Palmerston, per-
formed, an almost incredible feat the other afternoon. As
the train to Hawkes Bay, which included a number of
empty trucks, was passing through the Square at the
rate of about eight miles an hour, the horse rushed to-
wards it and jumped on one of the trucks. The impetus
carried it against one of the stanchions, and this break-
ing clean off, the horse fell back on the road, unhurt be-
yond a few flesh wounds.
And still Tom Fitzgerald goes abroad for new
wonders for the circus !
* • * *
“ Canip ” : How is this for sun-heat ?
Going prospecting one morning in C.Q. we
dropped across a small waterhole (in a tidal
creek) fairly alive with young mullet, 4 to Gin.
long. Hole about 20ft. x 10ft., with average
depth of 15iu. Quoth my mate: “We’ll get some
of the beggars s’afternoon ; can’t beat live bait for
barramundi ! ” But when we returned (about 4
p.m.) most of the fish were dead, scores Of shrimps
• were lying curled up, pink, on the bottom, and
the water was so hot that we could not bear our
naked feet in it.
* * * *
“ Yril ” : Not generally known that emus
are largely responsible for the spread of the
prickly-pear—which pest now occupies thousands
A FENCE IN A GREAT WILDERNESS.
BILLY THE BUCK (viewing the telegraph-line):
“If the ‘cocky ’ that built that fence reckons
he can keep us out with it, he’s an awful
ass.”
of acres twixt Pittsworth and Inglewood, Q. Ii
some cases even stations have had to he aban-
doned. Cattle will eat it and put on condition for
a while, but loss of the tongue from the effect of
the prickles is the almost inevitable result. A
tongueless beast endeavoring to bellow is a grue-
some hearing.
“V. ” : Re that yarn (B. 3/11/ 00) about
markings on the body of a bushranger’s betrayer’s
subsequently-born child. The generally-accepted
camp-fire version is that a certain old-time bush-
ranger, hard-pressed by troopers, sought refuge at
the house of his brother-in-law, latter’s wife at
the time being with child. House accommodation
was denied as partaking of complicity, hut an
outside hiding-place was arranged. As soon, how-
ever, as the worn-out ranger slept, b.-in-l. sneaked
off to inform. The wife too late espied the
troopers coming and hastened to warn her brother
—arriving just as the troopers poured a volley into
the recumbent figure. Her baby is said to have
been born with scarlet blotches corresponding in
position and number with those on the body of
the slain man.
* * * *
“Pelican”: Water-“ goannas ” are very
common on Condamine river, their favorite resort
being oak-trees. Alarmed, they rarely climb
down, preferring to take “ belJy-whoppers ” into
the water, diving some distance, and then poking
up their heads to reconnoitre. The head of these
“goannas” is much less elongated than that of
the ordinary kind. There is another lizard, rarely
growing to a foot long, that haunts Australian
streams. These we youngsters knew as “ scalies,”
the skin being smooth and scale-like from nose to
tail.
• * « *
Brown was a catfcle-buyer in a big inland
town and Jones was a drover who sold him whole
mobs at very low prices. One day Jones came
along with 700 or 800 head, which he offered at £4
each if they were taken over at once. While the
bargain was still in progress a trooper was seen
approaching, and Jones didn’t wait—never pulled
rein for 60 miles. Next week Brown sold the
cattle for £8 each. They had only cost him the
price of a policeman’s outfit !
* * • *
“P.H.C. ” : Pinchgut Island was known
to the aboriginal tribes of Port Jackson as
“ Mattawunga.” Can anybody supply the mean-
ing ?
AUESTION OF PROPRIETY
(FOR THE "BULLETIN").
USH MISSIONARY Benson came
To Collarbone,
A district of unholy fame,
To purify and save the same
From all the lusts of sin and shame
To which 'twos prone.
He preached against the curse of rum,
Of cursing too,
The gambling curse, and all the sum
Of vidgar sins, ami roped the scum,
And branded them for Kingdom-come
With Bmall ado.
The shearers in contrition shore ;
The station push
Spoke glibly of “ The On-Before,”
The cook his woes in meekness bore,
And no one drank and no one swore
In all the bush.
Of Benson’s converts quite the best
Were Ted. and Kate.
On week-nights and the day of rest
They worshipped with the newly-blest,
And never in their pious zest
Forgot the plate.
They’d seven kids, and Benson’s pride
IFas deeply cut
When he was told they were not tied
In wedlock's bonds as man and bride,
But lived in Sin. Willi hasty stride
He sought their hut.
Kate listened while the Holy Joe
In anger raged,
Then, piqued, she up and answered so:
‘‘Excuse yourself! I’ll have you know
About us two there’s nothin’ low—
We are engaged ! ”
SILAS SNELL.
THE OLD
MOTHER.
0E had come in from the country-
W'th a beard to make you laugh-
/ynd-was taking, his amusement
A 1 the penny phonograph
A»d his jaw was hard as iron,
A n d like bluestone was his cheek,
And he had a nose predacious
And an eye that was oblique
But lie sat there in the market
While the people passed alonji
And be filled himself with music
A 1 a penny for a son^
pe was far from all the people
And oblivious to their sneers
And adown his cheeks of bluestone
pan the slow and shining tears
por a far-off voice was
Through the phonograph it seems
to the' stranger from the country
Another kissed me in my dreams”
j he saw his dear old pother
V/Lth her heart of stubborn pride.
Washing . scrubbing, boilind, baking,
Slaving always till she died
prom that picture for the first time
]rt his life, his spirit shrunk
por the gtranker from the country
VVas affectionately drunk
C.R.


CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents .--HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality , . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
An ex-Victorian doctor (Wilkins) tells a
shooting-story in a Maoriland paper :
One day, in Victoria, I was hastily called to visit a Mrs
G , who had been shot by Pat. L . I rode there at
top-speed. Upon entering the house, without ceremony,
I found Mrs. G seated on a chair, fully dressed, quietly
drinking a cup of tea. I said, “ I thought you bad been
shot?” “So I have,” she remarked. “Where?” She
indicated the situation by applying her hand to her
abdomen, and pointed to a hole where the ball had pene-
trated her clothes. Mrs. G. disrobed, and plainly enough
the hole was visible just above the navel, showing the
ingress of the ball. I recognised the course of the ball by
a bluish-red line of skin right round the body to the hole
where it had entered. I satisfied myself that the hole of
ingress and egress were one and the same. I said, ‘ ‘ IVhere
did it happen?” The reply "was, “In the middle of this
room,” and a moment’s looking enabled me to find a
round, blood-stained bullet. AVhy did this ball pass
right round her body ? Easily explained. Mrs. G was
a big-woman, fair, and forty, of 16et., with lots of fat
under the skin. Pat. L was a rollicking “ ne’er-do-
well,” and for some reason Mrs. G was soundly boxing
his ears. I didn’t ask the reason ; but, in the rumpus, a
pistol was fired. Beyond a very temporary shock, she was
nothing the worse. 'Why was she not killed, you might
ask ! Simply because the revolver exploded at an oblique
angle to her body at close quarters, and the ball, entering
above the navel at the maximum of its velocity, became
deflected by a firm, hardish ligament, into the thick bed
of soft, fatty tissue, thus meeting with but little resist-
ance ; its great momentum carried it all round her body,
and, most curious of all, out at the orifice it had made by
its ingress.
* * * *
Notices on signboards all in one N.S.W.
township:
Corns Out with Civility and Politeness.
Gentleman Tailor and Outfitter.
Medicines Prepared for Man and Beast.
Water Laid on at Treasonable rates.
* * * *
Quaintly Scandinavian epistle to a store-
keeper at Kimusi River, B.N.G.
De Gould field (Yadda Valley)
Dear Bielley.—Send 1 Ouveld (shovel), mey Flyd (fly),
end lod op ved (load-up with) Beef en jdoz. of melk (milk)
Don’t forgedt.
P. Pedersen.
Tings er notd to Brisk op herd (up here).
* * * *
“ Itan ” re the “ divining-rod ” :
In answer to “ Wollombi ” (8., 3/2/’01) Mr. John Perry,
a farmer at Quirindi, N.S.W., had much trouble in finding
water on his land. His son had an idea that he (the son)
had the power of using the divining-rod, and the father,
though sceptical, at length consented to sink where the
son felt the willow-twig bend. A few feet down an inex-
haustible supply was tapped.
• * * *
“D.H.R.”: ife the use of the divining-rod
for locating water. I have seen a N.S.W. selector
use it successfully for that purpose—but the water
was salt.
DEFINITE INFORMATION.
SWAGMAN : “How far is it to Where'sthis?"
NATIVE: “Five mile. Some call it eleven, but I reckon fifteen is nearer
the mark; and when you get there you'll agree with me that it’s a
good three mile."
Epitaph in Windsor (N.S.
Wales) cemetery :
Sacred to the
Memory of William Green
who was barberrously Mur
dred in the Execution of his
Duty as Cunstable on the 20th
day of August 1826, aged 25 years.
Musing with pious thoughts and
heavenly care
Let this remind the reader to Prepare
Instantly snatched by murder to the
grave
Shun ye the world and hail the power
can save
As the found joy doth the year em-
brace
In country churchyard at another
place
Emblem of faith so let my tomb be
The pious token of this EVER-
GREEN.
Sydney Gazette of August 30th,
1826, gives the following account
of Green’s murder
On the approach of Green (the con-
stable) Smith set a dog on to him,
which pulled to the ground and bit
him terriblv, the murderer joining in
with a stick and the butt end of a
pistol. One Moore interfered on the
victim’s behalf, but was struck a
savage blow, while another onlooker
was threatened with murder if he
went for the police. The poor, bat-
tered constable was once heard to
murmur, “ Don’t beat me any more,
Isaac,” but this only caused further
brutality.
Smith was in due course hanged.
* * * *
“Itan”: In many of the
Hunter (N.S.W.) River districts
it is noticeable that where ring-
barking has been systematically
carried on for years; the adjacent
creeks and dams have become
distinctly brackish. [Probably
from the salts which would
otherwise have been taken out
of the soil by the trees.]
* * * *
According to W.A. Supt.
of Prisons, 95 per cent of the men
sent from the goldfields to the
Perth gaols have a terrible blood-
disease; and many of the cases
are traced to association with the
contaminated lubras who hang around the
camps.
A firm of soli-
citors who have
lately been acting
for husband and
wife in family
quarrels the other
day got this letter
from the wife, a
German lady:—
To Mr. L. .
I, (say) Mary Jane
Buchholtz, write
these few lines to let
you know. That I
cannot live with Mr.
Buchholtz he is
drinking again very
hard when he left
hospitial and he hits
me very hard with
the strap and the
children also. The
nights I dont have
no sleep he is kicking
up one row, he says
if I dont be one with
him, he takes the
gun and will shoot
me for ernest truth.
And he is cracking
with his teeth like a
beast and hitting on
the table with the
fists and broke me
some cups. He is
quite mad now when
drunk Mr.
be so kind and help
in a short while.—l
remain, yours truly,
Mary Jane Buch-
iioltz.
* *
“ A.A.A. ” :
Re stone circles
(8., 20/10/’00) :
They are very
common in Nan-
dewar (N.S.W.)
ranges, where they
may be seen on
the highest points
of the mountains.
When an aborigi-
nal desired to fit
himself to be a
karaji he would
erect one of these
circles, and within
it he would com-
mune with a spirit
called Wanda.
* *
“ Tuna ” : I
have an “old
man ” turkey who
has taken the de-
funct mother’s
place with a brood
of chicks —though
he has hithtr o
been inclined to
slaughter his own
progeny. Seems
mighty proud of
the job, too !
MADAME DARTO, the Danseuse.
Photo, by Talma & Co., Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ivill be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Fred. M. : As has often been here stated, The
Bulletin w'as established, not as a philanthropic concern,
but as a means of getting a living for its proprietors. It
is, therefore, not supplied free, or at any reduction, to
public reading-rooms. It is not the policy of this paper
to be read on the cheap.., .R.B. : Reid impudently seeks
to make Barton responsible for Lyne sticking to his two
billets; but suppose Barton had been soft enough to
order Lyne to vacate the State billet? Talk of “ unwar-
rantable interference with N.S.W.” and “dictating to
N.S.W.” then ! Van der B. : Some force, some extrava-
gance ; wants coherence and justification.. . .H.M. : Ten
generations of bores seem to have flowered in that batch.
. ...P.O.C. : Discovery that “regalia” rhymes with
“Australia” seems to have maddened you... .H.V.D.:
Fine chestnutty flavor about the Jones yarn, and the
Smith yarn is small, and thin... .E.A. G. (Horsham);
Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies of Australasia” comes out
every second year as a rule, and the figures cover a num-
ber of years. It can be obtained from the Govt. Statisti-
cian’s office, Svdney, unless the last edition (issued about
two months ago) is sold out. Your local bookseller
should be able to get it for y0u.... David S. : Humor
goes as heavily as Pharaoh’s chariot when the wheel
came off in the Red Sea Brolga: Where on
earth did you get your ideas ? The Chinese in
N.S.W. are diminishing fast and continuously.....
Loco : Yes, Cardinal Moran did, w'e believe, once say
publicly, something to the effect that R.C.’s should have
no love for the Boers, who had shown themselves enemies
of the R.C. religion Marco: We don’t guarantee the
originality of everything that appears unacknowledged in
The Bulletin. We can only try to be as original as
possible ; sometimes we are “ taken down.” But all un-
acknowledged work is published absolutely bona-fide so
far as we are concerned. As to your courteous insinua-
tion—whv should we pay for stolen work as original?
R.W.S. : That’s quite common. A doctor tells a patient:
“ My fee for the operation is, say, £5O, but if you
can’t pay go into the hospital and I’ll do it for
nothing.”....E.W.G. (Eton, S.H.) : Unsavory subject
especially unfit to be emphasised by illustration....
Contributing Shareholder : Companies mostly compromise
between the one-man-one-vote principle and the one-
share-one-vote principle by giving, say, one vote for five
shares, two up to 15 shares, three up to 50 shares, and
decreeing that no man shall have more than a certain
number of votes under any conditions. That is probably
the best way.... Germanicus : The right of shutting out
aliens belongs to every State. The U.S. has shut out
British subjects under its immigration-restriction laws.
It even refused admission once to a whole ship-load of
British subjects before there was any immigra-
tion-restriction law. Maoriland has lately been
shutting out Austrians. The right is too well
recognised to be seriously called in question now
P. : Again you remind us of Thackeray’s satire on the
small personal paragraphist of 40 years ago: “Walking
down Fleet-street last Friday morning, whom should I meet
but Alderman Binks ! I don’t remember to have seen the
worthy alderman looking in better health ” —or words to
that effect.... J.R.A.: No value..... A.E.: Too heavy....
I.H. : Believe the present Bruce Smith is the same_ indi-
vidual L.P. : And supposing they are the original
Ache family, and you are really some unknown and un-
findable humorist named Smith or Jones having a joke at
our expense ! Once when our friend George Rignold was
in the West somebody, probably named Jenkins but sign-
ing himself George Rignold, wrote to us requesting us to
state that the real George wasn’t the real George but a
dashed impostor or something. We didn’t do it. But
we find that in three cases out of five it is the impostor
who writes wanting us to denounce the real man as a sham.
.... W.G.8.: Please attach your stamp to M.S., and don’t
write letters The Owl: One verse published rather in
sorrow than in anger :
“ ’Tis now two decades less a year or two
Since you met me and I met you,
Through which period we’ve wrested with Pate,
Resulting in disaster at times I regret to state.”
It appears from this careful statement that you met her
on the same day that she met you Rex : Australia is
in exactly the same position as Ireland ; the absentee
bondholder drains it of money even more heavily than
the absentee landlord drains Ireland. And its industries
are young, just as Ireland’s were when Freetrade com-
menced. And Ireland’s industries died under Freetrade,
and its population has decreased almost every year since
Freetrade commenced. Give Australia the same measure
of Freetrade, and with the same circumstances,
you will probably get the same results
A.Z.D. : Sorry won’t do Nhaj : Declined with em-
phasis Ooldheart: Returned M.M.A. : Not bright
enough Pyalla : May use swear-yarn Alone: Sub-
ject at that length is beyond your present skill Yar. :
To start the tobacco-controversy would simply mean that,
after many conflicting opinions had been aired, the ques-
tion would remain just where it was Helen I. : Have
written to you... . E.J.W. : What was the name of sketch
you mention ? This one has a good “ manner,” but
hardly matter enough E.A. : The yarn about a
Melb. fund to help pro - Victorian Federal candi-
dates in the other States is a baseless lie started by the
Reid crowd at the inception of the Federal conflict.
Same crowd says in the one breath that Victoria is
stone-broke through Protection, and that it is shovelling
out money like dirt to influence N.S.W. elections....
M. or N. : All very well, but Phil. May is no longer here.
... .Mark H. : Yes, we received “ lAzer” and had it illus-
trated —and now we are sorry to read slightly varied ver-
sions of the verses in several foreign papers.... VV.J.C. :
“Chapel-st., Maoriland,” is rather a large order.
Please send more definite address... .John M‘G. (Herber-
ton) : Returned to be re-written... .Judas : “ Panegyric,”
picturesque piece of lunacy... .Wanderer : Some delicacy
of handling, but interest too feeble.... B.C.E. : Mild
little allegory.. .. Kyra K. : Not too bad, but hasn’t finish
enough... .T.G.F. : Verse could hardly be worse. Prose
sketch, will consider... .Thingabob : Poor stuff!....
E.M.11. : “ Bills,” not ill-written, but lacks interest... .T.
Gayndah : Spoilt by entire lack of dramatic force
Mitty : Humorous in a brutal and unprintable way....
G.A.P. : Dull brown 1ie.... Pessimist: Looks as if you had
personal reason to be....E.M. : Sorry “ Casualty ” not
force enough.... J udas : Better stick to prose awhile....
Nan: Too slight... .0. A. B. : “Kenny” neat —not quite
grit enough... .And. S. : “ Myrtle ” too faintly perfumed.
.... W.E.H. : Not up.... A.J.G. : Find “ Pas. ’ stagey and
artificial E.J.B. : “ Noc.” in type... .Pyalla : Motif of
“Swearing Bill” is an appalling chestnut... .R.A.T. :
Unfortunate initials !—but your stuff isn’t too bubonic.
On the whole, however, it’s too unequal to use.'...
Perce V. : Kangaroo-lie, lively perjury ; rest mullock.
Verse, not bad idea, but would need too much tinkering
O.A.W. : “Outlaw'” has spirit, and may be used.
Other verses have promise, though they show lack of
skill and knowledge Bilby : The puppy-joke has ap-
peared in 1000 versions, but isn’t necessarily unoriginal
with you—it’s so obvious. Other is no joke at all
Fortuna: Not enough in it... .Johnnie H. : Couldn’t
print a thing like that!... .E.B.H. : “Sequence” belies
its name, in that it sadly lache consecutiveness and clear-
ness of impression Stephen B.: Ranges from fairly
strong dow'n to rather feeble W.M. : No; if you
officially changed the name to Maoriland, you would call
the people Maorilanders, not Maoris Morse : Bet-
ter say no more about it J. J. : No, it doesn’t look like
a confidence-game ; probably the ancient seeks the com-
panionship of a woman entitled, like himself, to an old-
agejpension E.A.AV. : It should surely be as reason-
able for the State to exact an annual toll from a solicitor
as from an auctioneer. By present appearances, nearly
every second man iri N.S.AA'. will soon be either a solicitor
or a barrister C.E.R.: Couldn’t “ seize” one of them.
D.B. : “Political Portrait” has no faults of metre,
but it goes heavily and lacks interest... .A.M. : Think
this is an infants’ magazine ?....AV.F.F. : Abject... .Zip :
Yes, a condensed par. re that mundic matter. (2) As the
case was dismissed such comment would be unsafe.,..
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
AV.L.A. : Sorry point too small G. Cormic : Already
printed in Bulletin J.H.W. : That “Home for Or-
phans ” is a very promising sketch, but we can’t see how'
to drag it in... .L.L. : Will serve as suggestion. Good
artistic feeling, but the figures lack strength.... H. Dol-
man : As idea only “ Plenty of Bart ” : May be origi-
nal, but it looks too German-American N.L.S. : But
not for direct reproduction.... Unavailable : E.D. (Ad.),
A.J.G. (Twis. and Wr.), Will. P. (Mac.), John D. (Y.), W.
Hurst, K.S.H., R.8.N., Ton. W. (E.M.), W. Gus. H. (all
apparentlv copies), J.A.C., R. Radf., Bruin, Royop, Eve-
lyn R., T.H.B.
Settler’s Miserable Life.
Notwithstanding the hardships which all settlers
have to face, the extreme misery which recently
marked the life of a Mr. William Shearer —a
Wingalah settler—made an interview with him
most interesting. To a reporter who called upon
him at his home in Wingalah, Cato Creek,
Brewarrina, he said :
“I atn seventy-three years of age, and came
from England to Melbourne in 1853. Twelve
years later I went overland on horseback to the
Gulf of Carpentaria, a, distance of 1800 miles,
living a life of hardship all the time. Whilst
there the heat was especially severe. I took fever
and until lately I have never been free from its
after effects. My body and limbs were partly
paralysed so that at times I could not mount a
horse or move about quickly. I was thin and de-
bilitated, and lost all appetite. Medical treat-
ment failed to benefit me. Three years ago a
friend writing from Scotland advised me to try
Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people. I did so
and after taking the contents of one box I felt
greatly impi-oved, my blood began to circulate
properly, and I became stronger. Several more
boxes cured me. Since then 1 oan mount a horse
with ease, work actively, and ride twenty or thirty
miles every day. I have recommended Dr.
Williams’ pink pills to scores of sufferers, many
of whom nave derived great benefit from their
use.”.
As in Mr. Shearer’s case, fevers generally leave
a weakened constitution behind them. Dr.
Williams’ pink pills by enriching the blood and
retoning the nerves, restore the normal circulation
and thus cure partial paralysis, etc. In the same
way they cure blood disorders like anaemia, debility,
scrofula, eczema, and nerve troubles, such as St.
Vitus’ dance, nervous exhaustion, locomotor
ataxia, etc. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three. “ How to Cure Fever’s
Effects.” Write for free instructions.


THE MENACE OF MILITARISM.
The “Military Party” is running candidates for the Federal elections. This picture displays the Military Party’s ideas concerning Australian National existence, as
shown at the inauguration of the Commonwealth.


l
-fir
Idyll
6fue Bfr
,Q„\ y.
j\ r <ys
SX VV°4 Nj
Ox^>
' -
v
"flj.S »S
Arch
deyqti.
'TypicsJ
\ bfatur^l
|\ H hfery.
< Tm POSTAL UNIFORM.
Analog other people who are calling upon
jbheir%aik>rs for new vesture in view of the
Royal visit are the postal authorities.
Efforts are being made to get out the winter
supply of uniforms for letter carriers, mes-
sengers and others specially early,, and it is
probable that the whole of them will be
handed round a week or two before the arri-
val of their Royal Highnesses.
WJJ/K vA zfe.
/j lse ]oy
* 1 '
f
f ’X spirit of apathy sCeras to "have seized a
section of the citizens of Melbourne in con-
nection. with the decorative preparations
for the Royal vj«ic x Th e damage done'
already to the spontaneity o S the prepara-
tions for the Royal visit is not small, and I
:ip 'other States the “generosity” of Mel-1
ibourne merchants end manufacturers has]
jbeen freely commented on. It is dot 1
'yet too fete to render such comment'
groundless, and we hope that 'Melbourne is!
a whole will, by the representative charac*l
: ter of dts arches and other artistic symbol*,"
contribute in no niggardly spirit to the'
Royal festivities. ' "
Sjwc •— ; Hes pevet-
U*i && si ’ ce
‘.‘.INSU LTI NtG ”
SAfS MR FITZ GIBBON.
At the, meeting of the Melbourne and
(Metropolitan Board of Works this after- ,
(noon.ijthe chairman (Mr Fitz Gibbon) ,
■said tkut he desired to draw the atten-
tion of,the board to the very satisfactory j
fact that each of the constituent' coun- !
«ils of the board had shown its conS- ;
tience iVi its representatives on the board ,
-by returning them again to the board .•
That is the effect’,
of. the '‘'whitewashing report."
Mr Fitz Gibbon : That is an expression;
/which was grossly insulting to a Judge
rot one.pf. the courts of the colony, and ,
ithe hoTt,; gentlemen - v.’htf gave their time
for nothing, and £tws an.expression which
Regret ii. know* was used. It should,
be forgotten * and seduted/ from <juc’
vocabulary. _
toy— i
fo
s©«?e v
oU IjloKc
sf
feOKDON, March 15.
Their Royal Highness 6& the Du,ke and
tflidhess of Cornwall and YoVk sail lor Aus-
tralia to-mortotv from ‘.Portsmouth by the
(lnftir
A ca.se of small-pox was reported to Dr.
Gressweir' from Caulfield early this morn*
t)PW, h)'/ I ‘tHC.
Vfljer'e do l Cen-je
>!•»?*
MELBOURNIANA.


Federal House of Representatives.
M E RKT DA. ELECTORAT E.
VOTE FOR^^
ROBERT HARPER
WHO SUPPORTS THE POLICY OF THE
BARTON MINISTRY. '
Polling Day, 29th March, 1901
ELECTRIC
MINIHC
MACHINERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
MOVES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
A PHONETIC COMPANION
to PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD.
The Guide is indispensable to Teachers, Students, and
all who wish to know how French must be pronounced.
Mr. Perier’s French Phonetic Notation, based on English
Alphabetical Sounds, can be mastered within an hour.
All booksellers, price Is. 3d.
Copies may be obtained, post free, by sending postage
stamps.
A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich-chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
■DIAMOND SONG BOOK.
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC, 7
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
To the Electors of KTew South "W ales.
Gentlemen, —
I am a Candidate for the Office of Senator in the Parlia-
ment of the Commonwealth, and have the honour to
solicit your support.
Having been a member of the Legislative Assembly for
many years, and Postmaster-General in the last Dibbs
Administration, I am probably known to the majority of
you by name, and I venture to hope that there has been
nothing in connection with my political career which you
regard as a disqualification for the responsible position to
which I aspire. Both as a private Member of the Assem-
bly and a Minister of the Crown, I have always done my
utmost to promote the well-being of every class in the
community.
Elected upon a popular basis, it is generally admitted
that the Senate will play a very important part in Federal
Legislation. Except on one subject, it possesses equal
powers with the House of Representatives, and in dealing
with the legislation passed by the Lower House it will
have work of the greatest responsibility, necessitating the
exercise of calm and thoughtful consideration and sound
judgment. Party spirit, there may be in the Chamber ;
indeed, this is inevitable ; but there should not be party
passions, which, experience teaches, work much more for
evil than forgood. Audit should be the aim of the Senate to
co-operate as far as practicable with the House of Repre-
sentatives. Only when the latter attempts to legislate
contrary to the expressed wishes of a majority of the
people should the Senate endeavour to cause a political
crisis.
With regard to my political views, I am a supporter of
the Barton Ministry; and, speaking generally, I am
heartily in accord with the policy outlined by the Prime
Minister in his speech at Maitland. His opinions on the
fiscal question have my complete approval. It is ad-
mitted on .dP hands that the Commonwealth Parliament
will have t?raise at least £8,000,000 per annum through
the Custom-house. The probability, however, is that the
sum to be raised will be £8,500,00J, or more. To talk about
Freetrade under these circumstances is out of the question
—a fact of which every intelligent man must be aware. It
must surely be evident that the conditions make it im-
possible to establish either freetrade or scientific protec-
tion. The main object of the Commonwealth Treasurer
in framing his tariff must be to get revenue, but in carry-
ing out that object he should have regard to local in-
dustries. Where reasonable encouragement to these can
be given, it should be given. That was the course pursued
by Sir Wilfrid Laurier, the Prime Minister of Canada,
.and a professed freetrader, when remodelling the tariff
of the Dominion. It is essential that our producers, and
particularly the farmers, should have a large and con-
stantly increasing home market, but such a market will be
impossible if the policy of the Opposition received general
endorsement.
lam decidedly in favour of a “ White Australia.” And
not only should coloured labour, in my opinion, be kept
out of the Continent, but no admission should be given
to any inferior alien white labour, as that class would enter
into competition with our working men, and thereby
lower the rates of wages.
The question of the federal capital is an urgent one,,
and it should be settled in the first session of the Parlia-
ment. I agree with the Prime Minister that no portion
of the federal territory should be alienated.
Concerning the subject of defence, I believe that the
necessities of the Commonwealth can be met by a larger
development of the volunteer system ; and, with regard
to the navy, by an arrangement similar to that existing
at present. It will suit us best to have war vessels pro-
vided by the Imperial Government, on terms of payment
to be agreed upon, than to provide a navy of our own.
Several of the States having old-age pensions systems
of their own, it may not be necessary for the Common-
wealth Parliament to legislate on that subject for many
years to come ; but if it should be I shall, if elected, sup-
port any practicable measure that is introduced.
The portion of the Ministerial manifesto relating to
legislation for the settlement of industrial disputes has my
hearty concurrence.
The proposal to build a continental railway from Port
Augusta to Kalgoorlie is one which must be regarded with
great caution. It does not commend itself to my judg-
ment as a work that should be immediately'carried out.
And in this connection I may say that I am opposed to
the transfer of our State railways to the Commonwealth
Government.
lam an advocate for Penny Postage. In nearly every
place where the system has been tried it has been success-
ful. In 1893, when I was Postmaster-General for New
South Wales, I tried to establish this system within the
boundaries of the State ; but owing to the general finan-
cial crisis which occurred about that time, effect could
not be given to my proposal. I was able, however, to
apply the system in a number of centres of population.
Experience teaches that when the cost of Government
services is reduced, a largely' increased volume of business
is the result, and there is not much reason to apprehend
a loss to the revenue by' the establishment of penny
postage.
These, then, Gentlemen, are some of my political views,
and I desire to say in conclusion that if 1 am elected I
shall attend unremittingly to the duties you will have
placed upon me, and in other respects do my utmost to
retain your confidence. In particular, I shall always be
watchful over the interests of New South Wales.
I have the honour to remain, yours faithfully,
Blair Athol, Campbelltown.
JOHN KIDD
Federal House of Representatives.
To the Electors of
The Melbourne Electorate.
GENTLEMEN— *
I have the honor to solicit your vote and interest, and,
should you elect me as your representative, I shall give my active support to the
following measures :
(1) The Tariff Policy of the Barton Ministry,
(2) White Australia, reserving to Queensland Sugar Planters the right to
employ, as long as necessary, colored labor, on condition that such labor is returned
to its native shores at stated times, and under no circumstances is allowed to settle
in the Commonwealth.
(3) Federal Defences. Adequate maintenance of the fortifications and
defence forces of the Commonwealth. Increase of citizen soldiers and rifle clubs.
Any increased expenditure necessary for these purposes to be met out of revenue
and not by means of loans.
(4) Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration on lines that are fair alike to
employers and employed.
(5) Old Age Pensions subject to conditions mentioned in my public
addresses.
(6) Uniform Factory Acts for the Commonwealth.
(7) Nationalization of the State Railways by the Commonwealth on
condition that the status of employes is not lowered.
(8) Federal Territory not to be alienated. The size to be considerably
increased beyond the 100 square miles provided in the Commonwealth Bill, and the
site to be within easy access of a seaboard.
(9) Federal Public Works. All unproductive Public Works in connection
with the Federal Capital, the Post Office, Customs, and Defence Department to be
paid out of Revenue and not from Loans which will be a burthen on future
generations.
I am, Gentlemen,
YOUR OREDIENT SERVANT,
M. D. McEacharn.
Central Committee Rooms : Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Ist March, 1901.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near S'S’DKTS'ST.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
• ’ .
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AWARRA”
.. Bium> of..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, L±JAU and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeeg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place SYDNEY


■ s -4mn>E% s
y>ndon Lever.
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, t'7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated hook of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
sr“©
sny
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and Ruby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brocoh.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
A. Saunders. w
Band-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. G<
35s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s • es
A. Saunders.
Registered 15c. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10s ,
1 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c Gold, simdar
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Damty.
a
"SF
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
- New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
16c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
©
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
- ~>ll*
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
. ■
m
iii§
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Nellie Stewart” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
fm
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Damty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
dsf
Sadies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15c.,
j, ,£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £I(X
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15. c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition.—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, i Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
A, Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
6s 64. Very Neat.
'Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
'Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ,
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 lCs, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s (id each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
■mm
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or Saph-
phires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ; Larger
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to £5 each. Price
and Size of Diamonds.
Gold Crosses, _
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c. Gold,
20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
TBand Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
15e. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 IQs and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
rssmarsfm^sa
Herat's or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
0
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and . p ®?' rl A . Se * ™°,° ch >
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d , 15c. Gold, £-2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
NiS
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Charm, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £410s, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold. Ring, 21a.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond Ring,
£3, £i, £5,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,‘
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
■Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10a ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
A.
LBA.DIKTG A.RT JEWELLER,
815 & 817, George Street
/nearly opposite \
\ Rail way Station/?
SYDNEY.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
fds
Before booking' your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
26 9 Collins-st., Melbourne;
Hunter-st., Sydney.
fd
GS-O TO HBLL-
-0 LCJOLAN]) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
Q lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS -
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
I NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCy # CO.,
J nrniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4, FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
V aiuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-s'fc
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—"
agwsgg
-..v
■>W
Bin
Massey-Harris Co, Ltd,
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Syd
ney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What won’t wash —Reid’s Dry Dog.
The Freetrader is a man who will not be-
lieve the evidence of his census.
Why has Sydney Sunday Times suddenly
come out anti-Reid ? Is it because its rival Norton
is anti-Barton ?
In 1880, when Maoriland’s population was
550,000, there were 500 more births than in 1900,
when the population was 750,000. And still
Seddon is sending young men out of the country
in hundreds.
It is significant that all the Centralian
Federal candidates avow themselves opposed to
black labor. They differ only in the term of years
they would allow for its extinction, some giving
five, others seven.
The Bulletin asks the N.S.W. electors
to remember the Suffield case when they see A.
J. Gould’s name on the Senate ballot-paper. It
is possible to love Freetrade very much, but Jus-
tice should be loved far more.
Popular Tasmanian tips for the Federal
House of Reps, and Senate are Saddler, Braddon,
Hartnoll, Clemens, Dobson, Fysh, Keating, Wal-
dron, and Piesse. Seven of the aforesaid nine
are Freetraders, who favor a heavy customs tariff.
The Imperial Government is cautiously
enquiring whether Australia will consent to the
transportation of Boer prisoners to this country.
The democrats of Australia would not be averse
to receiving Boers—but not as prisoners, or even
as men under any form of legal or military sur-
veillance.
Charleston (ex-Labor member) and Poyn-
ton (a shearers’ nominee, who poses as a Laborite)
have been included in the Federal ticket of S. A.
National Ass., Baker’s Tory organisation. This
fact alone will lose these two politicians thousands
of votes. Charleston deserted his party some
years since, and Poynton did practically the same
by joining Solomon’s 10-days’ Ministry 15 months
ago.
Extract from William M‘Millan’s famous
speech to Sydney Chamber of Commerce in 1897 :
New South Wales, if she joins this union, must agree
to the reimposition to a large extent of customs duties,
whether they are purely for revenue or for protective
purposes, which will be going back on her present system
of Freetrade. There is no use shutting your eyes to that
fact. People will say that we can create a tariff which is
not protective but only revenue-producing. I would like
to ask the common sense of Australia whether, when six
colonies join together and five are of one fiscal character,
the sixth is likely to produce any effect upon that
character when numbers are against it ?
As Importer M‘Billion is now demanding at the
top of his voice that the five States shall
alter their fiscal policy to suit a certain proportion
of the inhabitants of the sixth it appears by his
own showing that he and the common sense of
Australia are no longer on speaking-term*
STEALING A SEAT.
“ Freetraders would find it extremely difficult to gain
any seats in our State Parliament. (Cheers.) In the
Federal election, if there were a straight-out fight in all
the electorates, there were very few districts which
would return a Freetrader. (Cheers.) The only hope of
the Freetraders was in there being several Protectionists
in the field, as promised to be the case at South Mel-
bourne and Brunswick, which were the most radically
Protectionist communities to be found in the State.”—
Turner at St. Kilda.
His only chance—and he takes it.
M‘Eacharn means to “down” Maloney
for Melbourne Federal electorate if money and
energy can do it. His committee-men have spent
whole days in the suburbs persuading plural
voters to pledge their votes for him in the city.
This has been done to such an extent that even
the Argus was moved to protest, lest such seats
as Kooyong and Bourke might thereby be utterly
lost to the Obstructionists.
Says the Queenslander :
The pay of Kanakas ranges from Bs. to 14s. a week with
rations. It will be seen that they have about equal wages
to the regular farm-laborer on the Darling Downs.
Just so. The country white laborer has to live on
Kanaka wages. And organs like the Queens-
lander see in the willingness of these poor Euro-
pean serfs to volunteer for the war (ss. a day and
all found) only an evidence of enthusiastic Loyalty!
N.S.W. Parliament, if it has no other
reason for coming together, should call a meeting
to suppress Plagiarism in National Ideas. No
country, with the slightest respect for itself as a
national force, should adopt the Bartholdi statue
of New York. That was an Idea. So far
as it goes, it is an idea that inspires. But for
a new nation, a new people, rising out of the
mists of provincialism, to copy the Bartholdi
statue is to caricature it.
“Eo ” : It is risky to prophesy, but writer
opines that a surprise of the Federal elections in
Victoria will be the position of G. H. Wise in the
poll for the Senate. Wise, a Sale solicitor and
bigwig of the A.N.A., though unknown to
politics, is among the Liberal organization’s
selected six and will probably follow Baby Watt
at the head of the poll, though Trades Hall Sec.
Barrett must do well, as he gets the Liberal
nomination and the block Labor vote.
The straight and sturdy Charles M‘Donald,
M.L.A., is standing as a Federal candidate for
the N.Q. district of Kennedy. M‘Donald has
always shown himself a man of grit and bottom ;
the Western men have always found him a staunch
advocate and Boodlewraith looks upon him as an
ugly adversary. His success is regarded as a
certainty and N.Q. may congratulate herself
thereupon, for M‘Donald is just the sort of
champion White Australia wants in the Federal
Parliament.
“We all know that whatever Federal
Government is in power, there must be a high
Customs tariff. I frankly admit that if I stood
up before the House and said anything else I
should simply be sinning against my own know-
ledge. I admit it, and give it to everyone for
what it is worth—that there must be a high Cus-
toms tariff under Federation, and that is one of
the sacrifices that some of us are prepared to make
for Federation.”—G. H. Reid iq N.S.W. As-
sembly. And now! “ Australia can’t have Pro-
tection and she can’t have Freetrade, but she
mqst have ME.”
From an article in the N.Z. Times en-
titled “ Racial Aspect of Federation ” :
Although the products of Australian colored labor
would reach this country, it is the effect that the presence
of thousands of colored people would have upon the
development of Australian civilisation which ought to
concern us. If it is impossible to work the lands in tropi-
cal Australia with other than blacks, Chinese or Japanese,
conditions must arise that will be repulsive to the people
of Maoriland, and if we were to become allied with Aus-
tralia there would be no escaping the degenerating influ-
ences which union with States sanctioning colored labor
would have upon these islands. There will be many con-
flicting issues to adjust, but none will approach nearer to
civil war than the threatened abolition of colored labor.
Maoriland will never be troubled directly with that ques-
tion.
And the wild humor of the situation is that this
same paper is the champion barracker for Seddon’s
scheme for the absolute union of Maoriland with
Fiji, where there are 100,000 niggers, 11,000
coolies, and a few thousand other assorted lots of
colored humanity—far more than are to be found
in all Australia.
Syaiiv-y Telegraph pegs away manfully at
its idiotic lie about how the Protectionists must,
in the natural order of things,
put an excise on locally-grown
sugar which will counterbalance
the Protective duty,
while the Free-
traders won’t do
so. In other
words, that the
Protectionists
should be
thrown out be-
cause they are
not going to
protect sugar,
whiletheFree-
traders should
be- put in be-
cause they are
going to pro-
tect sugar. Yet
the Telegraph
can’t give the
name of one Pro-
tectionist state
which has a sugar-
excise. And all the
mendacity on earth
can’t shift the fact that it
was the Freetrade party’s own bright and shining
importer, M‘Millan, who declared for a sugar-
excise high enough to destroy all the benefit of the
import duty ! Also foreign-importer M‘Millan is
the only man who has declared for that sugar-
excise up to date.
Melbourne Argus, which tried its best to
get the Old-Age Pension-scheme postponed till
the Federal Government had time to tackle it (in
the hope that that time would never come) now
urges “the discriminative granting of the pen-
sions purely as a charity.” But the Argus never
called the big pensions of Judges and other public
servants “ charities, ” . yet Judges and such are
much more adequately rewarded and generously
treated than the aged citizen who now demands
his poor 10s. a week. Is the Argus trying to
nullify the 10,000 or 12,000 votes assured to the
democrats by this measure, or what is its game ?
“O[?] THIS WICKED WORLD”
At the Wesleyan Conference recently held in Melbourne
Mr. J. Webb submitted a motion condemnatory of
humorous and comic recitations, &c By way of
illustrating the kind of thing he objected to Mr. Webb
proceeded to describe a piece named “Courtship Under
Difficulties,” and his efforts in this direction were re-
ceived with unrestrained laughter. He asked if this sort
of thing was allowed how could the people be kept from
the theatre. The motion was negatived.— Sydney Morn-
ing Herald.
“ We are only vulnerable and ridiculous through
our pretensions.’ 1
Law, Freetrade candidate for Dailey (New
South Wales), after stating that Albury is the
selected Federal capital site (which it isn’t—it has
hardly even been proposed as the site), proceeded
to wail on the iniquity of choosing a place only 190
miles from Melbourne and 386 miles from Sydney,
whereby all the trade would be secured by the
accursed Yiotorian. Said he : “ The capital
should be at Yass, which is 186 miles from Syd-
ney ; then we shall get the trade.” In the warped
intelligence of this painfully small man, when
“we” have got all the trade the matter is settled
to the satisfaction of everybody.
Writes Arthur Rae :
Ed. Bulletin.— The Federal Govt, will, if it is sincere,
put a definite time-limit, and a short one at that, to the
employment of Kanaka and other colored aliens. The Q.
State Govt, has for years helped the sugar-industry by
subsidising central crushing mills, in addition to the pro-
tective duty and black-labor concessions. Let the
Government (State or Federal) establish a sugar refinery,
and thereby secure to the cane-growers a portion of the
profits now going into the pockets of wealthy outside cor-
porations. That would prove a generous and thoroughly
practicable form of compensation to sugar-growers for
the passing of the alien.
Any yarn will serve just now in Queens-
land to bolster up black labor. A few days ago
the Queenslander told the following legend
James Tyson who had just taken up land on the John-
stone expressed himself thus : “ Magnificent land and I
have been working like a nigger cutting down scrub, the
perspiration rolling off us in streams, and it will only be
a nigger who will be able to do the work.”
The Queenslander omits to add that white
timber-getters had been cutting cedar in the
scrubs of N.Q. coastal rivers for years before
Tyson took up his land on the Johnstone.
Reid, who sa,ys he is most enthusiastic for
a White Australia, roared very softly on the sub-
ject when in Queensland. He said that he was
astounded to find seven millions invested in the
local sugar industry, and promised to go up North
about April (far further North than Bartonhad gone
—of course !) and see things for himself. The
elections will be over by April, so Reid faces the
poll as the pure White Australian of the South
who is still open to conviction when he goes up
North, and thus bids for both White and
Nigger votes. Which recalls the time when
Reid aforesaid went North to see the N.S.
Wales sugar-lands, after he had promised
to give N.S. Wales pure Freetrade. He saw
them—and left a big lump of Protection on
sugar. When he goes Far North he will let the
Kanaka stay on—if he thinks that will help him
to keep office. “ Australia can’t have Protection
and she can’t have Freetrade ; but she must have
ME.”
Maoriland has absolute Freetrade in coal;
so far as that article is concerned it is as strictly
a Freetrade country as Britain itself. And under
Freetrade, we are assured, rings, trusts and
“ combines ” are impossible. All the same, the
ring of Maoriland Freetrade coal-merchants has
long kept up the price of coal in Wellington to
between 40s. and 50s. per ton. The coal costs
10s. put on board steamer at Westport, and it
costs 6s. more to land at Wellington, leaving 245.
to 345. per ton profit for the impossible Freetrade
ring. The Seddon Government now talks of going
into the coal business as a national undertaking as
the only visible remedy. As another proof that
combines and trusts are quite impossible under
Freetrade the great Coats Thread monopoly in
Britain, which practically owns the whole busi-
ness, and pays 50 per cent, dividends, is reorgan-
ising. It proposes to turn part of its £5,500,000
reserves into capital, and make the total capital
nearly £8,000,000, and it is expected that there
will be no difficulty in paying at least 20 per cent,
dividends on that. The difference between Coats
and Carnegie doesn’t seem so very large after al.
Knox, M.L.C.,
the man with the
flat - rimmed hat,
wants Kooyong
(Yic.) to send him
to the House of
Heps., and, like
most of the Vic.
Fatrnen, is quite
tearing things in his
efforts to be demo-
cratic, but finds it
impossible to shake
off the cherished
antipathies of the
Leg. Councillor. He
is an implacable
anti - womanhood
suffragist, but
“thinks those wo-
men with Property
whose names are on
the electoral-roll should
become electors.” The
Bulletin cannot help
admiring the nerve of
the man who, at this
date, expects to be re-
turned by a One-man-
one-vote suffrage to do
his best to drag in the
property-vote again at
the skirts of Fat Woman.
But perhaps the policy of Knox does not rise to
the dignity of ignorance—it may be sheer
stupidity. Knox is one of those people who g,re
never stupid except when they talk politics.
“Patroclus,” on the Vic. Senate elections:
We have lost one Federal Senate candidate in Victoria
anyhow : Caulfield, the boy-politician and drink-cure
man, announced that the rush of drunks (due apparently
to the dry summer) to his establishment, has “ made it
impossible for him to devote,” etc., and so he retires.
There remain Barrett, Barker, and Hampson, the Trades
Hall nominees, who, in my private and valueless opinion,
haven’t a dog’s chance ; Styles, the laborious man of
figures from Port Melbourne ; Sargeant, a Gippslander,
who calls on all farmers to support him because he intro-
duced the Golden Crown grass (warranted to keep green
and grow high--because stock will not eat it) ; Watt, the
bagman politician, the “youngest Cabinet-Minister in the
British Empire” until Prendergast unkindly threw him out
atN.Melb.; J. A. Wallace, M.L.C., the man of many mines ;
Barrister Purves, who expects the A.N.A. and his own
newspaper celebrity as a man who shrieks bitterly at wit-
nesses, to pull him through ; and Knox and Sargood,
from the House of Fossils, who are competing for the
military vote. Also, there are Best, Fraser, Zeal, Duffy,
G. H. Wise, and J. L. Dow, with half-a-dozen quite un-
knowns. 111-health has compelled Wrixon to drop out of
the contest. Robert Reid is on the war-path, delivering
huge lumps of Freetrade information to astonished agri-
culturists, so perhaps it is as well to mention him. His
chance and Buckley’s are about equal—Buckley’s a little
ahead.
Writes “ Stray Sheep ” :
Dear Bulletin, —I went, t’other morning, to the little
ould R.C. Church on the hill beyant, and found in the
porch thereof one of the chief stewards sitting behind a
table and handing printed cards to the “ byes ” as they
walked past. I reverently held out my hand, but was
shocked out of all good resolutions when I received—not
a pious little tract asking me to pray for rain and keep
off the drink—but an electioneering card (enclosed) re-
questing my vote for one John Gavan Duffy, candidate for
the Senate. This unholy mixing of incense and politics so
upset my temporary religious appetite that I went home
thinking all sorts of nasty things about priests and poli-
ticians. Has this sort of thing been seen in any other
part of the Commonwealth paddock ?
Henry George, with a, prophetic eye to
Braddon, Holder, B-eid, Bruce Smith, William
M ‘Millan and Co. :
All the objections which apply to indirect taxes in
general apply to import duties. Those protectionists are
right who declare that protection is the only justification
for a tariff, and the advocates for “ a tariff for revenue
only ” have no case. If we do not need a tariff for pro-
tection we need no tariff at all.
And as authorities Mr. George quotes the fol-
lowing :
H. C. Carey, in “ Past, Present, and Future,” p. 472
“Tariffs for revenue should have no existence. Inter-
ferences with trade are to be tolerated only as measures
of self-protection.”
Professor E. P. Smith, “ Political Economy,” pp. 265-8 :
“Taxes for the sake of revenue should be imposed
directly, because such is the only mode in which the con-
tribution of each individual can be adjusted in propor-
tion to his means.”
Professor R. E. Thompson, “ Political Economy,” p.
232 :—“ Duties for revenue .. . are highly unjust. They
inflict all the hardship of indirect and unequal taxation
without even the purpose of benefiting the consumer.”
These are the opinions of genuine Freetraders
upon the mere makeshifts and apologies who are
in the Dry Dog line of business.
A NEW COMPASS.
To those politically hushed: Follow the pointer ,
and you will land SOMEWHERE.


DON’T DELAY!
WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
W 111 CURE YOU.
Give It a Fair Trial.
GRAVEL.
A Terrible Case of Suffering 1 Cured by
tbe Use of VITADATIO.
Brisbane-st., Launceston, Tas.
W. Oostain begs to intimate to his many friends and
the public generally, that Vitadatio, that marvellous
remedy, has worked a miracle. I have suffered for many
years from Gravel and Liver complaints, which brought
about a complication of diseases. Some twelve months
ago I had a Paralytic Stroke, which almost proved fatal
I got about again, but it left me with Asthma and
Bronchitis, which up to two months back I could get
nothing to relieve me of. I was advised to try your Vita-
datio. I did so. Before I had been taking it a week I
began to improve, and have done so up to the present
time. I continued your medicine. Up to time I am
feeling better than I have done for years.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) W. OOSTAIN.
To Mr. WEBBER.
September 25, 1895.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
"""""""""""Federal^
DAVID FEAXiIT
Far tlie SERTATB.
Electors VOTE FOR—
The Gifted Young Australian.
A Friend of our Workers, Selectors, Farmers.
A Protector of our Nation, our State, our Indus-
tries, our People.
A Brilliant Lawyer and Political Economist.
VOTE AGAINST—
Cliques, Intrigue, Bribery, Incapacity, Absentees.
Missing Friends.
CHARLES GLENN, of Longford, Tasmania-Any-
one knowing whereabouts communicate LWINU &
DOWNING, Moir’s Buildings, Perth, W.A. Last heard
Mt. Lyell.
a
ml
iK
rapilla
Trade Mark. Tonic,
Registered in conformity
with Act of Parliament.
The Only Remedy for Weak,
Thin and Falling Hair,
Dandruff, &c.
Testimonials from Leading
Sydney Business Men, Ac-
tors, International Cricket-
ers and Footballers with
each Bottle. Beware of
Fraudulent Imitations.
Price 2/6 per bottle, post 3/2
From Leading Sydney
Chemists and from the pro-
prietor, W. RICHARDS,
168 Pitt-st., Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.
(8 DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
A Saving of 25 per cent.
WALKER and HALL’S
“Flag Brand”
ELECTRO-PLATE.
Write for 80-Paged
Illustrated Catalogue
—POST PREP.
Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
Price 38/6.
(Removable Handle
making 2 Dishes.)
“ Bushman ” Watch
A Perfect, Timekeeper.
Gun Metal Case, 16/6.
With 18c. Gold Filled Chain,-
complete, 24/-.
WILL RUN FOR 20 YEARS
FOR 16/6.
sf
V EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
FRIO’S ‘FRUIT SALT*
BE
Fop Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL.—“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
r WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. 0. ENO’S Patent.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative Typewriters ..
M
•fc
The Host .
- flensmore
.. Deal Century
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARCEST DEALERS IN AUBTRALIA)
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; llkdley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
A PENNY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL U
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save por You.
. _r
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the . . .
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
Natiooal CaSl) Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
■N?
v
,\
TO ENJOY
CYCLING^
IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT
dsf
BE FITTED TO TOUR CYCLE.
Absolutely the Best Tyres
FOE
WEAR,
COMFORT,
A D RELIABILITY.
ROADSTER
dsf
Guaranteed for 12 Months.
BEWARE OF
IMITATIONS.
None Genuine unless the Cover
and Tube are embossed with
this - - -
TRADE MARK.
First in 1888 . Foremost Ever Since.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LTD.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
A January interview with Paul Kruger, at
the Hague, reported him as being in weak health,
but not knocked out. “ The firm grip of his hand
and the unfaltering sound of his voice were those
of a man whose store of vital energy is by no
means exhausted. At present he eschews every
kind of business, and spends his day in reading
the Bible—which he seldom puts away out of
reach —and in obeying the orders of his phy-
sicians.” Puts his trust in Providence, and takes
his medicine regiar.
J. o. Watson, M.L.A., addressing Gren-
fell was interrogated by an elector : If elected
to the Federal Parliament will you at once resign
your State seat?” Mr. Watson replied : No
The law at the present time is that if a man is
elected he may retain Ins. seat m both Houses.
If there were no other reason for calling JN.b. W.
Parliament together the fact of that law being
as it is should be sufficiently mandatory. How can
a member sit in Melbourne and Sydney even fora
month or a week ? Mr. Watson was at one period
a staunch supporter of the cry “ one man, one
billet ” but no pluralist in industrial or commercial
pursuits ever grabbed two offices so mutually
irreconcilable as those of State member and
Commonwealth member.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Cv*
w.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
ug-.5,-w.
(DontdepieteD.|i|.Co.,Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
for
Muthal Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bru'cu Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling- Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Gapital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
tobert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban HilL
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsrjate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant : N. S. Bell.
I] ay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
|)eui Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
j , a. « aER 8 i p| tt st., Sydney.
Established 1879.
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Queensland Smelting gompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc For tariff, apply to-GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The Banket |]®rtliQueensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
•Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ••• ■'• - £7oo>ooo
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Re9 ho V lde« ability • 250 000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAJIBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., March 23,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 30,12 Noon
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
>-Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian,Saturday,March 2'
•Burwah, Tuesday, March
Peregrine, Sat., March 23,
5,12 Noon.
26, 5 p.m.
12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian,Saturday, March 23,12N00n.
Peregrine, Sat., March 23, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowiie, from
weekly. Passengers
booked through.
Townsville
and Carjro
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
AgsocV Conjpapy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ...
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
- Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London,.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies. |
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
' Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. ISI Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Medical
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS’
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States*
Europe,
Canada. a
ds
“ Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of a,7iy appliances. It is safe
and effective.” —Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulator Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia —
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
Business Announcements,
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rnilE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrik & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYAIOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. : —■
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about 22nd March.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS,
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
X SAN FRANCISCO.
Thesteamersof this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Cunard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
IST. ID. L.
*
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR & BATAVIA.
Steamer
Tons
Commander
Leave
Sydney
Destina-
tion
STETTIN | 2736 |J. Niedermeyer | May 15 [ Singapore
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN &CO., 7and 9 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
w
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
Drunkenness^
Positively CURED by Administering'
It can be given in EUCRASY.
drin kor food with- " —»
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
ir-
Those
+ suffering
s' from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
rrr ■
SINGLETON'S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. WILBER
KELLOGG, Melb. Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(UMITHI)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports^
S.S. Cintra, Friday
March 22.
S.S. Wollowra, from Mel-
bourne, March 26.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
March 22.
Jlest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
.Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and YY.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on apnleation.
<3. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents, 6 BIUDUK STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C
royal mail coastal i
TIIIS POPULAR PASSIONO Mil LINK.
T ,, - oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Brit
bane, Townsville,- Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and .MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pasaenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cnisin e unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to he ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PIIILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, ll) Bridge-
Agencies at all Australasian Ports
— D - Q COM p ANY#
The Royal Mail SI eamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
♦Calling at Hobart.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7llosto£l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pons
are available for Return hv Orient and Messageries Mon-
thlies’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
t.ralia. Exehnnge Corner, Pi l l and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNK, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DKTHUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, parker § go’s gins
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers hooked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M‘|iuiraith,ffl‘Eacharn&()o.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 45Q0 TONS,
GOOLGABDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MHLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
■
as
Mi
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWA^REE.
THE ALFALIME
GUIDE TO HEALTH
Thi? FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting Tnfortna-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf a l ine Herbal
Remedies can only be.
obtained from his
Head Office, or
hi s branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
~A If aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S EREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cute
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfeot,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effeetua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter ftASSMUSSEN,
HEAD
OFFICE
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 301) Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MEL BO URN E_: 15 O Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE ; 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
~n7z. , IF ELLINGION : 91 Lambton Quay.
I*ERTII : 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE ; Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULEEIi CITY ; Fiesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when vou
jMens y our linger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds-; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of tire power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and ,iad
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUBE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
nousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm*. Of ail Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b ,x. Prepared by
A 1 BERT, 73, Farrmgdon-sireet, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
fds
fringes,
Jfoturn! CMrly, from 3/8 ccAfe,
PL.A ITS and TAILS,
Ift!n. long, 6/(1. oil rest hate.
CUTTINGS & COMBUMBB
(•orbed up, 2/6 per oz.
vVe are tt e cheapeitlo to
IraDa for all Hair Work.
Send Color of II Mr.
W. H-"wigz«H #
110 WrbM&M Stk rot.
«*>r»e» of Pnlmer-Btreal,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will slop at Door
f
Send stamps tor tull Price UeV '
ttW&t sttention given to Oaw.try Oi 3ff'V
Pr.Boiwell’ B » M »a»SIIFMT PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
iM TIYE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can he sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
a COMMON SENSE EAli DIiUM.”
IfHEI
Seat
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing- and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.,
Mloxis. G-ourand’S
FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT BUT SURE REMEDY. Universally used
by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies —wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIM and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIB BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
taka'
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEONCHITIS,
DIAEEHtEA, &c., bears .on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
sdf
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A RE LI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.'—Before purchasing:,"we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
dsf
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Coids, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Boole of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -fl /
Nasal Ointment, only * Po3t Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CUBE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY*
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory or
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Oyer
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
mz,
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
Bsis Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE FILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH Sc BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
(HD
DEAF
dsf
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne,
“Art is a necessary restorative, after the
lassitude and disgust induced by the maggot-like
life of a modern community.”—Marshall Hall.
N.S’.W, Wesleyan Conference has intro-
duced a novelty in the billeting of its ministers.
If the plate-receipts of any church fall below a
certain sum per year, and the minister be a
married man, the conference removes him and
puts a single man in his place. When the plate
financially purges itself the bachelor is withdrawn
and benedict re-ascends the pulpit.
Dear Bulletin. —Be local anaesthesia by-
means of the injection of cocaine, it is mentioned
in recent journals that most satisfactory results
have followed such injection in the main nerve-
trunks supplying the part to be operated on.
In this connection, writer has been wondering
how this treatment would work in cases of acute
sciatica. For a long time the hypodermic
injection of chloroform over the course of the
sciatic nerve has been the favorite treatment, and
it would seem that cocaine so employed should
give marked, even if temporary, results.— Medi-
Cuss.
Re the somewhat melodramatic public
kissing of the “little Settrington girls” by Lord
Roberts upon his arrival at his hotel after his
return from S’Africa—it is printed in an Austra-
lian daily that Lord Settrington’s infant son is heir
to an estate as large as Middlesex and Rutland
combined, or an area nearly 45 miles long and 10
miles wide; that he will bear nine titles, including
three dukedoms of the United Kingdom and one
of France, and will be lord of four splendid seats.
Such a Revolution as the great French upheaval
is scarcely possible to the British temperament;
were it otherwise destruction would evep now be
perilously close to a social system that permits of
such monstrous individual aggrandisement side-
by-side with the cruellest white-slavery and the
ghastly poverty of the masses. That the boy re-
ferred to, by-the-way, is, through the Dukes of
Richmond, directly descended from the bastard
son of Chas. 11., is but an additional merit in the
eyes of a snob-Society that otherwise visits ille-
gitimacy with a totally illogical obloquy.


IT MUST APPEAL TO YOU,
When you buy, buy the Best.
Massey Harris Bicycle
Is ridden by the Queensland Cycle Corps, Victorian G.P.O. Pillar-clearers, Police of Brisbane
Pentridge, the cutest Tourists and Racing-Men in all the States. If the Massey wasn't a Gold Mclcle
would these men buy and ride it? meycie
Call and sek ira at once.
.SYDNEY DEPOT ; 385 GEORGE STREET.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet
t>y Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Depht, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect -
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
sd
YOU CANNOT KNOCK THEM OUT.
A Coolgardie Clergyman, after riding his
RED
D BICYCLE
From COOLGARDIE to MELBOURNE, gave the Machine to Rev. Mr. Webster, of Barcaldine 0 The latter
has RIDDEN OVER 2000 MILES on it WITHOUT A PENNY for REPAIRS. This shows Red Bird Quality
branches IN every state. GOOI.P BICYCLE CO., 64 King street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co,
Sydney, ’
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At Caulfield last Saturday an ugly crowd of
horsey mdmduals were found to be putting their oof on
wi A?a 5 L ha for the Steeplechase, as though the mare
ad someth! n g more than a fai r handicap chance of getting
, She won the race easily. Norman started favorite
at oto 2. After going a mile Norman was some distance
in tne rear. Later on the horse’s jockey fell off in asome-
Yjat manner, and finally “R. Coffyn, the
rider of Norman, was disqualified for 12 months for sus-
looked ' )rac^*ces '” The case against Coffyn certainly
• * * *
The Y.R.C. committee has decided to cele-
brate the first Racing Carnival of the Commonwealth by
*; he Melbourne Cup added money from £3OOO
to ±5OOO. The old boom-time policy of giving £lO,OOO to
tne famous handicap is not likely to be ever repeated,
o . el J' that ’ as time B oes on > minor stakes at the
V.R.C. Spring Meeting will be built up until the minimum
amount of added money is £4OO. Meantime, the Derby
conditions might as well be amended. Why not give
say, £l5OO to the race, and fix the date for entries in the
March preceding the event, when owners have got some-
i* u Pg' ,“ ke a correct measure of their two-year-olds?
Miike the sweepstake £25 as at present, and have a first
forfeit of £5 in September, and a second forfeit of £lO on
the Tuesday before the race.
* * * *
A.J.C. is tacking £5OO on w.f.a. money, thus
making the Derby worth £750, the A.J.C. Plate £5OO,
Randwick Plate £5OO, and Cumberland Stakes £5OO.
* * * *
Fancy doubles on Doncaster Handicap and
Sydney Cup are at a premium in Sydney. Mo. won’t lay
better than 100’s to 1 the rankest outsider with either
Clean Sweep or La Carabine for the Cup. Punters ap-
parently very anxious to bet, have taken as little as
hundreds to four about the Newmarket winner Wakeful
and either of Scobie’s cracks. Small wonder that the
bejewelled Ikey can live on the fat of the land.
• * * •
_ r . Gomingf A.J.C. St. Leger threatens to go to
Victoria again this year. It will probably be fought out
by nags (Clean Sweep and La Carabine) in same stable
Barbarossa, the only other one left in, doesn’t seem like
giving troub|e. During past eight years La Tosca, Sailor
Prince, Oobbitty, Wallace and Newhaven, have taken the
red riband to Vic. Since the inception of the race 35
years ago, the field has numbered double figures but once
and 22 times in 24 years less than 6 have started. • There
are four instances of the struggle being reduced to a
match between two.
* * * *
Mr. John Crozier won a race in Melbourne with
Cicero, the horse being presumedly “ making the run-
ning only, and nothing going after him till too late.
Price returned 10 to 1, whereon Adelaide Critic remarks
that Mr. Crozier must be glad he is racing in a land with
no totahsator. Query, what would the tote have paid on
Cicero m the company he met in that Place Handicap ?
Anything up to £25. When Crtfzier raced in Adelaide it
is true his horses generally stood at short prices in the
machine. But that was because he had all the best ani-
mals in the poor-quality S.A. field.
* * « •
Dreamland, winner of Australian Cup, has been
five times a starter in Melb. Cup, and will probably brintr
the record up to six this year.
* * • *
Vic. trainer Scobie owns the unique record of
having trained the winners of Moonee Valley, Melbourne
Williamstown, Sandhurst and Australian Cups in one
season, and present appearances are decidedly in favor of
his adding Sydney Cup to the list.
* * « *
Crack Q. nag Boscobel (hitherto a failure in Syd-
ney) opened up his present visit well at" Rosehill (Satur-
day) by winning the big race (March Handicap) easily
Secret of improvement may lie in the fact that when pre-
viously here he was a stallion, but has since been added to
the list. Boscobel has 7.-3 in coming Doncaster H’cp. and
7 m Sydney Cup.
* * * *
Big Cranbrook—Gleam aged gelding Cran-
bourne spread-eagled the field (11) in Rosehill Mile on
Saturday, and gave nothing a show after throwing sfur.
behind. Fact that he humped 8.12, and put up 145
winning by six lengths, with something more in hand’
makes him worth watching. ’
** b * *
(Prince Butler) of 2yr.-old race at Rose-
hill (Sydney) Saturday and like event at Randwick
Monday performed like an old ’an at the biz.
and gives promise of bringing a heap of grist to T
M'Carthy’s mill later. He first saw light at Mr w’
Pearse’s place near Jerry’s Plains (N.S.W.), and, so far is
the only one of Prince Chester’s get tried. Prince
Chester is a brother to Cranbrook.
* * * *
A remarkable combination: Jockey Under-
wood rode Nag Overwood in Jumper’s Flat Race at San-
down (Vic.) t’other day.
* * * *
Four visitors to the last Masterton (M.L.) show
engaged in a novel sweep. They threw a sov. each into a
hat, the heaviest of the four to take the “ kitty ”
Weights turned out : (1) 23st. ; (2) 21st. 61b. ; (3)
20st. 101 b. ; (4) 20st. 31b. Total 11951 b. ! V '
* * * *
Cabled death in England t’other day of whilom
well-known punter and horse-owner Mr. H. V. Crasweller
recalls that he was once a prominent member of London
Stock Exchange, and came to Australia a dozen or more
years since allegedly a victim to consumption and with
the usual six months (only) to live. Mr. Crasweller was
then jointly interested with a popular Sydney land-agent
in several nags. He once made a huge haul from Mo.
through M’Donald’s gathering-in of a big Sir Joseph
Banks (Botany) Handicap—’twas said that layers paid
out close on £15,000. If the writer’s memory errs not,
M’Donald was an in Vic. railway service. Mr!
Crasweller visited Melbourne to see the last “ Cup ” run.
Best nag he ever had out here was Parramatta, winner of
Standish Handicap. All There also belonged to him.
* * * *
Sydney artilleryman “ Thompson ” (which isn’t
his proper name) by badly and q uickly beating Conlon
showed himself to be a fighter of the Oribb sort—aggres-
sive, and capable of taking no end of bumps. If he keeps
at the game he’ll be heard from often and prove a big
draw when opposed to men shaped in the same mould as
himself. It was his elder and bigger brother who won
the heavy-weight competition of the Commonwealth
Assault-at-Arms last January, and a few weeks a«-o went
under to Armidale (N.S. W.)'slogger M‘Coll. °
* * * •
‘‘ Old Timer ” : Bruiser Jack Conlon as a fighter
mystifies one. There’s no gamer Rugby footballer in
Sydney, and few, if any, better. Nothing scares him.
Yet at fist-work he shows a yellow streak. Writer saw
Conlon beat Mansfield at Seale’s gym. a few years since
and came away then anything but favourably impressed
with his grit, as had he been “all there” the thing
would have ceased in half the time. Afterwards Jack
tackled spunky little Ned Burden, but, though Ned was
eager to get to it throughout, Conlon kept dancing away
and sending in safe shots with his lengthy left. Burden
was badly dazed in the fifth round, still Conlon seemed
fearful of moving to close quarters, otherwise the match
could have gone no further. It dragged through 20
rounds, and Conlon got the fight on points—a decision
that didn’t at all fit as writer saw matters. Against all
this no man could have shown greater pluck than
Conlon in his second go with miner Dan O’Connell
when, shaken from neck to heel, and stunned through a
swing that fell with the weight of a slab on the back of
his neck, he got up and staggered and floundered on
when it looked any odds against him. This scribe holds
the opinion that the stoush administered by Mick Dunn
cowed Oonlon. After that he did no good at all, as wit-
ness his palpable quit when opposed to Melb. heavy-
weight Cullen, and the latest (last Saturday night) when
he could easily have gone on had his make-up been of the
right stuff.
» * • *
Great old Peter Jackson was to have been
benefited in Brisbane Wednesday this week, which fact
is a nasty reflection upon sporting Sydney, where a benefit
was much talked of. But invitations to shell-out towards
preliminary exs. found nobody “ taking any.” Peter has
of late had a long innings in Brisbane Hospital, which he
left a few days since, temporarily patched-up ; one lung
is badly impaired.
* * * *
Pars, in the sporting prints indicate that ancient
Mick Dooley and the long black dude pug. Felix are feel-
ing their way towards—unspeakable infliction I—a match.
‘ Dooley has sworn that Felix will never get him in the
ring unless he has at least six weeks to get well in.” Six
weeks 1 Six years wouldn’t be enough, but it isn’t in
Dooley now to train even six hours. The Sydney public
anyhow has had almost enough of both these pugs, in
their affairs with Doherty.
* * » *
. “Cocker” Tweedie-Cullen mill, fixed for 16th
inst. at Perth (W.A.), has been put off till next Saturday.
Reported fact that Hegarty broke a couple of Cullen’s
ribs in their match last month is probably the cause.
Apropos, Hegarty treated Jack’s brother Ned in exactly
the same manner at Melbourne two years ago.
* * « *
Erstwhile Sydney Rocks marvel Griffo is indeed
a tough. Latest is that he has absolutely kept away
from liquor for three months, and now gives a sparring
show in one of the scenes of a big Yankee theatrical
venture.
• * • •
U.S. news is that whilom pug.-wonder negro
George Dixon (erstwhile bantVn, feather and lightweight
premier of the world) has struck the rocks badly—not
through drink, but from sheer improvidence. Recently
he signed to give a ball-punching show for 14dol. weekly
and was glad to get it. Americans have little use for men
who drop from the top rung.
* * * •
The Duke of Manchester (who, after marrying
U.S. millionaire Zimmerman’s gilded daughter, has, it is
cabled, been served with a writ for breach of promise on
returning to England with his bride) was a most capable
amateur pug. He had many a “dust-up” in the old
style and came out of most with a bit to spare. His
brother, a none too handsome specimen, was out in Aus-
tralia ten or a dozen years back, and was made much of
by the different boxing clubs. ’Twas he whom (if
memory serves) Australian bruiser “Paddy” Slavin
quietly lifted up by the coat-collar and dropped from an
upstairs landing over the balustrade of a London house,
for some disparaging remarks (concerning Paddy) made
to a mutual acquaintance.
* * *
From Figg down, pug. history doesn’t mention
a Chinese bruiser, but they’ve got one (Ah Wing) over in
’Frisco who looks like forging ahead, judging from what
late files say of a test he survived last month. The Chow
stripped and shaped well enough to indicate that he had
a chance with any of his weight, bar out-and-out cham-
pions, and was matched against a coon known as “ Alli-
gator ’ Dodson. The fight hadn’t come off when mail
left.
* • *
. Said that whilom English pug. Morrell, of Not-
tingham, is 100 years old. He gave up bruising when
offered a position in the police, and subsequently drifted
into the preaching line, where he is now. Alf. Mace
(Jem’s eldest son) was in Chicago lately doing the same
thing. He talks of visiting Australia.
* * * *
Result of Monday’s round of Sydney senior-
grade cricket competitions is that though another will be
played, Paddington has once more gained the premier-
ship. This as a consequence of North Sydney’s unex-
pected defeat by Central Cumberland, towards which
“ Billowell ” contributed great service, clean bowling his
last four men with consecutive balls. Hopkins (N. Syd.)
took 7 of Central Cumberland’s wickets in their second
innings for 26.
* • * *
Proposed m Melbourne to hand over the con-
trol of cricket in that state to the M.C.C., club-cricket to
be re-organised on the electorate system, the M.C.C.
standing out and bossing the game somewhat after the
style of Marylebone C.O. Something will have to be
done, as club matches are now played to empty benches,
and interstate matches wane in popularity, though junior
games, such as Capulets v. Richmond City, draw their
5000 spectators.
* * * •
Cable that ’Oine cricketer Briggs has been
removed to an asylum comes as a surprise in face of the
fact that he seemed to have quite recovered and played
fine cricket last season, bowling up to his old form and
batting as well as the best. Briggs had his first attack
about the time of the initial test-matches played at Leeds
by the ’99 Australian team.
* » * *
At Marong (Vic.) t’other day a lad with a glass-
eye was playing cricket when the ball struck the artificial
optic and smashed it to small pieces, which were driven
into his head. The original eye was destroyed in a simi-
lar manner. A boy with luck like that ought to give up
cricket.
* * * *
The money there is in Austral meetings is
shown by the fact that Melb. B.C.’s bank credit just now
verges on £7OOO, which, ’tis said, has been mainly built
up by profits on the big Vic. wheel event. No other like
body on the globe is so well fixed.
Yankee cyclists Ivor Lawson and J. M. Chap-
man propose returning home in May for the U.S. wheel
season. Lawson says he’ll come back, and bring his
brother Gus. (among-the best ’Murkan middle-distance
performers) with him. He thinks Australians great
handicap riders, but says they don’t give sprinting
enough attention. Lawson has made money here, but
Chapman, through his inability to strike form, is con-
siderably out on the trip.
* * ** •
M. cycling form must be much below that of
Australia. Sutherland has gathered in every scratch
race, but while here he didn’t even shape decently in any
one.
• * • *
N. Swimming Club supremacy (500yds.
Flying Squadron Team Championship), decided on Satur-
day, fell to East Sydney through Lane, Read, Baker, J.
Meade, and P. Healey. Balmain, Otter, and Mort’s Dock
were others engaged. Lane led off with the speedy time
of 1.2 4-5 for his 100, finishing 12yds. ahead of next man.
This virtually won the struggle. Previous holders (Bal-
main), who had triumphed often in past years, were
second. Time (5.42 4-5) accomplished is l-ssec. slower
than Balmain’s last season, and averages lsec. better
than the same club’s reps.’ achievements in 800yds. Com-
monwealth Flying Squadron supremacy at Cockatoo
Island three months ago. Balmain’s defeat is explained
by the absence of their fastest sprinter, M‘Gregor, whose
place was filled by a 1.15 man. Dick Cavill’s (Otter)
appeared a great effort, but as the timekeeper missed
clocking it no comparison can be made with Lane’s.
Miss Alice Cavill is aboard the Yankee mail-
boat Sonoma, en route to California, intent upon swim-
ming- round the Seal Rocks in ’Frisco harbour. “Charlie ”
Cavill (elder brother of Alice), who subsequently met
death through suffocation by foul gases in Stockton
baths (Cal.) was the first to successfully tackle the
task. Yankees thought it impossible owing to the great
strength of opposing currents. Charlie had a tough
struggle making headway against some of them. Prof.
Clampett (here years ago with that “ rastling phenom.”
Clarence Whistler, who died at the height of a heavy
drinking bout, of which biting tumblers and chewing
glass were prominent features) claimed to have got through
with the Seal Rocks swim encased in his Boyton rubber
life-saving rig, but it was never properly authenticated.
Clampett came to Sydney as super, of the Y.M.C.A.
gymnasium, and subsequently drifted over to M.L.,
where, posing as “a reformed athlete,” he developed
into an evangelist, and did great business for quite a
while. He is said to have left M.L. with JE2OOO savings.
• • * *
Australian champion pigeon-shot, Mr. A. W.
Eales (Maitland, N.S.W.), shaped at Monte Carlo last
month, and did well. Event contested was Prix de
Oeilet—miss-out conditions. Seventy-two faced the
traps. A strong westerly beat most badly. When fourth
round closed only 14 remained ; nine more went out in
the next, and others failed subsequently, leaving only
Italian Marconcini (24J meters) and Eales metres). .
Each killed his eighth bird, and they whacked first and
second prizes—37oofr. Mr. Eales was to have figured in
the triennial championship a week later.
* • * *
A remarkable instance of the wearing qualities
and strength of the Red Bird has recently been shown in
the fact that a Red Bird Roadster, which was ridden by
a reverend gentleman from Coolgardie to Melbourne, has
been ridden over 2000 miles by the Rev. Mr. Webster, of
Barcaldine, Queensland. In both cases neither owner
had the slightest trouble in regard to repairs.
At Poverty Point.
Dear Bulletin.— Re that corn on Trilby’s foot (B.
9/3/’01). Your critic must have a wart on his eye. If
Edith Crane really had a corn at her ’96 appearance, she
hasn’t a sign of it now. If he who discovered it a few
years back still sees it, then it’s a case of “corn on the
brain ” with him. By the way, commenting on the same
Edith s “ trilbies ” while playing at the Royal last vear
your critic said (8., 3/3/’00): “Trilby has no corn's-at
least, none that can be seen from the circle—on these
earnest and affectionate young supports, and on the
bright lexicon of her toe there is no excrescence ”
Py.
Marshall-Hall describes Sullivan’s music in the operas
as “ miserable burlesque forms of art.” It is M.-H.’s mis-
fortune to be woefully lacking in the humor-sense. The
man who preaches the gospel of joy is as serious as a
boiled cod. M.-H.’s opinion of Sullivan is provoked evi-
dently by an expression of appreciation of the Pinafore
series from the new Ormond prof.
“ Florodora ” is going to keep Melb. Majesty’s full till
close up to Nance O’Neil’s reappearance at Easter, and
Sydney will be first to sample “ The Casino Girl ’’after
al ,'\ Consider Williamson’s luck at the old Alexandra
which has proved a veritable mascotte after bein°- des
pised and neglected for years 1 J.O.W. runs the* most
popular theatre in Melbourne at a comparatively nominal
rental.
, “ p - ” : Maud Williamson’s adaptation of Corelli’s
. a T a , aa T ANARUS” * laa , a k least one of the charms of Stephen
Phillips Herod, ’ and, in a stronger degree, that of the
unseen presence of Christ. More than once the audience
is led to expect the actual appearance of a figure of the
aviour, which, indeed, was tried in the original produc-
tion, and found to be insufferable. But the one charm of
Barabbas is neutralised by the false characters of
Judas and Barabbas. They lack the effect of strong con-
trast to the Master. Of course Miss Corelli had to invent
a plot, and wfent to work in consonance with her abilities
All I can say is that, on the boards, this plot, or the one
alun to it, fails to prove dramatic. There is no edge on
it. Peter, too, is a repulsive interloper.
There was a certain amount of contingentingin Sydney
-ast I riday, the sloppiest day of the New Oenturv. A'damn
and unenthusiastic crowd gathered at Cowper’s Wharf to
see numbers of wet Khakists squelch down to the mist-
ensnrouded ships. The women crowded up to the fencing
of the enclosure holding their skirts up on one side to
display a good deal of discoloured dress-lining and mud-
bespattered frilliness, and letting the other side drag
No woman has ever adequately explained why she does
this. As the afternoon passed, the thick yellow pools on
the ground increased and multiplied. A policeman put
his foot in one and sent a tidal wave across the ankles of
numerous people, who then said things. The wave
dashed right up to the fencing, and finally engulfed
itself in the open-work socks of a family of small bovs
whose mother thought this style of dressing suit-
ab!e for the weather. Then the band played
Only a Leaf and “ Oh, Eliza,” and things
cheered up a little. When everyone was thoroughly
drenched a kind man opened the door of a shed, and all
the people who were leaning against the door fell inside
into an atmosphere of grain and meal and dried vege-
tables which smelt like broth in the making. Excitement
was created when the horses tried to bite the umbrellas
P e< ?P le near the fencing, and each horse had to be
hit with the gun of the man behind to keep it in the
straight and narrow path. Going out the writer passed a
iady at the enclosure who hadn’t a ticket, but (handker-
chief) she had a dear son going away (more handker-
chief). She got in. I< urther on there was a lady franti-
cally entreating a policeman to hunt up a cabby who had
gone away without being paid, and to urge him to
come back for his money. The officer went to hunt him
up ; but the bleak white air had swallowed him. Alto-
gether it was a dreary and profitless show which everyone
refused to take seriously. The growing feeling of this
community is evidently that Africa is"getting tc be a
long way off. B B
C. S. Fredericks, a one-time well-known minstrel per-
former, and for many years with the W. G. and M. Opera
00., has had, lately, a streak of very bad luck. Through
blood-poisoning his leg had to be amputated, about a
fortnight ago, in Wangaratta hospital. Having been
already in bed for eight weeks, with the certainty of
being there for many more, his prospects are none of'the
brightest. It is, therefore, the intention of some of his
friends m the profession to endeavor to give him some
little help Any communication to the Editor, Bulletin
Office, will be acknowledged. “ Charlie ” Fredericks was
the biggest tenor on the Australian stage.
Tom Fitzgerald took some more lessons in singing what
tune he was away from Australia, looking after circus
novelties, and his big baritone voice is mightily improved.
The result of the Bartonifces making a big
grab at the country seats and the Reidites con-
centrating their forces in Sydney and suburbs
much detracts from the interest of the Federal
election in N.S.W. Luckily for Barton the
country returns more members than those parts of
the State directly amenable to the influences of
the Sydney foreign-traders, yet the latter will
number enough to make the final result fairly
n The favonte is 15 to 11 seats in favor
of the Grovt., varied a little by the partisan feelings
of the tipster. This, of course, only refers to the
House of Representatives. No man is brave
enough to forecast the poll for the Senate, though
most people agree that it will be headed by
R. L. U Connor,
The position of the Coningham v. O’Haran
divorce-case at time of going to press emphasises
The Bulletin’s remark of last week that, sooner
or later, some person or persons connected with
the suit must find themselves in gaol either for
forgery or perjury.
Victorian Laborites have selected Frank
Gwynne Tudor, president of Melbourne Trades’
Mall, to run in Yarra Yarra, a Federal electorate,
composed of Collingwood and Richmond. Said
district is reckoned to be in the gift of the Labor-
party. Trenwith could have had the nomination
but preferred his State portfolio. Tudor origi-
nated and designed the union label for hatters,
adopted in England, so that purchaser may know
if his brain-cover is made under rational condi-
tions.
Extract from Wobbler George Reids
celebrated speech at Wellington (N.S.W.)on 19th
June, 1899, when the billet of Federal Protec-
tionist Premier seemed still within his reach, and
he was qualifying for it with great vigor
He did not know about becoming a Protectionist, but
had got broad enough in his mind now not to have only
one idea. It had taken him years to get broad enough
for that. Seven years ago he used to-walk into the old
man—Parkes—like a tiger, because he was still a fanatical
Freetrader ; but as a man grew older and got responsi-
bilities, he got more broad in his opinions, and saw things
a little more in their true proportion. He had now more
than one idea. Where he used to have room only for the
one idea of Freetrade, he never used to think of any-
thing else; now he thought of national union. (Laughter.)
The famous Dry Dog was an unborn animal in
those days.
The admission of the Freetraders that
Victoria will send a solid Protectionist phalanx
into the Federal Parliament is a sorrowful acknow-
ledgment that when a community has given Pro-
tection a fair trial it finds it too good to part
with. N.S.W. would be an equally good argu-
ment on the other side if N.S.W. had ever tried
real Freetrade, but it hasn’t. The Shoddy party,
however, hopes to get converts in Queensland,
Tasmania, and Westralia. These are States
which have a small Protectionist tariff on things
that can be made in the country, and a large re-
venue tariff on things that can’t, and they don’t
know which of their two tariffs it was that hit
them. But the one purely Protectionist State
keeps as solid as a rock.
An eleventh-hour bombshell was cast into
Vic. politics by the nomination of “ Tom ” Healy
(who received that historic postcard from Glad-
stone) against Federal Treasurer Turner for Bala-
clava. Healy stood for Melbourne at last State
election, with discouraging results, and the object
of his candidature this time can only be conjec-
tured. “Fat ” Melbourne snorts loudly, alleging
that Healy has been put up by the Laborites
simply to cause the Tory vote to be cast in Bala-
clava electorate, when it would otherwise be taken
to Melbourne, under the extraordinary electoral
law of Victoria, and given to S’Malkum
M ‘Eacharn. But the mass of the Fat Men care
little whether Turner is beaten or not; in fact,
they would prefer to see a Labor man beat him.
King Seddon (writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent from Maoriland) has recognised the thin
end of the Referendum in dealing with the ques-
tion of M.L. representation at opening of Federal
Parliament. In response to the request of Barton
to send over M.L. troops and a band of Maori
warriors for the Federal pageant, Seddon at once
issued a, circular-memo, to all M’sP. inviting an
expression of opinion about sending 500 European
and 500 Maoris, but the replies were not encourag-
ing. Fact is, the M.L. public are about full of
the “show” and “patriotic” business. 'As the
“ dem’d total ” gets larger, there is the sneaking
hope that the bill will be long in coming in, but
at the same time any attempt to increase it is
immediately sat upon, and members are now as-
suming the “candid friend” attitude towards their
constituents, in the hope of being able to say when
the explosion comes—as it must, ere long—“ I told
you so ! ” One Maori legislator (Taiaroa) sensibly
says, witti regard to the latest proposal, “If we
have anything good to show our royal visitors,
let’s keep it till they are in Maoriland—not send
it to Australia, and thereby make our own greet-
ings stale.” The magnitude of Seddon’s pro-
posal, in fact, shows his own desire to kill it; and,
as he is already arranging for two sessions of Par-
preliminary to the York arrival, and
one immediately after —it’s evident he hasn’t
abandoned his original intention of having a
“ Royal ” opening and an extra-special crawl!


EVERLASTINGLY PERFECT
s
m
ngy
■gr>
m
v \\{^S
xv 4
VO
w.
v\
ly
and of . . •
MATCHLESS
PURITY . .
DERBY
TOBACCO
WINS RESPECT.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY 00.™^^
06r Belts are tl)c Talk of tbe ToWp !
We have just received a New Shipment of our FAMOUS SILVER-PLATED BELTS, as per illustration.
Silver-Plated Nickel Sil-
ver Belts, price 12/6,
15/- Will wear like
Silver.
***
Silver - Plated Oxidised
Belts, price 12/6 & 15/-
These are worn in Lon-
don as half-mourning.
fds
Silver-Plated Diamond-
Out Belts in all newest
designs.
***
Write for our Illus-
trated Souvenir Cata-
logue. It is brimful of
interest. Sent gratis.
Notice.— Open all day Wednesdays till 6 p.m.
On Saturdays from 6 p.m. to 9.30 p.m.
We forward all Goods to the Country
Post Free.
‘HARLENE’
m HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair#
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
■f/-, 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London; Eng.
n\m
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow upl" ,1
" CertainlJ, my dear, If you use Edwards’ * Harlene.' ” >■'
H Fashionable HJedding Electro-Silver on Nickel, 21/-
is always the occasion for a large display of the“Fx &R”
Novelties in . . .
TABLE PLftTE and SOLID SILVER.
CAN YOU WONDER?
They are sold at London Catalogue Prices.
They are the newest and best that come to the Australian shores.
Each Mail Steamer brings London’s Latest Novelties.
Every article sold is guaranteed to wear for SO years.
Fairfax and Roberts,
Plain Figure
London Cash Prices.
Vice-Regal Jetvellers,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
1
SORE EYES.
The remedy—Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
failsto give instant relief. Refuse all others, and
get the genuine. Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
George Reid at Redfern :
No amount of Protectionist theory could get over the
hard fact that the trade of little Freetrade England was
greater by £50,000,000 annually than that of the Protec-
tionist United States and Germany combined, and she
did half the carrying trade of the world. (Cheers.)
There is no falsehood that the bounding Free-
trader pegs away at harder than this good old
trade fake. Yet here are the real figures, from
Mulhall’s “Industries and Wealth of Nations
(1896): —
United States trade .. .. £3,311,000,000
British trade
German trade .. .. •• 1,501,000,000
The Freetrader’s trade fake is worked by taking
external trade only, and saying nothing of the
vastly more important internal trade —by includ-
ing the goods which go from England to France
(about 18 miles) and not including those that go
from New York to San Francisco (over 2000 miles).
If you omit enough material points you
can prove anything. If anybody resolved to
include as trade nothing except commerce m
locally-grown oranges he could prove quite as
truly that Parramatta has more trade than all
England, Scotland and Ireland.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin;
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A Toronto firm advertised that for five
shillings they would send, “securely sealed, a
beautifully-bound book full of good things which
every ‘sport’ should read.” The detective de-
partment, scenting improper literature, sent five
shillings, for which it received —a shilling Bible.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ia
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General ’Post
Office.
. - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Proprietor
t
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fd
The Sydney importing crowd which finally
hit upon W. C. Goddard as the man to oppose
Lyne for the Murray made a bad blunder in giving
him the Foreign-trade nomination. All the elec-
torate newspapers hostile to the State Premier’s
candidature made a deal of noise about that long
politician’s attitude in the Federal campaigns,
and as the Murray is essentially Federal their
diatribes in this direction seemed likely to bear
fruit. But suddenly the discovery was made that
his opponent had been a pronounced anti-billite
also, and the opposition to W. J. Lvne on this
Eoint, the strongest his adversaries had against
im, vanished into thin air.
N.S.W. Minister O’Sullivan proposes
getting over the difficulty caused by the wild rush
of the unemployed for work on the Tumut rail-
way by giving each man only two weeks’ employ-
ment at a time. Then he must stand out and
give another man a show. In addition the Min-
ister insists that applicants shall produce electors’
rights for N.S.W. —the idea being that the poor
of N.S.W. have first claim on N.S.W. funds.
Also, incidentally, it makes certain that the
railway employes will all be qualified to vote for
Lyne and O’Sullivan, and that work isn’t being
wasted on anybody who has no vote to give to
Lyne or O’Sullivan.
A. J. Thynne, at a Natives’ dinner in Com-
memoration of Foundation Day :—
It would not be out of place to refer to the fact that in
the past Queensland has always shown herself ready to
stand up for the dignity of a white Australia. Why,
then, should the arms of other States be directed against
Queensland in the matter of black labor ? The Federal
Govt, might leave the task of dealing with Kanaka labor
in the hands of the State which had the most concern in
it.
Just so. The U.S. Congress should also have left
the matter of the abolition of slavery to the
Southern States, and the British Govt, should
have allowed the planters of Jamaica to emanci-
pate their niggers at their own sweet will—says
A. J. Thynne in effect.
David Syme’s Radicalism is sometimes
very hard to understand ! Vic. Political Labor
League nominated its strongest disengaged man—
Trades Hall President Tudor—for the Yarra
seat, comprising Richmond and Collingwood, and
next day Syme’s organ cursed the Laborites largely
for daring to oppose three pseudo-Liberals—two
of whom are Board of Shirks Commissioners.
Yet the representation of the purely manual
workers should be some dozen or so in a delega-
tion of 23. Hasn’t Labor a right to any repre-
sentation at all? Or was it because Syme was not
first consulted ?
Wanted, a Compulsory-Arbitration
Court.
At midnight on Saturday, 16th March, the Syd-
ney Collier-owners began a lock-out of the local
Coal Lumpers’ Union, to compel that body’s
acceptance of six propositions which the owners
consider necessary for the'r commercial existence.
In December, ’9B, the Collier-owners and Lum-
pers’ Union made an agreement which fixed the
working rules and wages, &c., for four years from
that date. The pay for work from Monday
morning at 6 a.m. till 7 p.m. on Saturday night
was fixed at Is. 6d. per hour. From 7 p.m. Satur-
day till midnight, 3s. per hour. Midnight Satur-
day till midnight Sunday, ss. per hour; and mid-
night Sunday till 6 a.m. Monday, 3s. per hour.
The six propositions which the owners are try-
ing to compel the Union to accept are: —
1. Union entrance fee to be ft Is. instead of f 5 ss.
2. Union to be open to unrestricted admission of mem-
bers.
3. Drunkenness on duty to be punished by £1 fine per
man per drunk.
4. No grog to be taken on board. Penalty : Fine of £1
when found out.
5. All fines to go to Lumpers’ Widows and Orphans
Fund.
6. No pay to commence till all gangs are complete.
Upon demand the Union authorities removed
all restrictions to membership and reduced the
entrance-fee to two guineas; they explain that
they cannot further lower it, as the Union pays a
funeral allowance equal to the entrance-fee and
nine years’ contributions. Under its constitution
the Union has no power to fine a man for drunk-
enness, and is unable to search any man’s bag for
grog; it urges that the owners can dismiss for
these offences, which is sufficient punishment.
The secretary also pointed out that two of the
more prominent stevedores used to be interested
in public-houses, and in those bad days the men
were often paid therein ; and though the union
had to go round and collect its helpless members\in
order to conserve a little cash for the benefit of the
families there were then never any complaints of
drunkenness. Men who got drunk in those pubs
were always sober in time for work. The Union
offered to deal with lumpers who failed to keep
appointments if the Owners would deal with
Stevedores who kept men hanging about from 15
to 30 hours and then only employed a portion
of them. ... i j
Negotiation ended and recrimination began ana
things drifted along and the lock-out commenced
at midnight, Saturday last. ,
The truth of the matter is that both sides have
real grievances. The owners have lost money
through delays and blame the Union. They
glance through the wage-books and find men
earning £6 per week. Items of £5 175., £5 155.,
£4 175., and so forth, are exceedingly numerous,
and thev reckon too much money has demoralised
the men and made them careless. They complain
that the lumpers are a drunken lot, that a man
throws down his shovel and declares he s baked
and is going home, and that the Union rules for-
bid the other three men to work on. There must
be four shovellers in a gang, and although the
Union will punish the three men for working on
it will not punish the man who has dislocated
matters by ceasing work. They complain that
every time there has been a rush of boats for coal
they have lost money. They believe that the sole
object of the Union is to displace the stevedores
and get those individuals’ portion of the cash added
to the wages. They declare that the Union is
quite incapable of doing the Stevedores work
and quote the case of ithe Duckenfield, which is
worked without a stevedore by a syndicate of
Union men. She arrived in port Friday afternoon
week, and when the lock-out began had only got
rid of 900 tons of coal in eight working days. They
charge the Union with having tried to_ make it a
close corporation and so create an artificial scarcity
of labor. , . ,
The Unionists say the whole trouble is due to
want of organisation and the way the Stevedores
try to cut one another’s throats. They say the
syndicate that works the Duckenfield has worked
her for nearly three years, and until this trouble
started the Collier people were quite satisfied.
The syndicate has always protested that the
Duckenfield’s gear is bad, and suggested altera-
tions, and now the ship has gone to Hex-
ham to have those alterations made. They
scoff at the high wages, and point out that a
man who makes £6 per week must have
worked 80 hours, unless he worked from
Saturday till Monday, at the 3s. and ss. per hour
rates. And they say any man who bullocks at
coal-lumping for 80 hours per week deserves more
than £6. They also denounce the practice of the
stevedores in paying some men 2s. per hour to
make the pace. The average earnings of the whole
Union are declared to be not more than £2 per
week. Drunkenness is excused, on the ground
that the work is calculated to drive any man to
drink —it creates a thirst that is different from
any other thirst in heaven or earth or sheol.
They illustrate the want of organisation. A.
B. and C., stevedores, have all got word that a
steamer is coming in and will need coal sometime
on Monday. They are not sure how many men
they will require, so they make sure by rush-
ing round to secure six gangs each. A.
comes along and tells his men to be ready by 2
o’clock on Monday morning. B. comes along and
secures another six gangs to be ready by 10 on
Monday morning. Then C., who has heard of his
wants last, comes around and is only able to
engage four gangs. C.’s boat comes in, and he
finds that he will require six gangs to get through
the work expeditiously, and he rushes round again
but is everywhere met by the statement that all
the available men are engaged by A. and B.
“ But you’re not working ! ” “ No, but we don’t
know when we’ll be called.” If they go off with
C. they are black-listed for breaking engagement ;
and so C. sets up a howl about there being a
scarcity of labour. The secretary has known a
couple of hundred men to be so tied up. In many
oases A. and B, do not get on to their boats till
some time on Tuesday, and all that time
the men have been standing round in their
dirty clothes seeing work go past them, and with
nothing to do but smoke and drink and wait.
The greater the rush the more men each stevedore
tries to keep around him to cope with sudden
rushes, which accentuates the trouble and creates
an artificial scarcity. They are not paid for
standing by. They say the remedy is to let the
Union deal direct with the owners. The Union
is quite willing to take on the contract. It will
keep a man in attendance at the telephone day
and night, and will have the men all listed, and as
each ship wants men, will undertake to send
them on. Jt would have its list, and as each man
was engaged, his name would be put to the bottom
of the list, so that after working he would not be
called on again till the whole list was exhausted.
In this way the men would all get work, the
owners would have fresh men, the supply would
be constant, and there would be no vexatious
delays owing to any men being tied up by an
engagement which was being constantly post-
poned. Under those conditions the Union will
deal with drunkenness and the taking of spirits on
board by simply sacking the men or giving offenders
no work for a certain time. At present the Union
has no control over the employment of men and
yet is held responsible for errors and bad conduct.
The Stevedores have all got their favorite men.
They won’t employ Jones unless Brown is
unavailable and they go and snap Brown up and
keep him snapped up for 48 hours or so, while he
might have earned 30s. and have been ready to
have done their work all the same.
And the remedy for all these things is the com-
pulsory Arbitration Court which will consider the
interests of the public first and the interests of the
combatants next and do justice between them, and
whose fiat is Law. Till such a Court comes along
N.S.W. will continue to be upset with conflicts
which are totally unnecessary and are only due to
want of consideration and organisation.


The Bacillus And The Lion.
T J Ino More afraid of a boiled bacillus than
lamof a well-cooked lion,» says Dr. Alexander
oeiloVrfcS4° 6 Wnmß °° U ‘™ Vioe-Ohan-
Now authorities affirm that out of 900,000
babies born annually in England and Wales,
probably not more than one in twenty lives out
bis natural life; and the writer thinks that
estimate is too high.
All the rest die—-bar the few accidently killed
trom preventable diseases, such as measles,
scarlet fever, small-pox, influenza, consumption,
, ■>. a long and dreary list; all the maladies on it
having a family likeness, and all arising from, and
propagated by, germs. It is likely that one-third
ot the cows have tuberculosis, and, of course
people drink the disease in the milk.
It really does look as though it would be a good
idea to boil the bacillus—as early in his career
as possible. If necessary, we might cook the
lions later on ; they are comparatively harmless
anyway.
... su . m the matter up,” says another man-
with-eyes-in-his-head, “ I have noticed that among
the preventable diseases the greater number are
due to mistakes in eating and drinking.”
Which brings us to the little story that John
A. Orthwem tells. “ About three and a half
years ago, he goes on to relate, “I was in the
bouth Brisbane Fire Brigade service. At that
time 1 contracted dyspepsia— a sharp and positive
lorm of it, with the pains and penalties I had
orten read of but never realised before.
It lasted four months, and might have stuck
to me as many years but for one thing. My
appetite disappeared altogether, I got constant
colds, and my attempts to eat were miserable
spectacles to my friends to witness, and worse
still as experiences for me. I used to belch up a
sour, acrid fluid, and life was hardly worth the
price of it.
My comrades in the brigade knew the bad
form 1 was in, and, one after another, they told
me to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. They were
nearly idl m the habit of using it for anything
that ailed them, and were sure it would set me
to rights.
“ Anythmg to get out of this, I said, and got
the Syrup without delay. The first bottle did
splendid work, and when I had finished the third
my digestive arrangements were sound as a gold
sovereign, and have been ever since. I can eat
whatever comes my way, and catch no more colds.
And this I owe to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. No
wonder it is popular all over Australia.
“ I am no longer in the brigade, but live at
Hubert-street, Woolloongabba, South Brisbane,
Queensland, where I shall be pleased to see any-
body who wishes further details of my case.”—
John K. Orthwein, Oct. 7th, 1899.
-The accuracy of the above statement is vouched
for in writing by Mr. R. Cumming, Assistant
oupenntendent South Brisbane Fire Brigade.
We may kill the bacillus by boiling it, and we
may cook a lion if we can catch him; but the
only certain way to get rid of indigestion, and
ne black flock of ailments which arise from it, is
by the use of Mother Seigel’s Syrup.*
Zangwills “Mantle of Elijah'’ is slated
heavily by the Times, while the mediocre “Inner
T hn j n a ,- b / Mr ?‘ Alfred Sidgwick— a relation of
Lord Salisbury, be it noted—gets fulsome praise.
Kut then this latier novel appeared in the Times
A so, Zangwill, under a thin disguise, has Joe
Chamberlain as the villain, and condemns bv
rnp'ication, the Boer war.
Westminster Gazette has a yarn about
the Celestial who walked up and down in front of
a tea warehouse in an American town. He looked
sad with his long pigtail hanging down behind
Ins blue blouse, when a passing visitor stood and
gazed at him. The visitor was a kind-hearted
man from the country, and .he began picturing to
himself poor John’s sad position in a foreign land
walking up and down the kerb all day, probably
for a dollar a week wages and hjs food, and gazing
wistfully into space, thinking of his old home
among the rice fields of the Flowery Land. At
last he went up to John. “ Poor fellow,” he said
commiseratmgly, “how do they treat you here ?
How do you like your billet?” “Oh, bedad,”
replied John, “the billet ’ud be all right if it
wasn t for these dam forrin clothes that I have to
find myself, an’ that’s expinsive just now.”
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION WANTED regarding the whereabouts
of Norman M’Kay, who left Glasgow twelve
years ago for New South Wales ; last heard of in Sydney
eight years ago (was sheep farming). Sister inquires.
Tarlair, Spring-street Valley, Brisbane.
Give as this day our daily alum, chalk
and plaster, short weight.”—Tosoin.
-A Tim es (Eng.) leader, dated Feb. 22,
1«47, neatly characterises the Irish as people
having Asiatic tempers, Saxon institutions, and
an ultra-R.C. faith.
~ ‘‘ The Universe would suffer as little by
I +1 6 'Ustruction of the Earth as a forest would by
the fall of a single leaf.”—Chalmebs.
The Beer Scare in England has had one
good result, apart from the temporary decrease of
drunkenness. Said that the farmers in Essex,
owing to the agitation for pure beer,” have
decided to grow barley where they have produced
Bet 3U k rass s i nce the agricultural depression
Advt. clipped from a Launceston (Tas.)
paper:— ' '
Tf'Olt SALE.—Queen’s Chocolate Box ; highest offer
accepted. Maitland, Ex.
Poor returned soldier ! Shek -Is are worth more
than the gracious gifts of the m ghty.
Seeing that the Australia i Contingents are
represented more-or-less as a
force for the suppression of a wicked Boer tyranny
over the black races of S J Africa, it is interesting
to hear what i Jon am AXacdonald had to say about
white Australian treatment of the local colored
Bloom”{page 41) 1S <<Gum Bou S hs and Wattle
When we came here, the aborigines covered these wide
plains in thousands. Where are they to-day ? We have
civihsed them-they are dead. . . . Old colonists say that
some reformers of the old days were rather less cere-
monious in shooting an aborigine than a wild dog. In-
h.?,TY h f® }y} ter 1 ncident 'T as the more rare-the dingoes
iwvw confidence in our good intentions.
Buckley the wild white man, was never so badly disposed
towards those of his own color as when he heard of fresh
outrages on the blacks, and news of that kind was seldom
scarce.
Said that the Queen of Greece owns a book
containing answers by all the Royalties of Europe
to more or less foolish questions. In view of
Yorks imminent visit, his answer to one of the
questions is specially interesting: “ There is no
more unpleasant man in the world than the one
who will lend you a ‘ fiver ’ and then expect to be
pam back. May s” answer is equally inspiring :
Ihe most unpleasant persons in the world are
those who .point their fingers at you and say.
There she is ! On the other hand, the answer
given by the present Queen seems well in keeping
with the kindly opinion generally entertained of
her: I here are so many good and pleasant people
m the world to speak and write about that it is
unnecessary to speak or write about the unpleasant
ones.
THE BALLET GIRL
sf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
♦
o
tp
OLD
HNs
IK
SUNBXJ,
FINg
c/»
::
<?
HA
N
&.C
2^Vr
s
H
Y
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
sdf
ROYAL patronage:
m
msw:
vA-;.
M
m
n
■m
mi
m
'JNM
mi
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE,
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ * KOKO' for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
Phtncess HOHENLOHE.
Beeommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
togrow ; k r? B ? soft »»"“* >«
cleanly of all hair preparations, and is hannießif n *’ reventß hair frora falhng. «■ the most
PEOPEE LIKE IT
■ mM Sc"pTEopT.E
OLD
111
111 because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strone
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
111 eve a rS^y b^r a U h:V,^WSirain beaUU,Ul g ’° BSy lustre ' and cables them to dress it in what-
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
||| r e e p d s the hair and saalP cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
they all like if.
le^d^lnhn^n^^eof^h 1 perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will rse no other.
ds
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld.,l4,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
p CATJTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
fds
f
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price 6d. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH-
REAr^ German Hollow Ground
dsf
dsf
ds
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEt
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON, V.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THES FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence Sufferers from anv f-,™, of n i t* m i, „
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
BRANOH DKPOT—
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food fo| >
Infants
1
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritions, _
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
, ‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


f
*A
IS
*y\
frjsores a
‘Hafofay
oidy\ge.
om i un PROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a *t 0 ° f ( ]|seover'some Really' natural methods
lSs3Tu.S£'S!ta3tf</SS^'l«<>>l,m» si.U>ls 5 i.U>ls remedy, bei„ e .otbrng mere no, lee.
,b.„.n .ration.,m„ fr(J|T hebbs and SEAWEED .
established. W|RELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus is equally simple,
tokenkom the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
rt ~ „ „.: th vn „ r Nerves Liver or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right, tor
Anemia, flushing! Weakness ’and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “ Sanoalmus ”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you-under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Kar-ache. Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throat Neuralgia, Giddiness, Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanitv. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skin; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus "in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To he obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
sdf
THE
‘PLUM’
n ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground,.rings
(x i ike a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edire that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
thffr merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ;
\ Single Razot, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Ras
Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
,rs, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole A&rents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
'm
S
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL NAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEIM^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
The loyal Agricultural Society of mill.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
first G-RA-KTD
Commonwealth Show
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
£3soom@^£3soo
. im| I »Q*- 1 I' 1 " 1
EXCURSION RATES on RAILWAYS
■from all Parts.
Tattersall’s Chambeks,
Hunter Street, Sydney,
1\ WEBSTER,
Secretary.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.” “By Steele Rudo.”
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-Mcdical ai?d
SOrgical —
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, "'hue tnousan s
Of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove. Of their predecessors. The freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics wnui
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they sun
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
«*>: > ? v»
HP
t ill
; -Twre,*. . .• ~ ■ *L
1 , .•''*<
£«&
: Iter
mi
11*1 k-rl ' Jl;
-S;
ml?-
.m
mm
W 1
Wbm
\x,ni
&fes£!
<-«*a *
m
i;| rg
*r.
%
tv
(Ilf-S ' ' , ../'V, j&r
» I - *r f> A
<«' \
*4s
Sii;*..* 4
m
m
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
:
Heart Kidney. Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections,
nerve’ and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
m
HEALTH THEFa
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years ofl his, lifelanel expendedl large sums of V" to Jn“™S
purchasing the necessary appliances etc for treating offer for informing the world through
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge WP nave “O to^suf ferers who need our help. Therefore,
this advertisement and otherwise of th® . , to , hose of vour medical advisers, our method of treatment may
however opposed to your own.ftf of testimonials received from
be, the fact still remains that , 0 f practice We onlv claim to have utilised in a common-sense
grateful patients. Wemahenosecretofo jen( P a lf you ] isten ( 0 the counsel of your sceptical friends and
Sou h s e p r hy U sici°an SC you^may orifrinsulting™, but remember if youaHow thedisease to run not in yoursystem, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your futuie pitiful condition. „ ,
l Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Nine New South Wales Victoria, South Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Cate Consulting StafF, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late Medical StafF, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT,
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electric!*.ißiSTSSl Say SES&S
passes that
Impossible it'we wifi bcfable to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of wnting,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are ,o many quack, and MS, J"““ j," “S'SanSfyiSZShtndiSS
selves the monstrosity the { r Audacity sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult,
have nothing to recommend them but their auuaomj, sunei consulting THE FREEMAN AND
wAW U AOE b ELEOTRO°MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
the by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
receive the advice of tho^ n success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all Partsofthe World
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Batb<irstSts,Sydosy
225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W., _ _ _
NB.-QUEENSLAN^^e^t^i^med^a^-ad^i^as


Amusements.
THEATRE, BYDNEY.
William Anderson.
LV^TuIvT
Sole Lessee and Manager
SEVENTH WEEK AND LAST TWO NIGHTS.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.50,
the ladder of life.
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 23rd, the Military
m? a TWO LITTLE DRUMMER BOYS.
DRAMATIC PRICES— 3s, 2b and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
IjTMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
LENNON HYMAN and LENNON, Australian Trio.
WHIMSICAL, WITTY WILLY WATKINS
Com ediaD of the First Water.
EMPIRE QUARTETTE, &c., &c.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
BEN. FULLER, Business Manager.
piCKARDS> TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Propnetor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Sydney of those Famous Artists,
„ i- TP* LEONARDS and SISTERS PINE.
Continued Brilliant Success of MADAM CELINA BOBE
Mr. GEO. D’ALBERT,
FRANK LEON, LIZZIE KIRK.
Jalvan, BiUy M’Clain, Chas. W. Walker, Millie Her-
bert, Madame Cordelia, Della Ross, Florrie and Stella
Ganger, Clarence Sisters, &c.
Lox Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RE-ORGANISATION OF VAUDEVILLE.
TED BOX. THE DE WYNNE BROS.
JOHNSON RIANO and BENTLEY.
ALBERT WHELAN. HARRY SHINE. W. WHITBURN
POPE & SAYLES, JENNIE OPIE, &c., &c.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
bole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE THRILLING MELODRAMATIC ATTRACTION,
IN SICHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
piSir «• *■* *>*
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FAREWELL SEASON, FAREWELL SEASON,
of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA CO.
Thursday, March 21, IL TROVATORE.
Friday, March 22, LOHENGRIN.
PRICES OF ADMISSION-Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. • R e .
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s. ’
H E ?i MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
n H nder the Dlrect]on of Mr. J. O. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart
FOURTH MONTH FOURTH MONTH
of
florodora.
LAST ELEVEN NIGHTS, yThis Magnificent run must
Terminate on Tuesday, April 2
Ci?,lp S! L C p-I e Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s , Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
hall, Melbourne
u Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson E ‘
Bus. Manager, Mr. H. Ashton. Treas., Mr. G. Matheson.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Return for Limited Season of the
MARVELOUS 810-TABLEAU
of the SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, varied by Changes of
PRT P ATT me o aS F ilms arrive from Londonf 68
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Pox Plan at Allan’s.
SNAZELLE. with west and
» SON’S
“OUR NAVY”
-Australian Tour.
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, Three Weeks from March 15.
CAPTAIN* ig ta vr® er for Mr ’ SNAZELLE.
UAVIAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
Ada Lawrence,
The Greatest Tragedienne, Comedienne and Emotional
Actress Australia has yet produced.
Supported by
MR. WILSON FORBES’ DRAMATIC CO.
“Leah,” “Camille,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“East Lynne.”
Monday, lp?f S" Broken Hill, Itator
Publications.
GORDON & GOTCH.
fUHE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK tnr mm
SHIPPERS’, IMPORTERS and PROFFWIoxtat
DIRECTORY and BUSINESS GUIDE PROFESSION AI
Co?nmo a nwea?th P of te A° P t y Constituting the
ana New Guinea. Railway, mineral and other mans
corrected to date, plans, &c., together with a Tiaf Fi
British Manufacturers and Exporters, and full particular'
Invaluable to every merchant and shipper.
WaT®,? 0 ?’ Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
( V.A.), Wellington (N.Z.), London, and all Booksellers.
Federal Elections.
READERS are respectfully invited to
VOTE for the THREE Candidates for the Senate :
Mr. A. DAWSON, M.L.A.
Mr. W, G. HIGGS, M.L.A.
Mr. J. C. STEWART, M.L.A.
THREE GOOD MEN AND TRUE.
Amusements.
H E f, I '? AJESTY ’ B THEATRE, SYDNEY.
" ?° le Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson,
bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
A MOST SUCCESSFUL REVIVAL
OF
THE GREAT MILITARY SPECTACLE,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
T H E A ROY A L, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 745
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Gorgeous Operatic Fairy PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SPECTACLE EVER SEEN
ON ANY STAGE.
In «JC?r r ! t r ed^ by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRJCES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
?™ 9 ' 58, ! Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
OFFICE at the Theatre (Dress Circle Entrance),
10 to 5. Seats Booked Six Days in Advance.
QRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. _ Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING.
pALACE
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
•• •• Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
In the Enormously Successful Farcical Comedy ir
3 Acts, entitled,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY.
At 8 o’clock a play in one Act, entitled,
“ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
LAST MATINEE, THURSDAY, MARCH 28, at 2.30.
Box Plan at Paling’s, 338 .George-street
•SS&tfn z i;£ 10, ' ; E '”™ d s “* “ d
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
-|-HE TWENTIETH CENTURY SENSATION.
A NEW ERA IN TENTED AMUSEMENT.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
Royal Circus and Men ay eric of Per-
forming Wild Animals.
ONE
1 MANV
m
THE BOXING PONIES.
After a most Triumphant Tour of the World returning
to Australia with a complete Stud of Beautiful and Mar 5
vellously-trained HORSES and PONIES, EQUESTRIANS
ACROBATS, AERIALISTS JUGGLERS and EDUCATED
ANIMALS.
Opening Sydney, SATURDAY, March 30.
Location—OPPOSlTE REDFERN RAILWAY
STATION.
A COLOSSAL CIRCUS ORGANISATION.
Introducing: a Complete Federation of the World’s Star
Performers and a Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals
including Boxing Ponies, Bucking Elephant, Riding
Bears, Tigers, Lions, Camel, Baboons, Panthers, Monkeys
Dingoes, Kangaroo, and many other quaint and curious
animals.
POSITIVELY A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
A, MIDDLETON, Manager.
“ The Best Australian Book of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON.
4s 6d.
Federal Kleotlona.
TO THE ELECTORS
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Gentlemen, — I beg to offer myself as a Candidate for a
seat in the SENATE of the COMMONWEALTH PAR-
LIAMENT.
lam a native of NEW SOUTH WALES, and keenly
alive to the interests of the STATE, and would resist to
the utmost any attempt to deprive us of our just rights.
DEFENCE.
Recent events have proved that it is quite impossible
for any Minister for Defence, with his many political
duties and responsibilities, to be thoroughly conversant
with the administration of the Military Forces, conse-
quently many mistakes have been made and sinecure
offices created ; these I wish to see remedied and abolished
at the earliest possible moment, and no time is more op-
portune than the present, when the forces of the different
States are being blended together in one Commonwealth
Army. I regret to say that there are already indications
of a movement, in at least one of the other States, to
supersede not only the General and Permanent Staff, but
the whole of the New South Wales Forces. Any endeavors
in this direction require to be firmly opposed. lam of
opinion that much extravagance has been displayed in
the past, and greater efficiency could be gained at less
expenditure. lam a strong advocate of the principle of
a Partially-Paid Force, which was inaugurated by General
Richardson, an officer who has done so much for New
South Wales, and whose system has become a model for
the rest of Australia. I have had many years’ experience
in the Defence Forces, having commanded the Mounted
Rifles for a period of 9 years, and served in the Imperial
Army for 13 years. I am, therefore, in a position to
recognise the weak spots in our system.
TARIFF.
I am opposed to the imposition of a TARIFF which would
ENRICH bounty-fed manufacturers of the STATE of
VICTORIA, preferring duties which would be mainly
REVENUE BEARING, having due regard to the interests
of the FARMERS and PRODUCERS. I am strongly in
favor of Reciprocal Trade between Great Britain and her
Colonies, and am prepared to vote for the granting of
Preferential Duties to British Manufactures, in return for
favored treatment of AUSTRALIAN WOOL and PRO-
I regret it will be impossible for me to personally visit
you to further explain my views, as I am under orders to
leave for South Africa.
If elected to the honorable position as one of the Rep-
resentatives of NEW SOUTH WALES in the SENATE,
my services on my return to Australia at the conclusion
of the War will be at your complete disposal.
I have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
Sydney, March 7th, 1901.
H. B. LASSETTER.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ELECTION OF SIX SENATORS.
NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
■ HEREBY NOTIFY that the undermentioned persons
■ have been duly nominated as Candidates for Election
as Senators for the State of New South Wales to serve in
the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia
ABIGAIL, FRANCIS.
ARMSTRONG, ANDREW.
BLAKE, JOHN.
BROWN, FRANCIS.
COLONNA-CLOSE, RICHARD.
COOK, JOHN ERNEST.
COTTON, FRANCIS.
COX, GEORGE HENRY.
EDWARDS, THOMAS.
FEALY, DAVID.
FLYNN, WILLIAM.
GASH, DAVID.
GEORGE, EDEN.
GOOHER, WILLIAM HENRY.
GOULD, ALBERT JOHN.
GRAY, JOHN PROCTOR.
GRIFFIN, JOHN GEORGE.
HAMMOND, MARK JOHN.
HOLLAND, HENRY EDMUND.
KIDD, JOHN.
LASSETTER, HARRY BEAUCHAMP.
LYNCH, PATRICK.
MACDONNELL, DONALD.
MACKAY, JAMES ALEXANDER KENNETH
MANNING, WILLIAM PATRICK.
MEAGHER, RICHARD DENIS.
MELLING, THOMAS.
MILLEN, EDWARD DAVIS.
MORIARTY, JAMES.
MORONEY, JAMES OWEN.
MORRISH, JAMES JOHN.
NEILD, JOHN CASH.
NEILL, JOHN.
NORTON, JOHN.
O’CONNOR, RICHARD EDWARD.
O’SULLIVAN, DENIS ROGER.
PULSFORD, EDWARD.
QUINN, WALTER THOMAS.
READ, WILLIAM VERO.
RICHARDSON, WILLIAM.
ROSA, SAMUEL ALBERT.
ROYLE, CHARLES JOHN.
SHIPWAY, WILLIAM CHART,ESI,
SMITH, SAMUEL.
TERRY, EDWARD.
THOMPSON, ERNEST LINDSAY.
THOMSON, ANDREW.
WADDELL, GEORGE WALKER.
WALKER, JAMES THOM ASi
WOOD, HARRIE.
IT IS FURTHER NOTIFIED THAT ELECTORS CAN
ONLY RECORD THEIR VOTES FOR THE SENATE
ELECTION WITHIN THE FEDERAL DIVISIONS FOR
WHICH THEY ARE QUALIFIED TO VOTE FOR A
MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The attention of Electors is invited to the concluding
portion of Section 5 of the “ Federal Elections Act 1900 ”
which enacts that any ballot-paper purporting - to * record
more or fewer votes than the number of Senators to be
elected shall be rejected at the Close of the Poll.
IN EFFECT, ELECTORS MUST VOTE FOR SIX
CANDIDATES.
A POLL will be taken on Friday, the 29th day of March
instant, between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6p m The
Pn !n g ' P aC6S r appointed and duly advertised as
Polling-places for the Election of Members of the House
of Representatives. c
CRITCHETT WALKER,
Principal Undersecretary,
Returning Officer for the State of New South Wales
. for the Election of Senators
Chief Secretary’s Office,
Sydney, 15th March, 1991.
In 4
ILANS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL MUSIC
IN AUSTRALIA andNEW ZEALAND
ds
fi
BEST ONE SHILLING
MUSIC BOOKS
• N THE WORLD.
Containing
Songs, Vocal Duets,
Pieces, Exercises,
Violin & Piano Solos
etc., ptc. ’
53 NUMBERS TO SELECT FROM
Publishers:
ALLAN & Co. Prop. Ltd.
276 & 278 Collins Bt.
AUTUMN TWEEDS.
We would remind our Tailoring’ Patrons that
it will be necessary to give EARLY ATTENTION
to their
EASTER SUITS.
There is no necessity to leave the ordering of it
until the last moment, as our
AUTUMN TWEEDS are now opened out.
COME IN EARLY, and order your Easter
Suit, PLEASE.
If you live out of Sydney we will send you a
complete set of Samples, Tape, and Measure
Forms, FREE.
(£lO,OOO worth of New, Tasty, Fashionable
Suitings to pick from.)
STYLE is the most important element in
Clothing, next to
FIT ; you get the fullest percentage of both
when you order your
CLOTHING TO ORDER from us.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(Autumn Novelties are now Displayed
in Every Department.)
Federal Flections.
I*o THE ELECTORS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Gentlemen, —
I beg to offer myself to you as a Candidate for the
Senate of the Australian Commonwealth.
The Australian Liberal Association (which approves of
the policy of the Federal Ministry) has done me the honor
to select me as one of their representatives, and I support
the political views set forth in their manifesto, believing
them to be moderate, sound, democratic and progressive,
and in the best interests of New South Wales and Aus-
tralia.
In political matters I have had considerable experience,
haying for many years represented Burrowa in the Legis-
lative Assembly, a position which was only resigned by
me in order to join the Ministry of Sir WiUiam (then Mr.)
Lyne, as Vice-President of the Executive Council and
Representative of the Government in the Legislative
Council.
While holding this honorable office it was my privilege
to successfully pilot through the Council a number of
measures of reform long desired by the community.
On the formation, in April, 1900, of the First Regiment
of the New South Wales Imperial Bushmen for service in
South Africa, I took command at the request of both
the local and Imperial authorities (resigning my position
in the Ministry to do so).
In this capacity I was on active service with my Regi-
ment at the front till November last, when the Com-
mander-in-Chief appointed me to the Staff position of
Assistant Adjutant-General of Australasian Forces, which
I am now holding in South Africa, and which my duty to
Australasia and my Comrades demands I shall not relin-
quish just at present; lam therefore, to my great regret,
unable to seek your suffrages in person, but intend to be
with you before the meeting of the Federal Parliament.
As is well known, for many years I have been engaged
in furthering the Military interests of this State, having
founded the West Camden Light Horse and the Ist Aus-
tralian Horse Regiments, members of which have served
with so much honor in this War ; and it is my hope to be
yet of service to Australia by working for the establish-
ment of such a Citizen soldiery as will be no burden or
menace to the Commonwealth, but will be a sound
bulwark against foreign agression.
As a native of New South Wales, I have long studied,
with care and sympathy, in many parts of the State, the
real aspirations and political needs of Australians both in
towns and country districts.
If elected, it is my intention to immediately return to
Australia to put at your full disposal the knowledge and
experience acquired during my political and Military
career.
Tours faithfully,
J. A. KENNETH MACKAY,
South Africa,
6th February, 1901.
Colonel.
rpo
THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen, —
I have the honour to announce myself a candidate for
a seat in the Federal Senate, and most respectfully solicit
your suffrages and support.
I have been one of your representatives in the Victorian
Parliament for many years, commencing my political life
in the Legislative Assembly, where I took an active part
in its proceedings.
I have consistently supported liberal progressive
measures, and I invite inquiry into all my acts and votes
since I have been a servant of the public.
I have given the best years of my life in promoting the
interests of the community, and have striven to
ameliorate the condition of those who live by labour and
earn their bread by daily toil.
I will, if elected, support the policy enunciated by Mr.
Barton in his recent addresses, and will discountenance
alterations in the tariff other than those which will make
it homogeneous in its application to all the federated
states.
_ As a member of the Convention which framed the
Commonwealth Bill, I warmly advocated the nationalisa-
tion of our State railways and the funding the debts of all
the States ; if these important reforms can he accom-
plished most beneficial results will follow, and the cost of
government much reduced. If elected I will consistently
support and advocate this.
I regard the appointment of an interstate commission
as a measure of vital importance to the Commonwealth.
It will extinguish those gross anomalies in railway
freights now in full force on our borders; it will help
forward the canalisation of our great inland rivers, at
present in times of drought a mere chain of waterho’les
useless when most required for inland traffic ; it will pro-
mote the conservation of flood water, a boon of priceless
value to settlers in arid districts, and its beneficent
influence will help to free our inland frontier trade from
the barbarism of vexatious customs duties, which has
done so much to anger our people and alienate our
neighbours.
I recognise the great importance of our volunteeer
forces, primarily raised and maintained for the defence of
Australia, and I pay my tribute of respect and horn a ere to
those brave men who, at the call of duty, went forth in
the defence of Queen and Empire, and whose soldierly
bearing on distant battle fields won the thanks of the
Commander-in-Chief of the forces of our dear old mother-
land. Under Federal control our citizen-soldiers—all
powerful for guarding our hearths and homes—will form
a sturdy bulwark of the Empire in one of its most distant
outposts.
Owing to the large area of the electorate I shall b.
unable .to visit many of the centres of population, and
beg to say that I prefer to be judged by my pas
Par,,amentary career and by the pledges contained i,
thi' address, rather than to seek success by adventitious
aids, which I regard as opposed to the spirit of trui
representation.
I trust, by the blessings of Providence, our much-lovec
Australia (endowed with the most liberal Constitution i
the world) will be, for rich and poor alike, a home when
reedom, liberty and justice may be enjoyed to thefullesi
ixtent, and where the blessings of peace and prosperiti
nay be the heritage of all. H»u»pencj
Your faithful servant,
w. A. ZEAL.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Prie« fid j Posted sd.


Brougham, at 70, would drink two bottles
of port for dinner, and half a bottle of whisky
before going to bed. Then he was up at daybreak,
to shoot teal. Lyndhurst, at 90, supped on hot
boiled lobster and champagne. “ There were
Giants! ”
“ King’s mistresses are always fond of
pearls—the emblems of purity. I noticed this
when Madame Du Cayla visited Lady Conyng-
ham. I suppose this will be the last visit of a
French king’s mistress to an English comrade.
Grkville.
NO MISTAKEN PRIDE.
The Truth for Truth’s Sake.
The Case of N|rs. E. RUSSELL
{For the “ Newtown Independent.”)
“There is nothing immodest or indelicate
in attesting to the truth, no matter what
the subject may be. lam glad to say that
my actions are not influenced by foolish
notions of mistaken pride, and as I may be
doing a little good by granting your request,
you are welcome to take down every detail
for whatever use you may deem fL.”
These words were addressed to a repre-
sentative from this paper by a lady living
at No. 14 Francis-street, Enmore, named
Mrs. Emily Rosina Russell, who had, on
perceiving a note-book in the pressman’s
hand, anticipated the object of his mission.
“ You are quite right,” answered the re-
porter. “ I may take the particulars,
then ? u
“ Most decidedly. The first sign of de-
parting health was a shocking state of
nervousness. My nerves were so weak
that I started quivering and shaking on the
least provocation. I dreaded to be without
somebody to keep me company in the
house, and always had the back and front
doors locked when left alone. Ido not
know exactly what I was afraid of, but
there was a constant fear that some unde-
fined evil was going to happen. I felt
very dull and listless for two or three
weeks before the full troubles manifested
themselves. Then terrible headaches at-
tacked me, together with pains in the
limbs and back, under the shoulder blades,
and also in the lower part of my stomach,
where the agony was often so acute that I
thought they would cause my death. I
was intensely feverish, my skin being
parched, hot, and dry. Fearful night
dreams, resembling hideous nightmare,
also troubled me, and when I slept for
about an hour I had to get up and walk
about in order to relieve my mind of its
terrifying thoughts. My mind was quite
unhinged through complete nervous ex-
haustion brought on through my constitu-
tion being run down. But for the fear of
death by starvation I would gladly have left
off eating entirely. As it was I never ate
anything solid, potatoes and meat being out
if the question. ”
' “ Did your food disagree with you ? ”
“ Everything I ate caused more or less
pain and discomfort. Each repast, even of
the plainest description, brought on painful
results. My food turned sour in no time,
and large volumes of wind were belched up,
or else I vomited a nasty yellowish fluid,
which tasted for hours after. My chest felt
heavy, with usually dull pains inside, but
frequently they were so sharp and severe
that I shrieked in agony. I was not even
free from these attacks when in bed at night,
and the gravity of my position made me
depressed and hopeless. An internal de-
rangement which gave me evil forebodings
caused palpitation of the heart to come on
with the least exertion. My heart used to
throb against my ribs so distinctly that I
am sure it could be heard in the next room.
I could not read without my eyes aching so
bad that I had to cease in a few minutes,
and I found that I could not remember what
I had been reading about. Colour from my
cheeks had all vanished, leaving my com-
plexion pasty and dirty looking. My
appetite was poor and fickle, and at length
I could not eat at all. I think the bitter
taste that lay on my tongue continually had
something to do with this, as it was so
nauseating that I felt habitually weak and
sick at the stomach. My sufferings were so
great that I used to feel as if I wished for
death to release me.”
“ Had you lost much weight ?”
“ I was as thin as a wafer, and just as
weak as you would expect such a skeleton
to be. Even those dreadful nights I used to
have would have been acceptable to me now,
[ for I could not get any rest. All night long
I turned and tossed in endless pain. The
sunlight of day was no comfort to me, as I
was too worn-out, melancholy and dejected
to appreciate it. One by one my domestic
labours were neglected, and instead of doing
a little work I had to look on quite helpless.
My weakness became so extreme that I
could not walk across the road. ”
“ What did you do then?”
“ Well, I was so alarmed at being unable
to walk that I consulted a physician. Of
course, I had not gone on all this time
without taking medicines, but they all
proved worthless. The doctor pronounced
my case to be a very bad one, and said I
required skilful and careful treatment. I
placed myself under his care and took his
medicines till I could take them no longer.
My sufferings became more intense than ever,
and my stomach was too weak to retain the
medicine my doctor gave me. I had given
up hope through his treatment being so un-
successful, and did not care what happened.
A neighbour then urged me to give Clements
Tonic a trial. I did not expect to get well
again, but I bought some Clements Tonic,
and after a few days an extraordinary im-
provement was apparent. My nerves were
strengthened by each dose and my head
ceased to ache, besi les losing the distressing
feeling of sickness at the stomach. Pains
from the chest and shoulders were removed,
and I never again retched or vomited after
I st irted taking Clements Tonic, which
also gave me a splendid appetite. I felt my
food was doing me good, and I soon looked
it, too, as a healthy colour came back to my
cheeks,- which became more plump every
day. Clements Tonic made me sleep soundly,
and I got up every morning feeling fresh
and vigorous. When my doctor and all
other medicines had failed, Clements Tonic
gave me robust health. ”
“ Can I let the public know ? ”
“ Yes ; do. I hope all sufferers may read
my case, and benefit as I have done.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Emily Russell, of 14 Francis Street, Enmore,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits."
Declared at Newtown, this Bth day of October one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
FREDK. JONES J.i
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, & 900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only oj
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King: Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
A POLICY FOB, THE COMMONWEALTH.
£cad„. PRICE 6D| POSTED Bd.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring,
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &s.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
s>
Wa
r
K.
v.
fds
Medical.
f
Header, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form. all of the many marvelous feats
I that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer"pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and prodiice
i amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, -which fully eiplaim
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-j
notize. It is a chance of a*
life-time. Address—
dsf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colouies.
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be=t
Cheapest, and Most Stylish Cf.OTULNG in Australia.
'“■LINCOLN, STUARTAPO.
PHOPIUETAIIT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
df
Our Suit to order at 4’is. is
marvellous value: mad,- from
all wool Tweeds Vicuna-*,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finish- d.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v f material £.'t 3* To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns, 12s. Od.
Dress Suits, to measure £? #
Clerical Suits, to measure. £5,
it ding Bre- ches. 255.
Biding Habits. Ac,
We supply ready made. Men’s
(capital Tweed Suits tils. & £sa.
Fanu us Ballarat Ser 0 e Suits,
Indigo dye,2.">s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool blue and blackYicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s Od.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. Od. Wnite Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Od.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s Od.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. Od.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. J£s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Od.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. od.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. Od., all
Colors
Hard Hats, 4*. O.d- Caps. Is,
V erino Undershirts or Pants,.
Is. 9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors*.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,.
gs. 9d . 9s. od.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, " The Philosophy of Dress ” and
patterns of a.l kinds and self-measurement forms posted free:
Write for them.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from ss.to £7 15 s.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this p^per.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of —
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT
THE EASTMAN KODAK.
ds
GOUT
PILLS
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO-
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Proijt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
fd
R6pt6rc
Ctir^d^
T\7’HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
yy we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during'
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work ! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get.it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
sf
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST..SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.


THE LEAD I NC HOUSE
|TN6ST
dsf
NO MIDDLEMEN
WE SAVE. YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
sTLVep^rfO^e
R STD I
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 82618.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307—Solid Silver-Top Blotting
. Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 ss.
45.5
No. F 2727 —Sterling Silver Hall-marked Cake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
15s 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A Quality Opal and 15ct. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in 9ct. Gold, £1 ss.
No. E7302.—9c.
Gold Heart set with
Pearls and
Turquoises, 16s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, £1 ss, £1 15s, £2.
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4.
No. 198 A.
SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, 15s 6d ;
15c Gold, £1 10s ;
Silver, 4s.
Is
No. E7o6l.—New Design, 9c. Gold Amethyist
Heart Brooch, 12s Cd.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. E 6412.
Solid Silver Clasp, 10s 6d.
(Drawn Half Size.)
No. E393B.—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3£in.high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver
plate, 17s 6d each.
No. E 9248.
Out Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining,
£1 17s 6d and £2 ss.
Ill* MENU
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6<L
No. 153 A.—Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds
3 Opals, £4 17s 6d.
No. E7058.—15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray-
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. IB7A. —Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 145A.—9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7s 6d.
No. E672B.—Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
- Brooch, £2 15s.
STE.WABT DAVS/Sa**”
LONDON
No. 326.—Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£llos.
No. E 8396. —Sc. Gold Curb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 163. —5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
No. E 9137.— Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 128 A.
15c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. 388. —Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long, 3s.
No. S4SA.
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass Butter Dish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast Cruet,
complete with Spoons,
13s 6d.
No. E 7072.
6-Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Rattle, with
Ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 21s.
No. 136.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, JE2 ss.
No. 178.—Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening' Spoon, in Case,
15s 6d ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 267 A.—Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. E 3777.
Combination Lamp and Fern Pot,
£2 12s (3d.
No. 122A.—15c. Gold Brooch, Fine Set Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
Sr*
No. 295. —Silver-plated Serviette Kings,'2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
All Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


Strengthens the Digestive Organs
Hsf
ii :
KUT NOW’S i
proved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER,
m
w.
A
m
4$
Hirschensprung or Deer^Leap
•m
i London - :' 1,
' 41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C/?t
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.^L-i
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE.BO.XaXe
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
And Banishes Sick-Headache, Lassitude,
Depression, Nervous Exhaustion, Low
Spirits, Drowsiness, &c.
Many people, owing to the nature of their business,
are prevented from eating, resting, and sleeping as regularly
as is essential to the preservation of sound health. This is
particularly true in regard to eating, as some days they take
a heavy meal and other days a light meal, and some days
they dine at one hour, and other days they dine at a
different hour. The result of this irregularity is apparent
in the extraordinary prevalence of Indigestion and the
various nervous disorders it breeds. Besides the careless-
ness in the matter of eating, Indigestion is produced by
over-work, over-worry, and by the two liberal use of malted
liquors, wines, spirits, &c. Occasionally it is caused by a
disturbance in the gastric juices, which are often too acid,
and sometimes too alkaline. Whatever be the cause, the
symDtoms are generally the same —namely, sick-headache,
lassitude, nervous exhaustion, depression, low spirits,
drowsiness, biliousness, etc.
When Indigestion has continued long the system
becomes so weakened that almost any disease can secure
lodgment in it, and hence it is only a matter of time when
the sufferer’s life is brought to a, premature end. Fully
half the ailments the average medical practitioner attends
to have their origin in disorders of the digestive organs.
There is only one safe, certain, and pleasant way to
obtain permanent relief from Indigestion and the various
other ills it produces, and that is in the use of KUTNOW S
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER, which, by
dissolving find carrying off the waste and poisonous matters
that weaken and retard the . action of the inner organs,
enables them to perform their proper functions. After a
few bottles of Kutnow’s Powder the food is fully digested,
the body properly nourished, and new strength, vigor, and
health are bound to follow.
Kutnow’s Powder has a healing, cleansing, and
strengthening effect on all the digestive, assimilative, and
excretory organs, neutralising acidity, increasing nutrition,
purifying the blood, restoring lost appetite, and enabling
those that use it to work harder, sleep sounder, and enjoy
life better.
In Kutnow’s Powder will be found all the healing,
medicinal, and cleansing virtues of the best European
spring waters, but none of their unpalatable, drastic, and
lowering features,
Kutnow’s Powder is prepared by dessicating the valu-
able curative salts found in these springs, eliminating their
useless and undesirable features, and adding a few other
health-giving ingredients and effervescence.
Take Kutnow’s Powder, and the sick headache,
lassitude, nervous exhaustion, depression, low spirits,
drowsiness, biliousness, and the various-other symptoms of
a disordered digestion will disappear, and you will receive
a new store of strength, health, and vigor.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
) KTJTNOW’S PO WIDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
See that the Registered Trade Mark, <* Htrschensprung” (o.r Deer Leap), and the
tt g' KUTNOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on KUI ISO WS,
and firmly refuse any substitutes. They may be ivorthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS ——^
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In a recent Sydney libel-action a civil-servant
claimed damages from a tailor for having dunned him for
the price of a pair of trousers, per a post-card, upon
which was written a remark that he, the claimant, did
not know that the other man was any better than a
thief.” In giving a verdict for a farthing the jury were
probably influenced by tlTe fact that plaintiff, although
he asserted that the trousers were a misfit, had
neither sent them back nor complained to that
effect ; but other tradesmen are likely to “ fail-
in’’ badly if they imagine that the precedent is
thus established that a customer may, with impunity,
he reviled by post-card for non-payment of account.
Judge Owen, also, seems to have been suffering from
logical confusion when he classed this action with the
petty libel-suits that have been so frequent in Sydney of
late. The circumstances, as above referred-to, may have
negatived the incidence of this particular slander, but the
form of the libel was one of the most serious possible, and
those who think of going and doing likewise will do well
to pause.
* * * *
M.L. Judge Williams strongly favors the em-
ployment of shorthand-writers in lengthy cases, and said
recently, at Dunedin (M.L.), that he had suggested the
services of a stenographer in one big action, hut the
parties couldn’t agree as to cost. The fact is that the
lawyers don’t want shorthanders in the Supreme Courts
when they’ve big, fat, juicy cases on hand, spinning-out
is the game!
Recent S.A. Advertiser advt.
"TPIRST-OLASS Handy Man, reliable and capable,
■P permanent employment ; principal work con-
sists plastering, masonry, carpentry, joinery, paint-
ing, paperhanging, deep drainage, gasfitting ; none
but competent men need apply. ‘ 1 Agent,” this office.
To “Ovis,” B. 26/1/01: The woolpack question
has been exercising the buyers for years, but it is only
the boom prices of last season that have led them to
demand that tares should be printed in catalogues. If
they object to the printed tares, they have the right to
strip a bale and weigh the pack. Before this season the
trade allowance was 111 b. per hale, but the owners of
many clips used 131 b. packs ; and wool at (say) an average
of Is. per lb. meant 2s. on each bale to the buyer, for
which he did not get wool, but jute. An effort, however,
is being made to fix a standard pack which will get over
the difficulty. “ Ovis” errs in stating that some owners
object when charged 131 b. for their packs, and are only
allowed 111 b. packs. The rule of the trade this season is
that where the owner fails to send his tare, or does not
know it, the broker takes off lljlb. for each pack ; so I
fail to see how anybody can be charged with 131 b. packs,
as stated by “ Ovis.”
* * • *
Vic. Wine Adulteration Prevention Act, which
came into operation on Ist Jan., defines “foreign sub-
stances” which must not be added to wine as “sugars, essen-
tial oils, cherry, laurel, compounds of barium, fluorine,
bismuth, arsenic, zinc, tin, boron, abrastol, sulphuric
acid, formalin, salicylic acid and other antiseptics, glycer-
ine saccharine, dulcine, sucrovin, crystallose, impure
spirits containing fusel oil or aldehydes, coloring matters,
gums, blood or milk.” Arsenic—sulphuric acid—and
blood 1 Ye gods 1
* ■ * *
“ Wandering Jew ” : From what I have ob-
served while travelling on coastal steamers, many fore-
cabin-stewards are “ buttoners ” for spielers. They find
out the likely victim among the passengers, and on arri-
val at port give the “ operator ” the tip.
* * * *
“Brummagem” jewellery, or, as it is locally
called, “shadow” jewellery (writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent), has received a nasty knock from the
Assay Office, which refuses to hall-mark it in future. It
was the policy of the “slashers,” as the shadow -
makers are called, to make their jewellery, imitating any
Hpsi£ , n i n 9-oarat gold-leaf, or something hardly
POPIThev 1 Thev thus were able to “ slash ” prices, as both
th would bear the same trade-mark— for an inch-
articles worn , mnnfh nf nn inch may each be
thick S o> pa o a local-made “ shadow” jevvellery
•■ C Cfh svdnev a°d Melbourne ; it can be told by the
in both >:> yj. h it dents, and perhaps the Assay
offices may think it worth following Birmingham’s ex-
ample. » * *
“ Timmv S.” : Some time ago a guileless-looking
“travelling-auctioneer” played a neat little game at a
NSW mining township. Put up an empty box for 55.,
u obtaining a buyer, by some sleight-of-hand
trick produced apparently a gold watch therefrom.
How their eyes glistened ! Then he put up sonie hand-
kerchiefs, remarking, “Now, gents; who’ll give me a
pound for a penny handkerchief? Of course you know
Ft would never do for a man in my position to play any
trick on you?” Now, it was remembered that, some
years before, he had visited the place, and that those who
Hy™ £i for a handkerchief had received next morning
255. Consequently the shekels poured in, and the auc.
had a busy time placing his mark on the rags. But, alas ,
when the holders appeared at the pub. next morning with
t-heir “ snow-white emblems of peace and purity, they
discovered that the “ travelling-auc.” had vanished.
Banjo Paterson’s poem on “ The Maori’s Wool,”
recalls that the same trick was more than once tried by
M L flax-millers, and helped not a little to spoil the M.L.
flax market. Other millers used to increase the weight
of the bales by wetting the flax. Result, several instances
of spontaneous combustion at sea ; one specialty bad case
on the “ Mararoa.”
*** . *
Increasingly frequent is the labelling of Sydney
pubs—“ Under entirely new management.” But the
‘‘management” makes no difference in the tanglefoot
while the house is in the hands of the same old brewer !
Queensland is importing immigrants again
(passages paid directly or indirectly out of loan-
money), &nd it is getting some lovely bargains for
its money. If any M.L.A. could obtain a return
of the births among those of the State’s newly-
arrived “ single girls” who have been six months
in Australia, the document would either be a very
bad fake or a very bad surprise.
“ Russia’s intimation that her administra-
tion of Manchuria would be temporary and pro-
visional was only a verbal one, says the cable.
And, as every lawyer knows, a guarantee must be
in writing.
Wayback M.L. Editor, who has been an-
nouncing in every issue for the past six months
that General De Wet was about to be captured,
has just arrived at the conclusion that De Wet
“is a low scoundrel, who ought to be hung.”
“ Why not cookery-classes for men as well
as women ? ” asks a Bulletin correspondent. In
a “ domestic competition” at a recent M.L. show
three bachelors notched third prize for scones,
and one of their number scored second for a plate
of “parritch.” »
This man, at any rate, knows his own
mind and What he wants. From Melb. Age
W7It>OWER, moderate means, neither young, tall
VV nor handsome, would be pleased to meet
Christian lady, '3O, 35, healthy and cheerful, farmer’s
widow or daughter, accustomed to the bush and live
stock small, compact women and hospital
nurses. CLYDE, G.P.O.
Queer S.M. Herald advt. :
WANTED, by resp. young Man, SITUATION, few
miles up the Northern line, work flower garden
or on orchard, no work to be done before 7 a.m., and
no-work to be done after 6 p.m. ; only Protestants
that follow teaching of this text need reply—Ephe-
sians v., verse 10. A. 8.0. Pyrmont New Post-office.
Harris-street, Pyrmont.
A Backhander!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I came back from the betting-enclosure,
and told Harry that Skyscraper was evens, with-
out us having a penny on, his language filled me
with respectful admiration.
When he calmed-down, he said, “I s’pose these
hayseeds think we’ve come all the way from
Melbourne to win their measly stake. Not much !
Anything else cuttin’ ? ”
I explained that three out of the eight starters
were “ after it,” and that good prices could be
obtained about each, as everyone thought we
couldn’t lose. We saw that out of three, the only
one with a chance was old Donald ; so Harry (who
always spoke to the point) said : “ You go and put
our stuff on Donald, and I’ll tell Jimmy that if
he lets the ’Scraper win I’ll skin ’im alive.”
I suggested putting a fiver on ours in case of
accidents, or, at any rate, to imbue the crowd
with confidence, but he wouldn’t hear of it; so I
went away and emptied-out on Donald. I got
five to one, as everyone on the ground seemed to
back nothing but the 'Scraper.
Our instructions to the boy were to get left at
the post, but the old horse overpowered him,
jumped away in front, and it was only by most
strenuous efforts that Jimmy managed to haul
him a length behind Donald at the finish.
Then the band started ! I never heard so small
a crowd kick up so much row before. I thought
they’d never stop yelling “Have him up!’’and
“ Rub him out! ” Poor Jimmy was as white ( as a
ghost when he rode in, and I said to Harry: This
is a nice game. We’re all ‘out’ for life thats
certain!”
“Don’t you b’heveit, he said. Leave it to
me. W’re all right.” , , , ,
Then he marched up to the stewards, and
entered a protest against Donald for interference !
“See?” he remarked to me. “It’ll keep the
crowd quiet, and there’s no earthly use in the
stewards upholdin’ the protest. Just you buzz-
round, and see if you can get some more stuff pn
Donald, if the books are bettin’ on the protest.
It looked all right, and I went round and booked
a few more bets. Harry was expatiating to me on
the advantage of having brains, when the board
went up, and oil it was “Protest upheld. Race
awarded to Skyscraper.” .
„ * * •
“Of course,” explained my partner to rhe, in
the train, “all the crimson stewards backed ours.
And then he proceeded to express wishes as to
their welfare in the next world.
“ It’s a pity you didn’t let me put that fiver on,
when I wanted to, ” I said
And that’s how I got this black eye ! _•
W.H.D.
They are simply looking for a tragedy up
Straits Settlements way. Some time back a
“tramp,” after running a cargo of the Faithful to
Jeddah, took aload of nearly 600 Chows from Singa-
pore up north. The Europeans on board numbered
but 24, and by way of defensive arms they pos-
sessed one revolver. This, too, during the period
of great unrest amongst the Chows in 1900.
Kauri timber is fast giving out in M.L.
A sawmiller lately told the Federation Commis-
sion that there won’t be a stick left in 20 years
time.
An English magazine on the dead and
damned “Absent-Minded Beggar” : “The slime
of the music-hall song is over all the surface of our
existence, and there was nothing which suggested
more genuine misgivings to those who thought of
the noble battle-songs of Germany and Austria, or
even of the ‘ Marseillaise,’ than the banal and
vulgar sentiment of the jigging doggerel to which
our men went out to war.”
A Melbourne milkman has asked the law
to supply him with an adequate vengeance on a
rival purveyor of cow-juice. This rival, he says,
wanted to get his business, just as the British im-
porter wants to get the business of the Australian
manufacturer ; but instead of publishing statistics
about his milk in the Argus, he followed him
round, so the story goes, with a bottle of vinegar,
and poured some into the other man’s early morn-
ing fluid when it was left in the can on the door-
step. Naturally the first man lost business on a
charge of selling sour milk, and the second man
presumably followed behind and gathered m
orders.
Justice Holroyd was, at Bendigo lately,
faced with the old “ nature-of-an-oath difficulty.
The witness—a somewhat simple countryman—
was dubious about any heaven or hell, and the
Bible was merely so much “ reading, but when
asked what would happen if he told a lie, he re-
plied, “ I’ll be sent to gaol and kept there. His
Honor wanted to adjourn so as to have the witness
instructed on the point, but finally left the
decision to the Full Court. Yet the witness had
common sense on his side. Hell is at worst a very
far-off, indefinite, and—if the assurances of sundry
about-to-be-hanged murderers are to be believed —
an easily escapable punishment, while gaol is a
very present, solid, practical and certain retribu-
tion—to any but a Crown witness.
Frank Davies, managing director of
Gordon and Gotch, was a candidate for IVlelb.
City Council the other week, but had to withdraw
his nomination owing to the odd fact that bis
name got omitted from the citizens’ roll last year
when he was taking a holiday trip to America,
England and Paris Exhibition. Mr. by
the way, has good yarns to tell of the “ time ’he
had on tour, especially in America. The
Yanks by their general antagonism to the
“ effete island,” and ironical comments on its
length, breadth and foolishness, managed to stir
up all the slumbering Britishness within him,
says Davies, who would make an excellent model
for a portrait of the typical John Bull’s eldest
son. One day at New York he was called
upon to state the exact measure of his
admiration for America and the People. “I
think you have the most favored country on God s
earth,” says Davies, “ but it seems to me that you
haven’t quite decided whether you or the
Almighty made it.” Then the pushful citizen in
the chair stroked his goatee and said, “Waal, I
guess we air prepared to admit that the Almighty
helped—a little.” Another representative person,
a judge, informed the man from Australia, in a
confidential tone, that it wouldn’t suit America
for England to be smashed-up, but she would like
to see the Godarned Lion hu-miZi-a-ted consider-
able. From which it would appear there is still a
grain or two of envy left in ’Murkan contempt
for the country the Mayflower came from.


7
&k
l
That’s
The Spot.
Know the spot 1
Right in the “ small ” of the back,
Just above the hips.
Bad place for pain,
But it always comes there
When the kidneys are sick.
Comes in many forms,
Sharp, quick twinges,
Slow, exhaustive aches,
Always starts in the one spot
But it don’t stop there —
The ache goes on,
Goes on up the back—
Follows the nerve centres.
You call it all backache ;
Ought to call it kidney ache,
Because it comes from the kidneys.
There’s a lurking danger in it all.
Never neglect backache.
Never neglect the kidneys’ cry for help.
Serious trouble is sure to follow,
Urinary difficulties set in.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for
kidneys only.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure
backache ;
Cure excessive urinary discharges,
Cure retention of the urine,
Cure every kidney ill.
BOnfl’S BICKHGHE K190E9 PICES
Endorsed by Sydney People.
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. Spear, 32 Goodsell-street, St. Peters,
this city, says : “ For a good while I was in
a pretty bad state with my back. This was
a dull, constant ache about the kidneys.
Sometimes it was much worse than others,
when I moved the pains becoming very bad
indeed, more particularly when I stooped.
It was a most distressing complaint, and I
did not like the thought occurring to me that
this sort of thing often lasts a lifetime, yet
such is the case. Almost a year ago I heard
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and re-
solved to try them for my ailment, so pro-
cured some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. lam very pleased indeed to inform
you that they cured me. I’ve never had the
pains return since I used them. I gave some
of these pills to a relation who has derived
as much benefit through taking them as I
have. lam very glad to he able to state
these simple facts since it may lead to others
getting benefit from Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills.”
A Sydney Man.
Mr. William Carroll, an ex-railway guard,
of 749 Harris-street, Ultimo, this city,
writes : “I strained myself in pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in
the small of my back. For three solid
months I was unable to do any work. I
was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a
dull pain though the loins and kidneys, and
the secretions became unnatural and irregu-
lar. My physician advised Turkish baths.
I took them and received some small benefit,
but not sufficient to enable me to work
properly. I procured some of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and used them ; I found
wonderful relief, so much so that I am now
able to do heavy work as of old in a thorough
manner. I might mention that it is a year
ago since I took these pills and I have not
been troubled with my back or kidneys since,
which firmly convinces me that Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them among
my friends.”
But be sure you get DOAN’S-the kind your neighbours endorse.
Don't accept a substitute. All Chemists and Storekeepers sell
them at 2s. 9d. per Box—Six Boxes, 15s. 3d. If you cannot
obtain them locally, they will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
See., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronic cases, several pots are sometimes necessary
before a cure is effected. Here is a case in point:
Mr. William Gilliver, of the well-known firm of
Gilliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full: —
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
than one-half of it, now six months ago —and I am
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish. —
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GILLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles, It will cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this; ask or write Mr. Gilliver.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles from Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof ? Could there be
better ?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny'stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
A Few Extra-Tired Lines.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
si?5 i ?L L Z?i S 6 M . ack < who {n ™rsee in
Tiie Bulletin of 16th Feb. said she was very tired.)
O, weary little lady 1 saddened sister bathed in
woe !
Is the world so very dreary ? Are its feet so flat
and slow ?
As it potters round its orbit, trudging dully past
* the stars,
Leaving boo tm arks on the airy track by
Jupiter and Mars,
Slowly wearing grooves and channels in the
ancient Floors of Space,
Blankly stepping out for Nowhere in an aimless,
endless race,
Humping round the swag of ages, never reaching
any goal—
Most exhausted little woman, does it get upon
your soul?
Are you certain that you’re weary ? And suppos-
ing that you are,
Are you sure that you are certain ? On this little
dull-brown star
We cannot weigh our tiredness nor mete it with a
line,
We’re not weary fifteen ounces, or exhausted two-
feet-nine ;
But you are not really tired, however tired your
feet may be,
Nor are you really sorry, however sad the lot you
dree,
Unless your lot is sadder than that of folks you
meet,
And your extremities are tireder than some other
people’s feet.
And you cannot take their tiredness out and put
it in a scale,
And find they’re sorry half-a-bushel or ex-
hausted just one bale.
No one knows in all this world how tired his
fellow-man may be,
Or how sad, or drunk, or angry; all is wasted
inquiry.
Could we but stay him in the street and split him
lengthways there,
Take his grief out and inspect it, measure-up his
carking care,
Then sew up our fellow creature ere we go upon
our way,
We might feel for him in earnest as we do not feel
to-day.
Could we but dissect our sister—put her anguish
on a plate,
Then we’d know all its dimensions, all its length
■ and breadth and weight.
We would analyse it carefully, with skill and with
address,
We would take the mean diameter of human
bitterness ;
Then we’d know if we were weary. But, O,
sister bathed in woe,
We cannot do these things, so how in thunder do
you know ?
You are not really tired at all, however tired you
be
Unless you’re tireder than some other, and please
say, how tired is she ?
TITUS SALT.
In the Swamp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I remember everything as distinctly as if it was
yesterday.
It was blazing hot that Saturday afternoon
when I met Mary down at the slip-panels and we
, , r “ panels, ana we
arranged to go for a bath m the Bulloeky Swamp
on Sunday, if it was hot. I wanted to meet at
OT9tnnaitwnn’r.lmt ■ i i, ,
tne swamp at two o clook, but Mary said she did
not think the baby would be asleep so soon.
Babies were chronic at Mary’s place.
“ Oh, bother the baby,” I said ! “ Pinch him
and make him cry ; then some one else will mind
bbn ”
~'A T e ~, , „ ~ , r ,
No fear of that,” said Mary. “Let’s say
three.’ -
Three o’clock next day found me walking slowly
through the paddock towards the swamp. The
ajn , „ ,
grass was dry and yellow, and flocks of grass-
hoppers were jumping around me at every step ;
while overhead the sun blazed down through a
haze of smoke. There was not a breath of air;
the birds were sitting m the red gums, with wings
drooping. On through a patch of flat, dark-green
rushes, and then the cool, placid swamp with
weeds floating on the water near the edge, though
further-in it was quite clear and glassy.
I sat watching- the horse-flies snilinfr Invll-n-
j. sat watcmng tne _ Horse mes sailing lazily
along, sometimes dipping their wings and feet
into the water to cool them ; and the little red-
ri- , • . ... , , , , . . .
bodied insects, that we are told turn mtomosqui-
toes, darting busily here and there in the water. I
wondered what they looked like when their wings
and legs were just growing, and was planning
to catch some to put in a bottle of water to watch
them develop when Marv oa me »lnnr, W V..A
rnem aeveiop, wnen iviary came along hot and
perspiring.
“ What’ll we do first ? ” she asked.
“Have a look round to find a snake, or shall
we go in first and go snake-hunting afterwards ?”
“ Oh, let’s go snaking first,” said Mary. “If we
don’t we’ll get hot again after we come out of the
wafer >»
w , x- , i a u cc a ,
We got a stick each, and set off round the edge
of the water, turning over logs and looking m
’amongst the rushes; but had no luck till we came
to a brush fence running into the swamp for a few
yards and then stopping aimlessly Just on our
Side of the fence there was a big black snake, a
beauty. (You can t nave much fun with a
“ tiger they’re too vicious.)
Mary ran between him and the fence, and
flourished her stick. The snake glided quickly
nwav towards the hush but T was there and crave
away towards the Dusii, Put i was there, and gave
him a tap With the stick. He made for the
swamp.
“Don’t let him in,” I yelled; and Mary got
down to the water and struck at him to try and
cripple him, so that we could manage him better, :
but, turning quickly, the snake made for the fence :
* n ‘ poked about for a long time in
the old water-marked black fence : but it was no
good.
After a heated argument as to whose fault it
was, we left the question unsettled and continued
our hunt. The swamp was about a mile round;
and on the other side, down in the rushes, we
found a frilled Jew-lizard. That was great—not
much fear of a bite, and lots of fun. Mary would
hit it on the nose, lightly ; then the lizard would
snap the stick in its mouth, and Mary would lift
him by the mouth, poke him into the water, and
make him swim out.
Tiring at last, we killed our prey and went
round to where the water was deep, and cool, and
brown, lying sleepily among red-gum logs and
great bunches of rushes. We took off our clothes,
with the exception of our hats, and got into the
water. Have you ever bathed in the soft brown
water of a swamp ? It is just lovely; it soothes
and caresses and gurgles fondly, softly. You
bend your ear to listen to its whisperings, and it
takes you in a soft clasp, and lets you sink and
sink until everything is forgotten in contentment.
In the middle of the swamp, with clear water
all around, stood several bunches of rushes; and
m one of these we knew there was a musk-duck’s
nest. But could we get it ? 1 was the taller, and
the water as I walked kept lap-lapping over the
top of my shoulders ; and as I glanced at Mary I
saw that although she had her head held back it
was up to her chin. Every step we took our
weight on the peaty bottom would force the air
up, and the bubbles would gurgle weirdly to the
top. Mary wanted to turn back, but I told her
that perhaps the water would not be so deep in
the rushes, and we moved on slowly, gasping
every now and then as our feet would sink in the
bottom.
Sure enough, it wasn’t so deep in the rushes;
and we separated to look for the nest, bending the
bunches apart and peering into the middle of
them. Mary found it, and gave a yell of delight.
I went over and got the egg out, but Mary claimed
it as hers. I reasoned with her to show that
rightly it was mine, as she would never have come
in alone, but she grew sulky aiid turned to hit me,
so I took her and pushed her down as far as I
could. As she went down the water washed over
her hat; and the red dye from a bunch of red
flowers in it stained the little waves she made.
It looked so funny to see all the bubbles and
water getting red with the dye that, as soon as I
saw her hat ooming up, I pushed her down again,
and yet again.
* * * *
I swear now that I did not think of anything
but to see the dye again.
Mary was a long time down, and the bubbles
rose, so I felt frightened, and when she rose again
I told her to stand up, but she didn’t—just threw
her arms out and gasped a little. I caught her
hand ; but the water was so deep I couldn’t do
anything, so I started to walk out, dragging her
after me by the hand. She floated along easily
enough ; but it was very deep, and I was a good
while in getting out.
At last I got her to the bank and rolled her
out; but she never moved. I had a wide experi-
ence with drowned things, being fond of drown-
ing .flies in a tub of water and then bringing them
to life again by blowing on them and leaving them
jn the sun. I blew on Mary, and left her in the sun
while I dressed ; but she didn’t come round, so I
ran home and told that Mary had gone into the
swamp while I was killing a jew-lizard and had
fallen down, and I had to go in and drag her out,
but she wouldn’t get up.
And poor Mary never did ; she was quite dead
when we got back. I stuck to the same
story, and there was the dead lizard to prove it.
I was blamed for stopping to undress and dress,
but being only a child accounted for that.
I know myself that I did not mean harm, and I
tried my best to bring her round ; yet I never see
brown water sleeping amongst logs but Mary’s
drowned face looks out at me, and I never hear
bubbles gurgling through deep water but I expect
to see it red with dye from the flowers in Mary’s
hat.
FRAULEIN.
From the letter of a German soldier,
printed in a London paper:
I have shot seventeen Boxers already, twelve of them
in street fights. In the fortress one of them fired at me
from twenty paces, but fortunately missed. I brought
him down at once with a shot through the neck, and was
so mad with him that I ran him through and through
with my bayonet and gave him another shot, till at the
end his entrails all came out. We are frightfully cruel to
the fellows; everyone that gets into our hands as a
prisoner is at once a corpse. All are murdered.
The cold-tea advocates of Numurkah (Vic.)
nearly had a free fight t’other day over a proposed
local-option poll. The real never-touch-its wanted
to reduce the existing 16 hotels to 9, but the
Recli ;vbi tes, Cold-waterites, and Vic. Alliance,
considering the compensation awarded elsewhere
excessive, solemnly decided to jump on their
principles and vote for a continuance of the
accursed der-rink traffic. Your prohibitionist
would be a most disappointed person were he
suddenly taken at his word, Then he’d have
nothing left to rant about.
A Sydney railway item :
Ed. B.—Until recently, railway-tickets, including tram
to Sans Souci, were only issued at Sydney ; coming from
Sans Souci to Sydney, the tram-fare 'had to be paid and a
railway-ticket procured at Kogarah, thus causing incon-
venience to passengers, who might have little time to
spare. To rectify this some official genius has designed a
wondrous return-ticket—to be issued bv the tram-guard—
which seems to be specially planned for the discomfiture
Of the said unhappy official. It is 4in. by 3in., and is
divided into numerous columns, setting forth date,
stations, and fare, having opposite them circles l-16in. iu
dia. The guard has to work through a crowded tram,
rocking like a ship at sea, and, after delivering a ticket,
receiving payment, and giving change, has to punch
from six to seven holes in the ticket, exactly upon the
aforesaid microscopic circles ; and, if he punches a wrong
hole, the ticket is void ! All this, too, has to be done
during a journey of little over lOmin. duration. Another
curiosity of the ticket is that it is dated up to 1903 !
J.A.O.
“ Gunner ” to The Bulletin :
Re Hobart Mercury’s rule of war (B. 2/3/’01) which
“ allows the slaughter of those who defend a position that
is clearly untenable.” Where is the rule to be found;
and who is to decide beforehand whether a position is or
is not tenable ? The muddled Mercury was probably
thinking of an old rule of international law to the effect
that if a fortress is taken by storm—after a practicable
breach has been made in the ramparts, and reasonable
terms of surrender have been refused—the garrison may
be slaughtered. The rule has been obsolete for 150 years.
To enforce it, it had to be mathematically proved to an
obstinate Governor that the breach was practicable, and
then he could haggle for a week over theterms of surrender.
Wellington, irritated by Philippon’s tough defence of
Badajos, threatened to revive this rule, but he thought
better of it. As for “the defence of an open town”
being “ pure madness,” Plevna was an open town, yet
Osman Pasha defended it successfully for months.
General Schaw—not unknown in Australia—compiled a
text-book in which 36 out of 126 pages are devoted to the
defence of houses, towns, and villages—“ pure madness 1 ”
In the Chateaudun case the Germans assert that the Franes-
Tireurs had to be killed because they would neither sur-
render nor flee, and that the place caught fire by acci-
dent. The Mercury has made an ass of itself.


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
g One Bottle Made the Cure.
One borne iviauc
Ayer’s Ssirssip&rillJi
\
i
m
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograph.
from which the above illustration was made. He is known as the -father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
“I consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many years. I was asked to try Dr. Ayer ® ® a r s^ a rnla ana so
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt the slightest return oi
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of it in the house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Beipg a series of articles reprinted
fronj “Tbe BGlletiij,” witb aij
appendix dgalipg Witb tbe Fiscal
QGgStioQ.
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
dsf
PLAIN NOMe TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post-free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
T.ovk and Parentage: 8d posted.
'Modern Etiquette— -Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is fid posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aus'r. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
JHow to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, bv Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover's Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of LONDON Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most.of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Worth a Guinea a Box
gEECHAM’S
PILLS
Unrivalled for the Complexion,
£CH AJU
<>
&
PATENT
PIL<L*S
iflD
IS
3PRICE
W ill® Prapiiiw
HELENS
ST
KNCLAND
XANCASHIM
ds
AND WILL BEING
The BLUSH of HEALTH
To PALLID CHEEKS.
Are SPECIALLY SUITABLE
for the DISEASES and AIL-
MENTS common to FEMALES
of all Ages.
Sold Everywhere, In Boxes, 1/1i (56 Pills) and 2/9 each.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Beecham’s TOOTH PASTE
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is Efficacious, Economical. Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes
the Breath, and is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
Jn Collapsible Tubes, ONE SHILLING each.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
lilt
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tne Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSj
MAGNESIA,
WWWM.
m
1 1
■
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORiyS MAGNESIA.
fd
sf
IRISH MOSS
FOR
The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonrung ton’s
and seetkatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA,^


Asbestos Boiler Covering
SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 75., 95., 10s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165., 18s. cwt.
ESTIMATES given for Covering Boilers and Steam Pipes.
Our Asbestos Boiler Covering
"few SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Telephones: 418, 467._^
208-270 George St,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELItCTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
SG Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE
WORTHINGTON
.... IS THE ORIGINAL ....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
r -TaAgY* s -
apV>;c(ir ■ ♦•. .;
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
HAVE STOCKS OF MATERIAL & FURNISHINGS
for MINING and engineering.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
PUMPS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
DEPOTS IK SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, 600LGARDIE.
@0
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 y o.i ik stiu;i;t. Sydney
(Opp. Centenary Hal!).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
CEORCE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Day.
LUNCHEON
12 o’clock till 2.30..
-■m os'-
fDINNER, TEA
(_ 5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.W. FRESH
& Ice Co. Ltd
IFiSh and Gam©, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company; proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
3r Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are' conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in A.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers.
H. FATESON, Manager.
dsf
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stock of all Sizes ....
Write for Samples and Particulars,
ds
&
M
fdsf
MINING ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY. STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS for
Knowles Pumps, Ingersoil Kock Drills and Air Compressors,
Gates Bockbreakers, Magle Engines and Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, etc-, etc.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
e.,> « p .
'x.:‘3.'yn i.. v-> if
Mtm
dƒd
|g|
iltwr w
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bounce st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
- " 11 " 1 . mi " 1 /
So,e £? ents J- A. FAY $k CO.’S Woodworking 1 Machinery.
Largest Stock of Woodworking Machines in Australasia.
Baud Saw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning 1 Machines
Sandpapering 1 Machines
Planing and Moulding Machines
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
upplies and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and ASS Other Woodworking Machinery.
fd
