

ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY
IRROY’S CHAMPA*
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
■■
niij
■
Over 2700 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at worst
WINE !
WINE!
_WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINEA&>
rust Rail a.
523~ Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant k Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
iSON, BATTLE & C°"» Pitt Street,
SOLE AGENTS FOE
BROADBENT
DIRECT
steam drive
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
lillf
ufc the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laund
sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STO
'
That’s All!
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
JSb CO. Xat;c3L., ®y«fl:n.ey.
h
ECOEtART.
Hadleys Qrient Hotel.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite jst.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF £or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week. !
RESERVE EXTEA. RESERVE SPECIAL RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, SSSrjZHSrZSSr.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, S/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-, Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send 1 Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Paimer-st. ,
Sidney. Cable trams will stop, at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
PIONEER
LEATHER
PBELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively; by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUOOWSCI & SON, LTD.,
117 fork-street, SYDHEY.
BranchesP. Frankel & Qo., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh arid
00., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st-., Christchurch, N.Z,
T?AIB GTRLS AND GRAY HORSES,
Ju 2nd Edition. Price Mi,
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR ” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARKE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
OTARD-DU PU Y
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
■KSH— __ J
USE
W
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
Price ©s.
Post Free.
JJ
“By Steele Rudd.
a
What Price WATERBURY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
What Quality WATERBURY Watches ?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarandon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. -^CMERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Etdiswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN-
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EOT a SWAM
United Electric Light
Co.; Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-stroet.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edwardrst., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0.- 1122 j
rSaturday, August 17, 1901.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


* uaoie, July 26, 1901.
t Report to the Committee of the Distress Fund for
boutn African Women and Children, by Emily Hobhouse
London, 1901. ' ’
t I remarked, “But surely that report about eating
horseflesh .Wasn’t a deliberate lie ?—and when a garrison
.arets down to that things must be at a low ebb.” “ Oh
yes,” replied a trooper, “ we had a go at the horses ; but’
bless you, there were herds of cattle grazing on the flat
here all the time !” “Then why, in the name of all
thats foolish, did you do it?” I asked naturally.
Orders, ’ lie replied, with a charmingly expressive
shrug. As a in itter of fact, about the only article thev
really feit the want of badly was good flour, and that was
only towards the end.—Berth Morning Herald corres-
pondent at Mafeking, Oct., I960.
The whole of the Mafeking business was a “ frost ” I
was for iour months in the neighbourhood with Pluiiier’s
force, and Plumer was so anxious about the condition of the
besieged, he was so Certain that thev were starving that
he economised Ilia own provisions, and for months before
the relief we were on a biscuit a day and half-rations When
Mafeking was relieved it turned out that Baden-Powell
had provisions for a year, and there had been no want
Plumer was awfully mad. Be sent a few waggons of food
and stores into the town just for appearance sake, and
to make a show for the paper-men ; hut he was awfully
wild.—M.L. trooper in Loud. Morning Leader, quoted by
Sydney Telegraph, duly, 1901. •
(And Sydney noodles, on the faith of plainly-lying
tables, solemnly subscribed sev eral hundred pounds and
presented horses and a sword of honour (!) to the bogus
hero of the bogus siege—-which included “ the night sortie
from Mafeking, in which no single Boer was killed, though
the most blood-curdling details of hand-to-hand slaughter
were vouched for by the garrison.”—Lond. Timeu corres-
pondent, Sept. 14, 1900.)
* The poverty here is really appalling. You can buy a
woman for a tin of jam, and many good women have been
reduced to sell their virtue to feed their children. These
are Dutch women whose husbands are in Ceylon or else-
where.-Trooper with Brabant’s Horse, in Barrier Truth
(NIS.YV.), Maroh’ls,l9ol.
The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Yincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. %* “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Tlie Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *»* Australia’s best bock of sea
and sailor verse.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OB POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE .
U.R.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It is hereby notified for information
that unless the men at present on com-
mando belonging to families in the town
and district of Krugersdorp surrender
themselves, and hand in their arms to
the Imperial authorities by July 20,
the whole of their property will be
confiscated, AND "THEIR, FAMILIES
TURNED OUT DESTITUTE AND
HOMELESS.
By Order,
G. H. M. RITCHIE,
Captain K. HORSE,
Krugersdorp, Dist. Sup. Police.
July 9, 1900.
SO low has Britain sunk ! True ; the
notice was cancelled a week later, by
another and similar notice which
omits the last and worst clause. But
who doubts that the clause was enforced ?
During the year since passed the African war
has been essentially a war against women
and children. British soldiers have become
farm-burners, house-looters, home-wreckers;
and almost the whole non-combatant popu-
lation of the Transvaal and the Orange Free
State has been herded and hustled and
driven into guarded camps; with the result
that 14,561 men, 27,573 women, and 42,599
children were being fed by the British in
June*—fed miserably, but fed lest even the
British conscience be roused by the atrocity
of the war. This system of concentrating a
desperate population has now been estab-
lished for nearly a year; and its results
are deadly indeed. If the object were
the utter extermination of the Boer
race—man, woman, and child—a better
method could hardly have been devised with
any pretence of civilised conduct to disguise
its horrors. In some of the early camps
women and children died like flies. At
Bloemfontein camp the death-rate in the
early months of this year was at the rate of
250 per 1000 per annum, t (The normal
Australasian death-rate is 12 per 1000 per
annum.) Even in June, when the manage-
ment of the camps had possibly improved,
the official return admitted a death-rate of
95 per 1000 per annum. How could it be
less ? When Miss Hobhouse, under per-
mit from Milner and Kitchener, visited
the O.F.S. Cape Colony camps, she
found the women and children sleeping on
the ground, without proper clothes, without
suitable or sufficient food, without sufficient
fuel even for cooking; for the most part
huddled in tents, with sometimes as many as
10 or 12 persons in a tent; without proper
medical attendance; without milk enough
for even the youngest children. No wonder
she writes :
I oall this camp-system a wholesale cruelty. It
can never be wiped out of the memories of the
people. It presses hardest on the children. They
droop in the terrible heat, and with the insuffi-
cient, unsuitable food; whatever you do, what-
ever the authorities do, and they are, I believe,
doing their best with very limited means, it is all
only a miserable patch upon a great ill. Thousands,
physically unfit, are placed in conditions of life
which they have not strength to endure. In front
of them is blank ruin. There are cases, too, in
which whole families are severed and scattered
they don’t know where.
And the daily ration allowed when Miaa
Hobhouse saw the camps was this—
Meat, |lb. (with bone and fat)
Coffee, 2oz.
Wholemeal, fib.
Condensed milk, one-twelfth of tin.
Sugar, 2oz.
Salt, |oz.
No more. Of the quality of the rations,
often condemned by Miss Hobhouse, there
is a hint in the report by Dr. Johnson regard-
ing the Johannesburg ration (printed in
Loud. Daily JSiews last April), where he
declares samples of meal mouldy, and sugar
unfit for children, tending to cause diarrhoea.
In only one camp—Mafeking—could Miss
Hobhouse say a good word for the food—
The rations are better than in any other camp,
accidental!'>/ > long a story to dilate upon m
this short letter. £
From the contaminated source of their
-London cable-agency, itself dependent on
“news” doctored or invented by the
Rhodesian press-gang, and further revised
by a British military censor, the Australian
daily press received this message, printed
June 22 last— *
London, Friday.—There are now twelve Boer
rerugee, or concentration camps, besides nine for
natives, in the Orange River Colony, requiring
weekly importations of 88 tons of food-stuffs.
, " e average mortality is at the rate of 116 per
thousand per annum. The high rate is largely a
result of Boer disregard for sanitation, and the
jioer women s neglect of their children.
No more despicable lie was ever uttbred or
printed. It was a lie on the face of it. Left
to themselves, the Boers are notoriously one
of the healthiest and longest-lived races on
earth. But when thousands of women and
children are driven from their homes, wire-
fenced in collections of crowded tents, left
to sleep on the ground without proper food,
without sufficient fuel, without adequate
nursing or medical provision and convenience,
what can you expect but wholesale disease
and death ? And to say that Boer women
neglect their children ! —why, a hundred
testimonies prove family affection a chief
Boer characteristic. Let Miss Hobhouse, as
an eye-witness, tell what is meant by “ Boer
disregard of sanitation.” She writes, on
June 1, 1900, from Bloemfontein, capital of
the 0.F.5., where the camp was dumped
down two miles from the town on the bare
veldt-
£ reat blunder was made by bringing an extra
people into Bloemfontein camp, already
known to be unhealthy and full of fever.
Among the things pressing hardest, and which
tend to undermine the health and constitutions of
the women, are the following :
Lack of Fuel.—lmagine three small sticks of
W °cn * nc^es l°ug, or small stony coal enough
to fill the well of a soup-plate, for daily cooking.
-*• be weekly baking becomes almost impossible,
and often the meat cannot be cooked, and the
bread is sodden because underbaked. . . .
Lack of Beds and Mattresses.—Only a few have
beds or mattresses—the great majority lie on the
ground. Even if each tent had a bed, it would
not accommodate more than one or two Inhabi-
tants of the tent. Meanwhile, the damp of the
ground, the occasional streams of rain that run
through, the draughty night air coming beneath
the nap of the tent, combine to lower the health
of the children and to kill them off in convalescent
and delicate stages.
Lack of Soap.—This necessary was not given in
any camp. After much urging and requisitioning,
a very occasional and quite insufficient quantity is
now doled out.
Diet.—The food is monotonous, and does not
suit children. Some vegetable diet is greatly
needed. It presses hard when the meat (as often)
is maggotty, and the coffee coppery and undrink-
able.
Water. —In Bloemfontein the supply is in-
sufficient, and it is also bad. The clothes of thou-
sands have for months been washed in a small
dam of stagnant water only occasionally freshened
by rain. It is foul. Many other camps need
wash-houses.
Overcrowding. . , .
Scarcity of clothing. . . .
Sanitary Accommodation.—This is very in-
adequate to the number of people. They are
separate for men and women, but otherwise wholly
without privacy, open to the sun and rain. Where
'properly looked after by the authorities all is sweet
and clean, but elsewhere, notably Bloemfontein, the
effluvia is terrible, making it impossible to
approach within fifty yards, unless with nose and
mouth tied up. The effluvia reaching one side of
the camp makes those tents at times unbearable,
and has resulted in tonsilitis and various throat
troubles. The people feel these places a terrible
degradation.
And these people are nominally British
subjects—their country annexed a year ago !
Now half the nation is taken captive, forced
into unhealthy camps, fed on bad food, un-
provided with beds and clothing, deprived of
a sufficiency of water and fuel, and then
charged—helpless as they are—with disre-
garding sanitation and neglecting children,
because they naturally die (i.e., are mur-
dered) in the circumstances. What mon-
strosity of meanness and patriotic ” malice !
So low has Britain fallen.
Such war on women and children has
never before been made by ,a nation calling
itself civilised. Even Weyler, in Cuba, was
not more cruel. Even the atrocities in
China were not more cruel. Chinese men
and women were murdered or ravished, but
the children were left to live in their homes.
What practical difference is there between
murder and rape outright, and murder of
children by certain disease, rape of women
by inevitable dishonour when they are forced
to sell themselves to gain bread.*
Ala guerre comme ala guerre ! Yes ; but
make war on men, not on women, not on
children. Kill the men ; kill the youths ;
choke the last cry for Liberty in the throat
of tiie last Boer patriot -but surely this
slaughter of weaklings must make every
honest Englishman blush for his country.
It is no use declaring that the women
sheltered fighters, or that they are collected
for protection ; —the war has gone past that.
Kitchener has beer, for months burning
farms and wrecking towns away from railway
lines, away from districts where the Boers
are recruiting,—with the deliberate inten-
tion of stabbing the Boers through their
wives and children. What other motive
is open 1 Many of the herded women have
friends in Cape Colony : they are not allowed
to go to them ; they are not allowed, though
“ British subjects,” to live freely in town-
ships under British rule and distant from
the scene of war ; —they are kept prisoners in
order that anxiety on their behalf may induce
their husbands and fathers to lay down their
arms. What foolish miscalculation ! As if
this worst outrage of the war would not
madden the Boers to fight till death.
Yet British and Australians, forsooth !
must acquiesce in this barbarous method of
warfare because it is necessary to “ see the
thing through” to “save the Empire.”
History may yet show that the very worst
foes of the British Empire are those within its
own borders who have abetted the schemes of
Rhodes and Chamberlain, and shrieked or
sat silent while the two brave little Republics
were being throttled out of existence. _ His-
tory may yet show that the very worst foes
of the British Empire are those who clamour
to extend its huge territory at any cost of
peace or justice, at any risk of lighting
world-wide hatred, at any risk of destroying
all that the British Empire has gained from
the past. Even now it is being brought home
to the average Briton that the wisdom in this
matter lay with men like Spencer, Bryce, and
Morley, and folly with the Jingo Govern-
ment. Besides the immense cost of the war
in money and lives, it has cost the apparently
eternal alienation of the Dutch in Africa ;
it has intensified the European hatred of
Britain ; and, in its aims and its conduct, it
has permanently lowered British national
reputation and character.
These are the points stressed by John M.
Robertson in e his book, “ Wrecking the Em-
pire,” recently published in London by
Grant Richards. This book collects a series
of letters written from Africa; and, as a
book, it should have been systematised and
re-written. Apparently publication was
hurried to secure the effect of a party pam-
phlet ; for the book is chiefly partisan— i.e.,
it is the book of a man who has taken his
side, and who gives attention more especially
to the facts supporting that side. It is a
book of details and incidents, with prin-
ciples taken for granted or justified in-
cidentally ; and the writer’s temper is rather
advocate’s than judge’s. That Robertson’s
view is probably right, and his matter appar-
ently correct, makes no difference to this
summary of his attitude. And he points
out very truly that—
The procedure of martial law was sufficiently
well-fitted to destroy the allegiance of the Dutch
in our own colonies; the policy of universal de-
struction in the Republics, involving the utter
misery of many thousands of women and chil-
dren, is fitted to build up through Dutch South
Africa a passionate • unity of racial antagonism
to everything English, such as never could
have been accomplished by the most zeal-
ous Dutch propaganda, if such propaganda
should have been attempted. This is Em-
pire-wrecking par excellence. . . . We are com-
mitted to a task of destruction such as Eng-
land has not put her hand to, I think, for three
hundred years. A people which will not yield is
to be fought until there are no adult males left in
the field to fight; and then we are to undertake to
prepare the remnant and their children to be
“colonists” under the British flag. It is the
most insane political undertaking of modem times
—far more insane than the determination of
George 111 to conquer the American colonies;
for there was a large loyalist population, whereas
in the two Republics there are certainly not a
thousand Dutch who would raise a finger for the
British flag; and in the two colonies, in all likeli-
hood, there will soon be no more.
That is a sound judgment soundly ex-
pressed. England is sowing the wind to
reap the whirlwind ; and her worst foes at
this day are those unintelligent “ patriots ”
who shriek detestation of the Boer, and are
prepared to go any lengths in support of the
Ministry which made the war. It will be
History’s revenge to show that the true, the
only patriots in England at this day are
those who continuously have warned the
nation that persistence in extolling private
greed and public injustice have opened,
what Bismarck prophesied, the grave of the
British Empire in Africa.
There is no reference to Australia in
Robertson’s book, which is recommended to
all desirous of learning the real facts of the
war—of which so little can be learnt in this
country from the daily press misled by corres-
pondence from tainted sources. But we
already know that many Australians lured
away in the contingents are thoroughly sick
and ashamed of their ignoble task ; and we
have heard their testimony that the Boers
are a race valiant and honourable, not
less worthy of respect than any race on
earth. Indeed, they are now attesting with
their lives the words of a great Englishman
at a heroic period of England’s history—that
Pitt who, when the Jingoes of a century ago
were bringing calamity on the Empire, de-
clared in the House of Lords : “If I were
an American as I am an Englishman, while
a foreign troop was landed in my country, I
never would lay down my arms—never,
never, never ! ”
It is no wonder that Europe stands amazed
at the desperate resistance of the Boers to
overwhelming force. The world’s history
can show no more glorious defiance for the
sake of Country and Liberty. Those grey-
beard fathers and stripling sons who died
together in the trenches to beat back foreign
arms have become as immortal as the Spar-
tan band whom Leonidas led, or the little
band of Texans who perished in the Alamo.
Their courage will nerve hearts and
strengthen arms for many a century to come •
wherever Freedom is prized men will take
hats off and speak of them proudly—and
humbly. They have proved themselves
worthy of their Dutch forefathers—the men
who resisted Spain on land more signally and
more tenaciously than England resisted her
at sea. And now it is England who plays
Spain’s part, and at the height of empire
attacks Liberty for the sake of greed and
aggrandisement. Absit omen !
THE BOOKFELIiOW.
»
TO A FOILED REVOLTED OR REVOLTRESS.
Courage! my brother or my sister!
Keep on! Liberty is to be subserved, whatever
occurs !
That is nothing that is quelled by one or two
failures, or any number of failures,
Or by the indifference or ingratitude of the people, or
by any unfaithfulness,
Or the show of the tushes of power , soldiers, cannon,
penal statutes.
What we believe in waits latent for ever through all
the continents, and all the islands and archi-
pelagoes of the sea.
What we believe in invites no one, promises nothing,
sits in calmness and light, is positive and com-
posed, knows no discouragement,
Waiting patiently, waiting its time.
The battle rages with many a loud alarm, and fre-
quent advance and retreat,
The infidel triumphs—or supposes he triumphs,
The prison, scaffold, garrote, handcuffs, iron neck-
lace and anklet, lead-balls, do their work,
The named and unnamed heroes pass to other
spheres,
The great speakers and writers are exiled^—they lie
sick in distant lands,
The cause is asleep—the strongest throats are still,
choked with their own blood.
The young men drop their eyelashes toward the
ground when they meet;
But, for all this, Liberty has not gone out of the
place, nor the infidel entered into possession.
When Liberty goes out of a place, it is not the first
to go, nor the second or third to go,
It waits for all the rest to go—is is the last.
When there are no more memories of heroes and
martyrs,
And when all life and all the souls of men and
women are discharged from any part of the
earth,
Then only shall Liberty be discharged from that part
of the earth,
And the infidel and the tyrant come into possession
Then courage ! revolter / revoltress /
For till all ceases neither must you cease.
Ido not know what you are for, (I do not know
what lam for myself, nor what anything-is for,)
But I will search carefully for it even in being
foiled,
In defeat, poverty, imprisonment— for they too are
great. , f
Did we think victory great t
So it is—But now it seems to me, when it cannot be
helped, that defeat is great,
And that death and dismay are great.
WALT WHITMAN.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL:
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.
the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAT BILLS sent on application.
£ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
nrvNTOTyh'AR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
't'
d>
tp
OLD
RMS
w>
fing
CH
DS
&.C
4>/V£
s
Y
P &op
"•etors „
gsd
CONCERTINAS
and £Q LAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Etta.
mo.
(Original
Jnveutora l
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE & Co.
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Priceflists.
MOTOR CARS.
For Business or or Gasoline.
TS7E have the LARGEST DISPLAY of Motor Vehicles
” of all types in Australia. The Public are Specially
Invited to visit our SHOWROOMS and inspect our
magnificent display of Motor Vehicles.
The WOODS is constructed on the Electric, and the
WINTON on the Gasoline principle.
Acknowledged to be the Standard Cars of the World,
ea’ WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
The Woods &Winton Automobile Cos.
(of America),
22 &. 24 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
GENTS.''*
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
HAVE THE
BEST.
m i
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-vly cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel
securdy interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will ho
securely all kinds of Stock.
it
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
S 5» <?
*0
5800
6807
5808
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUARANTEE.-ShouHl any of“
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOHT.
Solo Olxarge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
For more than Twenty Years
HAS
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
DEMONSTRATED ITS WONDERFUL POWER TO CURE ALL
DISEASES of the KIDNEYS
LIVER.—-
The Principal Diseases arising from a deranged Condition of the Kidneys and Liver are.
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Rheumatism
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Bright’s Disease
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Anaemia
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
WARNER’S SAFE CURE speedily and permanently cures all these . It attacks the root of the
disease by making the Kidneys and Liver healthy. When the Kidneys and Liver are working properly the
poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed naturally, and all the above disorders are
consequently cured.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ATT.,
Please allot me.
jshares in the above.
Name.
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ATT.
Please allot me nharM in the above.
Name
Address
£ • •
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me.
-shares in above.
Name
Address.
• s
Demonstration EL Oct. 1
50,000 Subscribe** at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me uTmiwi in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALU
j?
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
£
Nmtm
Address.
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me_
Name
=*= * »
Address.
.shares in above.
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
at &
To TAfSPBRSALL
Please Allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address.
Melbourne C. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shams in the above.
\
Name
Address
jjFor full particulars read our Printed Circular.
If, . • ... r ■ ' ~
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


(EmiiSIOHJ
hypophosphots^'
Cures Coughs
BUILDS UP THE SYSTEM.
IT is foolish to rely upon ordinary cough
mixtures for the cure of a really
troublesome cough. These mixtures
usually contain opiates that soothe and
quiet the cough temporarily, hut do not
cure it. They also frequently disturb
digestion and thus do more harm than
good. What is needed is a remedy that
while having a soothing and healing effect
upon the mucous membrane of the lungs
and air passages, will at the same time
promote appetite, aid digestion, and build
up the health and strength, putting the
system in a condition to resist disease.
Nothing is equal to Angler’s Petroleum
Emulsion for accomplishing this result,
and we are constantly receiving reports
from all over the English speaking world,
showing its remarkable power to relieve
and cure coughs and colds and all chronic
lung affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mention Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists <fc Drug Stores.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY, N.B.W.
gsd
If you stop eating you
will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
o
PMR.OT
Br^nd’
SNof JLVIIWJI
jo
pt Solo) Svooq)
SatfpoM Stiw'XtfS
«ITO
•'<
ladies.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addrbm— 300 Collin® St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPE
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSh per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ic SONS. Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!? Wtittoai ProVidcQt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROFEBT
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS comDineu
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
gsd
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108'
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
it®* Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired Dy
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYE’RS
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
fir
Sf
m
f Hu in
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Philp&Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO
In Three Strengths: MILD, MEDIUM, FULL,
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
V
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“ARDATH "
The Healthiest Tobacco I
Name of Dearest Agent post free on application to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors :l La Casa de la Habana & “ Ardath ” Factory
Manufacturers of Pure Tobacco, 62, Leaden hall street, London, England.
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office l— 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
.S.'W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Manf. Company
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
(close to Redfern Railway station).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any descnQLon of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Sprmg Sulkies, £7;
3-Sprint Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, til.
Double’Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
w
Delivered at any Wharf «r-
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Laugh, let us Laugh.”
Laugh ! let us laugh,
To-day, to-day.
Mock laws, break straws,
To-day, to-day.
Let us keep faith endlessly,
Let us face death friendlessly,
Just you and I,
To-day—and alway.
Weep ! let us weep,
To-day, to-day.
So brief is grief,
Even grief won’t stay.
Let us grieve with heavy heart,
Let us ween as though to part,
Just you and I,
To-day—and alway.
Love ! let us love,
To-day, to-day.
Wild, w ;i d, my child,
To-day, to-day,
Let us love, child, shockingly,
Laugh, mock, love mockingly,
Or love like sad death,
To-day—and alway.
LOUISE MACK.
Sheelah—A Song.
When Sheelah in the morning
Comes down the way,
It needs no more adorning
To make it gay ;
The stones upon the street,
Sure they kiss her feet.”
She dresses all in green,
And that’s no sin ;
And she wears like any Queen
What she stands in.
If she had not a shawl—
Sure Sheelah’s under all.
She looks at me so shyly
With dark-grey eyes j
She looks at me so slyly
In sweet surprise;
And, when she passes on,
My heart she treads upon.
The world is full of girls,
Men say to me ;
The sea is full of pearls,
My pearl is she ;
Though other pearls there be,
She is the pearl for me.
When Sheelah, some fine morning,
Walks down the way,
She ’ll vanish without warning,
And what will I say ?
I’ll say : “O Saints, be true !
Sheelah, is it you ? ”
O Sheelah, Sheelah,
Sheelah, Gframachree!
In all the world of girls
She’s the one girl for me.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Old Land.
I gave my hand when the birds built—
For life, come gain or loss—
To the keeping true of a strong man,
In the land of the Southern Cross.
My dear ones all are bold and free
Within its wide sea-walls;
Yet there are times when far bells ring,
And a fading echo calls.
0, far land 1 foregone land, I never more may see,
Until I cross in the phantom ship that sets vain
longings free.
The grey spire of the minster-tower,
The dog-rose in the hedge,
The poppies red ’mid yellow corn,
The lark’s nest in the sedge ;
The dim-lit haunts of busy men,
By feet of centuries worn
My heart is fainting, yearning still,
For the land where I was born.
O, far land ! 0, dear land, I never more may see,
Until I cross in the phantom ship that sets vain
longings free.
Australia ! land of generous pulse,
I loved thee as my own :
The Queen of all the Southern Seas
Upon thy grey Bush throne ;
The sons I bore will serve thee well—
They knew no other love ;
But my worn heart beats to and fro
As to the Ark the dove.
O far land 1 Omy land, I never more may see
Until I sail in the phantom ship that sets vain
longings free.
N.S.W.
JOHN CAREW.
Reading a moral in the Conway case,
M.L. Govt, has just issued stringent regulations
under the Sale of Poisons Act. Anyone buying
strychnine or arsenic has not only to give his name
and address and the purpose for which the poison
is bought, but must also state where it is to be
kept and when and where it is to be used.


GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin's Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall machines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
PURE I [DCS CMPM! DTD.
60 C!arence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling: Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
A. BOWMAN’S
Yoir Can Havh
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
IVo
Better
Made.
gsd
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST.. near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
Unique Novelty.
AUSTRALIAN FLAG
PENDANT.
Finest Enamel on
French Metal, 2s 6d ;
on Sterling Silver, 3s.
Solid Gold
Kangaroo
Pendant, 12s 6d.
Extra Heavy,
Perfect Model.
Solid Gold Lucky Pig Charm,
7s 6d ; smaller, 4s and 5s ;
with pin and chain, 3s extra.
Solid Gold
Emu Pendant
12s 6d.
Extra Heavy,
Perfect Model.
Our Registered
AUSTRALIA PENDANT.
Solid Silver, 3s.
Gold, 13s 6d.
BROOCH—
Solid Silver, 3s 6d.
Gold, 13s 6d.
HAT PINS—
Solid Silver, 3s.
Gold, 13s 6d.
Art
Jewellers.
&c..
Please, send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
g
Kmc ST I
Sydney.
All Goods
Forwarded
Post Free.
If
ON OUR SELECTION," by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
RRANDY
For
Uniform
Quality
Absolute
Purity
Excellent
Flavor
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Stands alone.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND,
sdg
sdg
m.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
N$
FOOD
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS
MELLIN’S FOOD yields a complete diet for tlie youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritious diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOUJN & Co.,’ 172, Clarence StV-et. Svdney, 562 4, Bourke
Street. Melbourne, Grenfell street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin's Food Company for Australia and New Zealand J,td.. 56. C ntion Street. T,ondo*i.
MELLIN’S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & 00., 172 Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
► A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
I THE
[OUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL! —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U“l"S and * n no other
way) and Is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
'C. L. nAUTHAWAY &> SONS,
BOSTON, MASS
U. S. A.
SKINS
Send Youe Consignments op
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d; Posted Bd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1122.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1001.
Price 6d.
- T'
W 'V
(tt> rwa “; .
L «~ ffi^)
v-'
w
WILL THE DRY DOG GET WET AT LAST?
“The Freetraders demanded now that there must be no trifling with this great question. Rather than that,” he continued, while cheers rang through the great hall, “I would see another appeal to
the people. If it cannot be settled now so as to reflect accurately the voice of the people, it would be infinitely better that members should go back to their constituencies, so that, with a specific tarff
before tern, they could register the national voice upon it.” —G. H. Reid at Melbourne Freetrade dinner.
G.H.R. (to country voters): “NOW, ALL IN FAVOR OF THROWING HIM IN HOLD UP YOUR RIGHT HANDS!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William MACLEOD, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 id. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — \fd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xn® Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and of]. Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in JtlaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Corn hill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
ffit^ZtheZZdtvn,.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1901.
The Anti-Alien Bill.
The Federal Government has introduced its
Immigration Restriction Bill, and Bruce
Smith, M.H.R., describes it as a “hypo-
crisy.” In that respect there is an unusual
correctness about Bruce Smith, M.H.R.
The Immigration Restriction Bill is rather
more than a plain hypocrisy ; it almost rises
to the dignity of a lie. At the same time it
is a lie forced on us by Joseph Chamberlain
and the British Ministry generally ; and the
man who has any large dealings with Joseph
Chamberlain must lie or be a hypocrite—
or else get left. The object of the immigra-
tion Restriction Bill is to keep out paupers,
diseased persons, and, above all, 800,000,000
closely adjacent niggers with whom the
white Australian can’t intermarry or associate
without lowering the national type. Every
one knows this : but in order to satisfy a
ridiculously hypocritical pretence that no-
body wants to maintain the purity of the
Anglo-Saxon type, and that the race which
considers itself the best and strongest and
most intellectual on this earth isn’t worth
preserving in a pure state, the persons barred
out by the Federal Immigration Restriction
Bill are mainly these :
Any person likely, in the opinion of the Minister or of
an officer to become a charge upon the public, or upon
any public or charitable institution.
Any idiot or insane person.
Any person suffering from an infectious or contagious
disease of a loathsome or dangerous character.
Any person who, when asked to do so by an officer.
FAILS TO WRITE OUT AND SIGN IN THE PRESENCE OF THE OFFICER
A PASSAGE OF FIFTY WORDS IN LENGTH IN THE ENGLISH LAN-
GUAGE, DICTATED BY THE OFFICER.
* » * •
Of course, it is not intended to apply this
test indiscriminately. If every immigrant was
required to write out with reasonable cor-
rectness a difficult passage from an English
author, half the British arrivals, and almost
all the Germans and Scandinavians and
other peoples of Continental Europe, would
be shut out equally with the Kanaka and the
Chinaman. The Hindoo would get through
just about as frequently as the Frenchman
and the Italian, and the Act would rain alike
on the desirable and the undesirable. So
the Bill does not, apparently, make the test
quite compulsory. The immigrant who
can’t write out the passage in ques-
tion, when ashed to do so by an officer
shall be an ejected person ; but it isn’t
set forth that the officer must ask him to do
so. The apparent idea is that the authori-
ties will ask the man they want to keep out,
and the man they want to let in won’t be
asked. And the difficulty of the passage
will probably be proportioned to the intensity
of the desire to keep the immigrant out ; the
most undesirable man will get the longest
polysyllables. It appears to be a law which
will work well so long as the people keep an
anti-nigger Government in power, with a
strong anti-nigger majority behind it, and
keep a sleepless eye on both of them. Of
course, this can’t be avoided. A measure of
such a kind, if applied automatically, would
bar out the bulk of our desirable European
immigrants. The only way is to make it
strong enough to bar out almost everybody
when applied, to leave such scope that
it may be applied or not, at the
discretion of the people in authority,
and then to make sure, by perpetual
vigilance, that the right people are in
authority, and that the law is applied in the
right place. Some of the best of the Aus-
tralian population consists of well-educated
German, Scandinavian, and Danish immi-
grants, and if they had been confronted on
arrival with a long passage from Macaulay
with “ transubstantiation ” in it, read to
them hurriedly by an unintelligent officer
with a powerful Aberdeen or cockney or
Cork accent, they would have trooped
almost unanimously back to their respective
Fatherlands.
* • * *
It is announced, apparently on official
authority, that the British Government will
assent to this kind of Bill, and will not
assent to any other kind—at least, not with-
out enormously lengthy argument. The
brown and black and yellow Powers would
be offended if their people were shut out
because they are black and brown and yellow,
and Britain, it appears, can no longer afford
to offend the varied niggers of the globe
with its old aggressive courage. Of course,
the black and brown and yellow Powers
know well enough that the educational test
is intended, arid will be used, to bar out
their subjects and for no other purpose.
They know that their subjects are to be
barred out simply because they are people
with whom Europeans, can’t inter-marry
without doing irreparable damage to their
racial type, and without becoming akin to
the mongrel breeds of the Levant and the
Asiatic ports, whom the Anglo-Saxon regards
with such unutterable scorn. Also because
they are cheap toilers, content to live under
conditions which lower our aggregate civili-
sation. And, further, because Australia
isn’t large enough to lift Asia to its own
ideals, even if Asia wanted to be lifted, which,
being quite content with its own ideals, it
doesn’t, and even if Australia was in the
lifting business, which it isn’t. And Aus-
tralia knows all these things also. Likewise
Britain knows them. But by a process of
mutual hypocrisy it is to be understood that
none of these parties know anything.
In fact, it is to be understood by all concerned
that the only question at issue is the preser-
vation of the British spelling and punctuation
in all its natural beauty, and that Australia
considers it essential to bar out the person
whose commas are mixed and whose semi-
colons are unreliable. The tacit agreement
is that there is no awful example before us
in the shape of the color trouble in the
Southern United States, and any ill-feeling
that exists there arises solely through the
inability of the negro population to correctly
write out extracts from the masterpieces of
American literature. It is understood that
the European type is not worth preserving ;
and the European civilisation doesn’t matter,
and if the traditions of the Anglo-Saxon
race are lost in a general mongrelising
process it is a thing of no conse-
quence. The Eurasian is quite a de-
sirable person ; and the idea that the Briton
treats the “ nigger ” and the half-breed with
any degree of scorn, and doesn’t look on the
black man as his equaJ, is all a mistake. All
the teachings of science and experience may
go to show that a black-and-white community,
divided against itself by a color-line, is a
a failure, and a black-and-white community
which loses its color line and becomes a
mongrel is a worse failure ; but the fact must
not be mentioned. The British Government
insists on preserving appearances in the
matter, regardless of the fact that appear-
ances deceive no one, and that they would
be a most disreputable set of appearances
if they were preserved. In the plenitude of
its wisdom it says that if Australia pretends
to be so unspeakable a fool as not to know
the value of its white status it may preserve
its white status by underhand means. As
the British Government is master of the
situation it is probably as well to follow the
line of least resistance and let it have its
way.
* * * *
It is reported that a large (and honest)
section of the Federal House of Representa-
tives is opposed to the Barton Government’s
Bill, and intends to procure its rejection, if
possible. This section desires a Bill which
will directly exclude the Asiatic and African
and Polynesian, and not get at its result by
the devious means and false pretences of a
scared and diplomatic Judas Chamberlain.
The principles of these individuals are
admirable, but they appear more upright
than practicable. There are at least three
good, worldly, useful, and unprincipled
reasons in favor of the Barton Govern-
ment's Bill, as follows :
(1) It is comprehensive enough to exclude almost any-
body or everybody if properly applied. It will be the
business of Parliament and the people to see that it is
applied in the right place for all it is worth. There isn’t
one colored alien in 100,000 who can write to dictation a
passage of 50 words from an English author—if a suffi-
ciently difficult passage is selected, and it is dictated fast
enough, and badly enough, and the authorities are suffi-
ciently rigid about the degree of accuracy which consti-
tutes "writing the aforesaid passage “ within the meaning
of the Act.” Let the customs officer at each port fully
understand that he will lose his billet on a charge of
drunkenness or general inefficiency if two black or
yellow or brown people manage to write that passage of
50 words in the same year, and things will go pretty well.
(2.) Apparently we can ge t this kind of anti-Alien Act at
once. If the Federal Parliament passes the straight and
honest kind of Act, years may be wasted in obtaining the
sanction of the British Government. And the Asiatic
will be pouring in all the while.
(3) When this Act is secured there is absolutely nothing
to prevent this country passing an amending Act which
will shut out Asiatics, Africans, and Polynesians en manse.
It might take years, as above-mentioned, to secure the
British Government’s assent to it —but the Asiatic won’t
be pouring in all the while (if that passage of 50 words is
read to him by a sufficiently hostile officer), and that is a
diiference of some importance.
It is good to be honest, but in this world
it pays better to be successful. Australia
can achieve a reform of immense import-
ance by adopting Joseph Chamberlain’s
mean, devious, and rather cowardly subter-
fuge, and time is pressing. Also this country
isn’t the keeper of J. Chamberlain’s con-
science. There are many unclean things
lying about in Australia, but the horror of
having Chamberlain’s conscience on these
premises has been spared us.
The Sweated Producer.
The Australian daily papers lately published the
depressing and alarming news that a British 00.
in the Bovril, or some other extract-of-meat line of
business, lias decided not to open a factory in
Australia. It sent a representative out here, and
the representative was shocked, if not stunned, by
the Socialistic inclinations of the people, the ten-
dency to revolutionary legislation, the old-age
pensions, the early-closing, the minimum-wage
ideas, and the upheaval of labor generally. He
announced that his company is off to Argentina,
where this dreadful state of things does not exist.
And in certain circles the fact that another great
absentee concern is not going to get a lien on this
country causes much grief. The warning of the
extract-of-meat gentleman, prior to his departure,
was that, unless Australia is much more humble,
and accepts much less wages, it can’t expect to
get the job of supplying England with “ vittles ”
as a regular thing. England will get its proven-
der from Argentina, and this country can go and
perish miserably.
* * * •
On the whole it seems that this country is just
as well without the foreign capitalist in question.
The greatest curse that has fallen on Australia
thus far is the investment of foreign capital—the
investment of the absentee’s money as distin-
guished from the money of the man who comes
here along with his cash, and becomes a resident
investor. The investment of English capital in
Australia simply means more money owing by
Australia to England—just as the investment of
the pawnbroker’s capital in anybody’s house
means that there is a bill of sale over his furni-
ture. The influx of the British money-lender’s
money into this writer’s country, and the influx of
the Mont de Piete’s money into his house are the
same thing—debt. And debt isn’t a desirable cir-
cumstance. The rich countries of the world are
those which own their own industries —such coun-
tries as the United States,, Britain, Germany, and
Erance, where foreign capital-isn’t being invested
nowadays. The poor countries of the world
are those which, to a great extent, don’t
own their own industries —countries like India,
Mexico, many of the South American States,
South Africa, Egypt, and the other places to
which there is a great and beneficent influx of
foreign capital. The country whicli sends capital
to another country is the professional lender; the
country which receives it is the professional bor-
rower. If anyone can show that the borrower is
habitually richer than the lender, then the influx
of capital is a good thing—not otherwise. The
most prosperous State in Australasia just now is
Maoriland—the State which, by protective duties,
absentee tax, and other devices, most systematic-
ally discourages the foreign investor and helps
along the local one instead. The most conspicu-
ously decaying section of the British empire is the
one where the investment of outside capital has
been carried to the greatest extent—lreland, the
land of the absentee landlord, otherwise the man
who invested outside capital in the country for
the purchase of the earth’s surface. It took a
great influx of the absentee man’s capital into
Ireland to reduce it to its present pitiable condi-
tion, but so long as that influx is large enough any
country may attain to Ireland’s condition in
course of time.
» * * *
When any extraneous capitalists propose to
come here and start a new industry—whether it
is a Great Boulder mine, or a Union Bank, or a
South Australian co., or an Australian Agricul-
tural co. (with its big Newcastle coal mines), or a
Sunlight Soap co., or a meat extract establishment,
or a lot of branch insurance offices, or a shipping
concern, or anything else, it always implies that
the profits will go to the country where the out-
side capitalists are, and the wages for plain, hard
toil will come here. Then let anyone consider
how many men he knows who ever got rich on
mere wages, no matter how economical they were,
and decide how gaudy are the chances of the
country where there is a great influx of foreign
capital. If the influx of foreign capital is only large
enough, it means that all the work of being boss be-
longs to the outside investor, and the work of being
the employee, at 30s. a week, is left to the native
of the land. Every foreign-owned industry which
starts in Australia and takes its profits out of the
country means so much the less room for a
locally-owned industry which will spend its profits
in the country. Britain didn’t grovv rich by
having foreign capital invested in Britain, but by
investing British capital abroad, And until it
grew rich enough to invest its capital abroad it
remorselessly shut out, by Protective duties and
Navigation Laws and other devices, the foreign
capitalist who wanted to get a lien on Britain.
And when the British capitalist tells 11s that what
is best of all for Australia is an abundant influx of
the absentee’s money, and lots of debt, and a
stupendous mortgage on the country—well, it is
better to do as the Briton did when he was in an
undeveloped state just as we are, rather than as
he says.
* * • *
Yet the recent visitor who decided not to start
his absentee-owned industry here, but to go td
Argentina where labor is cheaper, spoke quite
truly when he said that the business of supplying
the British market will probably depart from us if
we persist inourcareei of laborlegislation. Austra-
lia is, on the whole, a rather barren country where
a man’s labor, applied to primary industries, pro-
duces less from a given area than it would in many
other countries. Further, Australia’s produce
has to pay a higher freight over a longer distance
tlian that of other countries, before it reaches
the European market. Therefore, to hold our
own on the British market with such rising com-
petitors as Argentina (which has already beaten
us badly, in quantity, as a supplier of wool and
meat) it is necessary to put our produce on board
ship at least as cheaply as, probably rather more
cheaply than, the Argentine does, and that can’t
be done if the industries are put on the wage basis
which the Australian democratic party hopes for.
As a matter of fact, the industries in which Aus-
tralia does its greatest export trade—wool, wheat,
butter, cheese, meat, &c., —do not pay anything
like O’Sullivan’s ideal minimum wageof7s. a day
for eight hours labor, and thechances are that there
would be no great export trade if they did. A
comparatively barren country can’t pay the
highest wages and the heaviest freights, and yet
compete in the European markets with the pro-
duce of countries where wages are far lower, dis-
tances shorter, freights cheaper, and where,
through superior soil, the same amount of work
produces more results. If a large section of the
community is going to exist by tearing produce
out of the ground to supply the British market, it
must work at a wage which will enable it to com-
pete in that market against all comers. And if
the country is more heavily burdened with foreign
debt- with interest on public loans, dividends to
foreign investors of all sorts, and payments to all
kinds of absentees—than some cheap foreign
competitor, then, so far as each man’s share of
that extra interest bill goes, he has to be a still
cheaper worker than the competitor in question.
* * * »
Australia must send to Britain enough produce
to pay for the produce it buys from Britain, and
enough over to pay the interest on its public and
private debts, rents to absentee landlords, divi-
dends to absentee banks and insurance companies,
profits to miscellaneous absentees of all sorts. Of
course it pays a lot of the interest just now by
fresh borrowings, but that is only a temporary
shelving of the problem. It must supply the
produce at prices which will enable it to
compete with rival countries, and it must
supply more of it, in proportion to popula-
tion, than any other country on earth, because, in
proportion to population, it owes more to Britain
than any other country on earth. That is why
even the most ardent reformers in this country
hesitate about applying the eight-hour system and
the minimum-wage idea to the industries which
supply our chief exports. These industries struggle
through mostly with 10 or 12 hours work per day,
and wages that are so miserable that the workers
are prepared to desert wholesale that they may go
and slaughter complete strangers in a distant land
at two-thirds of O’Sullivan’s minimum pay. By
running the great exporting industries on a
hideous system of sweating, and subsidising the
community generally with employment on public
works at good wages paid out of borrowed money,
this country has pulled through so far. But it
can’t do that for ever.
* * * *
And the remedy ? Well, there is no remedy,
except to put an end to the foreign tribute, to pay
which Australia has to place every year on the
English market some £26,000,000 worth of pro-
ducts, obtained by low-priced labor in order that
they may be cheap enough to be saleable. Aus-
tralia must cease from foreign borrowing. It must
cease from local borrowing, unless it can devise
some method whereby the bonds sold locally won’t
drift abroad and become foreign debt in the
end. It must set to work to repay its foreign
debt. It must systematically extinguish the
foreign investor in Australia, whether he
is land-owner, money-lender, or manufacturer, but
it is no good discouraging the latter unless the
local manufacturer is encouraged in every possible
way to take his place. It must, by every possible
means, reduce its imports, and that can only be
done by learning to supply its own wants—unless
the country relapses into a lower state of civilisa-
tion and learns to do without things now regarded
as indispensable, which is not at all desirable.
When a country reduces its imports, as the
United States lias systematically done, by build-
ing up great local industries, it means wealth ;
when it reduces its imports, as N.S.W. did in the
days after the boom, without any correspondii g
increase of local production, it only means
poverty. When Australia has no huge annual
bill to pay in England to the public and
private money-lender, and the great aggregate
absentee, and the British manufacturer, t!i en
it won’t be compelled to compete with the
Asiatic or the cheap Argentine half-breed on the
English market as it has now. But it can only
get to that point by a more complete system of
Protection than even Victoria has yet attempted.
* * * •
Unfortunately the Labour party in Australian
politics, though it worries itself to death if one
pick-and-shovel man on a drainage contract is
sweated by his boss, apparently cares very little if
all Australia is sweated and enslaved by the
foreign money-lender. It never, except in the
most perfunctory manner, tries to establish a
policy of financial independence. It goes mad
about a sweated individual; a sweated continent
is a thing it doesn’t notice. The Fat Man’s posi-
tion is brutal and logical. He says simply:
“ While things remain as they are we must send
to England some 25 or 30 million pounds’ worth
of something annually to pay interest and rents
and absentees’ profits, and to pay for our imports.
We send most of this in raw materials, for we have
nothing else to send. We must supply these cheaply
enough to compete with rivals in the same line, such
as the cheap half-breed of Argentina —and this
despite our greater distances and heavier freights.
We can do this while we pay miserably low wages
in our great exporting industries. lam quite con-
tent to pay miserably low wages.” The democrat
isn’t content to pay miserably low wages, so if he
was equally logical the first items of his creed
would be the abolition of borrowing, the repay-
ment of our foreign debt, the extinction of the
absentee investor in every shape and form,
scientific Protection, and the creation, by every
possible means, of local industries. Unless ne
adopts this policy it is tolerably certain that
something will break when the law endeavors to
enforce fair hours and fair wages in the great ex-
porting industries of Australia. It may not break
immediately—a great deal of staving-off can lie
done by a vigorous O’SuLLiVAN-esque loan and
public work's policy—but it will almost certainly
break in the long run. Perhaps it will be just as
well if it does.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Federal Defence.
“Viking” uses some language that warms this
paper’s heart :
I note with pleasure your remarks re Federal defence
(20/7/’l). The Bill is all right, but where is the man that
highly-placed politicians will allow to enforce its salutary
provisions? Have you ever heard the cogent reasons
that can be given for retaining the “ inestimable ser-
vices ” of Col. Blank when that officer is about 10 years
over the age-limit? Any soldier knows that if the Col. is
persona grata —even though he be gouty and senile—h s
loss “ at this juncture ” would be a “ national calamity.”
While there is power to retain time-expired officers for
special reasons, those special reasons will always be forth-
coming in the case of a man who belongs to the same
club as, say, the Minister for Economy.
Every regimental commander who holds command for
m >re than the proper time blocks the promotion of every
officer in the regiment, and while they stay blocked they
are creeping nearer to the age-limit for their respective
ranks. Extending the term for the O.C. means decreas-
ing the age-limit for his juniors : robbing Peter to feed
Paul’s vanity. And hope deferred maketh the heart
sick.
In no regiment where promotion has been at a stand-
still for five years is there any efficiency whatsoever, save
in numbers perhaps, or on paper, or in the cooked
musketry-returns.
The cheapest, because the best, branch of our forces
should be the partially-paid, provided that it is run by a
man who knows his duty and is courageous and free
enough to do it. The pay need not be excessive, but the
best available men should be enlisted for a term certain,
and taught, and compelled to do their best when en-
rolled. The weeds that now disfigure the ranks do not
look like soldiers —a minor affair—nor do they resemble,
nor are they, men ; which is a very tough bullet for the
public to chew. They cannot drill, they cannot
manoeuvre, and, print it in big letters, THEY CANNOT
ENDURE. Cigarette-heart and premature lewdness do
not make for grit, and a soldier without grit is a poor
thing. But we cannot blame the medical officers. Look
at the chain of causes. Capt. Brown’s company, nomin-
ally 60 strong, puts 40 decent-looking men on parade.
Capt. Smith’s company musters 63 hollow-chested, cough-
ing objects in uniform. The adjutant passes the time of
day with Brown as he collects the absentee reports.
Then the 0.0. reproves Brown, coram publico, for lack of
“zeal.” Zeal is a mystic word with O.’sO. ; almost as
mystic as “ tact.” Brown, cursing inwardly, tells the
O.C. that “ it won’t occur again,” and at once fills up his
company with nondescripts. Ten full companies of
physical and moral wrecks make a full regiment and a
proud colonel.
Then the officer who thinks that his alleged men will
follow him through Hell’s gates if he be “ popular,” must
be carefully pole-axed by a reliable fool-killer. Popu-
larity is at present earned by taking your men out for
exercise and letting them lie down and smoke cheap
cigarettes, because “you must not overwork the men, y’
know.” The popularity of officers is nothing like the
same incentive to valour as a righteous cause that is near
to the hearts of the army. Witness Cromwell’s Ironsides
and Washington’s rebels.
The volunteers would be valuable if stripped of all
“frill.” Men do not generally stay long in that force,
but there is a constant stream passing through the ranks,
and they all carry away some knowledge of soldiering. I
contemplate writing a work in 26 vols. (revolving book-
stand extra), on the uses and abuses of rifle clubs, and so
refrain from comment here.
Consider some reforms : Staff-officers should keep rea-
sonably sober, and everyone should turn out with clean
boots, even if the occasion be only a royal visit. Soldier-
ing must be looked at as a serious business, and not as a
coxcomb’s recreation. “ Banjo’s” suggestion that troops
should be sent for a week’s march, away from a railway
line, instead of to a ridiculous camp, is most excellent.
Mess-dress and review order should be abolished, except
for regulars. It would save even the infantry subaltern a
trifle of £3O. That is not much if you say it quickly, but
it means a saving of £lO5O to the officers of each foot
regiment. Officers of other arms would possibly be able
to live on the income they would save.
Dreams —idle dreams ! There are 20 men in Australia
who can plan an army. Have we one who will build to
the design ?
♦
The Gambling 1 Hypocrisy.
Australia is not the only country where Betting
Acts and other legislative checks upon the
“ gambling evil ” are essentially hypocritical.
The makers and guardians of the constitution in
Europe and America transgress against the spirit
of their gaming laws, and are just as contented
with their own humbug, as the official moralists
who disapprove of pitch-and-toss under the British
flag. But seeing that Australia’s first Federal
Parliament threatens to oust the harmless
consultation from its last stronghold in this
country The Bulletin may as well pub-
lish two striking illustrations of the Law’s
hypocrisy. They happen to be photographs of
social scenes in Melbourne, where Commonwealth
law is manufactured. One of them shows the
members of the respectable Athenaeum Club at
dinner—periodical house dinner—on the eve of the
recent V.R.C. meeting. A Supreme Court Judge
in the chair raps the table hard and announces
that a Calcutta Sweep on the G. N. Hurdle
Race is about to be perpetrated. Again he
knocks the table and commands “Order!”
for the auction “drawing” of the sweep, where-
upon the high-toned citizens proceed to
gamble furiously. As much as £(5O is paid by a
punter for one horse’s chance in the sweep, whilst
the learned Judge beams through his glasses
upon the speculation. The Federal Government
proposes to make it impossible for that clubman
to send five shillings to “ Tattersall ” through the
post. Photo. No. 2 shows a group of card-players
in a Melbourne suburban court-house, _ adjoining
the town-hall. The local Mayor is giving a ball
in the municipal building, and the court-house is
converted for the night into a smoking-room, with
card-tables placed around for the accommodation
of gambling guests. Green-baize covered tables,
allee same as those found in the “ silver hells ”
which get raided by the police occasionally. An
inspector of police presides over the principal
card-table in the court-house. They are playing
‘ poker.’ And the exalted myrmidon of the law
makes some joking reference to the fact that his
“boss,” Minister Trenwith, is looking over his
shoulder. The possibility of an M.P., armed with
a straight flush, winning a pot of money from a
four-aced inspector of police in a suburban court-
house is worth thinking about.
♦
A Proposition of Unemployment
Two meetings of Melbourne citizens —at Bruns-
wick and Collingwood—lately passed, and sub-
mitted to Premier Peacock, resolutions to the
effect that “ it is the first duty of a Government
to find work for those persons who are out of
employment.” They might have added without
any risk of straining the truth that it was also the
first sign of common sense on the part of a
Government to find work for the unemployed.
The reason is plain enough. The aggregate
income of a country arises through production,
and if a section of the community can’t get a
chance to produce anything, then the country is so
much the poorer. The unemployed individual is
producing nothing, and he is consuming some-
thing, or he wouldn’t be an unemployed;
instead he would be a corpse. He is there-
fore a loss to the community and that loss makes
the public revenue less ; it makes shop-keepers’
and merchants’ profits less, it lowers rents,
it compels the Government to put up the income-
tax in order to keep the accounts square, it helps
to prevent the Commercial Bank paying a divi-
dend on its ordinary shares, and it does damage in
every way. In a well-ordered community there
are no unemployed; if the work of supplying the
whole community can’t keep the whole com-
munity busy, then there is a leakage somewhere,
and it is the business of Premier Peacock, or any
other man similarly placed, to find it out. If he
can’t find it out at his present salary, then it is his
duty to inform the country at what salary he
thinks he can find it out. The difficulty can’t be
settled by the crude process of raising a big loan
and paying wages to the unemployed out of that
to do something more or less useful or useless.
There is no more sense or solvency or
ultimate prosperity in paying out of loans
for producing a country’s supply of railways
and bridges than in paying out of loans for its
supply of wheat or wool or boots. One is as much
the production of ordinary necessaries as the
other. It is the first business of the Government
to find work for the unemployed by putting things
on such a basis that there need not be any unem-
ployed, and therefore the indignation meetings
that were recently held in Melbourne struck a
great truth, and when the Argus and similar
organs ridiculed the idea they merely displayed
their vast and expensive ignorance. The
aggregation of land in huge estates; the drain of
money out of the country to pay interest on
foreign borrowings; and the further drain to pay
for goods which are now imported but which
should bo locally manufactured, are the principal
causes of national poverty. And poverty leads to
lack of employment by. reducing the demand for
goods and consequently the demand for people to
make them ; and lack of employment leads to in-
dignation meetings ; and indignation meetings
lead the Argus to make a greater fool of itself
than usual. And so the circle goes round.
—
Matrimonial Agencies.
John Hurley, M.L.A., invites N.S.W. Parlia-
ment to suppress matrimonial agencies, and put
parsons, agents, or other aiders and abettors of
these evil establishments in gaol, or some other
suitable place. Supposing the well-meaning John
is successful, who will define a matrimonial
agency ? The name, of course, will disappear;
and there will no longer be any visible layman
running the show and keeping his hired sky-pilot
on the premises. But supposing a somewhat
frayed parson hangs out his own personal shingle
at the old office, and runs the business himself ?
He can’t very, well be a matrimoni d agent; a man
can hardly be an agent for himself. If he isn’t a
matrimonial agent when he performs the cere-
mony in his own house or church, he can’t become
one merely through doing the same thing at his own
office, and putting his advertisement in the papers.
And when one considers the alarming decrease
of the birth-rate, and the increase in the
illegitimacy rate, is it a sensible thing to
put any difficulty in the way of cheap and
sudden marriage ? The agency wedding may be
ordinary and squalid, but it is presumably better
than nothing at all. The Australian is of a casual
disposition and apparently doesn’t feel the need
of marriage to any very great extent. If it is
there he may fall into it; if it is difficult to find
and surrounded by needless forms, ceremonies,
and frills he often iets it slide. And it is a thing
which slides easily. Apparently, what is wanted
is a system whereby anyone may be married by a
policeman for 6d., so that the person who can’t be
troubled going down to the agency may see all the
facilities for holy matrimony walking past his door
daily. The trouble with the clergyman is that he
won’t come when he is whistled to. He has to be
approached in a somewhat grave and ceremonious
fashion, whereas he'needs to be as accessible as a
threepenny beer to cope with the increasing
illegitimacy statistics. And even if the agency
wedding is a squalid affair, it must be remembered
that there is a fitness and an unfitness in
things, and that kind of union isn’t half so
squalid as the three-roomed wooden cottage out
Pyrmont way which probably follows. Very often
the person who wants to be married “ just any-
how ” feels so inclined because any kind of mar-
riage is good enough to legally entitle him to take
his best girl to the sort of home that they have
both been accustomed to, in the sort of street
which is furnished under the tired, incapable legis-
lative system of which John Hurley is a part.
If the home and the street were improved, there
might be a tendency to go to them with more
dignity. When one considers the miles of hovels
in Sydney’s bye-wavs, and the bye-ways them-
selves ; and also considers the meanness and un-
picturesqueness of the ordinary individual who
is reared therein; and then considers the kind of
girl who would be willing to live in that kind of
house with that kind of individual, it doesn’t seem
at all wonderful that both parties to the trans-
action should take any kind of wedding that pre-
sents itself, and not be too particular if it doesn’t
present itself at all. What kind of wedding does
Hurley, M.L.A., feel that he would like if he
was a young man working in a non-union boot-
factory, with the moral atmosphere of the boot-
factory in his soul, and was going to start life in
Waterloo? Ancbhow would it be to begin with a
good Building Act and a general street-repairing
crusade ?
——
The Maoriland Arbitration Bogey.
Among the poisonous-gas bubbles which Judge
Backhouse pricks in his Industrial Arbitration
report to N.S.W. Govt, a front place belongs
to the bold lie that in Maoriland the law has com-
pletely knocked out “ freedom of contract ” and
lias ukased that employers shall employ only
trades unionists. This has been so often alleged
that most Australian unionists, anyway, have
accepted it as a pleasant matter of fact; while on
the other side it has been received just as
unquestionably as sufficient reason for resisting
compulsory arbitration altogether. Judge Back-
house shows, however, that in the first
place the law and the courts don’t know
trades unions —* that what they do know
are “industrial unions,” formed as part of the
machinery of the Act, and as likely as not com-
posed of men who will not join a trade union.
And, in the second place, though a trade union
may register as an “ industrial union,” and though
members of an “ industrial union ” may be granted
a right of preference, “it is invariably accom-
panied by a condition that any competent work-
man of good character, without ballot or other
election, upon payment of an entrance fee not ex-
ceeding 55., and of a subsequent contribution of
not more than sixpence a week, must be admitted
a member of the union and a superior non-
union workman may at any time be employed.
Nor is even this small right to preference always
conceded :
In the case of the seamen it was refused, one of the
reasons being' that it might interfere with the discipline
of the ship. In the case of the Christchurch engineers it
was refused, as the number of unionists was propor-
tionately small.
Anyhow, if a country wants to prevent strikes, the
sensible tiling seems to be to grant a preference to
men who agree to go to arbitration and abide by
it; though here the preference is so hedged about
that, as “ one of the Judges ” put it to the N.S.W.
Commissioner, “the granting of it can only be
objected to on sentimental grounds” —and they
seem pretty thin ones even at that.
Griffith, M.L.A., has a little Bill for the aboli-
tion of tied public houses in N.S.W. Considering
the outrageous character of the tied public-house
agreement it is wonderful how difficult its aboli-
tion appears to be. The system by which a
brewer, in consideration of a small advance, often
at both high interest and reasonable security, can
stipulate that the publican, even after every penny
of his liability is paid, shall be bound to deal exclu-
sively with that one brewer as long as he remains
in the house, and all his successors shall be simi-
larly bound, is an affair compared with which
the ordinary usurer’s terms for discounting a bill
are pure philanthropy. Apropos, if the measure
propounded by John Hurley, M.L.A., for the
abolition of usury becomes law, it should also
badly shake up the brewery man. Hurley’s draft
law provides that no money-lender shall, “directly
or indirectly,” charge more than 10 per cent.
How much does the profit gained out of the ex-
clusive trade of even a small pub represent in-
directly on a loan of perhaps £2OO ? It must repre-
sent something, or the brewer wouldn’t insist on
the concession. Seeing that the arrangement may
go on for 20 years after the original debt is dis-
charged, it must come, in many cases, to represent
an immense amount per cent, for the time the loan
was in force —something that leaves the 10 per
cent, hull-down on the far financial horizon.
Hurley’s scheme further provides that if more
than 10 per cent, is charged the borrower can at
any time discharge the debt by paying the princi-
pal and 10 per cent., and the lender must accept
same and give a discharge within 48 hours under
a very heavy penalty. This idea seems bound to
knock out the tied-house agreement in the first
round. If both measures pass it is highly im-
probable that the agreement will last through one-
half of the first round.
4
S.A. is the only State that has no graving dock.
The Government says it can’t build one because
the money will be borrowed at 31, per cent, and
the dock will only return 1| per cent. This ridi-
culous and slavish subservience to the money-
lender meets U s at every turn. Suppose such a
work cost £500,000. If the Government raised
£500,000 by extra taxation for the purpose, it
would only be putting into temporary circulation
£500,000 that is now idle in the local banks.
Then it would employ a number of the men
who are now idle about the streets. Result: The
£500,000 would still be in the country when the
work was done, and the country wouldn’t be a
penny poorer in cash. The country would also
have a public work worth £500,000 which it didn’t
have before. If it yielded 1\ per cent, the country
would have a new income of =±-7500 a year clear.
The spending of the £500,000 in wages, and its
expenditure by the wage-earners among the shops
would have greatly increased trade while the
making of the dock was in progress. The
clock would give permanent work to a num-
ber of men and further improve trade.
It only requires a Government with grit enough
to start the system of building public works
out of revenue, and the advantages will soon be
apparent. Of course if the money is borrowed at
per cent, it is quite a different thing. There
would be the same improvement of trade while the
job was in course of construction, but after that
the dock would be yielding £7500 of revenue while
£17,500 would be going out of the country in extra
interest, and the loss would more than swallow
up any benefit that might otherwise accrue.
“ X. 0.” writes re the Federal city :
Don’t mind the Federal Capital being a “fit subject
for a great artist’s inspiration,” or “an ideal in marble
and bronze,” &c., but would like to make sure of it being
a healthy open and sunlit conception in bricks and
mortar —hr preferabty cement. Bar all galvanised iron
and scantling, or lath arid plaster, or weatherboard. Too
liable to fire, also bugs. Lay the streets to the half
points of the compass ; this will allow of the sun finding
its way around every house built square with the streets.
To further ensure sunlight, the great deodoriser, abso-
lutely prohibit attached or semi-detached houses or
terraces ; allow a chain between every two residences.
Pass a comprehensive Building Act prescribing lofty and
spacious rooms. Insist on fire-proof construction and pro-
per bathing and other sanitary facilities. In other words,
prohibit jerry-building. Make every room at least 18ft. by
18ft. and 10ft. high, with at least one window opening on
the open air, or on open court-yard inside house. Insist
on proper damp-courses, which very few jerry-built
houses possess. Damp is a prolific source of disease when
it invades floors and walls, causing rot and mildew. And
for Heaven’s sake don’t put the control of the Federal
city under a gang of aldermen ! Australian cities have
suffered enough from aldermen. Appoint a city commis-
sioner solely and absolutely responsible to the Home
Secretary. As to climate, elevation, water-supply, drain-
age, average rainfall, sunlight and temperature, a commis-
sion of an engineer, a meteorologist and a doctor should,
with the assistance of a first-class architect and bill-
drafter, be able to originate and plan a good practicable
city for human beings. We will chance the “ dreams of
beauty,” “ towering domes,” “ lofty spires,” “conceptions
in marble,” &c., if we can get a real useful up-to-date cle’an
capital.
4 *
A systematised attempt is to be made to knock out
one of the most useful measures'introduced to the
Victorian Parliament this session. Minister for
Agriculture Morrissey, a large producer himself,
has brought in a Bill to amend the Exported
Produce Act. This measure deals with the export
of butter and meat (beef, mutton, poultry, rabbits,
&c.). It provides that all butter sent out of the
State shall be examined by experts and divided
into three classes, and that the experts shall have
power to prevent the export of any meat which,
in their opinion, is unfit for use. At present ex-
porters can send butter of any quality out of the
State, and can ship any sort of meat provided that
the experts cannot prove it to be absolutely
diseased. The re ult of the present law is that
large quantities of butter and meat absolutely
unfit for human consumption are shipped from
Victoria. These goods seriously affect the repu-
tation of all Victorian produce in foreign markets.
The idea of the amending Bill is to prevent
a continuance of this state of affairs. Nothing is
more essential to the development of the export
trade than the shipment of the very best
goods only, and Morrissey was right on the
spot when he declared that producers and
exporters should be coerced into exporting only
the best. There is no necessity for the existence
of bad produce, and the fewer outlets there are
for it the less of it there will be. The Bill was
no sooner launched, however, than a howl that it
was unnecessary was raised by the Tory crowd.
Said crowd also says that the butter marked
second-class in Victoria might improve on the
voyage, and that the buyers in London ivould use
the mark to lower its proper value. Further, it
says that the London buyers take, no notice at all of
marks, and rely wholly on their own judgment,
which two statements don’t seem to hang together.
The Tory’s devotion to Britain is pathetic at
times, but when it is proposed to show that devo-
tion by not sending Britain bad victuals, then the
sentiment gutters out like an exhausted candle.
The right to poison the beloved mother country
witli decayed provender, all for sordid temporary
gain, is a right that the Vic. Toi’y will defend to
the last.
Premier Jenkins’s scheme of reform in S.A. pro-
vides for the maintenance of two Houses in the
State Legislature. So does Premier Peacock’s in
Victoria. Peacock said he hoped “never to see
the abolition of the Council brought about.” In
the name of all that is wonderful, why ? There is
only one other British Federation to sup-
ply a precedent, that of Canada; and six of
the eight divisions of the Dominion have only
one House of State Legislature apiece. If that
fine old British Imperial precedent isn’t good
enough for Peacock, and he is becoming per-
meated with the republican traditions of the
United States, where each State has two Houses
of Legislature, then Peacock’s loyalty is evi-
dently giving out, and it will soon be time for
him to be shot down the stair after Findley. If
Findley is still lingering about the foot of that
stair he had better shift before the falling body of
Peacock drops on him.
A great deal of space is being devoted in the
daily papers to expounding the fact that Robert
Reid, M.L.C., Victoria a city man, who
usually dwells in an office—went up as far as
Bundaberg, Queensland, which is a long way this
side of Rockhampton, and not in the tropics at all,
and that, after being two days there, he learned,
to his complete satisfaction, that the Kanaka
couldn’t possibly be dispensed with for tropical
sugar-growing work. It was always understood
in Melbourne that Robert Reid was politi-
cally a nigger-labor man, so he presumably
went to Bundaberg only as a matter of
form, and, as a person who had spent his life
in an office, he naturally understood all about
a great agricultural problem in two days.
The local inhabitants pulled R. Reid’s leg so
effectually that, when last heard of, he
was delivering speeches to the effect that “ the
sugar-industry was worth three times as much
per inhabitant to Queensland as the butter indus-
try was to Victoria,” and an industry of such
stupendous importance must not be hastily de-
prived of its nigger. According to official pub-
lished values the sugar industry is worth a
little more per head to Queensland than the butter
industry is to Victoria —but not three times as
much, or anything like it. When a guileless Mel-
bourne merchant goes up to a place outside the
tropics to learn all about tropical agriculture in
two days, he is apt to fall in like this, Reid pro-
bably pictured himself working in the cane-field
in his frock-coat and his bell-topper, and decided,
from observations of the temperature, that he
couldn’t do it, he being accustomed to the icy
•winter blast on the bleak shores of St. Kilda, and
that was good enough evidence for him that no
other white man could do it either.
4
Vio. Assembly is gabbling at great and useless
length over the Bill for the Establishment of a
Convention to draft a new State Constitution.
Everybod3’- knows the Assembly will pass the
Bill by a huge majority, but people like Reay
insist on talking for three hours at a stretch about
their reasons for being in favour of it. It will be
well on in the session when it reaches the Council,
and by the time the Council has gradually re-
jected it there will be no time to think out any
way of fighting that body this session, even sup-
posing Peacock means fighting. If Peacock
were only the right kind of Premier he
would push through the Assembly swiftly,
and, as far as possible, in dead silence, the
Convention Bill, a Woman’s Suffrage Bill,
a Bill to abolish the last remains of the plural
property vote, a Bill to impose a heavy absentee-
tax, a graduated Land Tax Bill, and a Bill giving
extended powers for the compulsory resumption
of large estates for closer settlement; and lay the
whole lot before the House of Landlords in a heap.
And when it rejected the lot then there would be
a good case on which to stop supplies and start a
great Political Strike till the Council caved in.
The country might not be sufficiently roused to
back Peacock in a great Political Strike over the
rejection of one Bill, but over the rejection of a
batch like that it could be roused to a white heat
—if only the right man were at the bellows.
4
Melbourne Argus delivers itself further re
Seddonism :
Mr. Seddon is fortunate in that his Government has
been coincident with continued and growing prosperity.
The advance of science made the frozen-mutton trade
practicable. Private enterprise saw its opportunity, and
translated the possibility into a fact ; work became
abundant and prosperity widely diffused. The Govern-
ment had no share in creating or fostering a prosperity
which was naturally shared in by the working classes —as
all prosperity must be.
This is the Argus’s favorite way of explaining its
broken-up prophecies as to how Seddon and co.
would ruin Maoriland past repair. And it is a
pitiably silly way. The Maoriland frozen meat
business had been booming for eleven years before
Seddon became Premier. The average year’s
export during his Premiership has only been
£400,000 more than it was for years before he
became Premier. Moreover £1 gained by the ex-
port of frozen meat is no more use than £1 gained
by the export of anything else. And the exports
of Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, and Westralia
are far more per inhabitant than they were nine
or ten years ago, while those of Maoriland,
with all the frozen mutton included, have in-
creased very little. The poorest of them shows
three times Maoriland’s increase of exports;
the luckiest of them 32 times its increase.
So if the export of anything in particular
is the cause of Maoriland’s present prosperity
then there should be vastly more prosperity
on this side, and there should be no need for the
Argus to make foolish apologies and explanations
like the above. The increase of Maoriland’s
frozen meat export industry in Seddon’s time
hasn’t been anything like so big a thing as the
increase in Victoria’s butter output, or Queens-
land’s gold production. And these States, alas !
have a very humble boom on hand. Possibly it is
for want of a Seddon and a Seddon policy. All
the materials which the Argus says made Maori-
land’s prosperity are there—but Seddon’s socialis-
tic policy and his Labor legislation are not there,
and his boom isn’t there either.
-*■
The Anglican Provincial Synod sitting in Sydney
last week was badly cornered by a no doubt rever-
ent but too pragmatical (for such a body) layman.
The Rev. Boyce, who fights with a knife on the
liquor-question, cooed plaintively over the State
vagaries on the age of consent. He detailed—
In England the age of consent was 16 years. In many
of the American States it stood at 18 years. In South
Australia the age was 17, in Victoria and Westralia
it was 16, while in this State it stood at the low age of
14 ;
and wound up by asking the Synod to urge the
passing of a law to raise the age of consent to 17.
It was here that the lay representative drove his
logic home. He did not think they should, as a
Church, recognise any age of consent. Canon
Boyce objects to State consent to the consump-
tion of liquor at any age or in any quantities, but
if his motion amounts to anything he agrees to
State consent to immorality after 17 years of age.
If it is a crime for the State to permit in one case.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
ffl
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
Mo. 15 Popy Prerpo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
without one.
Send for Catalogue. Price £4.
375 George St., SydQcy,
And at Melbourne * Adelaide , and Brisbane.
“ALUS” MILLING MACHINERY,
TTNIVERSAL BOLTERS, &c. ; BAND SAW-MILLS ;
AUTOMATIC CIRCULAR MILLS, for Sleeper-
> Cutting ; SAW MILL and FLOUR-MILL ENGINES and
BOILERS ; TRACTION ENGINES, &c., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING 24 SYDNEY* St ’’
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold. Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies tinder Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agonta for Australia
it is surely a crime to permit in the other. The
layman was right, and should peg away at Botch
till the latter either permits the State to sanction
liquor drinking after certain conditions are com-
plied with or agrees that it must protect girls till
they die of old age.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence.”
Lyceum “ Mariners of England.”
Criterion “ When London Sleeps."
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Why Smith Left Home."
Her Majesty’s “ Sign of the Cross.”
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
The happily-recovered R. Brough made
his re-appearance at Sydney Royal in “ Mrs.
Dane’s Defence,” an undefinable four-act play by
that finished but rather undefinable dramatist,
Jones. Jones’s plays are not comedies, nor are
they exactly tragedies, for they always end with
a vague suggestion that one or two of the charac-
ters may be happy with difficulty by-and-bye, and
that the others will look elegant and graceful in
their misery. Jones is largely a writer of soul-
wails, in some of which the wail predominates,
and in others the soul. In the present work
Jones’s sorrowfulness is alleviated by the gratify-
ing and well-earned humiliation of the Fat
Woman. Mrs. Dane is a wealthy lady with a
Past which was located in Vienna. She is trying
to bury it in a quiet English town when the
Judge’s son falls in love with her. Also about
this time a young man recognises her as the lady
who had the disastrous Past in Vienna, and rashly
tells his relative, the bitterly pious Fat Woman.
He feels sorry afterwards, and says it is a case of
mistaken identity, but the moral Fat Woman de-
clines to be appeased. Her morality rises up like
a strong lion in the night, and she tells the story
everywhere with the best and most horrible inten-
tions, so that Mrs. Dane may have a chance to clear
herself. That poor woman would almost as soon
have ten shares in the Mercantile Bank, but her
friends rally round her, and the J udge insists on
taking her part and proving his future daughter’s
purity, and she is driven to a desperate career of
lying. The young man who recognises her still
retracts manfully, and the private detective who
finds the proofs of her guilt is paid sufficient to
induce him to bury the evidence in the inside
pocket of his mind and swear to anything. The
meddlesome Fat Woman is crushed but still
malevolent, and is allowed a week in which to sign
an abject apology. And then, through a single
slip on the part of the defendant, a beautiful lie
falls through ; and the Judge and Mrs. Dane’s
best lady-friend find out everything. The one re-
deeming feature just here is that the lady-friend
insists on keeping the knowledge secret and
making the Fat Woman apologise all the same.
The Fat Woman is crushed in evening dress, and
made to Wallow in the dust, and withdraw every-
thing.
* • * *
The strongest scene in the play is where
the lie begins to fall through, and Judge Brough’s
slow, methodical cross-questioning grinds the
truth out of the lady with a Past. It isn’t a
pleasant scene. The hysterical woman trying to
patch the hole in the old lie with new ones, which
grow more and more incoherent till the last one
wouldn’t impose on a curate, and inventing
imaginary land and marine relatives to commit
her sins for her, and trying to explain that the
fallen woman—when it became evident that some-
body fell in the family—was two or three distant
female connections of the same name who took_
the job in turns, and who all died leaving no
trace and no visible tombstone, looks too like a
Erocess of slow torture. And the Judge, who is a
achelor of 50, and who has admitted that he once
tried his level best to elope with his friend’s wife,
speaks kindly but severely to the crushed woman,
and breaks off her engagement with his son. He
states that it was through no fault of his that he
didn’t elope with his friend’s wife—the lady
thought better of it, but he continued thinking as
badly as ever; yet as a man who made a disgrace-
ful failure of his great attempt at immorality, and
who is still sorry that he failed, he repudiates a
woman for being more successful than himself.
Also, it is hinted that there were many times
when he didn’t fail, yet his repudiation of the
woman who only succeeded once is severe and
complete. Brough makes the Judge a huge artis-
tic success, but the character is that of a miser-
able, white-headed hypocrite all the same.
* * * *
Apart from Brough, there are half-a-dozen
good characters, all more or less well rendered.
Miss Vaughan, as the justly suppressed Fat
Woman, is a triumph, or something so near it
that the difference doesn’t matter. Miss Mary
Chatteris, who was only a sketch in the “ Second
in Command,” has a pretty little part as the girl
whom the Judge’s son threw over for the woman
with a Past, and, as she is a pretty and clever
little actress, the part gets a good show. Certain
unaccountable and none too successful struggles
after a Scotch accent may be overlooked. And,
though Mrs. Brough is a tall and well-dressed
heroine,_ the conduct of the man who left Miss
Chatteris to wander after her is difficult of com
prehension. Leslie Victor, Charles Garry (look-
ing like a long note of interrogation clad in ink),
Orlando Daly, and Ernest Vere (especially the
latter, who is somewhat reminiscent of the
departed Joseph Carne) fill most of the
rest of the bill with success, and Miss
Temple does almost the best work in her
long Australian record. All “ Mrs. Dane ” wants
is a new ending. Just by way of a novelty,
that lady’s tale should have held water, and
she should have married happily under false
pretences, with the full knowledge and consent of
the audience, as a proof that a lie is mighty, and
will prevail if it is only well enough corroborated
by a skilled and well-paid corroborator. The cor-
roborator is worthy of his hire.
** * *
“Rigoletto,” which alternates with “ Ai'da”
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is one of those operas
which, given in English, would be gruesome, but
which in Italian succeed in stopping at the pathe-
tic stage. It deals mostly with the Seventh Com-
mandment, or rather the vacant space where that
Commandment used to be before it was broken
too badly to be of any further service; and shows
up the peculiar variety of humor current in
mediaeval France. Said humor consisted mainly
in abducting another man’s wife or daughter, and
doing other little jests that nowadays would get a
man ten years from a humorless and narrow-
minded Judge. The stolen wives and daughters
do not seem to have been annexed for love, but
merely, as it were, to bring a little comic relief
into Court life, and enable the perpetrator to see
how the bereaved one would take the joke. The
opera has several songs on the weakness of women,
and_ they are mainly such exquisite songs that a
testimonial should be presented to the easily-won
portion of the sex for causing them to be written.
There is also a Curse that is launched on entirely
the wrong person. This malediction is pronounced
by a black-robed gentleman who chooses a crowded
ballroom to complain of the Duke’s treatment of
his daughter. The Duke, annoyed at being
troubled about these trivial matters, departs from
the scene, leaving his J ester to get the full tonnage
of the imprecation. This seems decidedly unfair,
as the J ester merely did as the Duke told him, and
was not responsible for the peculiar brand of humor
that was fashionable in the days of chivalry.
Nevertheless, the Curse pursues the personage
with the diverse-colored legs quite unrelentingly,
and leaves the wicked Duke untouched. The
malediction gives its first knock-down blow when
the courtiers, in a fit of mediaeval playfulness, get
Rigoletto to steal away his own daughter, under
the idea that she is merely some one else’s wife,
and give her over to the Duke. When the Jester
discovers his mistake he loses his sense of humor
permanently. At the same time, having evidently
no great knowledge of women, he fancies that if
he can show the Duke to Gilda as a worthless male
coquette she will immediately drop all affection
for him and return to her seclusion. So she
listens outside a door while that volatile personage
makes love to an innkeeperess, and then promptly,
on the first opportunity, sacrifices her life for his.
The Jester has hired an assassin to murder the
nobleman, and Gilda, taking his place, is killed
instead. The Duke wasn’t at all worth the
sacrifice, but probably, if he had been, he wouldn’t
have got it.
• * • *
The performers in “ Rigoletto ” are much
slimmer than the “Aida” crowd, and to that
extent they look their parts better, more
especially Dani, who is an ideal wicked noble-
man. His voice is rich and mellow, and
when it strays into the upper regions in
his supreme contempt for the sex it proves
that the contemptible sex has not lived
in vain. If that sex were less despicable,
Dani wouldn’t have the same cause to lift his voice
in disparagement of it, and thus a thrilling top-
note would have been lost to the world. There
are some top-notes that sound as if they were
worth a broken Commandment. Dani can even
take the tin-kettley “La Donna E Mobile”
(though it is Verdi’s it is tin-kettley, all the same)
and makes something rich and great of that
meagre little tune. Signo. ;i_ De Vere Sapio is
pleasing throughout, from tile first surreptitious
interview with the disguised Duke till the end,
when she is dying in the moonlight, and the Duke
passes along by the waterside with his new love
on his arm. She looks the part better than most
prima-donnas, and with her, as with Dani, her
upper notes are her strong point. Bozzoli, as
Rigoletto, does not disdain to act as well as sing,
and introduces a convincing heartbreak into his
voice at the different stages of the Curse’s pro-
gress. The scenery is all that it should be, and
the opening ballroom scene is a particularly effec-
tive spectacle.
** * *
“The Mariners of England,” by Robert
Buchanan, is now performing at Sydney Lyceum.
It stands rather apart from the ordinary melo-
drama, though the betrayed girl is troublesome
during the first act or so, and the hero turns out
to be the lost heir on, as usual, very small provoca-
tion. The drama consists mostly in Nelson put-
ting things straight. Sometimes Nelson helps
England and sometimes he helps Eugenie Duggan.
Inman is accused of trying to murder Nelson,
and that gentleman devotes a considerable amount
of his valuable time to proving that he didn’t.
The proofs of Inman’s heirship don’t amount to
much, but Nelson remarks that they look all
right, so his father recognises him. When Nel-
son has arranged these matters, and likewise par-
doned a convicted spy in the most unlikely and
outrageous manner, he gets aboard the Victory
and dies as he does in school-books. He makes a
very finepictureas he perishesamidstthesmokeand
the firing, with the ships seen moving across the
sea beyond, to the tune of what England expected
every man to do and wasn’t disappointed. As
might be foreseen England began to expect very
early in the play. Nelson expected likewise ; also,
the orchestra, at odd moments during the per-
formance, and especially towards the last act, ex-
pected in a very emphatic manner.
• * * *
The most cheerful man in Anderson’s
company just now ought to be H. O. Willard.
He is Nelson to the life, and especially to the
death. He is the only person of any importance
in the drama, and when his slim-looking person-
ality with the weighty head and empty-seeming
arm-sleeve wanders off the stage nothing else
really matters—except, perhaps, that Ethel Buck-
ley is a neat little soubrette, and redeems the village
maiden from the usual charge of being loud and
elephantine. Also, the love-scenes in which both
she and Miss Duggan indulge are somewhat
brighter than usual. A song programmed for Aot
11. came on in Act 111. The audience had a pre-
sentiment that it wouldn’t escape that song.
*# * *
“Polite” Vaudeville at Sydney Palace
Theatre began its courteous career last Saturday
with a purple-ribboned programme, a kid-gloved
conductor, and a crowded, and (for a variety show)
well-attired dress-circle. “The World’s Enter-
tainers,” in keeping with these genteel accom-
paniments, presented a pretty, fresh, and un-
usually varied performance. There is no first part
in their entertainment; no people sit round on
chairs half the evening; no blackened men shout
stale witticisms at each other and ask each other
conundrums about Mr. Johnsing. The Palace
company does not shine vocally all round, but
the grotesque dancing of Miss Agnes Mahr
and Arthur Nelstone, and the opening perfor-
mance of Miss Agnes Mahr and the other Miss
Mahr, are something unique in what is
called by the daily paper man the terpsi-
chorean art. Every item in the performance
is worthy of mention (except, perhaps, the pro-
jectoscope which, however, is harmless enough):
and all the various persons who come in and
dance, or fling themselves about in the air
in any respect whatever, can consider themselves
specially commended. Miss Frances Gwynne is
responsible for an illustrated song or two, which
is rather a childish form of enjoyment at best;
and when a verse describing how the rejected
lover fled to foreign lands is helped along by a
picture of the large, prosaic train in which he did
the flying, the performance is more infantile than
ever. Probably the feature among many features
is Henry Lee’s representations of various great
men. Lee, who has been in Sydney before,
tackled such diverse personages as Pope Leo XIII.
and King Edward VII. He differs from other
entertainers of this sort in not only looking, but
speaking, his part, though how he hit on Shake-
speare’s voice is a mystery. Fortunately, no one
is in a position to deny that Shakespeare spoke in
that way. His make-up of Tennyson as a badly-
dressed Weary William gives rather a shock, and
persons in the audience were heard to say that it
must be meant for Kruger.
** # *
At the Empire, the fragile Faning and the
Leslie Brothers hum along in the hey-dey of their
popularity. The supply of fresh artists flows in
uninterruptedly, the latest being a gentleman
named Hart, with a nice round tenor voice, a pair
of song-and-dance artists, a serio-comic, and the
Missies Rose Andrew and Mabel Maie.
** * *
“ When London Sleeps ” will continue to
blaze and bang for but a short time longer at
Sydney Criterion. The heroine, who is so persis-
tently pursued by flames and unwelcome atten-
tions, will probably be drowned several times by
way of variation in the next drama, but in the
meantime she flies by night on the telegraph-wire
in the presence of large audiences. She is the only
heroine in The Bulletin’s recollection who
escapes by telegraph.
** * *
The cornet-like voice of one Brinkmann is
the only feature in Rickards’ “first part ” which
struck the writer with any great violence this
week. Just now, there is a blessed relief from the
infant prodigy at Sydney Tivoli. Marie Lloyd
has returned for a “few nights only.” There are
other people in the show, but, compared to those
mentioned, they don’t count to any great extent.
»* * *
The illogical drama of foredooms in which
Wilson Barrett opened his season at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) was displaced on Saturday by “ The
Manxman,” the most popular item in W.B.’s pre-
vious Australian campaign. Human nature gets
a fair show in “ The Manxman ” until the curtain
is about to fall, whereupon the convincing female
who has adapted herself to circumstances, whilst
remaining true to her honest improper instincts,
suddenly determines to make the worst of her
luck instead of making the best of it. She was
a reasonable sinner under difficulties, but as
soon as her burden of deceit and discomfort is
going to be removed by a decree nisi she becomes
an unreasonable angel. Also the management
testifies that her foolishness has come to stay by
letting loose a white dove which settles on the
roof of the pub. where she hopes to find peace and
purity. The idea of a soiled matron returning
home to the parental care of old Caesar Cregeen,
to work out her salvation by pulling beer for the
local unregenerates, is a weak idea for a strong
play to wind up with.
» * * •
Caesar Cregeen and Ross Christian, the
cute little cad on castors, are impersonated as be-
fore by Ambrose Manning and Horace Hodges.
They get inside their characters and provide a
serio-comic relief to the neavy moral and immoral
emotionalism of the Man, the Wife, and the
Lover. Manning slightly over-accentuates the
bitterness and nonconformist cant of Caesar, but
is a striking old hypocrite all the same. If there
were a military law compelling Little Bethelites
to attend performances of “ The Manxman” it
would probably do some good. The mirror is
held up to Snuffle, but Snuffle doesn’t come there
to indulge in reflections. Wilson Barrett’s sound,
solid performance of Pete was the best thing he
did last trip, and it looks a little better
this time. The style of . costume, which
seemingly sticks to him during his absence in
S’Africa, suits Pete’s appearance of uncertain age,
and assists him to seem about the noblest innocent
who ever stood in fishing-boots. Stage boots are
a guide to characters in many cases, and Pete’s
leather indicators seem more virtuous than the
Silver King’s, because they are baggier above the
ankles. Basil Gill is a sombre, clean-cut Philip
Christian, but too juvenile a figure for the part,
more especially as Barrett’s figure errs in the op-
posite direction. And Miss Lillah McCarthy is
not much more than a charming young woman in
the places where she tries to be a powerful actress.
When she is not required to be strong the lady
with the eyes—Miss M. is rather a slave to her
fine eyes—gives some pretty suggestions of deep
feeling. On Saturday the co. will make its
first Australian appearance in “Sign of the
Cross,” with Wilson Barrett as the girl-struck
Roman.
*# * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the story of
“ Smith ” and the demon cook proceeds with great
fury. Several things account for the public in-
terest in Smith’s domestic economy. Charles
Arnold’s proverbial good luck is said to be a prin-
cipal reason why people stood two-deep around
the back of the d.o. last Saturday night, but
Arnold’s luck, when you come to think about it,
seems only the commercial effect of two palpable
causes in this case. A bright, well-balanced com-
pany tackles an ingenious farcical comedy with all
the go that is available, and push it along for all it
is worth. The co. that made much of “Jones”
scores a bigger success in “ Smith,” and seems all
the time to be toiling for fun rather than sordid
salary. Besides, there is a genial spirit
of manslaughter pervading the narrative,
from the moment when the energetic husband
conspires with Sallie Booth to remove his wife’s
aunt by attacks of indigestion which, if necessary,
will prove fatal. No other farce has attached an
awful meaning to a slice of cake. “ Smith ” opens
up new possibilities in pastry, pork-chops and
delusive green vegetables—cabbages with hearts
of oak and sprouts warranted to expand within
the human interior. The presence of the cook
makes itself perceptible to a sympathetic audience,
even when she is away in the kitchen preparing
fiendish foods. Neatly acted, “Smith ” and “ The
Grey Parrot ” are a prosperous programme. Inas-
much as Ada Lee and E. H. Thomas are at their
best in both the comedy and the curtain-raiser
they deserve a little more mention than the main
body of the insurgents. The “ Smith ” season has
only three more weeks to run, and the manage-
ment mentions this fact by way of apology for a
matinee on Saturday (17tn).
#* * *
The high-born stockbroker who hopes to
be a dook some day is meeting his weird scenic
doom every evening till further notice at Mel-
bourne Royal. He goes down the ladder into the
waters prepared for him by artist John
Brunton, and another ghoulish figure goes
after him, with the result that only one
of the goggled-eyed monsters returns to tell
the tale of what happened in that sea of
trouble. The other lies numbered with the many
brave hearts that sleep in the deep. And Walter
Baker, the dook as was to be, is the bold bad
diver who collapses among the shellfish and sea-
weed. One gets so used to a triumphant re-
appearance of Walter at the finish of a Bland
Holt show that the tragedy aforesaid seems
awful in its after-effects. The death of Baker
is more expressed by his final absence than
by his dim downfall when the other fellow
cuts his air tube. But why can’t he burst into
the fancy dress ball, give a vague scientific ex-
planation of how he didn’t die —an explanation
with bottled oxygen in it —and sue for pardon
from his lawful Harrie Ireland ? A penitent Baker
in a diver’s dress, renewing his Scotch marriage
vow before the full strength of the company, would
make a neat climax to “ The White Heather.”
Meanwhile, the drama continues to prosper on its
original lines.
** # *
At Melbourne Opera House a number of
moderately exciting re-appearances happened on
Saturday. John Coleman, rather fatter than of
yore, was seen again as his old friend the
Scarecrow. Albert Whelan imitated people
and things, and got half-a-dozen encores,
also Latona, the trombone humorist, provided
a good turn with the assistance of his
musical little wife. The Faust Sisters acrobatted
effectively for the first time in Melbourne, and
the wonderful Zobedie was marvellous as before.
Zobedie’s work from start to finish is exception-
ally clever, but as an entertainment it is rather
tiring some part of the time.
The Wild Cat Column.
Revenue for July (the first month of the finan-
cial year in five States and the seventh in Tasmania) so
far as the available information goes. The discrepancies
of bookkeeping methods somewhat militate against the
value of the comparisons :
Increases as
Revenue for compared with
Julv, 1901. July, 1900.
Victoria .. £697,617 .. £89,049
Westralia .. 223,337 .. 19,736
Decreases.
Tasmania .. 64,634 .. £25,030
Queensland .. 291,809 .. 48,376
New South Wales 718,735 .. 69,650
These figures, as regards the last three States, have very
little comparative value nowadays. In most of the
States it is a case of comparing the revenues now, with post
and telegraph receipts and part of the tariff revenue not
included, with those of a year ago when these things
were included. The exceptions are Victoria and Westralia.
These States include postal, telegraphic, and all tariff
revenue in their receipts just as of old, and put their
share of the Commonwealth expenditure among the out-
goings, so their increases are absolutely genuine. The
.decreases in the other States are not wholly genuine, but
aiise chiefly through the new system of accountancy. In
fact, Tasmania is the only one which would show serious
decrease if the accounts'were kept on the same basis as
last year. This is how things stand in that State
Tasmanian Revenue (State and Commonwealth Receipts).
1901. 1900. Decrease.
j u l v £82,492 £89,665 £7,173
7 months to July 31 .. 652,419 695,400 42,981
• * * *
A few of the States have announced the results
(subject to some trifling future corrections) for the
financial year. In the case of Tasmania the figures are
up to 31st December, 1900 ; in the other States they are
up to 30th June, 1901:
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Tasmania .. .. £1,054,980 £923,731 £131.249
Deficit.
South Australia .. 2,824,212 2,846,577 £22,365
Westralia .. .. 3,078,038 3,165,244 87,-0C
New South Wales .. 10,827,116 10,957,519 ™Moc
Queensland.. .. 4,096,290 4,624,478 528,188
The Victorian figures are not yet to hand, but it is still
rumoured that a small surplus will be shown. Even m
that case the aggregate for the Commonwealth will be a


About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich « Lo.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks,*
m • * *
The Financier and Bullionist of 2nd August,
1900, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Limited : “ Considering the world-wide opera-
tions of the Society, it is astounding that, with all its
gigantic ramifications and temptations to accept new
business of a risky nature, it has passed through the
ordeal not only scatheless bub with almost unparalleled
» , ,
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of uu-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.
* * * •
The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
now delivered one of the water-ends in connection with
their contract with the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works. The second water-end will be delivered
within a week or two. These water-ends are a very
massive piece of work and reflect credit on the makers.
They are made of a special mixture of iron, which was
subjected to severe tests before being put into the work
and gave highly satisfactory results. Each water-end
weighs about 70 tons.*
* * • *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &0., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, George-street, Sydney.*
• • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Tanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided- to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Yanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempnere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
e * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * •
From Clermont (Q.)Clermont (Q.) dredge
still vainly sucks for the untold wealth of gold contained
in Sandy Creek. Last fortnightly returns, as usual, a few
dwts. over 50z., and as the dredge has been working only
a few hundred yards below where one of the richest leads
ever worked on the Peak Downs—the Cemetery lead, to
wit —was traced into Sandy Creek, shareholders are not
drowning the town with “ fizz.” Apropos, a nasty little
point has cropped up re the Dredge Co.’s right to dredg-
ing. Within the area granted to co. two main roads cross
the creek, said crossings being totally dry 90 per cent, of
the year. The dredge, to work out co.’s area, must in
course of time either cut channels about 30ft. wide and
4ft. deep to cross these roads, or be pulled to pieces and
reinstated on top sides of crossings.
The consistent Bedford’s reef at M‘Donald’s
Flat, Clermont, has just given holders a handsome
div. out of cyanided tailings. Workings, 170 ft.
deep ; reef in most places about 7ft. wide, but gold
not uniform right through. Permanency seems assured ;
average returns about loz. to ton through battery, and
nearly ditto for tailings. Up to date above is the best
reefing show held on Peak Downs.
Latest Peak Downs rush is to an ironstone blow
about 25 miles S. of Clermont, about 9 miles from Retro
railway siding. Small assays from blow have returned as
high as 6oz. to ton and thousands of tons of apparently
similar stone are in sight. Locals, of course, maintain
everything is similar to Mt. Morgan ; this, however, is not
correct, the only resemblance being that ironstone pre-
dominates in both, but of different formation, Clermont’s
hill being titanic iron highly magnetised. A rush pend-
ing further development is to be deprecated. An assay
from continuation of blow 7 miles off original hill has
returned 2oz. to ton.
ELAND . . .
AIR COMPRESSORS
ROCK DRILLS
“Ivanhoe” Mining- Steel
Explosives
Lubricating Oils
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
71 Clarence St.,Sydney.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; %"t liable-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
sdg
■XrR-A.MATV-A.'SrS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.>
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
I)*- Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "•!
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping- Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo,
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upo n
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
“ WILD CAT”
BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dosen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross—*3T Carriage Free to any
Sail way Station in New South. Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
'
J*
WOOLF Sb CO.. 376 G-eorge-atreet (next Q.P.0.),
SirOSTS-X’.
deficit of about £6oo,ooo—the eighth big shortage in 11
years.
* • • *
Tasmania has now got its great accumulated
deficit down to £52,556. Tasmania, like the other States,
fakes its accounts in a hideous manner by charging
ordinary expenditure to loans —if it didn’t the deficit
would remain about stationary. Still, other States steal
tlie loan money in the same way, and don’t pay off the
deficits, so Tasmania, just at present, is better than most
of them. At the end of this year the island hopes,
despite the great revenue slump, to have a surplus of
£10,071.
* • * •
The Queensland Government doesn’t propose to
do anything towards paying off its awful shortage except
that it will auction some more land when a favorable
opportunity presents itself. Meanwhile the deficit is to
be added to the public debt —temporarily at first; per-
manently, as likely as not, later on. This will make about
£2,100,000 of Queensland revenue deficit put into the
public debt. And no extra taxation is proposed
to prevent another £528,000 shortage next June.
Treasurer Cribb simply “ estimates ” that the new
financial year will yield £115,000 more land revenue
(mostly by auction sales, which same auction money is
also supposed to go to pay off the old deficit), £34,000 more
from railways, and £77,000 more from “miscellaneous.’
Also he assumes, despite the fact that the interest bill is
much increased, that the State will spend less. He figures
out a surplus of £20,000, so things will have to be £548,000
better than they were last year. Meanwhile, with only
one month of the new financial year gone, things are
already £26,000 worse than they were at the same date
last year—income is £48,376 less than in last July, and
expenditure only £22,308 less. And consider how last
year panned out!
If N.S.W. is reasonably fortunate it will not
have to pay anything like £439,052 in the new financial
year for plague, contingents, and celebrations, though
there is still some contingent expenditure to provide for.
But it has old-age pensions to pay, and nearly two
years’interest on the cost of the resumed area against
only a small part of one year’s interest paid last year.
Also there is nearly £90,000 more interest to pay on public
debt. These will amount to more than the £439,052 of
extraordinary expenditure of last year, and there will be
no extra railway receipts at celebration time to swell the
revenue. Also, there is a promise to put the two insol-
vent Superannuation Funds straight. Unless there is a
big increase of income somewhere N.S.W. looks like
having a still larger deficit next year. The principal
hope seems to be that the Federal tariff will come along
quickly, and that it will be a very large tariff.
* • » •
The Maoriland Advances to Settlers’ Office, or
State Land Bank—the first and also the largest institu-
tion of its kind in Australasia —closed a good year at 31st
March, 1901. The great trouble of this institution is
that, instead of borrowing money locally as required
at 3j per cent., and getting full face-value for its loans,
it raises the funds required for its business by issuing big
3 per cent, loans in England at a huge discount. As a
result, its loans, when their full term has expired, will
have cost over 3J per cent, all round. As a further
result, its accounts are disfigured by a debit balance,
while the S.A. and Victorian institutions are accumulating
reserve funds. Also, the practice of leaning on the
British money-lender is bad, unpatriotic, and destructive
to the spirit of self-help and self-dependence. This is the
record of the Maoriland Advances to Settlers’ Office so
far :
Loss on
Loss on Other Loan Total
Business. Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
March, 1896 £105,897 £137,056
Profit on
Business.
„ 1897 .. £1,610 £344 135,102
„ 1898 .. 18,283 5,646 111,1/3
„ 1899 .. 17,598 93,575
„ 1900 .. 14,073 28,142 107,644
„ 1901 .. 20,325 9,889 97,208
The “ Other Profits ” arose through the temporary in-
vestment of superfluous funds in miscellaneous securities
and their re-sale at enhanced prices. So far as concerns
the actual banking business, the year just ended is the
best up to date.
A most remarkable feature about the Maori-
land Advances to Settlers Office is the low cost of manage-
ment. The working expenses of the office (which, of
course, do not include interest on borrowed money) have
been as follows :
Total cost of Proportion to
Management. Nominal Capital.
March, 1897 .. £11,294 .. £0 15 1 per cent
„ 1898 .. 6,216 .. 0 8 3 „
„ 1899 .. 6,869 .. 0 9 2 „
„ 1900 .. 7,267 .. 0 7 3 „
„ 1901 .. 6,869 .. 0 6 10 „
These are remarkably low percentages. The Maoriland
Advances to Settlers Office has so far made £40,730 profit
on its actual banking business, and £5990 otherwise—
total profit, £46,720. Against this it has lost £143,921 by
the flotation of loans at a discount. As the loans have
still 44 years to run these losses will, of course, he more
than made good out of earnings long before the date for
repayment arrives. Still, the fact remains that the
S.A. and Victorian State Land Banks get money
locally a shade cheaper than the Maoriland institution
gets it in London; lend at lower interest; and by
borrowing at higher interest and therefore getting a
better price for their loans they have no great deficit or
dead horse to work off. Instead, they have a small
reserve fund apiece, and that always looks better in a
halance-sheet. Yet, with all, the Maoriland State Land
Bank is a splendidly prosperous institution, and even the
worst Tory on the two islands now indignantly denies
having said the things he said about it in 1894, and alleges
that he was wrongly reported by a malicious or inebriated
press.
* • * •
The National Bank of Maoriland, since the
great writing-down of capital and the general cleaning-
up in 1891, has been enjoying an extraordinary run of
good fortune, and it seems to be increasing rather than
diminishing. The last ten years’ record has been as
follows_
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
March, 1892 £19,335 5 per cent. =£12,500 £6,835
, 1893 16,343 5 „ „ 12,500 10,678
, 1894 16,997 5 „ „ 12,500 15,175
1895 16,431 5 „ „ 12,500 19,106
1896 18,090 5 „ „ 12,500 24,696
” 1897 21,461 5 „ „ 12,500 33,657
” 1898 25,538 6 „ „ 15,000 44,195
„ 1899 40,966 { Bonus to Staff 65)161
1900 42,348 8 per cent. = 20,000 87,509
” 1901 55,785 10 „ „ 25,000 118,294
The earnings are equal to £l6 10s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the year (paid-up capital, £250,000; reserves,
£87,509 ; total £337,509). This is an altogether extra-
ordinary figure, being equal to three or four times the
average earnings in Australia and Tasmania. There is no
State in Australasia where bank earnings are anything
even dimly resembling those of Maoriland (the Bank of
New Zealand also earns stupendous profits, though, un-
fortunately, they have to be set aside at present to pay on
losses built up in the old days of Tory government), and
all this has come to pass during the era of Labor legisla-
tion, and under the “ ruinous Socialistic policy ” which
was to “ drive capital out of the country.”
This is the first time in its existence that the
National Bank of Maoriland has paid 10 per cent. In the
good old days when there was no “ ruinous Socialistic
legislation ” the dividend varied from 2£ to 7 per cent.
In these tijnes, the reserve-fund (now £110,000) never
exceeded £lO,OOO, and most of the time there was no
reserve-fund at all. With a larger paid-up capital, the
earnings, in the period before Maoriland took to ruinous
Socialistic legislation, only once got up to half the last
year’s figure. Also, the National Bank twice had to
write off serious losses in that good old epoch—in fact,
its first gleam of good fortune arrived with the Labor
legislation period. The other Maoriland bank —the Bank
of New Zealand—is also earning about twice as much as
it ever did before the lamentable advent of the Labor
policy. And, as compared with Maoriland, Queensland
is the most Tory State in Australasia, and also the one
where the banking business is at the most disastrously
low ebb.
The National Bank of Maoriland has now a
note circulation of £236,000 and over 2£ millions of de-
posits. The reserve of cash and liquid securities is
£654,053, equal to 19J per cent of all liabilities to the
public. This is a very small cash reserve, and is the
material weak point in the business. Many a bank much
stronger than the National has suspended through having
its funds too much locked up in a time of sudden demand,
and this policy makes bigger profits at very great risk.
Also, there seems to be no systematic effort to keep the
reserves separately invested in State securities, as they
should be in a well-ordered institution ; out of £118,294
only £51,032 is thus invested. Still, the National is a
strong and growing concern, and but for the heavy.losses
of capital in the days of safe, solid, “constitutional
Tory government it would be a good deal larger than
it is. _ .
• * • *
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (Sydney),
shows a very fine record of progress :
Bonus to Capital
Policy- anc *
Profits, holders. Dividends. Reserves.
1892 £66,082
1893 £13,097 £4395 29 per cent=£439s 60,389
1894 11,572 4348 23 „ „ 4348 63,265
1895 8,765 4239 { 22 * tte ” off ” 1000} 62 ’ 552
1896 12,136 4105 22 per cent „ 4105 66,478
1897 10,989 4152 16 „ „ 4152 69,163
1898 11,714 4384 16| „ „ 4384 72,109
1-Year to „„„„„
June, 1899 4,321 2149 16J „ „ 2149 72,132
Year to _
June, 1900 11,932 4678 17* „ „ 4578 74,908
June, 1901 12,430 4818 16 „ „ 4818 77,702
At the end of 1892 the Mercantile Mutual’s funds con-
sisted of paid-up capital £15,000 ; reserve fund, £40,000 ;
and undivided profit, £1082; total £56,082. They are
now paid-up capital, £30,000; reserve fund, £40,000 ;
and undivided profit, £7702. During the 8* years, £15,000
of profits have been capitalised. The only dispiriting cir-
cumstance lies in the falling off in the return from invest-
ments. In 1892 it was £2241. In 1901, though the funds
have grown by over £21,000, it is only £2377—an almost
imperceptible increase of £136. The balance-sheet gives
very little information about the nature of the invest-
ments, which are described only as “ Property and Mort-
gages, £58,913,” and “ Deposits, fixed and at call, £25,848.
The whole collection seems to have yielded last year an
average return of between 3 and 31 per cent., which is
by no means a gorgeous-looking figure. All the same,
the Mercantile Mutual shows a steady growth that is a
good way above the average in these times. It has now
departed from its long-established policy of doing busi-
ness in one State only, and opened a Melbourne office.
How the experiment pans out will be seen hereafter.!
• * • *
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency Co.
of Maoriland, Dunedin (why are so many Trustee co.’s
called “ Perpetual ?”) still holds its position as the highest
dividend-paying institution of its kind in Australasia.
And last year it wisely wrote off the “ Goodwill ” item
which has so long been an eyesore among the assets :
(Goodwill not
reckoned
as an Asset.)
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
April, 1896 „ £313
Reserves.
1897 £1,476 12* per cent=£l,ol6 .. £147
„ 1898 1,723 12* „ „ 1,016 .. 854
„ 1899 1,308 12* „ „ 1,016 .. 1,146
„ 1900 1,943 12* „ „ 1,016 .. 2,073
„ 1901 1,585 12* „ „ 1,016 .. 2,642
The profits show a considerable falling-off as compared
with the boom year, 1900; still they are equal, to
£l5 10s. lOd. on the shareholders’ funds at the beginning
of the year (paid-up capital, £8126, and reserves, £2078).
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency Co. is ahighly-
prosperous affair ; still, it has been 17 years in the busi-
ness and all the reserves it has to show consist of an
undivided profit balance of £2642—this isn’t even called a
reserve fund. The co. is certainly making respectable
progress now, but it would have been much stronger and
much further advanced if it hadn’t begun to pay 12* per
cent, dividends quite so early.
* • * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and Agency
00. of Tasmania (office at Hobart) shows, for the half-
year to 30th June, 1901, the best returns on its record
since the end of’97: _. .. , m , .
Dividend and Dividend Total
Profits. Tax. Reserves.
June, 1896 .. £521 6 per cent. = £315 £3619
Dec., 1896 .. 462 „ 315 3766
June,1897.. 349 „ „ 315 3800
Dec., 1897 ... 465 . „ . „ 315 , 3950
• June, 1898.. 421 „ „ 315 4056
Dec., 1898 .. 421 „ „ 315 4162
June, 1899 .. 365 „ » . 315 4212
Dec., 1899 .. 346 „ „ 315 4243
June, 1900 .. 380 „ „ 315 4308
Dec., 1900 .. 358 „ „ 315 4351
June, 1901 .. 454 „ „ 315 4490
This is a very slow process of growth, but if nothing
serious ever happens to the investments, the Perpetual
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co. of Tasmania will be
an imposing concern some day. As usual, the co. describes
most of its assets as “ Investments, £3022,” and “ Pro-
perty Account, £3385.” Also, it lumps together “ Com-
mission and Interest ” in one line. Therefore, there is
really nothing to show what has become of a great part of
the shareholders’ money, for “Investments” is a wide
enough term to cover almost everything (writer has even
invested money on a horse) ; nor is there anything to show
whether the money is invested in something that yields
10 per cent, or 1* per cent. This is a stereotyped, useless,
sleepy, inefficient, let-it-slide way of drawing up a balance-
sheet which ought to be suppressed by Act of the Federal
Parliament.
* * * *
Shares of the Royal Bank of Queensland have
slumped remarkably since the end of June. Whether the
proposal to call up more ordinary capital and to issue
preferential shares has anything to do with it is another
question. The quotations issued monthly by the Insur-
ance and Banking Record for the first half of the year
were : January sellers, £3 Is. ; February, £3 ; March, £-
19s. 6d.; April, £2 18s. 6d. ; May, £3 9s. ; June, £2 18s.
On July 5, Sydney Telegraph quoted, buyers ios ,
sellers £3. On August 12, the same paper reported
sellers at £2 65., without any buyers mentioned. wo
other bank shares in the Telegraph’s list snowed a co
responding tall.
* * * *
The Commercial Building and Investment Co.
(Sydney), a concern which used to pay 10 per cent, divi-
dends in the better days of ten years ago, and which then
took no precautions to create a strong reserve, but ran a
large business on lots of borrowed money, begins to show
signs of emerging fiom its troubles. Its record of late
years is appended i—
_ Loss on
Loss on Property Reserves.
Business. Sa i eg .
Tune 1896 £1,815
June, 1896 •• « Deficit.
" X :: ::
” 1899 .. .. 1,485 £1,608 8,360
„ 1900 .... 933 9,293
„ 1901 .... 186 9>4J9
The management reckons that it sees its way to have a
surplus next year, and that if it could sell some of its
vacant land, which produces nothing and eats up money
in rates and mortgage interest, and put the proceeds to a
profitable use, things would look up again materially.
At present its properties (vacant land included) are
yielding £3 17s. lOd. per cent, gross on their nominal
value, so though they probably require some writing-
down yet the situation doesn’t look quite hopeless, out
of the paid-up capital of £145,036 over £135,000 is intact
—on paper, anyhow. The gross income is increasing, and
the liabilities to bank, depositors, and mortgagees are
being gradually reduced —mostly by means of calls
somewhat as follows: — ~
Liabilities to other Gross
than Shareholders. Income.
June, 1897 .. .. £178,987 .. £10,003
~ 1898 .. ... 160,319 .. 9.819
„ 1899 .. ... 151,434 .. 10,537
1900 .. .. 148,939 .. 10,935
1901 . .. 148,957 .. 11,010
This is a heavy load of liabilities to carry, being m excess
of the capital. Mortgages account for over £145,000, and
the interest absorbs some £7OOO a year, or about two-
thirds of the revenue. Borrowing an immense amount
of money at 5 per cent, with which to buy properties
which now yield less than 4 per cent, gross seems to be
the whole trouble with the Commercial Building and in-
vestment CJo.
* ♦ * *
The new Adelaide Steamship Co. publishes
its first annual balance-sheet. The old Adelaide S.o. 00.
was one of the most consistently fortunate institutions ot
its kind on these coasts. When it closed up a year ago,
prior to resurrection on a larger scale, it had
paid-up capital ; £157,993 insurance reserve; £79,942
reserve for repairs and renewals ; and about
divided profit-total, £450,977 ; this after paying 16 per
cent, for the year. The new co. apparently capitalised
all, or much of, biese reserves. Its paid-up capital is
£507,175, and assuming that (as was apparently the case)
it brought no reserves forward, but started with an abso-
lutely clean sheet, its first year’s results are as follows
Profit. Dividend. Reserves.
May, 1901 .. £47,040 .. 5 per cent. =£25,359 .. £21,681
The reserves are Insurance Reserve, £5772 ; Reserve for
Repairs and Renewals, £10,000; and undivided profit,
£5909. The earnings of the old co. at May, 1899 were
£29,550, and at May, 1900, £64,656 ; so the results shown
by the new co., good as they are, are much less than
those of last year, and barely up to the average of the
last two years. _ ,
♦ f * *
The Sydney Ferries Limited —the old North
Shore Ferry Co. reorganised on a much larger scale, and
with its old reserves capitalised—has now completed its
third half-year. The proceedings of this period have been
as follows: — „ ~ T>
Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1900 ..£4,701 .. 7 per cent. = £4,209 .. £5Ol
Dec., 1900 .. 5,089 .. 7 „ „ 4,200 .. 1,390
June, 1901 .. 5,377 ..7 „ „ 4,200 .. 2,56.
The reserves consist of reserve for special repairs, £2OOO ;
and undivided profit, £567. This co. has now bought up
that floating child of misfortune, the old Parramatta
Ferry Co., though whether this will add to its prosperity
or not, seeing that the old co. found little save debts wash-
ing down the ancient Parramatta, is another question.
And the North Shore bridge is a possibility which is
always in the air. , , *
Richardson and Wrench, Limited (Sydney), was
founded in 1889 with a paid-up capital of £60,000,
of which £2500 was represented by tangible
assets, the remainder being “Goodwill, £57,500.” So
far as visible assets were concerned, therefore, the co.
started with a deficit of £57,600. The course of events
of late has been as follows
Deficit (Good-
will not
reckoned as
Profits. Dividends. an Asset).
June, 1899 £52,057
Dec., 1899 £2071 5 per cent. =£lsoo 51,486
June, 1900 2448 5 „ „ „ 1500 50,538
Dec., 1900 2538 5 „ „ „ 1500 49,500
June, 1901 2517 5 „ „ „ 1500 48,483
The co. begins to accumulate some investments in the
shape of £4500 worth of Treasury bills. If the business
profits and the dividends remain as at present, and each
half-year sees the assets consist less of goodwill and more
of Treasury bills, things ought to improve materially.
Goodwill doesn’t bear interest, and Treasury bills do.
y * • •
Lead having fallen to £11155., the B.H. Prop.
“ did something.” In consequence of the slow rate at
which sulphide concentrates can be smelted, partly on
account of the presence of zinc and partly on account of
their powdered condition, the furnaces at Port Pirie ai e
unable to deal with the full output of the concentrating
mill Last half-year the directors sold some of the pro-
duct for export; but smelters’“ returning charges’’are
now so exorbitant that sales are no longer profitable.
The mill has been running six days a week ; and adjust-
ments and repairs, which are very numerous, have been
done on Sundays, time and a quarter being paid, as a rule,
for the work. What the B.H. Prop, has now done is to
have the mill shut-down on Saturdays, and the
repairs done that day, thus at once reducing
costs per ton and the output. Of course, the miners
&c are idle when the mill is not running. A recent cal-
culation shows that the B.H. Prop, can work, paying at
the same time for prospecting, and an average amount
for plant-extension, with lead at £lO 10s. 6d. per ton.
* * * * *
Block 10’s position is worse. With lead at £l2
it can hardly pay working expenses; and yet it has to
supply about 400 tons of concentrates a week. A sugges-
tion that the metal co., which is the buyer, should modify
the contract, was not accepted—some profess to think the
metal co. among the “ bears.” In this awkward position
Block 10 suggests a reduction in wages; Block 14 imme-
diately sent along its support, but the B.H. Prop, and
others held off. A good proportion of the managers don t
think the men earn any too much for the place and the
work; miners get 95., and the surface hands, doing the
brutal open-cut work, 7s. 6d. The proposal circulated
among directors believed to be sympathetic is Bs.
for miners, 7s. for laborers, 10 per cent, off
others, while lead is below £l3; 10s. for miners,
8s for laborers, 10 per cent, on for others with lead £l6
or over. Anyhow, the £l6 would have to come down to
£l5 at the most before this scale would be looked at.
To Block 10, Block 14, and other smaller mines, 10 per
cent, of the wages and salaries is equal to about bLS. per
ton of lead ; to the B.H. Prop., including smelter and re-
finery employees, it means 235. But the B.H. Piop. will
not attempt'a 10 per cent, reduction, and does not like
the idea of seeking any at all. In that the Sulphide Cor-
poration concurs ; and these are the two biggest em-
ployers.
Metal prices at the beginning of Aug. 1900 and
1901 respectively
1900. 1901.
Copper .. .. £74 5 ... £67 10
Tin 144 10 ... 116 10
Iron (pig) .. .. 312 .. 214 4*
Lead .. .. 17 16 .. 1116 3
Spelter (zinc) .. 19 10 .. .1611 3
They’re all beginning to say “ This appalling war 1
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outiita.
sd
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
‘‘Orient f o measure” Clothing
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
«S«org? & Barrack Sts., Sydi)«y
L
IF YOU MUST
WEAR GLASSES
SEE YOU GET THE CORRECT ONES.
I fit Glasses scienti '’cally, and guaran-
tee satisfaction.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
299 Ceorge-S 1 ., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.),
and Equitable Buildings, 95 Elizaiiktii St., Melbourne.
iV. R. — Oar New Self -Testin'! Chart posted free, with
fall instructions, to any country address. Write for
particulars.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjc> •nent of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Simultaneously with the assembling of
N.S.W. P. rliainent came another outbreak of fire
at the Parramatta Asylum for Old Men. Luckily
some of the less decrepit inmates checked the
flames in time. The responsibility of keeping
nine hundred aged and infirm men in this
three-storeyed building, without proper stairways
(let alone fire-escapes, of course useless in a com-
munity of the average age of 60), has now passed
on to .Premier See. Parkes, Dibbs, Reid, and
Lyne all shirked the expense of providing decent
buildings for the unfortunates immured in the
ancient death-trap, and See also seems dis-
posed to risk it. But the inevitable conflagration,
which can’t be checked, will come, and then
N.S.W. will demand the blood of a Legislature
that can calmly vote over half-a-million for “ex-
traordinary” expenditure, in the shape of junket-
ings at home and other people’s wars abroad, and
disregards, year after year, the ominous warnings
of the dreadful catastrophe which daily threatens
this unhappy institution. “Terrible Fire at
Parramatta Asylum ! Many hundreds of old
men burnt to death ! ” It will be a pretty holo-
eaust. x
* * * *
The latest case of leprosy to be admitted
into the lazaret, Little Bay, is a young white
woman, the mother of two small children. Though
not Australian-born she has been out here for
many years, and has contracted the terrible disease
in Australia. Like nearly every other case among
Europeans in New South Wales this one comes
from the North Coast district, where, among the
sugar-cane growers, the black and colored races
are slowly, but surely, gaining. It will take many
tons of sugar to atone for this one terrible inci-
dent, which is the sixth of the sort from north-
east New South Wales within the past few years.
* * * *
As was to be expected, many returned
eohentingenters are going back to Africa at first
opportunity to be heroes some more. Thirty-five
shillings a week, with tucker and clothes, is
proving a great draw. It is certainly far better
A PUNSTER IN HORRORS.
“ Why did the barmaid champagne? ” said the Guard. “ Because I bitter ,” said it Stout Porter.
“And does she still ale." “ Yes," said the Porter. "Butt she’ll beer lot better when she has
taken some wines which Curasao well.”
pay than is given for many occupations here that
have a heap more risk attached to them. And
there is always the chance of making a pot in the
way of loot. But then every right-thinking person
- *. . i 5 j , J ° , i *7
will Cite the men s departure as another instance
of the patriotism that suffuses Australia, and as
proving that England may always rely upon her
colonies in the hour of peril. And so she may,
too, at least so long as the five-bob-a-day with
trimmings is forthcoming. There would be a
i j i ° • v -r ,i j . •, , ~
loud slump m heroes if that detail were left out.
* _* _ * *
The Queen Victoria memorial is Still
occasionally brandished in public in Melbourne.
David Syme makes sullen remarks about it, and
contemptuous references to the animal callousness
of the democracy that refused to warmly back up
his latest effort to impress the Throne with his
personal worthiness, and now and then somebody
wails dolefully about the “inactivity” of the
Town Hall committee. The committee, it seems,
is expected to rush round with the hat for funds,
but realising that it would be necessary to rush
round with a gun, it does nothing. The Dukean-
dutch have left Melbournians “ stony,” and nob
all the King’s horses nor all the King’s men can
chisel a statue out of them.
* * • •
The Mayor of a Maoriland town that,
when the war-boom was on, accomplished wonders
in the way of sending men to the front, lately
called a meeting re a memorial tablet for those
who fell. His worship and one solitary citizen
attended. And it is practically the same every-
where. Despite all the Jingo gas, it is certain
that no decent memorial will be erected in Sydney
unless funds are provided by the Treasury. All
the enthusiasm is now of the strictly machine-
made order.
* * » *
Some time ago the people of Casino
(N.S.W.) went to much expense in erecting a
“Mafeking lamp,” and the lighting of it was a
day, or rather a night, of rejoicing ; but something
went wrong with the works, and the concern
wouldn’t generate worth its salt. They have now
to hang a small kerosene-lamp alongside it to show
the fool residents where it is, lest in their ignor-
ance and blindness they might run against it —and
damage the memorial.
*•* . *
The Yorks, during their stay in Mel-
bourne, worked the royal-privilege racket for all
it is worth. A photographer who had royal orders
for a large batch of assorted sizes of the Duken-
dutch delivered the goods, and waited loyally and
patiently for the money. The money did not
come, and so the bill was sent to H.R.H. in
Perth. It was returned in due time with a polite
note from the private sec. to the effect that
Royalty never pays for its photographs. There
was an air of pained surprise about the note as if
Royalty were shocked to find it had sat to a
photographer of pro-Boer proclivities.
* * * *
Copy of a letter written by a young Aus-
tralian on the subject of the Jook’s visit:—
Dear Teacher, —The Duke promised to give a present to
every baby born the day he arrived. But he didn’t keep
his promise. He only gave a bunch of violets to a boy
who broke his leg- trying to see him.—Yours truly,
G. Jenkins.
* » * *
From “ Our Australian Letter” in Ross-
shire (Scotland) Journal :
. . . The great State dinner in Government House on
Monday night was of the most sumptuous description,
and far surpassed anything of the kind ever before held
* n Australia. The Prince made his way quietly out of
the banqueting hall, changed his uniform for evening
?°thes, and soon found himself amidst the vast crowds
in the spacious streets, passing" remarks to everv Tom.
Dick and Harry, hearing their criticisms about himself,
the Duchess and the proceedings generally. A free fight
was going on near the theatre, which pleased him mightily,
He was particularly gracious to the girls, some half-dozen
of who 1 ) 1 he treated in Australian fashion at the bars of
!n this manner he romped about for more
than two hours, was recognised by many but was not dis-
turbed. The Duke is a sensible man in seeing for himself,
in overhearing the remarks of his delighted subjects, and
no doubt jotting everything down for future use. By-
and-bye, the Prince will be able to enliven many a quiet
CHEAP SALE.
JAR: “Pip Carter seems ter be making the running with your girl
pretty strong .”
WOSTER : “ Oh, yes, I know. Swopped ’er to ’im fer couple er pigeons
en a bob.”
hour with his royal father and mother in Windsor Castle
or Balmoral with his racy experiences of Melbourne
people. Ido not know whether the Duchess had a fling
round of the same kind, but I understand her Grace is
exceedingly fond of larks, and must see everything for
herself. Both are young, strong and healthy, fond of all
innocent amusement; and why should they be hindered
from getting enjoyment anywhere and everywhere.
Why, indeed!
* * • *
Melbourne papers were loyally silent as to
much that happened incidental to the opening of
the Salvation Army Federal Garrison on Eastern
Hill by Her Ex. of Hopetoun recently. A special
platform was rigged and ragged up outside the
building so that Her Ex. might unfurl a flag on
the roof therefrom, and a distinguished co.,
ranging from Mrs. Booth to Federal Premier
Barton, took up positions sharp to time. But they
reckoned without atheist Jos. Symes, whose Hall
of Science is just opposite. Jos. had engaged a
very loud band, and had planted it in the porch
of the Science Hall and told it to wait. When
Her Ex. &c., appeared on the Garrison platform,
the signal was given and the Science band broke
into a hammer-and-tongs selection of the raciest
“ toons ” known about town. None of the Garri-
son’s distinguished guests could hear themselves
speak and the word was passed to cut the cere-
mony short. Before the party could bolt, how-
ever, a banner was unfurled over at the Joss-house
bearing the astounding and impertinent legend,
‘ ‘ Who invented Christ ? ” and, to completely
celebrate the occasion. J. W. Fleming led up a
contingent of unemployed and began a speech of
much vermilion vehemence in the middle of the
road. The “Army” flag was shot up with the
rapidity of a rocket, and the bloated plutocrats
who had dared to flaunt and rustle opposite the
Hall of Science trekked southwards in great
haste, while the “Army” people locked all the
doors and windows and pulled down the blinds
until the cold night air broke up Symes’ orchestra
and Fleming’s flying column.
* • * *
On the question “ Could Clegg have been
saved,” “ R.P.” writes
Re the recent alleged scientific assertions that the un-
fortunate young fellow who made the fatal leap from the
parapet of Hordern’s building, 110 ft. from the ground,
could not have been saved. Three men were thrown from
the Council-house on the Radschin, by the Bohemians on
the eve of the Thirty Years' War ; two escaped “ unhurt,”
whilst the third survived his injuries. The height of the
window was 105 ft. The two who escaped fell on a litter of
old papers ; but this should not have affected the issue
according to our alleged scientists.
* * * *
“Pyalla ” : At Watson’s Bay, t’other day,
one young fellow was climbing a rope suspended
over The Gap when, just as he was reaching a
place of safety, he. fainted from exhaustion. He
fell a sheer distance of 31ft. on to the rocks below.
Everyone expected an inquest. A friend
descended and poured brandy down his throat,
and in a few minutes he revived and ascended per
rope-ladder that had been meanwhile procured.
A bystander afterwards remarked that “he fell
like a pound of tripe.” The phrase aptly illus-
trates the state of a fainted man with his complete
relaxation of all muscles, etc. This should throw
some light on the falling drunken-man question.
* • • *
All things considered, Adelaide seems to
have got through its troubles with the Yorks
better than any other capital. It is (or soon will
be) the richer by one badly-needed Maternity
Home, and there are no unpaid bills to squabble
over. And if two or three people have found
signed photos, a poor substitute for knighthoods
and snuff-boxes and such baubles (as expected),
they have said nothing about it.
* * • *
“ Australians hate with the deepest hatred
any approach to flunkeyism,” says London Black
and White. (But it is only fair to say that this was
written as long ago as last Xmas.)
* * * *
The Queensland Govt., it appears, had
arranged a day’s shooting between Boonah and
Ipswich for the Jook. Several brace of ducks
were carefully preserved in a swamp, and a police-
man put in charge. But in his absence some
rascally pro-Boer sneaked in and shot the ducks.
m mm*
Black and White, one of the leading
London sixpenny illustrateds, gives a picture of
“ Hobart, New Zealand, where the Duke and
Duchess arrive next Tuesday.”
• • * •
The raid on Melbourne reporting-staffs for
State and Federal Hansards still continues, the
Argus having lost a third man, while the Age
has been deprived of two leading reporters. Few
of the old familiar faces now peer from the gal-
leries in either Parliament, and the proprietors
find it a hard job recruiting new men unless they
are prepared to pay bigger “screws ” than usual.
• • * •
Apropos the rumoured recrudescence of
Plague. Several Sydney doctors have of late no-
ticed in the course of general practice a prevalence
of the somewhat unaccountable glandular swel-
lings which preceded the last outbreak of the
dreaded disease.
A Sydney su-
burban Benevolent
Society has a curious
way of doing busi-
ness. It boasts of
a well-to-do presi-
dent, who annually
votes a substantial
cheque to local
charity. But lie
stipulates that he
must have all the
spending of his dona-
tion, and so he doles
it out himself in
cash to persons
whom he considers
deserving of assist-
ance. The com-
mittee of the society
has no say in the
disbursement of this
particular item in its
balance-sheet, and
the donor has all the
patronage and influ-
ence which the
spending of it gives.
Still, it figures on
the books as a dona-
tion to the Benevo-
lent Society, on the
total amount of
which the Govt, sub-
sidy is annually
claimed ! Therefore
the society is glad to re-elect him as president, and
he has the satisfaction of posing as the Lord Boun-
tiful of his suburb, the workers on the committee
of the society coming in a bad second.
» » * •
The Yictorian Attorney-General is at last
contemplating a prosecution for perjury against
one of those imaginative young females who bring
groundless charges of criminal assault. If the
A.-G. means business he had better set apart a
portion of the Crown Lands Department and a
couple of Crown Prosecutors to deal solely with
these interesting little dears.
■* * • *
Those two girls of Cobden, Vic., who
seriously tried to have their father gaoled for life,
and then relented, and declared their shocking
charge to be absolutely false, and the result of
pique, arising from some trumpery dispute, are not
to be prosecuted by the Crown. But the Crown,
through its mouthpiece, declares quite angrily
that “it is felt that their conduct merits very
severe condemnation.” Which is very like a
Sunday-school superintendent’s reproof of the
naughty little girls convicted of chewing stickjaw
during prayers. The girls’ names, by the way,
are Emily Jane and Anna Susannah. The Bul-
letin mentions this as a warning to fathers who
may have children to ohristen. Give a dog a bad
name and he’ll bite you some day.
NO MOLEHILL.
M ABEL: “It took you a long time to propose,
Reggie."
REGGIE : “ Yes; the mountain wouldn’t come to
Mahomet, so Mahomet had to go to the
mountain, you know."
The Sydney carters and draymen are mak-
ing a strong effort to abolish sweating and secure
fair wages and fair hours. Some work now from 80
to 90 hours per week for from 255. upwards. The
Union rules provide for a minimum wage of £2
for 60 hours per week. The men claim that the
time is opportune for the advance, and anticipate
no trouble in enforcing these conditions.
• * * •
Townsville has long been famous for heat,
thirst, piebald population, and heathen squalor.
It now comes easily first (in Bananaland) in muni-
cipal enterprise. Some time ago a number of
squalid shops in the main street were burnt. The
municipality then set to work and erected on the
vacant site handsome buildings which will bring
in a rental of £2lOO per annum. The Council
calculates it will easily make a profit of £lOOO
yearly after paying all expenses.


.Z. 6ID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
'but absolutely :the best in the world. One size
•only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
.Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
• careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
ME Whiskyof The Wise
The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmeal
The waxed Madden is distressed to find
that the softer sex is getting somewhat tough j
he groans over the fact that the unfortunate
woman in court no longer “presents all
the horror and self-reproach which one
expects in a woman who has yielded and
has to answer for her weakness.” Old
Beeswax has observed that these women
have discarded the veil of affliction, and
face the court unabashed ; cross-examina-
tion does not disturb them, and
they never have hysterics when
his Honor himself, his neck
clothed with thunder, like the
war-horse in Job, shakes his
terrific wig in affright
at their confes-
sions. His Wax.
fails to realise
that it really
seems that
woman is rapid-
ly finding man
out; that, in
many cases, she
is no longer to
be deceived by
his medicine-
man fluff and
filagree, his
stars and
spangles,
wigs, gowns,
gauds, mum-
meries, and
mock thun-
der, and
she refuses
to be seared
by the stuffed '
Joss, when the
horse-hair padding
pokes out of the
cracks. She is cul-
tivating a sense of
humor, and the
world is to be
saved next time
by a sense of
h u m or in woman.
Scot ! how the
little god of
humbug will
run when
woman has
learned how
to laugh !
* *
Stipend-
ary Magis-
trate Payten,
of Sydney,
ruled the other
day that the doorstep of a publican’s premises is
not on his premises. Seems reasonable, too. A
publican has to close his premises at 11 p.m.,
and he would have to close his doorstep, too, if it
was part of his premises.
m * * ■*
Is there any law in Australia to prevent
people masquerading in military 6r naval toggery ?
If so, those returned heroes, after they are paid
off and disbanded, should be severely chased into
civilian attire. They are an eyesore and a
nuisance, and do incalculable harm by giving
the casual citizen a distaste for ordinary honest
graft.
* * * *
“Truth is stranger than fiction.” From
Melb. Argus :
At the inquest held by Mr. Candler, City Coroner, at the
Morgue, on Thursday, on the body of Thomas Douglas
Smith, who was found mangled on the railway line at
Middle Park on the morning of 7th inst., the jury found
that deceased died from injuries sustained by being
struck by a passing truth, but there was no evidence to
show how he got upon the line.
* * • *
Sydney D-T. agony-column :
•“ QOJIE measure love by gold, by endless time, by
boundless sea ; but I—l love you well enough
to leave you, love, when needs must be.” —F.
Again :
ML.— 111, watched, badgered, all against me;
• sleepless, but yours for ever.
“ Not ” Saturday.—Q.
* * * *
At the July meeting of the Board of the
Randwick (Sydney) Destitute Asylum, after the
Superintendent had reported that not a deatli had
.occurred in the institution for the past 14 years,
■a member pointed out that the Asylum had no
■suitable cemetery of its own, and gave notice of
motion for next meeting regarding one. And,
•curiously enough, before said next meeting took
place, a death occurred amongst the inmates.
« * * *
Since the Jessie Minns exposure, at Auck-
land. M.L. booksellers report an enormous demand
among literary circles for “Fred, the Miner.” It
was from this work that that gushing child of
Nature took her story about the three dark mis-
icreants who crawled into the Grand Hotel at
might, and greased the structure, and then set it
■on fire under an alias.
» • * *
“On the advice of the prosecutor for the
'Crown, the further charges against Joseph Henry
Grey have been withdrawn.” So that “distin-
guished rascal,” whose defalcations were stated in
.court to total about £lOO,OOO, gets off with five
■years, while the Ballarat pensioner who “double-
ibanked” the State for 7s. 6d. a week for three
-weeks, gets two years. There’s a huge discrepancy
(here, somewhere.
,* * * *
A widow of 45 the other day advertised in
Melbourne Age for a life partner of about 70.
years—with means. A life partner! Which
.recalls the young wife in Sheridan’s comedy
■who, quarrelling with her elderly spouse, declared
•that she wished he were either younger or older.
There is something as sinister in this audacious
•widow’s bid for a life interest in a husband of 70 —
iwith means. **■
DISILLUSIONMENT.
AGELA : “ There was a time ,
Maurice, when you would listen to
me singing ‘ I was Dreaming ’ all the
evening.”
MAUKICE : “ Ah, yes; that’s when I was
dreaming.”
. There is trouble brewing between the
Sydney master-bakers and their much-squeezed
employees, who have at last risen in earnest to de-
mand a living wage and abolition of 13 to 16 hours
a night work. The bosses’ association had a meet-
ing last week, and, as a preliminary, two members
had a few rounds, catch-as-catch-can—Queens-
berry rules right out of it. One employer
received a black eye and lost two teeth ; t’other
only suffered a few scratches, One of the con-
testants (the victor, of course( was bundled from
the room, and the meeting proceeded to consider
its business of how best to defeat the desire of the
men to secure civilised treatment.
• * » »
South Australia has an interesting legacy
of the historic Russian war-scare in the shape of
three heavy guns, which cost that State several
thousands, and hard-up Treasurers have spent
weary years in trying to dispose of them. The
Japs were on the eve of buying them when their
Chinese war was on, and the British Govt, nearly
took them over to fire at Kruger’s tall hat. They at
present rust in a building on Glenelg beach, and
at latest S.A. was pressing them at an alarming
sacrifice on the Federal Govt.
* • * »
“S.S.": Have come .across three books
about Westralia dating from Perth during the
last year or so, and find that Westralia consists
mainly of John Forrest’s drawing-room; its
scenery is, generally speaking, found in John
Forrest’s back-yard, and its notable citizens are
all John Forrest in various stages of his glorious
career. The frontispiece is always an imposing
picture of John Forrest at his full growth, and
the letterpress deals with the rise and spread of
John Forrest. In fact, Westralian literature
consists of views of John Forrest and John
Forrest’s views.
* * * *
Cable announcement that a minimum age
of 40 has been fixed for Hungarian barmaids “in
the interests of morality,” will tend to sharpen
the point of the refrain in Marie Lloyd’s barmaid
song—
Since I’ve been here, with chat and “ cheek ”
I’ve raised the trade a hundred-a-week ;
The horsey swells,
The saucy swells,
Were never known to drink so ;
For I’m so gay
The men all say—
“ Awfl’y jolly girl! don’t you think so ?”
Marie’s song sounds pretty much like a temper-
ance hint for the adoption of that new Hungarian
law by the Federated States of Australia. The
swell who drinks to destruction on account of a
more-than-40 Hebe may be fairly left to his fate,
but his saucy younger brother is sometimes worth
preserving from the allurements of the chat and
cheek sisterhood.
* • * *
At Forbes (N.S.W.) police-court. Sydney
monte-man arrested for “language” on the local
racecourse pleads guilty (evidently expecting a
light fine.) TheP.M. : “£sor 14 days.” Monte-
man (astounded): “Five Pounds! why, it’s only
ten bob in Sydney ! ” Moral—
The wedding of a colored brother of
Mahomet with a sweet young white girl recently
caused more excitement in a southern city than
Ducal celebrations. The young lady was em-
ployed by Othello in his little fancy-goods shop,
and in six short weeks, despite the fact that her
relations were mostly opposed to the match —or,
perhaps, because of that fact—she became Mrs.
Othello. He had his bride arrayed in all the
glory of brocaded silk, fashioned in style by a
leading modiste, rigged himself up in a grey suit
and straw hat, and drove round to the Anglican
Cathedral to be hitched. But as the lady hadn’t
secured the father’s consent, and as the ebony
gent had only recently divorced his former wife,
the parson demurred at the contract. Eventually,
however, another clergyman was found willing to
do the deed. Nearly all the girls of that city
(and their name is legion) crowded into the church
to gloat over the sacrifice. After the ceremony,
when the happy couple were leaving the church,
an excited female (presumably the former wife,
a red headed white woman, by the wav) ran amok.
Othello’s face was badly scratched, his tie torn
from his shirt-front, and most of his clothes
disarranged. He broke loose and took to his
heels down the street, leaving the red-headed
female the centre of an admiring crowd. But
safety is not always to the swift. As the scared
citizen stampeded he ran right into the arms of
another man (presumably another “Indian
hawker ” who loved one or another of the leading
ladies in the drama) and was promptly .stoushed.
Othello (both of him) fought like tiger-cats in a
tight corner and wiped the muddy streets with
each other, while the crowd, or the male part of it,
cheered wildly and sent emissaries out to intercept
the casual policeman and persuade him not to
hurry. How long the battle lasted deponent
can’t say; but if such hilarious proceedings are
to mark every black-and-white wedding, the
ordinary pale tame ceremony will suffer by
comparison. But what one noticed most was the
avidity with which so many fair onlookers took in
the details of the wedding. Of course it may
have been innocent curiosity that made them
crane their necks and jostle each other for a
glimpse of the study in black-and-white by the
altar-rails. On the other hand, it may have been
something quite different. Writer heard a very
cynical politician say recently that if the op-
ponents of a white Australia knew their business
thoroughly they would fight tooth and nail on the
side of woman-suffrage.
• • * *
Wollongong (N.S.W.), had its first haggis
supper t’other night. The fearful compound was
concocted for the occasion by that celebrated Scot,
Quong Mac Tartan, of the Sydney tea-rooms. Not
VIRTUE IS ITS OWN REWARD,
“Am I the first girl you ever kissed ?”
“Absolutely
“Then you may kiss me again — it’s so nice to
meet a man who kisses and doesn't tell.”
half-a-dozen of the 60 or 70 Scotchmen present had
ever seen the “mystery” before, and all sampled
it gingerly. It looked like linseed-meal, smelt
like pork faggots, and tasted—urn--- peculiar. Is
made from the interior mechanism of the sheep,
served up hot in skins, and eaten with a spoon.
Quong Tart was present himself to show the
Scotchmen how to eat their national dish, and
sang a couple of Scoatch sangs wi’ an indescribably-
funny Chino-Australee accent. They do say the
doctors were run off their legs next day.
* * * *
An officious M.P. recently busied himself
in urging that married couples in Adelaide Desti-
tute Asylum should not be separated. A curious
result was the discovery th t a certain pair had
been in the local institution for 15 years “quite
unbeknownst to each other,” but the lady, when
informed of the fact of her husband’s presence, in-
timated that she only wished to see “ Bill ” once a
week at most, as his society was by no means con-
genial. Carpenter, M.P., whose kindly nature
prompted the inquiry, is an unsophisticated young
thing with but little knowledge of the sadness
accompanying married life.
» * ' * *
Up to date this session there has been but
one fight in the N.S.W. Parliamentary refresh-
ment room. Labor belabored Labor.
m * * *
After a short period of immunity there
comes another crop of marine accidents through
propeller-shaft breakages, three having occurred
in almost as many days among the inter-State
fleet of coastal steamers. Two of the mishaps
occurred just outside Albany, and the Buninyong
and Willyama lay alongside one another, each
crippled in exactly the same way.
* * * *
Three children were born in Darlinghurst
Gaol on Wednesday last week. Supposed to be
a record in multiplication so far as that institution
is concerned.
The sublime faith of the property-owners
in Sydney bubonic area as to the value of their lost
and damaged belongings is seen in the demand oi '
one for £3373, which the Government assesses at
.£35 ; of another for £1683, which was reduced to
£65, and so on. If such claimants rest satisfied
witli the Government award they should be pre-
sented with leather medals, embossed with bubonic
rats, as a patriotic recognition of their cheek.
•* * * ■*
The waxed Madden says that from his ex-
perience as a Judge he believes there are no more
repentant Magdalenes. Quite right; Magdalene
is too well-dressed now-a-days. How can a woman
repent in sealskin ?
★ * * *
A dignified remonstrance :
Re hospitals : Is there any good reason why among
other little discourtesies of tone and hearing the nurses
should be required to address men patients by their sur-
names, minus the handle of “Mr.,” and the women
either by their Christian names, or in a few cases by their
surnames ? A certain stately lady of my acquaintance,
widow of an officer, has quite got over the complaint that
took her to hospital, hut has never quite recovered
from the shock of being “Georgina” to numerous strange
young women. Why a paying guest of the State should
be made to feel like a pauper, or even a pauper should
be made to feel more like one than is necessary, is a mys-
tery. There may be an impression in the man-managed
State that it cheers a sick woman up to be called
“ Annie,” or gives the men-patients a feeling of Home
and Mother to be addressed as plain “ Brown.” But it
doesn’t. It makes them inclined towards language, and
it gives the haughty damsel with the cap-string a strong
impression that she is superior in some way or other to
the people whose paid servant she practically is.— Mary
Salmon.
» * •* *
Some time ago Ah Mook, an aged market-
gardener, who had spent 20 years pursuing the
mild and gentle cabbage in Victoria, went home
to China. The other day Ah Mook returned and
presented his naturalisation papers at the Cus-
toms—quite a young Ah Mook, who spoke prac-
tically no English, and who said his market-garden
was in “Lil Bulk-stleet.” The fraud was too
glaring and he didn’t get in. Neither did four
other young men who presented papers, according
to which they should have been between 40 and
70. The naturalisation-paper fraud is nearly
played out now. No new documents are being
issued, and the old ones are worn and aged, and
the dates are becoming so remote that only grand-
father Chow can make use of them and look the
part. But the birth-certificate of young Chow,
alleged to have been born in Victoria, does just
about as well.
• ■* * *
“S.S.”: I was hurt when she went past
my carriage and entered the next compartment —
she was so young and so sweet,
with large, dark, expressive
eyes, and the appearance of
having stepped right out of a
pale blue Sunday-sehool-library
book. Her skirts were still above
her boots, and she carried a little bundle
of school-books in straps. The train
started, and about 4min. later the round,
flushed face of a gentleman of about 50
appeared above the partition dividing
the two compartments. The face wore
a worried look, and there was a light
of terror in the eyes. Seeing me,
the citizen heaved a great sigh pf
relief, and murmured: “ Thank the
Lord!” Then he climbed pver,
and took a seat facing mp. I
did not speak, but the curiosity
of an insatiable scribe was
legible within my beamless eye.
The newcomer marked it, and
answered with admirable
brevity: “Little girl in there
—pretty little girl—wanted me
to tie her shoe-lace. I’ve got a
wife and family depending on
me.” In a rail way-carriage now-
a-days you know a wise man by
the company he gets out of.
WORK.
“ What I want to know,” said perspiring Mick M‘Turk,
Holding out his pewter for the barmaid to replenish it,
“ Is why the accursed noodles who first invented Work
Aren’t compelled to amble back again arjd finish it ? ”
N.s.w.
JUDAS.
The Asylumed Poor.
The Bulletin is constantly receiving piteous
letters from the inmates of benevolent and old-age
asylums with regard to the utter dreariness qf
their lives. Their food is of the plainest and
cheapest, there are no comforts, and the old men
have neither tobacco nor reading-matter. The
yo men are as badly-off, being absolutely without;
any of the little comforts that decently-placed
people in the outer world consider indispensable
to the old age of their womenkind. And the
things that are requisite and necessary for the
relatives of each of us are necessary for those poor
old women in the dreary asylums. None of us
know where we will end, and certainly some who
read this are doomed to spend their last days in
some of these houses of living death. We all
read papers, and most of us novels, and the lack
of reading and smoking matter is about the worst
feature of asylum life. So, when you have read
your paper or your novel, if it is bright and
cheery, tie a string round it and address it to
some of the benevolent or old age asylums, or
hospitals, in whatever State you live in. Here
are the addresses of some of the institutions where
tobacco and reading matter will always be accept-
able:
New South Wales. —Old Men’s Home, and Cancer Hos-
pital, Liverpool; Infirm and Destitute Asylum, George-
st> Parramatta; Old Age Asylum, Macquarie-st.,
Parramatta . Age d Women’s Asylum, Newington ; Bene-
volent Asylum, Parramatta ; The Lazarette, Little Bay.
Victoria.—Austin Hospital for Incurables, Heidelberg,
Melbourne ; Benevolent Asylum, North Melbourne;
Carlton Refuge, 31 Keppel-st., Carlton ; Convalescent
s )’ Cheltenham, Vic. ; Convalescent Home
(Women s), Cheltenham, Vie.
v ’ . , _ . ,
Queensland.— Benevolent Asylum, Dunwich ; Benevo-
]en(. Asvlunl Toowoomba; Benevolent Asylum, Rock-
hamptoh
south ’ Australia.-Poot Asylum, North Terrace,
Adelaide ; Female Refuge, Norwood ; Incurable Home,
Fullerton, S.A.
Westralia. —Pensioners’ Barracks, West Perth ; Poor
House, Perth.
Tasmania. — Benevolent Asylum, Hobart; Benevolent
Institution, Launceston.


■I
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One ofthe keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working-
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade.
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made )
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIOO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Foy’s.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand
CHAMPAGNE
AS SUPPLIED TO
MOST EUROPEAN COURTS
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &C., &c.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
m
&
£
m
&
<&
IN TV\t
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS
Twice as good as other Teas!
Half the Price of other Teas !
241 b. Canisters @ 7d, BJd, 10£d.
ATCHERLEY
the BEST IN AUSTRALIA @ 1s 9d.
DAWSON, 284 George Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, August 13, 1901.
Mt Dear Arini,—
Rumored that the next social sensation is to be
a breach-of-promise case with a male plaintiff. A
much-gilded lady has recently left for ’Ome with
a partner for life, taken on second thoughts. The
forsaken one is very wroth, and is said to have
already taken the necessary steps to start action.
You would be delighted with our shop windows.
They are showing such tender spring tints and
lovely fresh materials. Nature is doing the same
—a proof that Nature is not behind the season.
Half-an-hour from the city and you’ll walk
amongst wattle-bloom and maiden-hair fern and
pink and white heaths. The tall gums that a
month ago looked as if they were sheathed in
white kid are now a violet-grey, and made poly-
chromatic with pea-like blossoms that climb and
cling. And up in the trees green birds are
singing love-songs with a view to matrimony.
Already they are cribbing tufts from dozing cows
and strands from front mats to cradle the nestlings
to be.
But I daresay you’d rather I wrote about hats.
Well, I’m going to get one trimmed with Aus-
tralian flowers. It shall be of a bunch of wattle,
some gum-leaves, a spray of purple sarsaparilla,
sprigs of heath, and a mopoke. Then, after I’ve
put it gently in the letter-press to give it a
fashionable flattening, I’ll ask Mrs. Brough to
wear it instead of one trimmed with a mat of
sweet-peas which she wears in “ Mrs. Dane’s
Defence.” Some of the clothes worn in this tragi-
comedy are choice and desirable. I liked well
Miss Temple’s pale-green silk veiled with black
net worn under a long polonaise of apricot bro-
cade. Mrs. Brough’s lavender gown harmonised
beautifully with the blue of Lady Eastney’s Blue
Drawing-room. You might copy the coloring
and arrangements of the room with perfect safety.
And it would look exquisite in a photo. Lounges
and chairs are of a greyish shade of electric-blue,
and away in a corner there’s a white piano. Miss
Susie Vaughan’s talent for the choosing and
wearing of her clothes amounts to genius. Hence-
forth when I meet a woman with a dress of alter-
nate V-shaped bands of the tints of light and dark
tobacco I shall know that she’s a Mrs. Bulsom
Porter, and that she’s going to blue-metal my
moral character.
Miss Chatteris’s comical, plump little figure
isn’t improved by the tangle of roses that she
plants on her corsage in the first act. One spray
falling almost to her feet wobbles and swings, and
somehow draws attention to the ingenue’s rather
short-stepping, jerky gait. Miss C. ought to
tether those roses or give them to the poor.
Concerning the play itself: it is a very attrac-
tive one, and beautifully mounted. All the same,
Henry Arthur Jones wrote it, or parts of it, with
his tongue in his cheek and saying “Rats !” “I
am not a good woman,” remarks the owner of the
Blue Drawing-room. “After all,” respond* the
man, “ I don’t know that good women are the best
for us men.” (Gallery goes frantic with appro-
val.) Later, the “eminent Judge,” Sir D.
Carteret, gets on the high ropes about the woman
“ who, robbed of her priceless jewel, comes as a
beggar bride to her husband.” (Gallery madder
still with more approval). As to the famous cross-
examination scene: I wonder what Mr. B. R.
Wise, who was in the circle, thought of it and of
the subsequent logic of the Judge. Justice
Carteret’s library, by the way, is more pretty than
bookish. It hasn’t at all a calf-bound-Coke-on-
the-top-of-Littleton aspect. Mrs. Dane was a
poor sort of witness—but she bore herself just as
Waxellency Madden would like to see guilty
women comport themselves when found out. He
has been complaining that women of to-day, when
in disgrace, face the matter boldly and look the
Court square in the eye.
Somewhere —-in Ecclesiastes I think—it is written
that “Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the
sadness of the countenance the heart is made
better.” It isn’t true, and I’m not sure that it’s
apropos. Lugubrious “ Rigoletto,” performed to
a packed and full-dressed audience on Saturday
night, brought the verse to mind. “Aida’s”
corpse-making was harrowing enough. “Rigo-
letto’s” was more painful, because the corpse
Sapio is so sweet to look upon, and sings so
divinely. But the audience didn’t seem as if its
heart was being made holier any more than its
countenance looked sad. Whenever it got the
chance (that was when the lights were up) it
looked through its glasses at Princess Kalanialoe,
who, with her husband, was in the centre
of the circle. The Princess, who was in
white sequined net and white satin, with
diamonds, is a handsome, stately young woman
resembling Miss Susie Vaughan in figure and
carriage. Her features are European, her com-
plexion like that of an M.L. half-caste—a pale
copper. She was educated and has lived much in
Pans. Her husband is considerably darker than
she. The Kalanialoes, who have had a private suite
at the Australia, left on Tuesday per V entura.
Bill Nye said that Italian opera was not as bad
as it sounded. So far, I think it sounds better
than it is—that is, the telling of the story in song
is better than the story. We have been having so
many unpleasant bodies lately. There are the
bodies got out of Hordern’s holocaust; there’s a
buried-alive bride in the play “Dangerous
Women and out of Devonshire-st. cemetery
workmen have ju3t dug up the perfectly-preserved
body, with veil and wreath intact, of a long, long-
dead bride. And now comes the burying-alive
• n “Aida” and the “Rigoletto” tragedy of the
murdered girl in the sack.
A correspondent writes that “ Some up-to-date
enthusiasts in the upper galleries at a * Rigo-
letto’ night wildly shouted ‘Bis! Bis!’ at the
termination of the fine duet at the end of the
second act, much to the alarm of the d.c., which
thought a tumult had broken out aloft. It was
relieved to find that the upper circles merely
wanted an encore, and were giving the Italian
artists the proper 1 Bis,’ instead of the imported
French usual on such occasions.” The enthusiasts
may have been Frenchmen. An Australian friend
of mine visited Paris, and the first night he went
to a theatre and shouted “ Encore ” he was
“fired” for creating a disturbance. If he had
used the correot word, “Bis,” he would have said
the right thing, and been anathematised only by
the ckef-des-claque for not waiting for the organised
claqueurs.
Maud Adams, who will come to us by-and-by
through Mr. Williamson, has an unusual taste for
an actress. She is a lover and collector of books,
rare editions and finely-bound specimens. I hope
she’ll bring her collection with her. Talking of
books, I see that the Authors’ Society has just
conferred its first pension. A woman is the
recipient.. Returning to actresses. When Mrs.
J. 0. Williamson went behind the scenes tosee Sara
Bernhardt in one of the intervals of “L’Aiglon,”
the great actress received her standing on one leg,
with the other leg and one arm stretched out at
right angles. A dresser was mending a rip in the
knee of her smalls, and another was darning a
rent under the outstretched arm. Yet Sara stood
at ease on her one foot and talked brightly, and
gesticulated with the disengaged hand.
“ Palotta,” .writes a Brisbane correspondent,
“is rapidly winning all hearts. Brisbane’s smart
ser left their cards on her in shoals, and she had
already been given a luncheon-party by the
A.D.C. To be a friend of an A.D.C. (even A.D.C.
to a Lieut.-Gov.) stamps one hall-marked at once in
this city.” Also : “A smart society wedding took
place in the Wesleyan church last week, the bride
(a daughter of . the late Hon. W. Graham) being
of that persuasion. In this city of ugly churches,
the Wesleyan is certainly the best adapted to
shows of this kind—having a splendid gallery
above the floor. Said a youthful sight-seer to me,
‘ Where did you see it from—l was up in the dress
circle.’ It was worth seeing from any point of
view, however, the bridegroom—Carew-Smythe—
being a fine-looking man well over 6ft. and his
bride and her attendant maidens all more
than ‘common tall.’”
Last week a. number of Mrs. Fred. Aronson’s
friends entertained her at a tea in the drawing-
room of the Australia and presented her a silver-
framed address testifying to the value of her
charitable and literary work in Sydney, and a
case of toilette silver. The address, designed by
Mr. Souter, was read by Mrs. Spencer Brun-
ton and presented with a few apropos re-
marks by Mrs. Matthew Harris. Mrs. Aronson
replied brightly. Miss Eva Mylott and Miss
Ruby Adams sang. Mrs. Douglas Mackenzie,
Mrs. Lachlan Beaton, Miss Rose Scott, Mrs.
Teece, Consul and Mrs. Boesen were among those
present. A few days later, Mrs. Aronson gave a
large farewell party at Pfahlert’s Hotel. A
number of Sydney artists sent her a book of
original sketches and verse. Mr. Macmillan, of
Brookes and Co., made the presentation, which
had been contributed to by Messrs. Julian Ashton,
Fred. Leist, Souter, Taylor, and others. Mrs!
Aronson is now resident in Melbourne.
A Perth girl tells me that her townspeople took
the Yorks to the Zoo, which is on the other side of
Swan River and reached by a ferry. Duke and
Duchess planted trees and looked at the monkeys.
’Gropers looked at the Royalties, and by-and-bye,
when they were resting, the ’Gropers marvelled
much that Royalty drank its tea like, for instance,
a mayor and mayoress. The Duchess presented a
camel to the Zoo. It had been given her by some
Fuzzy Wuzzy or other, and there was no spare
cabin for it on the Ophir.
Grov. Gen. Hopetoun, who has borne up pluckily
against severe physical trouble ever since he left
India, hasn’t done much since the Yorks left, save
hang blue ribbons on prize sheep at the Mel-
bourne wool and mutton show. Now he is in
Brisbane convalescing. There would have been
some festivities at Government House this month
but for the death of the German Dowager
Empress, for whose demise all our flags are half-
masted.
The hand of O’Sullivan is strongly manifest in
the age, quality and number of workmen now tin-
kering at what will be the path of the electric
tram in Castlereagh and Pitt-sts. There are boys
from 16 upwards, and men who look like decayed
bankers, and “fired” parsons, and bankrupt
water-color artists mixed with the real pick-axers.
Awhile ago it used to be “ run ’em into the rail!
way” and half-a-dozen guards extra would be
cjmging to the train. By the way, the O’S.
went t’other day with his daughter and a lot of Par-
liamentarians and medical comforts to Balmain to
launch the dredge Glaucus. Perhaps the dredge
spotted O’Sullivan, or perhaps it distrusted Miss
O’Sullivan’s launching wine. Anyway, it decided
to take no chances and proceeded to launch itself.
Off it went at a fine rate “ on its own ” right under
the O’Sullivan’s astonished eyes. The scandalised
Minister declined to have any more to do with
such a discourteous dredge and hastily adjourned
the function to Sydney.
Cardinal Moran will go to Rome in a month or
two. It is compulsory for Cardinals, lam told,
to visit Rome at stated intervals. What a lovely
compulsion! Wish such a nice “Thou shalt”
had been inserted in the Commandments, and
that the Govt, had to see that it was complied
with, especially by persons named Akenehi. I
saw in a paper t’other day that in Rome the Car-
dinal would have a right to great style, as, for
instance, cushion-bearer, hat-carrier and umbrella-
holder servitors. He dispenses with a lot in Aus-
tralia. Dr. O’Haran humping the Cardinal’s
indoor hat, which was wrapped in a half-sheet of
Granny, is what I saw at a Waitara function one
day. The Doctor looked tired. Granny is
heavy.
That was, indeed, a singular acoident at Quir-
mdi. A hundred-and-fifty persons, assembled at
a fashionable polo function, crash through a rickety
balcony, and no one is killed. Many fractured
limbs, but not a broken skull or spine amongst the
injured. Now, think of the same number of per-
sons slipping on 150 pieces of orange-peel. Accord-
ing to the problem of chances there would be many
deaths from concussion of the brain.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At that District Nursing Ball (Aug. 7) white
gowns had it all their own way, most of the fancy
sets swearing by them as the best groundwork for
flowers, powder and patches, hunting-pink,
Gainsborough hats, &c.
“Mrs. Baronet Clarke, tall and vivid in white
satin with badge posy of crimson carnations on
her shoulder, fenced her dark pedestal of hair
with diamonds; chiffon frills softened her low-cut
corsage, and, after an interval of vandyked
polonaise, swarmed lower down over under-dress
and long train, the latter fearlessly abandoned to
the tender mercies of the dancers. Anyone who
hasn’t seen said handsome, breezy Australienne
may mentally depict her type of looks by think-
ing of Elliot-Page, or some other smart ‘ beauty-
actress.’ This is a compliment, mind you, for,
after all, these stage stunners get to the front
through personal comeliness, passing that of the
ordinary born fashionable.
“ Dowager Clarke, bossing the rose-set, looked
absolutely radiant in white, a suspicion of black
lace on her skirt, and a sprinkle of black-chiffon
dots peeping out from under the massed red roses
on her bodice, Ibe Cliveden widow, running on
completely different lines from those chosen by
her successor at Rupertswood, lives up to the
‘ best British traditions.’ Her coiffure, her chari-
table zeal, her penchant for military, religious,
professional and academic leaders, no less than
for smart society and sporting high-steppers,
su gg e st profitable study of the English princesses.
At the ball, t’other night, she danced with a
brain-specialist, promenaded with a ’Varsity Pro-
fessor, got partners for the Argentine naval
visitors, and smiled impartially on kharki and gold-
laced red.
“He the dressy widow’s haberdashery dots.
Pin-spots are to be popular this summer. White
muslins and linens are manufactured, hem-stitched
with pink, blue, or mauve, and the hems all
freckled to match. Scribe knows of an imported
white muslin, with narrow red borders, speckled
with white. This novelty is to go to the Cup,
topped by a rustic pancake hat, bent up here and
there with red roses and twine lace.
“At the ball, Mrs. Frank Clarke, the Cliveden
bride, in white satin and roses to match, carefully
held up her train all the time, and looked very
pale, though radiant with matronly importance.
The young couple set off at once to their new
home at Oxford, there to abide till the bridegroom
gets through his law course.
“Remember, in ‘David Copperfield,’ how
schoolboy Trad dies was always drawing skeletons ?
Tis told of a local little lady, who recently
annexed a rich husband, that, at school, she
always sketched fashionable brides. In those
needy days, circumstances seemed dead against a
golden future for the little artist, whose school-
fellows contemptuously greeted her pictures with
choruses of : ‘lt won’t be a stylish marriage j you
can’t afford a carriage ! ’ And, all the time, Fate
had up her sleeve as pretty, dressy, thick-gilt a
wedding as even the most ardent worshipper of
white satin, presentation jewellery, and society-
paper fame could hope for.
“ Prominent in the ‘ hunting set ’ at the ball
were Mrs. Gordon-Lyon ( nee Calvert), and Mrs.
Cox (nee Stanbridge), both looking well in white,
dashed with i’ally-ho pink. These high-steppers
seem to hunt in couples, they became engaged
simultaneously while staying at the same house,
were married on the same day, and each is now
the mother of a baby daughter. Miss Baronet
Clarke’s debutante sister Muriel is a dark, stout,
rather handsome girl, less blooming than sister
Hilda Cumming, less dashing than the Dame of
Rupertswood, but something of a belle, never-
theless.
Widow Clarke, leaning on an escort’s arm,
gave a spice of vanity to the scene, recalling for
an instant the vanished prestige of the male elbow
as a ball-room factor. Mrs. Frank Madden,
standing protectively by her daughters, was
another archaic item in a world of go-as-you-please
girls and white-frocked, skittish dowagers. Were
I a chaperon, now that duennas ask for partners
and go without chairs, I’d cart round a camp-
stool. It’s matricidal to keep old ladies on end
for hours.
“ This year’s Findon Harriers’ Meeting was a
frost from the feminine point of view. Moonee
Valley on a grey, foredoomed sort of day is not an
inviting place, so the pitch spread for the fashion-
able throng in the Special Pen was trodden by a
few—very few—brave souls. Besides, rain drib-
bled all day, and everyone huddled into the tent
and snugged themselves away into corners where
the wind , didn’t whistle through their feathers.
One lady actually sent for her feet warmer, and all
the rugs in her trap, and looked (with her snowy
head just showing) like a sleigh-rider in the Frigid
Zone. ‘lsn’t there a feeling in the air that’s
something’s dead ?’ asked a pensive girl. ‘ Possibly
a bird, ’ replied Toorak’s and most popular spinster.
. Mrs. George Russell, in a chocolate Eton
frieze, and Miss Yera Clarke, in a smart ‘ Mag-
pie ’ Eton, looked the trimmest of the Findon fol-
lowers. Russell Clarke came with his sister, and
looked on with a tolerant smile, while all the
girls of the Miller party staked crowns and half-
crowns on the favorite. None of the Snodgrass-
Clarke family are wicked enough to gamble. The
day in question all the race slang in the tent
seemed double-dutch to Miss Vera Clarke, who
sat and looked at the rabbits scurrying over the
course in the intervals of the racing, and made no
effort to smile or translate the sporting idioms. A
slangless girl is a refreshing circumstance in the
realm of gee-gee.
“First night of the dear old ‘ Manxman ’ (Sat.,
Aug. 10), Edyth Latimer, that Sydney girl, now
pronounced by chieftain Barrett ‘a finished
actress,’ was the belle of the stagey group looking
on from the left-hand box. With her slim figure,
soft, round face, smooth pale complexion and dark
hair, draped over her ears and coiled atop, the
Latimer was decorative in white muslin, long
pale-blue sash and flung-open seal Eton jacket, its
high collar lined with white-fur. But the actress
group was fidgetty as a bag of fleas. N.B.—Since
the plague-scare, fleas are not tabooed in polite
conversation.
“On the boards, Lillah M‘Carthy, as Kate
Cregeen, wearing practically the same frocks as
buxom Maud Jeffries used to sport, suffers by
comparison. Lillah, as one gets used to her,
gradually takes her own plaoe as a tall, dark,
spirited actress with splendid grey eyes. Just at
first, in the familiar white sun-bonnet, kerchief,
and ruffled dark hair, she seems like a sparse,
defiant ghost of her radiant predecessor. Barrett’s
Pete is better than ever. Less caperish than of
old in the presence of the baby, and, when robbed
of the infant, limiting himself to a mere pre-
liminary hint of convulsions ! The flesh and blood
baby, when carried in on Saturday night, looked
severe and implacable. Its histrionic papa, har-
dened old stage hand that he is, grew scarlet with
apprehensions of audible infantile wrath, ven-
tured upon few blandishments, and gladly wel-
comed its dummy substitute. Such small things
hash a stage situation. In ‘ Man and his Makers,’
the Barrett, laboring heavily through one of his
fatherly love-scenes, was just placing a kiss on
Miss Latimer’s brow when a she-simpleton in the
audience proclaimed in sugary though far-reaching
tones, ‘ I see you ! ’ Result—total waste of care-
fully stirred jam. Some people, I fancy, brought
dunderheaded relatives to that heredity drama to
cheer them up with the news that every fool
originates his own folly. Carter-Edwards looked
very realistic as Faber, the rabid scientist. Grey
hair grew low on his forehead and bristled round
his face in monkey-whiskers. His small ears,
painted crimson, peeped out apeishly from the
silvery fur.
“The latest Parisian confection in blue and grey
tones was aired at ‘ The Manxman ” on Saturday
night by a returned tourist—Miss Elsie Garter.
This beauty, who is as dark and richly-colored as
the red red rose, has returned engaged to a
brilliant foreigner whom she met on her travels —
a Dr. Pfund, reputed to be a very lettered man
and a very high-familied one. Miss Carter
returns to Europe shortly to wed this erudite gen-
tleman and live in one of the picturesque homes
of Dresden.
“ The Melbourne bazaar in aid of the Abbots-
ford Convent is to happen at the Exhibition
Building during the four Racing Carnival weeks
in October and November, when the largest pos-
sible number of punters can be got at. What a
convent doesn’t know about the ways and means
and best times for taking a cash rise out of this
wicked world, is not worth knowing. A prime
mover and adviser in the bazaar scheme is an
enthusiastic O’Connor—the same O’Connor who
business-managed the Amy Castles boom, under
the patronage of Holy Church. Probably it was
O’Connor who told the rev. mother of the convent
that the Turf abounds in beautiful pitfalls for the
charitable, and Melbourne is full of money when
the annual Feast of Moses comes to pass. Any-
way, that good and wise lady grasps the situation,
and if the prayers of the convent can make every-
body back a winner at Caulfield and Flemington
they’ll do it, sure enough.
“ The suffrage-seeking woman has been content
with the leadership and rule of energetic Miss
Vida Goldstein so far, but the petticoated Govern-
ment clerks declare she is arrogating too much to
herself, and are suspicious of her kindly intentions.
The last note distributed by Miss Vida among
the public service girleens calls for co-operation in
the work of organising a union to protect them-
selves against tyrannous courses. At this, they
tilt their noses in the air, lock their lips tight (the
fair toiler is not a talker), and await passively the
next move of the would-be priestess. It is Vida’s
first experience of a rebuff. After all, she will
find cajoling the members up at the House, and
talking two languages, with her lips and her eyes,
easier and more profitable work than championing
contented ‘slaves.’
“ Talking of plague ; people accuse returned
cohentingenters of bringing back with them some
S’African germ responsible for the new gastric,
eruptive ‘ influenza.’ Four of the travellers them-
selves have died of the effects of ‘ measles ’ and
juvenile ‘mumps,’ and swelled glands are so pre-
valent that alarmists are not laughed at when
they hint darkly that worse ills than ‘malaria’
may have accompanied our boys from Africa.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


JitiZGllS’GifeJssurance Company [united
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IKT FORCE ESZCEEO 210,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Casllerecujh Streets.
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, B.iL. LL.B.
Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Arthur Ooningham has returned to Syd-
ney after a ten weeks insurance-drumming visit to
Maoriland.
The present N.S.W. Parliament is,
according to a local financier, the poorest in a
monetary sense that N.S.W. has seen.
Queensland has lost two Federal members
Dickson and Groom, both Englishmen—in the
first eight months of the Commonwealth.
In the Westralian pensions’ list :—“John
Forrest, late Surveyor-General, £500.” Does Big
John draw this in addition to Federal pay ?
Melbourne Age staff is kaleidoscopic in its
changes. Fox, now chief, has not been seven
years on the paper, and all the others have joined
within the past four years.
The death of Mr. T. H. Kelly, of Sydney,
struck the insurance offices for over £70,000.
The Sun came in the heaviest with £32,000, and
next to it the A.M.P. with £lB,OOO.
Lady Tennyson has a keen taste for
political crises and has visited the Assembly to
listen to every no-confidence motion tabled since
her husband has been Governor of S.A.
The Chief-Justices and Lieutenant-Gover-
nors of Vic. and N.S.W. are Irishmen, one from
the North, the other from the South. The two
Chief-Justices who preceded them were also Irish
one from the North, the other from the South.
The new Victorian Governor is “Colonel
Sir George Sydenham Clarke, Superintendent of
the Royal Carriage Department.” Up to date
there has been plenty of livery in connection with
Australian Governors; but this is the first instance
of livery-stable.
From a N.S.W. country district:—
Editor Bult etin, —Is there any secrecy to be observed
In the Old-age Pensions? Our'local paper publishes the
names of all the Pensioners in this region, and among
them that of a man who owned the winner of at least one
Melbourne Oup.—B.G.S.
The N.S.W. Senators have all recognised
“pet names” in Melbourne. Neild, of course, is
“Jawbone” ; Gould “ Mary Jane.” Of the rest,
Walker is “Alice in Wonderland,” O’Connor is
“Dick Deadeye,” Millen “The Mighty Atom,”
aid Pulsford is mostly “Aunt Emma” and
“Black Maria.”
The late Mark Moss, Melb. financier, was
oace asked by a journalist for a loan, to enable
him to buy some Broken Hill silver shares. “ No,”
said Mark, peremptorily, “ T will not lend money
to anyone to go into wild cat specs. Why don’t
AN OPTIMIST,
FIRST LITTLE ANGEL: “ Wal'cker been doin' to
yer wings, Billy? "
SECOND LITTLE ANGEL: " Pullin' the featken to
clean me pipe wid."
you invest in thoroughly safe things, like Melb.
tram shares, as I do?” The tram shares came
down from £8 to 10s., and poor Moss had to
assign his estate.
Adelaide pressmen chuckled when King-
ston, the most “unapproachable” man in Aus-
tralian politics, went over to Melbourne to run
t'he Customs. They thought C.C.K. would get
badly broken-up "by the Melbourne reporters if he
didn’t treat them better. But Kingston’s reserve
has, if anything, armor-plated itself, and he even
refuses to see the pressmen at all —at which much
impotent growling.
The Vic. Minister whose speech finally
settled Findley’s expulsion from the Assembly is
himself a holder of one share of the Tocsin in
which the alleged libel was published. By the
way, the Tocsin aforesaid is understood now to
be under offer, at a nominal figure, to a well known
N. S. W. politician-journalist.
The present N.S.W. State Parliament con-
tains four new members—Messrs. Burgess, Levy,
Kelly and Sullivan (in no way related to the
historical miscreants of those names) who, in
Maoriland, would probably earn it the name of
“ the Maungatapu ” (pronounced Mokatap) Par-
liament.
The übiquitous “ Smith” ! From a busi-
ness-letter recently received in a N.S.W. coal-
mining town :
Bee sure and adress the envellope 41 Carlyle Z. X.
Smith,” as their is a 11 other Smiths here, they was 5
more but they left through a fool of a postman —we uster
get one anothers letters or not attall, your last letter was
open when i got it, and was red by 4 before it came to
me to see if it was mine, and 2 more are thinking of going.
Righteous VVrixon, now Victorian Leg.
Council President, is the man who seriously pro-
posed, when the Shiels Divorce law was
enacted, to have two sorts of marriages—to make
the Divorce Act applicable to those unregenerates
who had become one by registrar, but to deny its
privileges to others foolish enough to have paid
three guineas to a parson. The Argus charac-
terised Wrixon’s proposal as one to create “limited-
liability and no-liability marriages.”
When Chas. Gavan Duffy's Ministry was
in power, in Victoria, its fate depended, on one
occasion, upon the vote in the Assembly of the
late “Jacky Tommy” Smith, and no one knew
which way it would go, the wily tactician refusing
to give any sign. His son, the late J. T. T.
Smith, K. 0., was an applicant for the position of
Crown Prosecutor. All at once, the appointment
was given to the young man. IN ext day, the pater
voted with the Govt., whose bacon was thus saved
for a time.
Did John M‘Kenzie of Maoriland did not
long survive the receipt of his title. He was an
iuteligent democrat, a stupendous worker in the
best interests of the people, and he was a large
part of the Ballance and Seddon Cabinets in their
good days, yet had the luck to drop out of active
service before the Jingo grovel-disease came on
his colleagues in its worst form. M’Kenzie came
•from Ross-shire (Scotland) where tne big men
grow. He died at the age of 66, having been
plain, good, honest Big John for 62 years and
some months, and a K.C.M.G. for a few weeks
only.
At least one in-
teresting and his-
toric figure was
seen at the York
levee at Govt.
House, Hobart —
that of the emin-
ent lawyer, John
Deunistoun Wood,
a rather lonely
survivor of old-
time Vic. politics,
now that Thomas
Loader is gone.
Wood was a mem-
ber of Vic. Assem-
bly and Minister of
Justice 40 years ago.
Afterwards he lot'
years lived in London,
and practised before
the Privy Council.
Twenty-five years later
on he returned to Mel-
bourne, and dropped into
law again, but lately has
gone back to his native
Dennistoun, near Both-
woil, Tas. JNow lie’s
municipal councillor and
advertises for bullock-
drivers, and warns people
that poison is laid for dogs.
Noteworthy that Dee-
gan, the new member for
East Melbourne,, has a turn
for amateur theatricals, like
his predecessor, the late An-
derson. Men recite them-
selves into Parliament nowa-
days. The average A. N. A. can-
didate in Victoria, more especially
the up-country Jim, is always pre-
pared to stand forth on festive occa-
sions and witch his adherents
with “one of ‘Banjo’s’,” or
“ How We Beat the Favor-
ite.” Williams, who
succeeded George
Turner at St. Kilda,
is a comic songster as
well as a reciter. The
probability of another
Higinbotham ever
getting into Victorian
politics seems scarcely
worth considering, for
even if he were pro-
curable nobody would
want him unless he commended himself to favor
with a stump-speech.
The recent sudden death in his office of
M. J. Peden removes a figure well-known in
Sydney. Mr. Peden formerly resided down Bega
way, and it was he who conducted the inquest
when the s.s. Ly-ee-moon went down. He was a
storehouse of old Sydney lore, and leaves behind
him a very clever son in “Jack” Peden, who
carried all before him at Sydney Grammar School
and the University, and is now doing very well at
the Bar.
July 25th was the 40th anniversary of
M‘Douall Stuart’s arrival at Port Darwin after
traversing the Australian continent. Besides
Stuart, the party consisted of nine, and six still
live. Four of them—Thring, Auld, King, and
NO FAKE.
MENDICANT: “Assist the blind, please. Assist
the blind.”
CITIZEN: “ Rubbishl You're not blind.”
MENDICANT : “ Maybe I aint, but the dorg is.”
Nash—were present at a banquet in Adelaide re-
cently to celebrate the event. M'Gorrey resides
at Port Lincoln (S.A.) and Billiat is in England.
The tree marked with an S by King on the arrival
of the expedition was discovered only a few years
ago with the letter still plainly visible.
When the S.A. farmers were crowded out
into “the mallee,” they found that it would cost
more than the country was worth to get out the
innumerable roots. But thereupon a plough was
invented which, striking a stump, automatically
rose above-ground, clearing the obstacle. It
answered, and there are now hundreds of these
ploughs in use in S.A., Vie. and elsewhere; and
the principle has also been applied to other imple-
ments. The inventor, C. H. Smith, who had his
works at Kadina, died late in July. Mallee far-
mers propose to put a monument over his grave.
How they put the square pegs in the
round holes! Archdeacon Morse, who died in
S. Australia last month, didn’t go to the Church
until he had tried and failed as a squatter ; and
Samuel Goode, who died a day or two afterwards,
left the draper’s counter to take up farming and
become president of the Agricultural Society.
Which recalls that the founder of the great
Hordern business was always disgusted with
calico-selling, and insisted that he should have
been an engineer ; while the founder of the S.M.
Herald affirmed to the last that he should have
been far happier as “the poorest Congregational
minister in the land.”
Buller (M.L.) Post re Emperor Seddon
XT , ~, / .... . . ,
Not one of the dazzling: political moves made by the
Dictator has been of any real benefit to the people of this
State. The barren results of his trip to the Old Country
were an unprecedentedly heavy bill for “ shouting ” ex-
penses, and a cable announcement that P. C. Seddon
carried two pounds more dead weight than Mr. G. H. Reid,
His greatest exploit, the forcing of seven contingents upon
the Imperial Govt., will benefit no person so much as it
will secure the advancement of the Tactful Premier.”
Already, M.L. is being made to' feel that the whole busi-
ness was a huge mistake. The returned troopers are
swarming over the country like brigands, seizing every
vacant offise and clamoring for the creation of new ones,
The country’s “ defenders ” are fattening on the corrup-
tmn of the Administration .
W. H. Groom, M.H.R., to mark whose
death Commonwealth Parliament adjourned, sat
for 39 years in Q. Parliament, and served a term
as Speaker. For many years he owned the
leading newspaper at Toowoomba, Q., where he
was the centre of political life, and did much
useful work, helping himself and the township at
trie same time. Groom s early life was full of ups
and downs, but his not too scrupulous energv won
success in a struggle which would have crushed
weaker men. As a politician, he was noted for
cunning rather than for capacity ; and mistrust of
his shiftiness prevented him from ever attaining
the Ministerial office he craved for. Groom was
a small replica of Parkes in many ways.
J J
Some 13 years ago, during a debate
in the Maorilaiid House of Reps, on the Central
Otago Railway, the late Vincent Pyke, then the
most popular member in the House, waxed. fervid
in support of the proposed route. He was so elo-
quent about the rolling plains,' fertile valleys, etc.,
etc., which the line would open up, that he almost
wept. After a 50 minutes oration he sat down
perspiring. Then William Pember Reeves, the
present Agent-General, rose up with that devilish
cadaverous smile about his mouth and spoke,
From a book he read of the wondrous towering
mountains of Central Otago, the vasty deep can-
yons ; the great bouldered hills rising to the skies,
and the utter precipitousness of Pyke’s Promised
Land. “Authority? Name? Name ?” cried the
House. “ Certainly,” said Reeves, with the smile
of a lean demon on his mouth. “ The book is
‘Wild Will Enderby’ by Vincent Pyke.” And
then the House roared till the dust rose in clouds
from the rotten cushions.
The octogenarian Archbishop of
Canterbury declares that he was formerly
able to walk 50 miles any day without
feeling tired. And it is irreligious to
laugh when an Archbishop tells a yarn
of that sort.
Theseus Kerry, whose yacht. Ariadne
was lost on Maoriland reefs a little time
ago, is a short, fair, fresh-colored, square-
built pocket Hercules, with bright blue
eyes and an alert, courageous look. He is
preparing the story of his life for publica-
tion. If- he tells his adventures as they
occurred, without coloring or chastening,
the result should be a human document
the like of which we have not seen for
many a day. Kerry says that, iri his
opinion the only two books written about
the sea which can be read by seafaring
men without nausea are Dana’s “ Two
Years before the Mast” and Bullen’s
“Cruise of the Cachalot.” All the
others, and more particularly Clark
Russell’s, are, he says, unrea], menda-
cious, and beneath salt-water-criticism.
And his final conclusion, after going?
around and around the world, is that the
only career with a spice of adventure in these
days is the life of a whaler. When he is rid of
the Law he thinks of building a whale-ship.
Premier See became a selector in tne
Hunter River district, at 16 years of age,
and he worked from daylight to dark.
But it was easier than cultivating the
Labor party. He had hardly any school-
ing—which is probably why he likes to
run a newspaper.
“Esmi”: “E. G. B.” re Higinbotham
(B. 10/8/’01) recalls Murray-Smith’s last attempt
to capture the St. Kilda seat. At a crowded
meeting in St. Kilda Town Hall he was getting
on swimmingly until an elector asked him if he
was in favor of an overhead crossing of the railway
at Inkerman-st., then a burning local question.
Smith foolishly admitted that he did not even
krurw where Inkerman-st. was—and that settled
' lin ?‘ b’he meeting would not hear him further,
ant day he withdrew from the contest If I
remember aright, his opponent was a man named
treorge I urner.
The Bulletin reprints this cablegram
rom t * ie S.M. Herald of Sept. 25, 1895:
VALUABLE COLLECTION OF STAMPS,
London, Sept. 25.
Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild has purchased from the
P uk . e of . York his famous collection of stamps. The col-
®ctlon ls valued at £56,000.
Doubtless this collection included the set of Aus
tralian stamps which George York cadged on his
previous visit. And now he has been supplied by
N.S.W. Government with a fresh set—to be
turned into cash in the same way sooner or later,
What a dignified business monarchy is !
. <>PPy Draper, the fighting journalist
lhady O Kane s brand, who died at Cairns
re l c ? n , tl Y’ wa » a , R° od Packed un. The lameness
w 11 , e . arned bis nickname developed into slow
paralysis, and for two years he edited Ins paper
ro *? ai ! n>valid chair. Singularly enough, he
m / K * e a better paper when paralysed than he made
/ - cn The whole township reported for
' lrl L and when Hoppy, from his chair on the
°°tpath in front of Ins office, had crooked his
mandatory huger at half-a-hundred passers and
Sphered their gossip he had collected an amount
meal news which drove desperate rival editors
to Dnnk-
fl and hair may now be expected feo
H y m oydney. John Norton, true to his well-
fi trine? rAI« rTf
° f -a ■™P® rtak « n
e t>uke, with a brick, his old friend Crick, who, he
s ‘ i y a may now expect no more tolerance from
the public. . . . The most virulent of your op-
porients never conceived the idea of picturing you
m the position of posing as a political purist and
1 _ 0 • , -r r 1
k political propriety..... . You are such
a opasttul braggadocio that, if permitted to pose
and pirouette as a purist, you would become a
positive pest of propriety. You have to be,
therefore, checked or rendered innocuous.” John
thereupon proceeds to render Crick innocuous with
two cols, of leaded long-primer.
. .
4 Next to a veneration for God, I hold
trades-unionism to be the most sacred thing the
working men of this or any other community should
venerate.”—The O’Sullivan.
Premier Seddon’s statement that the
-»*- .- A . • . • ~ ,
Maimland Arbitration Act is being ridden to
deat . h has Possibilities of. truth m it. This world
carnes everything to excess-eating, drinking,
tnama S e <*t n ? h ,7
exer( f? ( T leadS off^ood-
sels>' re }^% n ' war ‘ stl ?, ke '!> and all ether things,
0 courae the r “ ry d ° esn 4 Propose to abolish food
when someone dies of over-eating, but he certainly
will propose to abolish Arbitration Acts because
some persons resort to arbitration over trivial
quarrels. _ Maoriland established the first-Cempul-"
sory Arbitration Act of modern times, and
Seddon’s complaint seems to be that it wasn’t
made absolutely perfect at the first attempt. The
great point is that Maoriland’s industries are
prospering under it. The following are the in-
creases in the number.of persons employed in manu-
factoring industries in the three leading Austra-
lasian States during the past two years: Maoriland
(with Compulsory Arbitration Act and a species of
Minimum Wage Law) 9266, equal to P2O per cent,
of the population ; Victoria (witli Minimum Wage
Law), 9432, or 0.80 per cent, of population ;
N.S.W. (with no Compulsory Arbitration or
Minimum Wage Law), 8261, 0r0’62 per cent, of
population. While Maoriland’s industries are
growing twice as fast as those of N.S.W., it would
certainly seem that the Compulsory Arbitration
system isn’t holding them back very badly.


DAVID STORER & SONS’ Three ColorB BLAO^RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“The Duke,” said the old Maoriland war-
veteran, “is a perfect gentleman. Why, he actu-
ally shook hands with me, asked how I got my
medal, and when I’d told him of the fighting I’ve
seen he said I had set a noble example which he
hoped every young fellow would follow.”
“Come home, you d —- old bald-headed pig-
thievin’ curse ! ” said a rough-looking female, lay-
ing hold of the Noble Example by the coat and
half dragging it off him. “You and the Duke —-
do what I will I can’t keep you out of bad com-
pany. If the Duke only knew you as well as Ido
he wouldn’t touch you with a long pole. Your
medal for service—stealing the Maoris’ pigs and
potatoes when the warriors were away fighting for
their country! As old Colonel Four-eyes said,
you were the most infernal pig-and-spud thief in
the whole army ; if there had been many more
like you, there would have been no Maoris left for
the Duke to see—they would have all starved to
death. And the little devil actually hopes the
young fellows will follow your noble example,
does he ? As if the gaols aren’t full enough already.
Better for them to follow your funeral. Now you
just follow me home and think yourself lucky to
have a wife who will look out that you don’t go
hungry while you’re sneakin’ round after the
Duke like a little poodle ” and keeping a firm
grip of the pig-pilferer she marched him off out of
sight of the grinning crowd.
» * * *
“You coves talk about punkins,” scorn-
fully remarked a Hunter River native at a recent
Queensland show. “ Well, can you do better than
them there?” asked a patriot, pointing to his
prize lot. “Do better?” quoth the Cornstalk;
“ why at Broadmeadows the vines grows that
quick that they wears out most of the young pun-
kins pullin’ them along the ground ! ”
* * * *
A rabbit-trapper brought into Benalla
(Vic.) t’other day a live rabbit, which had three
eyes—two in the usual places, and a
third on top of the head—and two
tails, one above the other.
A FAIR CRITERION.
MAOLURE : “ Oimme a shirt, young feller.”
SALESMAN: “ Yessir; what size?”
MACLURE : “Oi dunno ; but Oi take thirteens in
boots!”
The fighting Waikatos took no part in the
grovel over the Yorks’ visit to Maoriland. They
were willing to meet the Yorks on their , own
ground, and have Mahuta formally recognised as
their rightful King—and rightly, as they were
never conquered. The Government refused their
demand, foolishly suggesting that the Waikatos
should go to Rotorua and join the subjugated
tribes in welcoming the Royalties. An insulting
proposal, seeing that Rotorua is the home of the
Arawas, who fought on the British side against
the liberty-loving Waikatos. Latter avenged the
affront and showed their contempt for their old
foes by staying at home and leaving the Arawas
to do all the crawling. The big Rotorua gather-
ing, intended to represent the whole Maori
nation, therefore failed in its object, through the
absence of the grandest fighting tribes. To for-
give and forget is evidently not the motto of Wai-
kato. The living survivors of Orakau’s famous
fight must feel proud of the spirit shown by their
people. The jeering remarks on the absence of
Mahuta and his people made by some of “King
Edward’s Maoris ” shows that the contempt of the
Waikatos has cut deep.
“Quad”: Aborigines at Wallaga Lake
station (Tilba Tilba), under King Meredith, have
an eye to business : they are executing an order
for 50 boomerangs at 18s. per doz. These will be
retailed by a Sydney firm at half-a-crown. The
king, a full-blood, now 75 years old, possesses all
his faculties, and entertained a visitor t’other day
with many aboriginal songs. Remembers many
old lag yarns, which he retails for a fig of ’baccy,
and is a strong believer in the re-incarnation
theory, but holds that all things living, human and
animal, were oi’iginally blackfellow. About half
the camp is full-blood.
* * * - *
Queensland Government has of late taken
to protecting the aborigines very extensively. No
doubt the aboriginal badly needed protecting, but
to appoint a protector (for a sparsely populated
western district) at £4OO per annum to distribute
£2oo’s worth of tucker, seems ludicrous.
• * * 9
Thus Q. Home-Secretary Foxton :
Now, instead of regarding the native police force as
their natural enemies, the aborigines of the bush have
come to look upon them as friends whose visits are, as a
rule, looked forward to with pleasure.
Sounds odd, but let us hope it’s true.
* * * •
N.Q. nigger on recent blanket distribu-
tion:—“You gib it blanket and you tellem me
sing out ‘ God Save King ! ’ What for then you
gib it this dam lillee fellah blanket ? Suppose you
gib it big fellah blanket me plentee yell out ‘ God
Save King ! ’ Suppose blackfellah leave’m blanket
longa gunyah, white fellah steal ’em. Then you
say sing out ‘ God Save King ! ’ some more.”
* * * *
“ Gurnsucker ” : Cycling in Yic. Western
District during a somewhat dry year, I stopped
at a nice, clean-looking hotel for lunch. After a
“refresher” I inquired if they had a bath-room.
The landlord answered in the affirmative and con-
ducted me to it. The bath contained some doubt*
ful-looking water, and I asked him if it was clean.
“ Oh, yes,” he replied, “it’s quite clean; a gentle-
man had a bath in it yesterday.” I passed.
* * * *
Many years ago a young surveyor was
sent out by the Queensland Government to make
some surveys in the North. It was a very
wet season, and the floods in places
made the task by no means easy.
The Survey Department allowed
10 per cent, above ordinary charges
to compensate for extra difficul-
ties. After a while the sur-
veyor made an application for
100 per cent, extra. The
Government asked at great
length on a very large sheet
of paper for a reason. An-
swer came promptly by
wire : “ When the water was
up to my knees and
the alligators 6ft. long
I wanted 10 per cent.
Now the water is up
to my stomach and
the alligators are
10ft. long I want an
increase.” The offi-
cial answer came by
wire and briefly
stated that if “choicer
language was not used
in future a severe re-
primand would be the
only result.” Also, the
surveyor was informed by letter
that he musn’t mention his stomach
in official correspondence.
Maoriland law was paralysed lately by
some brown men and certain dogs. The Maoris
at the Chatham Islands had refused en masse to
pay their dog-tax, and a steamer full of armed
constabulary was despatched to exert moral
suasion. Even at this stage of the proceedings a
considerable minority of the rebels refused to
liquidate the assessment on the mongrel, and were
arrested and flung into gaol. Then the officer in
charge of the punitive force approached the local
publican—the only available providore—with a re-
quest that he would tender for the supply of
prison rations, but he refused to have anything to
do with “prison rations.” The only thing he
would tender for was three square meals a day
for each prisoner at Is. per meal, and if the force
didn’t choose to supply the confinees with his food
at his price the Maoris might starve to death in
gaol, and the police be hanged for it later on. As
a result the Maoris had a good time. It was the
longest succession of square meals the Chatham
Islands remembered, and the natives who had paid
their dog-tax demanded a refund that they might
get into gaol also. The bill ran to £3OO ere in-
structions could be obtained from headquarters
to throw the Maoris indignantly out of gaol, and
let the dog-tax slide. When the constabulary de-
parted the Maoris wept bitterly, and promised
faithfully to refuse unanimously to pay any
dog-tax next year.
* * * «
“ Trotter” : Clermont (C.Q.) is in a piti-
able way. Mining is almost at a standstill, and the
neighboring country is a vast desert—not a vestige
of grass or herbage anywhere. Last year the
Western stations were sending their sheep here ;
this year we are sending ours to the West. Peak
Downs, which usually depastures about 200,000
sheep, has hardly a hoof, and the other stations are
in the same boat. Ewes have been fetching £1 per
head, and one big station in Longreach district
bought no fewer than 100,000 in small lots at that
price. In Clermont, recently, I saw 12 women—
mostly with a child or children —go to the P.M.
tO “ rations.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be old Australian songs :
What about “ Shanties by the Way ” and “ Port
Augusta Line ?” Both have some swing, and are
worth resuscitating as old-time stuff with fairly
Australasian interest and no “ bring-me-under-
the-wattle-mother ” hogwash attached.— Wreck.
THE LITTLE BROWN JOSS OF THE
ISHMAEL CLUB, MELBOURNE.
Photo. by Barroni & Co., Melbourne.
South Australia gives the electoral franchise
to aborigines, and all the blacks at the different
mission stations have their names on the rolls.
Forty of them voted at Port Macleay last election,
and the member they supported asserts that they
exercised the franchise most intelligently.
A foolish and very
old joke was revived some
time ago in a midland
N.S.W. town. A selector
stated loudly in a pub.
that lie would sell his
mare to anybody who gave
him £1 down. Another
selector, who knew the
mare well, decided that
his brother agriculturist
was drunk, and dashed
down the sovereign in red-
hot haste in the presence
of reliable-witnesses. The
first selector gathered up
the pound, and said in a
thick voice “Oil rite.”
Next day No. 2 went to
collect his mare, and was
met with a demand for
£5. “What for?” “The
price of the mare.” “ I
paid for the mare.” “You
didn’t. I said I’d sell her
to anybody who gave me
£1 down. You gave me
£1 down, and I’m a man
of my word. I’ll sell her.
The price is £5. “ You’re
a swindler.” “You’re a
_ .” The old
original joke, which selec-
tor No. 1 had found in
some mouldy column of
“Wit and Humor,” ended
there, and jokes ought
always to end in real life
the same way as they do
in the country paper ; but
this one panned out differ-
ently. No. 2 sued for de-
livery of the horse, and
a mirthless bench decided
that it was a genuine sale,
and ordered that the beast
should be handed over in
return for the £l. Legal
expenses about £lO. Mare
handed over with curses,
and died same night. In-
effectual proceedings by
selector No. 2 against
selector No. 1 for poison-
ing mare before delivery,
and more costs. Then in-
effectual proceedings by
selector No. 1 against
selector No. 2 for libel in
saying he poisoned the
mare, and further costs.
Then they abandoned the
law and took to wrecking each other’s fences
in the dead of night, and like amusements;
and now neither party gets any sleep worth
mentioning through hovering round in the
silent hours to see what devilment the other
fellow is up to. Several free fights up to date;
several teeth lost; and five assault and battery
actions.
Dear Bulletin, Mention of Larry
Petrie’s trans-States journey reminds me of “wal-
laby ” customs in that country. Once left a vessel
in New York and, having won a court-case
against one of the legalised thieves who prey on
seamen, was strutting around with “ victory ’
aggressively displayed on my phiz, when I was
suddenly heaved into the East River. Next night
I got another bath, and half-an-inch of steel in the
groin, so concluded change of scene would be
interesting. Winter—and dead-broke. Beat the
Jersey Ferry per friendly drayman, and started
for Phila. on foot, but was initiated by prof, tramp
into the arts of “ train-jumping ” and cadging,
but only secured a “pass” in latter branch
of the profession. First attempt was at
an empty coal-truck going through Eliza-
beth, and nothing but sheer desperatiou gave
me the pluck to jump when to draw back meant
death. At Phila. we both voted twice at half a
dollar per vote. Lost mate at Baltimore. Hun-
dreds of tramps—no swags—slept in police-cells
and elsewhere. Under flat truck with nigger,
who started singing and got us both literally
thrown off by switchmen. Some conductors slow-
up to eject tramps—these didn’t. Nigger went
down embankment, and I landed in sandy cutting.
Accommodated in Petersburg gaol till ankle got
better. Rode into Washington on cowcatcher of
express. Sampled box-cars, inside and out, nearly
crushed in one by cargo shifting on up-grade.
Sometimes train turned in wrong direction- -hard
to get information, as everyone is on qui vive for
tramps. From Norfolk, Virginia, shipped as
stoker, £5 for the run (in advance) in a floating
scrap-heap—British, of course. Hell and starva-
tion, and only four of us to carry her across the
Western in winter. General remarks about U.S.
—Pure American conspicuous by his rarity.
Country mainly run by white-washed Yanks and
German or Italian-Americans. First-rate country
for rogues.— The Wreck.
* * * *
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, notifies that,
though pasteurisation of cream for butter-making
is desirable, N.S.W. Govt, has no intention of
making it compulsory. Seeing that Denmark,
Sweden and other large butter-exporting countries
have made pasteurisation compulsory, N.S.W.
Govt, should provide the public with its reasons
for caving-in to a few hand butter-makers.
* • * *
“ Trotter ” : In the Gulf-country recently
I saw the bones of over 70 camels. These were
carrying bales of wool to Normanton, and all
perished on the road. The wool was left there for
nearly ten months.
SALLIE BOOTH, IN “ WHY SMITH LEFT HOME .”
“H.M.J.” : On the Upper Macleay, re-
cently, I saw a newly-painted bullock-waggon,
labelled “The Dutchess,” and, shortly afterwards,
passed another waggon with the name (evidently
home painted) “ Roton Luck.” On same date,
also, I saw a notice on sliprails : “ Any person or
persons going through these paddocks please go
round.”


Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack—contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
[or
(olds
WOLFFS
! ' scmapps.
Hot with
Lemon
at
Bedtime.
Each Man his own Premier.
Every man presides over a cabinet of his own
Ministers. Like many premiers he finds it
difficult or impossible to control the action of
some of the members, while others readily respond
to his slightest wish. The ministers for external
affairs, the eyes, ears, tongue and limbs, are
generally willing to obey him in all things, but
the ministers of the interior, the heart, liver,
kidneys &c., must be humoured and treated m
the most diplomatic manner, or there is danger
of a split in the cabinet.
As man’s years accumulate he acquires cunning,
and he is careful to avoid giving offence to the
sensitive members. In common parlance, when
a man reaches the age of forty he is either his
own doctor or a fool.”
The most delicate of all the members of the
human frame are the kidneys and liver. Great
care must be exercised to keep them in order, or
we soon become afflicted with rheumatism, gout,
neuralgia, indigestion, dyspepsia, jaundice, bili-
ousness, anaemia, blood disorders, gravel, debility
or even Bright’s disease. All these arise from
a defective action of the liver and kidneys, but all
can be cured by a course of Warner’s Safe Cure.
This medicine has a specific action upon the
kidneys and liver which ensures their health and
activity ; consequently, all such disorders as are
due to their neglect to perform their duty,
speedily yield to its healing influence.
Nicholson Place,
West Melbourne, Vic.,
March 18th, 1901.
Pear Sirs, — .
Some months ago I was suffering from a severe
attack of indigestion, and, having read in a
pamphlet of people who were cured by the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave this medicine a trial.
The beneficial effects were immediate. I took
two bottles only, and have not been troubled with
the complaint since. _
I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to
several of my friends who suffered from various
forms of liver complaint and who have taken it
with excellent results.
Yours &c.,
T. MERRITT.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
» Hunyadi Taros Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.
Average Dose :—A wine glassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION
Mote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Propr etor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label. -
During the S’African war an Australian
soldier was sent by his commander to let certain
British troops know that they had opened artil-
lery fire on friends, not on Boers, as they sup-
posed. The noble Australian delivered his
message by yelling to the Imperial colonel in
command : “ Stop that firing, you blanky cow ! ”
Before the exalted officer could get over the
shock, the Cornstalk went on to tell him in the
best bullockese that his sort oughtn’t to be
trusted to shoot rabbits with a borrowed gun on
E ister Monday. When the Colonel recovered
sufficiently he tried to reinstate his shattered dig-
nity before the Tommies by roaring at the
messenger that he was an insolent scoundrel,
and he’d have him shot. “Yous chaps couldn’t
shoot a paddock you was in,” retorted the back-
block swaddy ; “an’ if you was to try, our coves
’d jes’ come over that there hill an’ wipe yous off
the blanky earth ! ”
“Prospector”: Edward S. Sorenson (“Red
Page,” B. 13/7/’01) is wrong in thinking that the
“boyang” is the badge of every man who carries
the pick. The miner and prospector are different
types. The miner is generally a wages-man or
tnbutor; the prospector never works for wages
unless dead-broke. He dresses like any other
bush man, and you rarely see one wearing
“boyangs,” though they often tie their pants
with string, to keep them together. Even amongst
regular underground-men, you will see more with-
out “boyangs” than with them.
• • • *
Dear Bulletin. —In answer to “Perdu”
(B. 20/7/’01). Let him make me a suitable offer to
prove what I claim for my method, and then I
will be prepared to demonstrate on any country
he may select that I can exterminate every rabbit
on one square mile with one bag of pollard, or
less. “No result, no pay.”—J.W.C.
» • * *
At Foster, Gippsland, religious services
are held in the hollow of a monster tree —diameter
22 feet. The trunk is cut off, and covered with a
paling roof. One hundred people can be accom-
modated inside. The owner uses this hole as a
shed, and has a winnower and cream -separator m
it. The trunk was hollowed out by the bushfire
of 1898.
* * ;* *
“Picola” : Grass is lamentably scarce on
N.S.W. South Coast. Nearly all the “cockies”
are hand-feeding their milkers with bran, chaff, or
pollard at ruinous prices, all crops having failed.
Know one cocky who is spending £lO a week in
this way. Added to this he has to pay a rent of
£3OO. Still they must do it, or the cows would
die of starvation. Pitiable to see how the raven-
ous brutes rush the bails in the morning to get at
the stuff. I wouldn’t stand between a cow and
her tucker just now for the refusal of a I ederal
billet.
THOUGHT THE GAS-METER WAS
ABSENT.
BATTLER: “Load er wood, lydy?”
DAUGHTER OF WOULD-BE POLITICIAN : “No!
G'way! we only use gas here.”
BATTLER: “ Yuss, I know! But I heard yer ole
man wuz away electioneering, so I come
rarnd!”
The Capricornian, referring to a possible
remedy for zamia-poisoning in cattle, calmly
observes that, even if a complete antidote be not
obtainable, “it would be of immense service to
have something that would restore affected animals
so far as to enable them to be driven to butchers’
yards or to the meat-works.” “Glad of death’s
mystery ! ”
The above are portraits of Mr. J. A. G. Macdonald, who some time bach was blown off the New
Hebrides in a whaleboat, and passed 19 days without food or water-other than a very little
of the latter, caught in a tin-box from passing showers. Of the two kanakas Mr. M. had
with him, one went mad, and the other, when the boat finally drifted on to Espiritu Santo
was promptly killed and eaten by the natives. The white man was being fattened-up for the
same fate, but managing to get a communication smuggled through to the missionary on
Tangoa, the intended victim was rescued in the nick of time by an armed boat-crew under
the missionary's charge. The first photo, is of Mr. Macdonald “ before taking this dread-
ful experience; the second dates from a month after his rescue.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.W.O. : Bat when you write “ It is the faculty
of fools to see the faults of others,” you are merely in
effect calling your opponent a fool—which is abuse, not
argument... .D. : “ Since we must part, oh ! let it be in
gladness.” That’s sense ; some poets make the very deuce
of a fuss as they go down the office stairs Aug. J.:
Eyes blue, lips cherries, teeth pearls 1 You’re too revolu-
tionary, young man. These new-fangled ideas will breed
trouble for you yet.... O. : “ What a ghoulsome, nauseous
business is this wholesale shifting of ‘ remains ’ from
Sydney’s old cemetery at Devonshire-st.! ” True; the
man who doesn’t see the nauseous horror of setting hired
paws fiddling with the fragments of his decomposed
grandmother is but one remove from the cannibal who
fries his own child. The worst feature of the morbid
sentimentalist about Death is his disgusting irreverence.
Why, in the name of Good Taste, if people want to make
a cult of deceased relatives, don’t they cultivate Clean
Ashes instead of Filthy Bones? A.J.B. : Flat....
Townley : Not good enough. And is there an authentic
case of' dingoes attacking and eating an armed white
man ? J.G.B. : Personally, we believe “ memory sys-
tems” are more trouble than they’re worth.... Explorer :
You are 19. You are sending some verses. You hope we
won’t condemn them. Right; we won’t—they condemn
themselves.. ..Milky : “Over the Murray wants more
linger You reflect a sentimental miss, not a stalwart
shearer Barabbas: No fear; Barabbas had a heap
more grit in him Melb. : Yes, tell us why local Uni-
versity magas. are so dull. Surely some of the students
have literary brains? H.A.W.: Your Death of
Starlight ”is bad enough to be the death of Poetry.
We have saved Poetry A. C. W. : Bet you re a
church literary-society paragon. Own up, n0w!......
Ada • He asked her whether she d have roses or rubies,
and she didn’t yell “ Both!” Too improbable
Melbin : Senator Jawbone Neild is an amusingly con-
ceited personage, but still not one to be despised. He
has done such a lot of good legislative work that it would
take some space wherein to add it up. Useful legislators
run in all shapes, like poets. Jawbone is a poet and once
actually hired a hall wherein to denounce the newspaper
scribblers who had gibed at him in his bardic incapacity.
Ranleigh : Present scribe doesn’t propose to even try
to read your long shorthand screed. He was once a pro-
fessional shorthander, and looks back on those days of 17-
hours-daily work with unspeakable horror.. Harne N. :
Yes Henry Lawson is son of the editress of the Dawn.
EJW (B.): “Trouble” is a very strong fragment,
but over-gloomy. Try something more cheerful....
L A.E. : If the man’s vitality had sunk so low that he was
accounted dead and screwed down in a coffin, you can
safely assume that he would not, under such circum-
stances, either suddenly or gradually recover enough
strength to “make a desperate struggle. On the con-
trary, when he was deprived of air, whatever little
vitality remained would promptly leave him. Just don t
you believe all those premature-burial yarns ... Hospital
Subscriber : All systems of electing hospital-doctors ai e
unfair to the poor and obscure practitioners who are in
some cases the most deserving.. . .L.B E Stick to tne
truth The cruel critic spoke of the lady s knees as a
warning to the sex, which is, alas 1 too commonly knock-
kneed If every growing damsel were taught to qualify
herself for tights in the future the average female form
would be more divine than it is. (2) And what s the
matter with the Italian singers’ economical ideas? Thej
want to save as much as possible ofjtheir salaries, and could
have nothing to gain indirectly iby living at expensive
hotels. As foreigners, unable to speak the language, they
are sometimes unfortunate in being left to find lodg-
ings for themselves. For instance, a singer of
the ’93 Italian Opera 00. was rescued by George
Musgrove from a certain house where he had,
in all innocence, engaged a bedroom.... R. A.K. .As
the blind are less wornea by ugly surroundings
than other people, you can hardly make much of
grievance out of that. But the quarters occupied by the
officials of “charitable” institutions in general are noto-
riously far more pleasant than those of the poor people
for whom the places are ostensibly kept up. You touch
the spot in remarking that “ there are no such things on
the premises as a couple of large, well-warmed, cointort-
ably-furnished rooms set apart for the blind inmates i—t
and recreation.” In a general way, the inmates are
merely so many necessary evils in connection with the
billets E.R. : The Bulletin never skites about its cir-
culation, the size of which is evident to all men who travel
widely. You see, if we said our circulation was 100,000
(which it isn’t), the competitive liars of the other papers
would claim for their organs a 200,000 issue. We don t
know the circulation of the other paper named, but it is
no doubt very large... .D.R. : Don’t be so desperately
wordy. Look-out, for instance, for your canoe-par., as
printed, and you will find, in 42 words, all the essentials
of your 129. Also, your information re goats, galahs,
moonlight rainbows, -Sic., is very belated indeed •
To publish that “Writing”-yarn would indeed, be to give
ourselves away R.A.K. : “Her Watch might have
been written anywhere in the world. It might be English
or Australian ; it might belong to this century or the end
of the one before. There is nothing in it to show
whether it’s old or new, and it’s not very humorous
or tragic or anything, but very ordinary. That s exactly
the sort of matter Tub Bulletin does not want
Young Un : Too much stuffed with quotations from
“Alice in Wonderland” to be comprehended of the
multitude Y. Evans: Pathos too artificial. And the
moral protrudes a whole leg —one toe is enough....
Jessie: “ Enclosed you will find some lines on Barcroft
Boake. Should any other poet commit suicide, the lines
might equally well be applied to him.” Lady, it is provi-
dent Marthas like you that drive men to Magdalen....
Adeo : Way, you may be sure, won’t get the Federal
Chief Justiceship, nor are Griffith’s chances over-good.
And the latter badly wants the post, for several reasons.
T H.B. : In “ Mar. of 0.” the bedstead element is too
crude and glaring.... Waddy : Too scrappy to be fairly
called “Life in N.Q.”... .G.M’L. : Good lines here and
there but about ten different kinds of metre in five verses.
. J.B. : Almost all the Sydney traders who sweat woman-
workers are fhostile to woman-franchise, and call See’s
Bill re volutionary.... M. M. M. : The story of a parson’s
wife and “several district visiting ladies” bearding a
bagnio-keeper in her bagnio is rather incredible. Mrs.
Grundv never risks an encounter with “ bold-faced
creatures.”.... Wang : “The Bulletin has lost a lot of
ground in its attitude over this war.” The Bulletin has
now a bigger circulation and covers more ground than
ever Australis : The leech isn’t an insect, nor yet a
mollusc. It belongs to the branch Vermes... .Q.E.D. :
Can’t deal with such painfully-small sonnble.... .Star-
gazer ; The fatal weakness of the case is this : First you
imagine, say, a Jupiter ; then imagine for him certain char-
acteristics ; and finally attribute eorrespondinginfluences to
a physical object, which, for convenience, has been named
after your imaginary deity ? Could absurdity go further ?
John Goff : Not a bad idea, not well worked-0ut....
O'.G.D. (Q.): Good.. ..Reader (Port Darwin): Thanks.
We did overlook it ; but, as you will have noticed, we
never swallowed the allegations against Mr. La-
bouchere... .G.T.R. (Richmond): You produce no evi-
dence of dishonesty or stupidity on the part of the magis-
trates who tried the case Vagabond (G.): A good motif,
to which you haven’t done justice Dibbs : Have appa-
rently not reached it yet... .Paul Vibart: We are giving
that subject a severe rest. We don’t remember “ God
and a Woman.” E.M.O. : “Jimmy” identifiable, and
would make endless trouble.. . .Rambler : Rather inferior
stuff D.E. . Well enough worded, hut stiff and un-
realistic. .. .Jimmy S. : Spoilt by its pointless ending.
Goburra : Crude and impracticable... .Yarrum : “ Brink
has a good idea, but treatment is flat and flabby....
Bauhinia: Two no good, and the third unprintable....
Em Quad: Leave more space between the lines....
J M.D. : Some foolish people laughed at the woman with
the swag. Well, they were foolish people '—the rest is all
waste of words and' time Francis V. : Very funny.
Sorry can’t use in such a form Waddy: Pars mostly
readable, but don’t send such a deluge at once. Rain
them upon us, so to speak ; and either keep each item on
its own paper or do your own cutting and pasting.. .
JD : “Dream” stiff.... A.G.K. : Uninteresting slab of
Gloom M.H. : “Charon” rather thin and tame; re-
turned Viking : Thanks ; noted G.R.W. : Bright ;
b.ut you need more skill... .Bilby : Sorry ; would have to
be completely re-written. Try it as a par.... D.H.R. .
Several dull efforts basketed.... Betrayer : “ Spring has
points, but they’re blunt... .Limvoil : Pleases you;
doesn’t hurt us E.W.B. (W.A.): Thanks......
W.C.P. : A very old Scotch joke badly Irished....
wij.A. : Very much like such a dreadful number of
other racing yarns... .F.J.L.K. : A large, crude, stereo-
typed yarn of great ballast weight... . N.M.R. : A sordid
hideousness drearily put together. An artist in words
could have made it a tragedy. Now it reads like a collec-
tion of dry horrors tied together with a boot-lace....
Franky : Same thing has been said in Bulletin
over and over again, and with much more vigor
JH. : Tanquerey has “had” you, and you have no
remedy.. ..Maynard. D: Will come to it presently, no
doubt Filigree: Clumsily told, and not worth the
space Bushman: Too straight Kuku : Half your
items obviously mere inventions .. .Quad : You abbre-
viate very incoherently... .V.R.R. : There are many ver-
sions extant of your whitewashed-horse story.. ..R.:
Unhumorous fiction !... .Bullaman : Can’t stand your
versification.... V. R. R. :No point Yaamba : Verse,
may use. Prose sketches not quite up.... Wild W. .
Lacks life and spirit.... D.H.R. : The scrub-turkey s nest-
ing habits have already been here discussed at length... .
W.J.D. : From the little of it we could make out, it wasn t
worth persevering with.... Ben. S. : “Go Alone rather
hackneved and mechanical. T’other two may do. ...J.
Borash': No discoverable merit... .Percy M : Hardly
enough in them... .Ooolaman : Obviously a bit of real
life, but lacks skill in the telling.... Ezrom : Not worth
print.... Curra Curra : Can’t do anything with it....
Norton : “ Peccavimus” won’t do. Use your brains with
pains....Wai-wai : You merely want to know are we
honest, do we have nightmares, and 14 other things.
Which are you—a sphinx or a catechism? Chiquita :
Can’t see dollars in it M. : “ Every Tasmanian wants
l-30th gr. of strychnine injected daily into his vitals.
Yes" but where are the vitals? Even strychnine wont
wake the dead... .T.R.A. : Amusing in spots, but too
long and laborious for The Bulletin. By the way, a rat
isn’t a “ reptile.”.. . .Anti-Jingo : Never mind, let it go.
To print it would only be to further stir sectarian feeling.
Les. O. : Will print “ Latent.”.. ..E.0.5.: Unprint-
able Caropa: We don’t undertake to read faint
pencil-scrawl on blue foolscap.... Judas: You send too
much and your copy is most difficult to read, type-
writing would much increase your chances.. .. Rambler .
Give us a new Victorian-cocky early-rising yarn. The old
ones are played 0ut.... J.M.L. : Nothing available....
A J F : Very ordinary seduction and murder.. •• J°*-•
We are getting old and can’t enthuse over trifles like that.
M-Pho. : “ Disillusioned ” holds out no promise. You
liaven’t even learned to spell and punctuate reliably.....
KM ' Flat and feeble J.P.S.T. : Send-off rather
du11....Le Masque : Too long and points far apart.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H B • Don’t know whether it’s a chestnut but it s
oertainlv unprintable Mopoke :No good ..Parote.
Don’tsee the oke.. H.G.S : Rather well-drawn, but
weak in point. J True, we have published weaker things,
Wwe mean to reform... .Pocoto : Impossible of course
.Cerne : Neither available, though Kanaka idea nearly
hits mark Unavailable: W.J.P.
“Quad” : Re par. as to bricklayers'
(B. 3/8/’l). No attempt is anticipated to make
14s. a day the standard in Sydney. An advance
of Is. has been demanded, making total lls. per
day of eight hours. Notice of this has been given
to the builders, and will take effect from Sept. i.
As a general rule, in recent years every demand
made for increased wages in this trade has been
conceded, and strikes, as known m other trades,
are of rare occurrence with wielders of the trowel.
The trades-union is fairly strong, very conserva-
tive, and has intimate knowledge of labor condi-
tions. The usual practice when a gang of brick-
layers wants a rise is to notify builder or foreman
on Monday for 6d. or Is. increase, to take effect
next day. If refused-well, away they go to
another job, if they can get it-and they generally
succeed. As to prospects of work, the Trades
Hall knows all about it; and, as it is backed by
the O’Sullivan, who crders union pay m all Uovt.
contracts, up go the rates on the slightest provoca-
tion.
“ OH, WOULD
SOME POWER," Sec.
TOURIST JOHNNY: “ What peculiah-looking objects
these Maoris are!”
Dear Bulletin. — Re a once-current state-
ment that Hargraves, the alleged discoverer of
gold in N.S.W., had been granted, or had applied
for, the sweepings of the Sydney or Melbourne
Mint as a reward for his discovery. Can any of
your readers give information on thesubjeot?—
A.T.S.


The matter of the appointment of a State
Governor is engaging the attention of the
Government. Mr. See said he could not
hurry that appointment until he was* in a
position to furnish a residence, and he hoped
members would assist him in that respect.
But why wait 1 A Lord who is worth his salt ought to be
able to put up with something temporary until we could
knock together a regular house for him
Mr. Frank Farnell, M.L.A., has been
asked *by the Government to make the
necessary arrangements for representa-
tives pf the licehsed and amateur hsher-
men to meet under Mr. Farnell’s presi-
dency, for the purpose of discussing and
recommending the provisions which
should be incorporated in a new Fisheries
BilL
Couldn’t the new Bill be incorporated ’
somehow in the perjury Acts'!
London, Tuesday Afternoon.— Consternation lias been
paused m BudarPesth by a decree «.f the Minister’ of the
Interior respecting barmaids. The Minister'refuses toper,
mit the employment of barmaids under 40 years of age.
Fancy exchanging airy persiflage with a barmaid old
enough to be one’s grandmother, and getting only toothless
smiles along with your Sixpenn’orth !
Consternation : Why in Australia
it would cause a “ Political Situa-
tion ” if not a downright riot.
To fill a long-felt want, , ~
the light on South Head has : *\ip= • *!===
been regulated in such a way ** ""
as to be visible from the Blue / r
Mountains, so that ships that happen to
pass up that way dunng the night can V
now tell where they are.
“ Capital Sore Throat "—a disease that
seems to afflict M’s.
those from N.S. W.— as a result of living
in Melbourne. The sooner thd Federal
site is settled on the better.
THOSE DESIGNS FOR AN AUSTRALIAN FLAG. \
A lady sent a design comprising a yellow-ribboned outline of the map of Australia on white silk. In the centre of 1
the continent was a portrait of the late Henry Parkes ; in the top corners were portraits of the Duke and Duchess of
York, in the bottom corners portraits of Lord Hopetoun and Mr. Barton. The side spaces held pictures of the shamrock,
the leek, the rose, and thistle, the whole forming a tasteful design, much more suitable for a faney quilt than a Federal''
flag. /
Judging by the “ severe colds ” our statesmen bring back from Melbourne, there must be greater need for bed-
clothes there than flags. The Premier is welcome to the above hint
“ OUR BEAUTIFUL HARBOR.”
The Council of North Sydney propose to improve on Nature as above, Thqy
have decided that sites along the foreshores shall be let for advertising signs.
LD wu AN f SIIIRK b o ™ °f boat) : “ Ha! these ’ere ’oardin’s is a failure, after all.
Vhy, from where I stand you can actually see the tree-tops allowin' in places ! ”
Alderman Turk (in stem): “ Yes, and see ’ow them nasty natural rocks show
underneath at low tide ! ”
Dr. Coolhead “So you thought it was only a natural development, did
you! And now you begin to suspect that it may be a malignant
growth ? Well, all I can say is, it’s a pity you didn’t seek advice
t sooner! ” .
CARTOONLETS.


§ Lieut.-Colonel Reay made a record for this
Edebate. He spoke in favor of the Bill for two!
f hours and 25 minutes.
g-,i: i
L.
■lhpa
111 a SfllS
t-C p\f
an fii
Mir
t A .y o
Wi
Sir Jl m* M,
yjr Jr/
if Jr/If ,
f*4fc MS /
I mw r m ° /
, K.M> F°M\l
Uf j, i| ' -igvlll|||
,hp ' wMlg' l'.\ - ?Wh§
ill
The favorite recreations of the new Gov ef-111
nor of Victoria are said to be music and'
Lpainting.
’'£3llllll 11
gsd
‘*We have to thank the Legislative Counoil
for insisting that the Act will expire in May
next; that is, that it will then come up for re- i
view. And & strong body of public opinion- '
thanking heaven that there’‘is a Legislative
Council—will insist on the alterations which ex-
perience has shown to be necessary. That is all
that is asked for.”— Argus.
Between the Council and the country !
there is peace—peace founded on the coun- Jj
try’s recognition of valuable service ren- |
dered by the Council ; and this peace the ji
i Government is foolishly trying to break.
'7HHF! IfiTlllllltllllllllM !l
iWlifteaker
11 1111 11111111111111111111111111111111 l ilillll 1 111 IIIiIIiIiIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I
A letter from W. Zeal, ex-Preeident of the
Legislative Council, addressed to his successor,
H. Wrixon, was read to the Council last night,
in ‘which the writer offered -to -give to the
Council a photograph of eaoh of the four Presi-
dents, including himself, who had presided
over the Council in the past.
!§'UI ill 1
IHHHI
II ill IS I 111 111 111
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS’
SOLID SILVER SHOWROOM DISPLAY.
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE STOCK IN AUSTRALIA.
0
Ms
ESSfi
m
uo£
W
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s COMPANION CALENDER and LETTER
HOLDER, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s, 265.
Most Useful Present.
Cheaptr Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDEK3.
SOLID SILVER Gent.’B SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BOX, in Silk-lined Caße, £2 10s.
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS’
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILVER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BRUSH, 355; Cheaper Styles, 15s 6d,18s 6d, 20s,
255. Send for 1901 Illustrated Book.
WS
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure SRver-mouiited MANICURE SET, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 255, 80s, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STEETCHER,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d
A. SAUNDEES.
SMELLING SALTS BOTTLE, Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s fid, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 2Gs.
Other styles, 2s 6d and 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lftdljs* Silver-mounted WALLET
CARD CASE, 20b.
BiJlilar style, 15s.
Solid eilrer Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7s 6d
PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted as above,
15s and 20s :
similar lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6'd.
• .v
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-lined. Case, 18s 6d.
Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Solid Silver,
Diamond Out, 8a 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d,
In three widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MI URGE, Pure Silver,
"V\ atteau Design,
£3.
Olher styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
GUM POT.
Pure Silvei-mounted,
6s 6d.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
30s. £2.
Silver-plated,
|l2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s j
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s. £2 i
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Sliver KNIFE and Silk Case, 30s, Complete.
° ft 'f^r
';«s**■*< &. P '
<**& \ . ■&• -Jr
•■' 'V,,.J- I ll
g ■
<^3jiiiiiiiiiHiniii',itiH. :
s
i
1 K
tm
fV^S.
vi^V^isshr ■" '
:3mu,j
?KiS''mV=>
r-r" r > > : Cv'-A A ; - <■*•■'"
fs-. 1 ,
c<r^=
3
■
fyfrsi
>p
m m
mfjTTrr* : A \v
! ■'?'i&
.. - DC
tM
-r—rr^V?. V %&&?-$»'••• :fe
SS4JJ)VJj
604
»
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies' Pure Silver Complete TOILET REQUISITES, in Silk-lned case.
2 HAIR BRUSHES, MIRROR, HAT and CLO i'H BRUSH, MANICURE SET,
GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE LIFT and BUXTON HOOK.
18 Articles in all, £l2 10s.
pm
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’Pure 8. .lid Silver-mounted TOILET SET: HAIRPIN HOLDPR, CENT
BOTTLE, PUFF BOX, and POMADE POT. £2. Very Useful.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BATTLE, Pearl Bing and End, 12s 6d and 10a 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
•jjjgjSS
THIS
little
PIG
SE/V
MAS
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs,
COMBS. —Pure Solid Silver- mounted,
Beal TOKTOIS iiSHELL, 20s; Imitation She 1,
10s 6d; Similar, os 6d and 7s 6d.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
12s 6i, 15s, Ivs 6il, 20s.
Price to Style.
n
Sad
A. SAUN T I>ERS.
Ladies’ orG,nt.’s TRAVELLING ROLLS,
as above, 12s 6d. Other Stj les, simil ir,
10s, Lss, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
'IHIMMUHIIihiiMIJ
A. 8A UN I)ii±tS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6d.
In Silver pl.ite, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Gent.’s
HAIR BRUSH, 15! each.
A.. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIRR ! )R, 15s; Heart Shape,
12s 6d. Splendid Value,
g
Purfa Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDER, ss.
m
Pure Solid Silve
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
sdg
Pure Sliver
BOOK MARK,
2s 6d.
Jiflß?
'iiiijffj
S 5
gi
!i
r
sa®
gsiS
Hi
HI
11
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGaRKTT •: or CIGAR CASES,
Various Colours, Silver-mounta l,
10s 63,12 s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. BA.UNDERB.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Pure Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
12s 6d.
Othei styles, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s;
small, 1j 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss.
sdg
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS, Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case,
30s, 355, £2, £2 LOs;
S.lver Electro-plated, 10s, 12s 6d 15', 20 .
A Nice Presen\
W
mom
m
'r^i
m
m*
m
A. SAUNDERS,
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Covers, Cut Glas
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 61, 20s.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
A SAUNDEtiS.
S ALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 16s 6d,
White Cut Gla is, in Silk-lined Case.
A„ SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER and SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


TH€
SPRING
FASHIONS
Hats and Toques
Silks and Dress
Mantles and Oostumes
Ribbons and Laces, &c.
Are now opened out ready for your inspection.
An Engrossing and Bewildering Display I
Everything Satisfactorily Priced
and Alluringly Beautiful !
Your Early Attendance is Respectfully Solicited.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Sydney’s Leaders of Fashions,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDMEY.
(If y° u cannot come out shopping please write
for Patterns and Illustrations, which we send
FREE to any part of Australia or Tasmania.)
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
COLONY OF THE CAPE OF GOOD
HOPE, CAPE TOWN,
Friday the 17th May, 1901.
In the matter of the petition of
ALEXANDER MAODONALD
married to MARION SAUNDERS on the 22nd
December, 1890.
Upon the motion of Mr. Benjamin and upon reading the
abovenamed petition and petitioner’s affidavit in support,
It is ordered that he be at liberty to sue by Edictal
Citation the said Marion Saunders for a decree of nullify
of Marriage that Citation be returnable on the 12th
October, 1901, with leave to serve the intendit and notice
of trial in the suit with the Citation, and that personal
service be effected failing 1 which that Citation, Intendit
and notice of trial be published once in the Gazette and
once in the Sydney Bulletin.
By Order of the Court,
J. H. GATELY, Asst. R 'gistrar.
Edward the Seventh, by the Grace of God, of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, King, Defender
of the Faith :
To
MARION MACDONALD,
otherwise known as Marion Saunders, lately of
Cape Town, and presently believed to reside at
93 Wooliooinooloo-street, Sydney, in New South
Whereas ALEXANDER MACDONALD, residing at
Touws River in the Cape Colony, hereinafter styled the
Plaintiff, did, on the 17th day of May, 1901, petition the
Honourable the Supreme Court of the Colony of the Cape
of Good Hope, for leave to sue you, the said MARION
MACDONALD, hereinafter styled the Defendant, for a
decree of nullity of Marriage, and that failing for a decree
of divorce by reason of malicious desertion.
Now, therefore, the said Court having taken the prayer
of the said ALEXANDER MACDONALD into considera-
tion and granted the same, we do therefore command
you, the said MARION MACDONALD, that you cause an
appearance to be entered in the said Court on or before
the 12th day of October, 1901, to answer the said Plaintiff
in an action wherein he claims :
1. (a) A decree of nullity of Marriage
(b) Forfeiture of the Benefits of community of pro-
perty
(c) Alternative relief
(d) Cost of suit.
Or that failing :
That you did, on or about the 16th day of April, 1900,
wrongfully and unlawfully desert him, the said
Plaintilf
(b) Forfeiture of the benefits of community of pro-
perty
(c) Alternative relief
(d) Cost of suit.
Thus done and granted at the Supreme Court of the
Colony of the Cape of Good Hope, at Cape Town, this 1 1 th
day of May, 1901, in the Ist year of our reign.
ARTHUR W. STEER, H. D. BOWKER,
Plaintiff’s Attorney, Acting Assistant-Registrar
St. George’s-street, of the Supreme Court.
; CAPE TOWN.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
COLONY OF THE CAPE OF
GOOD HOPE.
Between
ALEXANDER MACDONALD., Plaintiff,
and
MARION MACDONALD, Defendant.
DECLARATION.
1. Plaintiff resides at Touws River in the Cape Colony,
and defendant formerly resided at Cape Town, but is at
present of unknown address.
2. On or about the 22nd December, 1899, Defendant
went through a form of Marriage with plaintiff before the
Resident Magistrate of Cape Town.
3. There have been no children issue therefrom.
4. At the said date there was a valid marriage subsisting
between Defendant and one Charles Saunders.
Wherefore Plaintiff prays
(a) Decree of nullity of Marriage
(b) Forfeiture of benefits conferred on marriage
(c) Such other and further relief as may seem meet
(d) Costs of suit. . . , ■ tt
And by way of an alternative claim if this Honour-
able Court should find that there was no such marriage
subsisting at the aforesaid date as alleged in paragraph
4 he says : " ,
(5) He craves leave to refer to the allegations in para-
graphs 1, 2 and 3. _ „ , ,
(6) On or about the 16th April, 1900, Defendant wrong-
fully and unlawfully deserted Plaintiff and has refused to
return and cohabit with him.
Wherefore he prays :
la) Order calling upon Defendant to return to and
cohabit with him, and on failure of compliance
therewith
(b) Decree of divorce a vinculo matrimonii
(c) Forfeiture of Benefits conferred on Marriage
(d) Alternative relief
(e) Costs of suit.
L. E. BENJAMIN, Plaintiff s Counsel.
ARTHUR W. STEER, Plaintiff’s Attorney,
St. George’s Street,
CAPE TOWN.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
COLONY OF THE CAPE OF
GOOD HOPE.
Between
ALEXANDER MACDONALD, Plaintiff,
and
MARION MACDONALD, Defendant.
Madam,— . , . , ,
Take notice that you are required to plead, answer,
except, or make claim in reconvention, to the above
Declaration by the 12th day of October, 1901 ; failing
which this cause will be set down for Trial for default of
appearance for Monday, the 4th day of November, 1991.
Dated at Cape Town, in the Colony of the Cape of Good
Hope, this 28th day of May, 1901.
ARTHUR W. STEER, Plaintiff’s Attorney.
To MARION MACLONALD,
the above-named Defendant.
Sydney, New South Wales.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 29th July, 1901.
rpHE attention of Trustees and others having funds for
JL investment is drawn to the fact that, on and after Ist
August 1901, “ New South Wales Funded Stock,” bearing
interest at the rate of 3J per cent., payable half-yearly,
will be purchasable at the Stock Office, The Treasury, at
* a, The Stock has a fixed currency until 1912, after which
it is repayable at the option of the Government, upon
giving twelve months’ notice.
Forms of applications for Stock and all particulars may
be obtained upon application at the Stock Office, The
Treasury.
2a2.
T. WADDELL.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick) Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Gruh (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ing-enious mechanical toy). Instviictioiis enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17, Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of Phosfenne find it
necessary to put the public on their guard against mendacious
imitations of their well-known medicine, that are being oneied
for the sake of extra profit. . ~
It is necessary when purchasing Phosfenne, to see that it
bears the name of the genuine makers, viz.:
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
Phosferine was first prepared by Ashton & Parsons in the
the year 1867 ; its marvellous curative properties were at once
recognised by the public, and by the personal recommendations
of grateful patients it has worked its way into every corner of
the globe, and its praises are sung in all parts of the world.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.S.H. the Hereditary Princess olLeiningen
KffiK W W:
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
.R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal residence in which Phosferine is
not well-known and favourably spoken of.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction
of Royal favour, and it speaks volumes for its wonderful
restorative properties.
P H OS FER I N E
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative Tonic known.
It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and Nerve Power.
It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving, Eneigismg,
and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions,
and in giving backto the prematurelyaged NewLifeand Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys=
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain=fag, Depression, Impoverished
Blood, Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion,
Influenza, Nervous Headaches, Debility, and all disorders
consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
Remember.
Imitations of Phosferine are similar only, as regards the name, as the mode
of preparation and the unique ingredients are known only to—
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17, Farringdon Road, London.
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, i/i-g-, 2/9 and 4/6.
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the \IV/* size.
TO BE SURE YOU GET THE RIGHT ARTICLE JAKE THIS NOTICE WITH YOU.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents :—SAYERS, ALLPORT & CO., SYDNEY.
THE
dsg
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN.-This razor is superior to any pr ™ticfaUrSffir of
Se USe f ° r a nUmb6r ° f yearB> t6Btify t 0
theh'merits. 1 6 WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR. TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM ’"RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ;
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Rai
Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
,rs, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Woemj.
pgT Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents
rieciac u/ixu/ vi-t'. *
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.‘
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapiilarisse
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10e. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
X' ll nr;il 1 v Curlv Fringes, 4s 6d to 40s each. English
K Tail 5s 6d to £3 3s! Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wig makers.
Send to usfor Price Lists of Anything you want
Human Hair of every Description in Stock._
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
Hairdressers
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNE
When Your Soul Hangs Out
o’ Curl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a change comes o’er the scene; things
look pinchbeck-like and mean,
And the ballet-girls and alley-girls no comfort
bring your heart;.
Beer doth lose its pleasant ‘taste; and one’s best
love runsYo waist;
Revels won’t and revels don’t any ravishment im-
part.
When your pipe will draw no more, and your hat
falls on the floor,
You feel yourself reveal yourself a most infernal
churl;
Oh, the birds cease twittering sweetly—things
seem “ busted up ” completely —
Life is numb and life is dumb when your soul
hangs out o’ curl.
For your old pal seems a foe ; you forget to twist
your ‘ ‘ mo ” ;
Bliss is rancid that you fancied —even Sin is dull
and flat;
Kisses lose their honey-stings ; out of tune your
choir-girl sings;
You can’t sit a horse, and hit a duck-egg every
time you bat.
Razor’s got a rotten edge ; collar’s like a granite
ledge ;
You’re growling and you’re scowling with your
fingers all a-twirl ;
You can’t do a stroke o’ work ; skies seem all a
beastly murk;
And your skull is very dull when your eoul hangs
out o’ ourl.
Days have sheol-tales to tell, or they’re as wet as
any well;
The weather’s like a feather, blowing forty ways
at once; v
If a man should say to you: “ See that lovely
cloudlet blue! ”
Ten to one and money on that he will get a fierce
response—
“ Hang the sky and blow the clouds—like a lot of
fantod shrouds ! ”
O the pleasant, green, putrescent malediction that
you hurl !
Send the scenery to Mars ! How oreation subtly
jars!
Boots won’t fit you, troubles hit you, when your
soul hangs out o’ curl.
There’s a fungus on the cheese, and your bed can’t
bring you ease ;
Oh, life is—and a wife is—a dash-asterisky curse !
If a writer, you can’t write, though you sit up all
the night
Sadly sighing while you’re trying to improve your
dismal verse.
Pessimistic do you feel, as you eat your lonely
meal,
Sodden eye turned awry at the faded waitress-
girl :
“ What’s the good of being here, when I can’t en-
joy my beer ? ”
That’s the query makes you eerie when your soul
ha.igs out o’ curl.
Praise the pewter ! man o’ mine ; soon a scarlet
rose shall twine
Round the head and round the bed that seem both
so deadly dull ;
Like a creeper shall it creep, sweetly to your heart
asleep,
Till you wake and till you take a delicious gulp—
and cull
All the blossoms in the bowers just refreshed by
glory-showers
That are coursing and are forcing the blessed beer
to purl :
If a writer, you can write; if a lover, hug her
tight;
And you’re merry—oh, yes, very—when your soul
gets back in curl !
V.
G.M.H.
A picture of Thursday Island :
Thursday Island is a queer little shop. It is a piebald
human camp. Breeds of all sorts mingle freely without
priestly aid, and recognise each other as fellow creatures.
To classify the originals would not be a difficult matter,
but to define the nationality of their descendants !
Sassiety whites, of course, keep to themselves—l
allude to benedicts. The rest are of Bohemian tastes.
Curious to note how many young men have recently dis-
covered that it would be advantageous to their future if
they could master the Japanese language by the aid of
female coaches. Others are of opinion that a knowledge
of the Ceylon tongue taught by half-bred Cingalese
women would serve their interests best. Some again—
conservative as to the original inhabitants of their
adopted country—believe that it is advisable to acquire
an idea of the habits and nature of the aborigines—and
such knowledge can only be gained from dusky ladies
who are always at home to visitors.
Yes, it is a funny shop. But turn the picture. Strong,
lusty, young female emigrants from Great Britain land at
Thursday Island from the British India Co.’s steamers.
They find places quickly, but not for long. Chinamen,
Cingalese, Manila natives, aliens of all sorts, soon dis-
cover resting-places for themselves upon British bosoms.
Some go to church—some don’t trouble the parson ; but
the mixed breed goes on all the same.
It’s a happy-go-lucky crowd that lives on Thursday
Island. On the wharves when a steamer comes in,
whites, blacks, half-breeds, all colors, swarm together to
the wharfinger asking for a job. They work together all
rio-ht, and don’t seem to mind each other’s company a
bit as long as they are at it; but afterwards, when the
whites and colored men separate to their different board-
ing-houses, the air is thickened with the sweet refine-
ment of language usually indulged in when the white
hoodlum speaks to his colored mate.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the*
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
.Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
-
C 3-0 TO HCELL-
« IGOIiAN) > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney,
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lie gratis.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stjreet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAD L<=y » CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers f
Auction Booms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION *. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made -Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
opiate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held, at the Atf etio u Jioorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bbadley & Co., 324 George-st
ouioai
HI33JL A-ravaJ nol
1
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE
Known for 75 years to be the Best anJ
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws,
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM-—*
rr?
m
m
-....
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROAD WAT,
Ceorge-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The war is still costing John Bull a million-
and-a-quarter a week. And each week John gets
for his money a handful of lean kine and a few
ragged Boers.
Sydney morning dailies get their Federal
reports from Melbourne morning dailies. No
special staff is needed. Merely gallery critics and
commentators.
A beautiful figure of speech recently
cabled is that Russia is occupying Manchuria by
a process of “ geographical gravitation.” In other
words, Russia is a heavy article, and is dropping
down the map as heavy articles will.
EDWARD’S TITLE.
We’U find him a titular wheeze,
His Highness is easily pleased.
Since Britannia is Queen of the Seas,
Let Edward be King of the Seized!
A Yankee who lately visited Townsville
tells The Bulletin he saw in that town people of
all colours except green. If he went a bit further
North he would no doubt have met green citizens.
They must be green to so calmly endure the incur-
sions of the colored trash.
It is notified to the Boer leaders that, if
they don’t give up all hope of - their country’s
independence before 15th September, they are
liable to life-long banishment from Africa. Evi-
dently Freedom is going to shriek a second time
when Christian De Wet falls.
NOT NEGOTIABLE.
SHE: “ What a magni-
ficent carriage, Mr.
Stay the, the poet, has!”
HE: “ Mine gootness, Rebecca, you bring
my heart into my mout. I'fe been
drying to get fife pounts from him for
six months. Vere does he geep it?"
Govt.-Whip Bailes is sponsor for a Bill in
Vic. Assembly to abolish “tied” hotels, present
and future. But it has no more hope than Pea-
cock’s Convention scheme of dodging past the 48
Rich Landlords, a probable majority of whom are
partial landlords of pubs, by virtue of brewery-
shares. ~
Queensland’s exports show a decline of
£2,360,(>00 on previous year’s. Gold shows a de-
crease of £115,000, partly due to drought, partly
to the exhaustion of the tailings supply. Sugar
shows a decrease of £500,000 and tallow £160,000,
while the decrease on the export of wool amounts
actually to £1,200,000. Altogether the outlook is
not rosy, although the Treasurer poetically
asseverates that “the cloud which overshadows
the State is not so dense that we cannot see the
sunshine beyond ”
Apropos several things. There is an
allegation (surely the outcome of mere sectarian
suspicion !) that a letter addressed to a Sydney
clergyman during theConingham divorce-case was
opened and read in N.S.W. General Post Office,
and that the information thus gained was used at
the trial.
What enormous powers are placed in the
hands of the persons who from time to time
occupy the position of N.S.W. Minister for
Lands ! If a Minister were dishonest he could
make a cwt. of big bank-notes during even a short
reign by accepting presents from people in quest
of lease-renewals.
S. Law (Labor member) moved a resolu-
tion attempting to bind N.S.W. Government to
make no further Upper House appointments,
because the country was supposed to favor a
reduction in Assembly membership. All the
other Labor members voted against Law’s wooden-
headed proposal, and so did nearly everyone else.
Just imagine the effect of passing Law
M.P.’s justly-defeated motion in N.S.W. As-
sembly to forbid the See Government making any
additions to the Leg. Council. The only means at
the Ministry’s disposal for forcing the coming
Arbitration Bill into law is its power of swamping
the Upper Chamber with sufficient democratic
new blood.
Fortitude Yalley (Q.), bye-election, arising
out of Higgs’ transfer to Federal Senate, returned
previous member McMaster. Labor, in the per-
son of Charles Seymour, a not-too-palatable
pioneer, fought all the papers, parties, and sects
available, and went down by 222 votes. The
Valley laborites vow to have the seat again at the
general election.
Labor-leader Price (S.A.) was placed on
the horns of a dilemma in re his plea for a popular
Convention to formulate a scheme of Parliamen-
tary reductions. “Why,” asked an opponent,
“if you consider that the people are sure to gain
their will in this way, did yon stump the country
in antagonism to the Commonwealth Bill framed
by the Federal Convention?”
If N.S.W is to receive a new Constitu-
tion as promised by Messrs. See and Wise, one
issue put to the people should be as to whether or
not Crown-granted titles should be allowed to
citizens of the State. When Wentworth, Cowper,
and their crowd went in for a new Constitution
in 1853 they put peerage titles in the forefront of
their measure, but public opinion knocked the
item out. The same public opinion can now, if so
disposed, exercise itself as to whether or not the
present practice of sending handles across the sea
shall be longer tolerated.
London papers comment on the Indian
census for 1901 not being up to the mark. The
natural increase of the decade ought to have been
nineteen millions, but, alas, it was only seven
millions ! And as the other twelve millions have
escaped both the devil of the English sweater and
the deep sea of famine, they may consider them-
selves lucky not to be where they aren’t.
The size of some Q. State electorates is
startling. The Gregory covers 84,387 sq. miles
Bulloo 70,773 sq. miles, and the Carpentaria
70,700. They are represented in the Federal
House by Flinders M‘Donald. He could lose
England in his little lot. “Bill” Hamilton,
State member for Gregory, says hundreds of his
constituents have never seen an M.P.; and yet
they are discontented.
Rostrum : lie Victorian Government’s
suppression of Reynolds’s Newspaper. I get
my copy by post from London every week. Is it
only the bulky Customs Joss that is an ass and a
hypocrite ? Anyway, what sort of a people is it
that endures this dictation by Mr. Nobody, from
Nowhere, as to what it shall read? Denounce
English follies as you please, England is in many
ways a freer country than this.
at a cost of £22 per
out of loans. So
has spent about
loan money in thus
buying population;
N.S. Wales, about
£570,000! Tasmania,
£236,000 ; Westralia,
about £50,000; Vic-
toria and S.A., nil.
Westralia is bringing in female immigrants
h ead paid
far, Queensland
£2,850,000 o f
THE NATIONAL CURSE.
ORATOR: “ What, gentlemen, is the curse of this
fair country? Aye, what, may I ask”
VOICIE PROM CROWD: “ Blanky, of course, you
old idiot !”
The W.A. Govt, buys its girl for £22, which is
paid out of loans. Then it makes an income out
of her in direct or indirect taxation, and that isn’t
applied to pay off the £22, but goes into revenue.
The N.S.W. Labor party is willing to give
£5OOO salary to the new State Governor. The
Premier’s organ, the Australian Star, stops at
£3OOO. Funny, to find See outbidding the Arthur
Griffith crowd. The Labor party is willing to
allow him a reasonable sum for entertaining;
the Star nothing. Apropos, the late Thomas
MTI wraith, when Premier, knocked off the enter-
tainment allowances of the Queensland Governor.
Kitchener has grown so weary of the
manufacture of bogus “atrocities by Boers’’that
he has given orders that all cablegrams con-
taining accounts of alleged Boer atrocities shall
be detained till the stories contained therein are
verified. As a criticism of the lying newspaper
atrocity-monger this is about the roughest thing
up to date. If the same system had been adopted
five years earlier there would probably have been
no war at all.
Of the six N.S.W. Federal Senators not
one voted for the proposed new clause in the
Postal Bill refusing 1 to subsidise mailboats employ-
ing Lascars or other colored seamen. No other
State of the Commonwealth was so disgracefully
misrepresented. There were nine votes for white
labor (Victoria, 1; Tasmania, 1; Queensland, 2;
8.A., 2 ; Westralia, 3); and 17 votes for Lascar
labor (W.A., 1;. Queensland, 2; Tasmania and
S.A., 3 each ; Victoria and N.S.W., 4 each).
A Bulletin correspondent :
The causes of the delays in the issue of leases, Crown
grants, &c., by Vic. Lands Dept. First, the enormous
amount of work cast upon contract-surveyors (pre-
viously nearly starved out) by the splitting-up provisions
"f the Land Act, 1898. Some surveyors have on hand as
many as 600 orders which, in rough country, will take
over a year to clear up. Second, the red-tape provisions
of said Act—you can't blow your nose without reference
to the Board of Land and Works and the necessity of
obtaining the tardy signature of the Governor-in-
Oouncil. Fancy a private firm hampered by these awful
clogs on movement in any direction. Third, ever-
increasing political patronage and interference.
The explanations of two N.S.W. gx-
Postmasters-General and an Attorney-General
and other N.S.W. and Vic. officials have at last
begun to make it understood in these two States
that the alleged “letter-opening clauses” in the
Federal Postal Bill only establish much the same
practice that N.S.W. and almost every other
State has been existing under all along. The
trouble is that not one man in 100 has the least
idea what kind of system he lives under, and
when he sees himself in the glass for the first time
he gets excited, and thinks it is somebody else,
and says, “Eject that shocking-looking object off
the premises ! ”
Here are a few big English trade-com-
bines (the Australian foreign-trade press always
makes out that trusts are a purely American pro-
duction) :
No. of
ibqv 6 ' rvii „ rT Name - Firms. Capital.
1888 .. The Salt Union .. .. i-.i oca nno
1891 .. United Alkali Co., Ltd 49 !! SJOOOOO
1897 .. The English Sewing Cotton Co. 15 . 3!oOo’ooo
1898 .. Fine Cotton Spinners and Dou- ’
biers’ Association .. .. 40 6 750 000
1898 .. Bradford Dyers’ Association, ' ’
Ltd. .. .. , , _ 30 .. 4 750 000
1899 .. The Calico Printers’Association 60.! 9,’200’000
1900 .. Wall Paper Manufacturers, Ltd. 30 .. 4,200 000
1900 .. Bleachers’ Association, Ltd. 53 8 250 000
1900 .. Associated Portland Cement
Manufacturers 34 .. 8,000,000
1900 .. British Oil and Cake Mills .. 17 .. 2,250,000
The most humorous thing about recent
proceedings in the Senate is little Zeal’s attempt
to outdo the most devoted Labor men in his
extreme democracy. Sargood’s candidature for
the Presidency was the first thing to cut Zeal off
from his old Tory pals, for he made a certainty of
the billet, and now blames Sargood's own aspira-
tions for the election of Baker. Zeal,
owns the brains of the Council trio, such
as they are, saw that the ability of the
Senate generally was such that said trio
was going to be badly side-tracked, and
thought it best to whoop for the top dog
with violent revolutionary interjections.
Simon Fraser, not being competent to>
realise his own incompetence, persists in
his old Leg. Council attitude, and in
three weeks attained the proud position
of butt of the Chamber. His rising is
always greeted with laughter, and his
labored efforts to be impressive never
fail to give openings to old man
M ‘Gregor, the comic S.A. Laborite. Sar-
good stands midway between Zeal and Fraser, and ;
tries vainly to maintain his prestige by speaking
seldom and by being mildly Liberal in his-
views; but nobody takes him seriously,
and he evidently begins to realise that his
chance of ever being in a Federal Govt, is
vain. Vindictive democrats, who suffered
by the action of the old Peg. Council, now
spend happy hours in the Senate gallery
gloating over the discomfiture of the old-
time gods of Reaction.
Jawbone Neild told the Federal Senate
the other day that he hadn’t heard any “ direful
tales of oppression” in N.S.W., and urged the
Senate not to hurry any attempt at Factory Legis-
lation. Truly nobody has so large a mass of
cotton wool in his ears as the man who doesn’t
want to hear. If Jawbone Neild had read the
evidence published within the last few weeks in
the Sydney papers he would have heard enough
tales about oppression, sweating, long hours,
miserable wages, and utter wretchedness in
N.S.W. to make his blood boil—if he could leave
off thinking about his beautiful military millinery
long enough to boil.
Cabled that “ the consensus of Cape
opinion favors the Boer marauding bands being
declared outlaws.” Cape English opinions, of
course— i.e., a minority opinion. And naturally
enough, when Naboth refused to let Ahab seize
the inheritance of his fathers, Ahab plainly
favoured the policy of outlawing Naboth and
putting an end to the disgusting practice of a man.
sticking to his own vineyard. But suppose the
Boer Naboth outlaws Ahab : what will happen te
the much more numerous bands of English
marauders ? What would have happened to the
fat Yeomanry who fell asleep regularly after
dinner ? Two can play at the outlawry game.
A bit of newspaper gossip ;
The Age support of the Peacock Govt, is being pur-
chased in a peculiar manner. Peacock himself doesn’t
care a fig for the Age support. It would take very little
to induce him to throw up the political sponge. There is-
the possibility of a great fortune in his business of legal
manager. He has a reputation in the English market,
and can handle hundreds of thousands of pounds any
day. Already he is practically an independent man. It
is said in newspaper circles that when one of Syme’a-
minions told him that if he wanted the Age support he
would have to supply them with “ first news ” of every-
thing that was going, Peacock replied : “Go to h .
I’ll please myself about that.” Other members of the
Ministry are not so independent. They sneak news to
the Age office, in the hope that S.vme will keep his
hounds off. One somewhat-necessitous Minister leaves
advance copies of his Bills in—well, peculiar places, for
Age men.
This is more or less how newspaper-scribes-
are talking in their private letters from Mel-
bourne :
There are strong indications of an early break-up of the
Barton Ministry. The trouble is coming from within
rather than from without. Barton and O’Connor are the
only two Ministers who pull in the same direction. Every
other member of Cabinet is doing just what he dern well
pleases. Turner is in despair of being able to keep-
Barton within reasonable bounds in the matter of ex-
penditure. He has informed his chief that, i« future, he
will take no responsibility at all in the matter of spending
money ; Barton must give his consent in writing on.
every one of Turner’s accounts before they are paid. Lyne-
and Deakin, who have been “feeding fat an ancient
grudge ” against each other for years, are openly at
loggerheads. When Barton goes on the Federal Bench—
he will be Chief Justiee (or possibly he may
be High Commissioner) which will be a fair reward for
his services in the Commonwealth movement —Deakin
wants to be Prime Minister. It has been the custom in
Victoria for the Attorney-General to rank next after the
Prime Minister. Lyne objects to this procedure, ancb
says it has been the practice in N.S. Wales for the
Colonial Secretary to receive the mantle of a departed
chief. Result is that Barton has had to order a round
Cabinet table so as to appear to favor neither aspirant.
[All Australian Cabinet meetings, so far as The.
Bulletin knows, are held at round tables.] Kingston
makes no secret to his friends of his utter dis-
gust at Barton’s leadership in the House. After one-
of the recent sittings, when Barton had blundered badly,
Kingston remark, d to one of the members, “ Did you
ever see such damnable leadership in all your life ! ” He-
never speaks on any subject outside of his own depart-
ment ; and, indeed, Ministers generally leave the debate
on any question to be carried on by Barton as far as they
are concerned. Not a voice is ever raised from the
Treasury benches to assist the chief on a ticklish point.
Forrest doesn’t care a dump about anything except his-
transcontinental-railway. Along with Lyne he believes,
in his inmost soul, that Federation is a mistake, and that
in ten years the people of this country will be shouting as.
loudly for a reversion to the old state of things as they
shouted for Federation.


LTD-
SPECIALITIES
SCHOOL VIOLIN
(With Bow and Case)
Student’s Model ( complete)
Orchestral Veo'in „
Stradavarius Model „
£1 11 6
2 2 0
3 3 0
Higher Grades at Various Prices
i
m
21/-
LEADS THE WORLD.
Use only . . .
Sarasate Violin Strings
3s. per Boz.
STRINGS and FITTINGS
FOE
EVERY INSTRUMENT
At LOWEST PRICES.
All
Paling’s
Musical
Instruments
are
Guaranteed
Highest Quality
. . at . .
Lowest Prices.
1
WASHBURN”
Mai)doliQ&, Gi sitarS, BaQjoS
are
UNEQUALLED
for
IP
TONE
QUALITY
CHEAPNESS
PIANOS
ORGANS
AND
All
Other
Musical
Instruments
Violins
Banjos
Guitars
Auto-Harps
Concertinas
Cornets
’Cellos
Accordeons
etc-, etc.
i
Illustrated Catalogues Free by Post.
. THB . •
MIDGET^—
ACCORDEON
Post Free to any Town in
New South Wales.
Bs. 6d.
W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd., 338 George-st., Sydney.
BRISBANE BRANCH :
57 Queen-st., Brisbane.
Read. Wlaat
VITADATIO
Is Doing.
Wonderful Cure of Sciatica, Lead
Poisoning and Rheumatism.
BEDRIDDEN FOR THREE MONTHS,
NOW THOROUGHLY CURED.
Cured with Eight Bottles of
Vitadatio.
Mr. W. Webber,
Proprietor VITADATIO.
Dear Sir, —For upwards of one year I have owed you a
debt of gratitude which no words of mine, however far-
reaching in their effects, can ever repay. Many times
when I have seen you in the streets of Launceston my
conscience has always condemned me for not telling you
the facts of my case ; for, after all, I always think
“ Honor to whom honor is due,” is a motto to which
every public benefactor has a just claim. Scores of
people in this city know that I have been the victim of
great suffering for the past eight years from LEAD
POISONING, RHEUMATISM, and SCIATICA. I tried
all patent medicines and liniments I could think of.
At last the Sciatica got the mastery of me, and I could
not turn in my bed for upwards of three months. Anyone
who knows the torturing pains of Sciatica can better
imagine than I can describe what I suffered those eight
long years, and especially the three months I was bed-
ridden.
I tried the skill of several of our local doctors, and then
went through a course of treatment in our City Hospital,
but got very little better. In a state of desperation and
almost hopeless despair, I went at great expense to
Sydney, in the hope that some relief from pain might be
obtained by treatment in that city. I was treated by
several of the Sydney doctors, and without in any way
reflecting upon the' skill of any member of the medical
profession, all my hopes were doomed to despair, and I
returned to Launceston no better than when I left.
Many times during those years I was urged by my
friends to use VITADATIO, and now I frankly admit
there was an amount of prejudice lurking in my mind
against it, because of it being a local preparation. But
the most astounding part of the whole affair is that eight
bottles of your VITADATIO, purchased from one of our
local chemists, effected the great cure in my case, of
which I am proud to boast. I have never been laid up a
day from work since the cure was effected. The hale and
strong may be slow to believe the facts of my case, and it
is a very small matter to me whether they do or not; my
hope is that none of them will ever have a similar ex-
perience, but I do hope that any fellow-sufferer who may
read this will be induced to try the virtues of VITA-
DATIO, and thus prove it to be a conqueror of pain, and
a positive boon to suffering humanity. Of course, I can
only speak as I find, and, personally, it is my opinion,
based on experience, that the invention of VITADATIO
may rightly be classed as one of the most valuable dis-
coveries of the nineteenth century. I cannot but speak
well of it.
You have my full consent to use this account of my
case in any way you think fit. —Yours very truly,
ANDREW MILLER.
51 Canning-street Launceston,
August 30.
For further particulars,
8. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney „
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
LOOK
OUT)
Mi m
■K A' ■“*
7a ”■
n
WHICH EXCEL ALL OTHERS !
are only Genuine when
the Cover and Tube
are embossed with
Trade Mark
A
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Limited,
150 Clarence-st., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch, N.Z.
The new Sydney “Naval and Military Club”
marks another step forward by the professional
warrior-caste in Australia. Naturally, the. new
club will concentrate influence and pull strings ;
and the purely citizen-soldier is likely to find
himself in a colder place than ever. Militarism
reckons that it is seated firmly on the neck of
Australia now; and the workers are likely to
sweat for it as SiNBAD sweated for his Old Man of
the Sea. Serve the workers right; they allow
themselves to be bamboozled by the Jingo press
into electing Jingo politicians to Parliament, and
when the democratic ass suffers himself to be nose-
ringed and led along to conscription for British
wars, he is merely asserting his ass-prerogative.
*
In another column Antiuric, a new
specific for rheumatism, is advertised. The price
is reasonable, and if it is only half as good as its
proprietors claim they can prove it to be, a large
sale should ensue.
The Bulletin is glad to see that N.S.W.
Supreme Court coincides with its view of the
G-oulburn case, in which James M'Cormack, a
dairyman, was said to have been overpaid £lO by
a bank-teller, when cashing a cheque. This
M‘Cormack denied; it was simply the tellers
word against the dairyman’s ; yet the Goulburn
magistrate fined M'Cormack £2O and costs, lhis
decision the Supreme Court has now upset.
The stranding of the P. and O. liner
Sobraon on Tung Ying Island recalls the fact that
the name is considered unlucky among sailors.
The present Sydney training-ship Sobraon was
on the sailors’ black-list. On one of her passages
to Australia there happened on board an ex-
traordinary number of deaths, a fire and a mutiny.
The Queensland Government declares thac
it will send its seventh contingent to Africa
despite the Federal Government’s prohibition,
and Philp of the Half-Million Deficit says, “This
is entirely a State matter and has nothing to do
with the Federal authorities.” Which, considering
that Queensland of its own free will accepted a
constitution by which all military affairs are
placed exclusively under Federal control, is a
truly magnificent slab of arrogance. All the
same it is possible that Philp reckoned all along
on advertising his Loyalty, and being saved from
the cash consequences by Federal interference.
With a shortage of over £500,000 in one year even
Philp is hardly likely to be craving for more
military expenditure, especially now when the
enthusiasm is so dead that the despatch of ten
contingents would hardly fetch one additional
vote.
If the Government puts its soul into the
work this session N.S.W. should have. B. It.
Wise’s excellent, workable, and democratic Com-
Sulsory Arbitration Act in force by next year.
,ut it must not be forgotten that what Australia
wants now is Federal legislation in these matters,
much more than State legislation. The Federal
Parliament has announced by resolution that it is
ready to undertake the whole work of Labor
Legislation if the State Parliaments will only em-
power it to do so. If either N.S.W. or Victoria
will lead the way with an Act declaring that, so far
as concerns its territory, it hands over the whole
business of Labor Legislation to the Federal Par-
liament, the surrender to take effect as soon as
the other populous State and one smaller State
does likewise, and the State to retain all its powers
until then, it will set the ball rolling. Some State
must lead the way if any good is to be effected,
and it can’t do so too soon.


Banking. Public Companies. &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-
LOWEST INT REST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
sd
gsd
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
a\r.s,-\7\r.
Ifloni depiete DJ|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *74.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Managek.
•—TH I?
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miuuer,
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,00€,099.
ROBERT KERR, Manager, j
Tiie Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates an i Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
|eui Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Com,pang.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* Trost€€s, €xcc<itorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
£150,000 0 0
1 90,(100 0 0
£150.000 0 0
£8358 7 3
t. 6,388,976 5 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C,
JAMES BORROW.VI AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant. Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Baulk of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 1, 250,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Citas. K. Mackkllar., M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLattrin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uthbr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 A3CHURCH LANE.
Shlppng.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
To
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRJE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
KonOtiwarra, Tues., Aug. 20, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat, Aug. 17, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 24, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o' Govvrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked throuirh.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Returfi Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies.. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Puddings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CAMADIAN-AU3TRALIAM LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
V ales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICT"R!\ an:l VAN33U'/rR.
:—.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have > the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY. BRANCH :
Equi able Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z< aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Union lof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500.000
The savings bauk in vsctqri \
HAS MONEY To LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on Citv,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
■**
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd, o/ London.
I The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : 1,. A. Jessop/ Esq. Wellington : H
Beauchamp, Esq. ;
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Fariiuiiar ; Wellington, N./.., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE _____
United Australian fljutua! fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenna,' Secretary.
Is your Hus-
band, Son,
Brother, or
Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving .full particulars how to give EUCRASY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
GOOD FOIt BOTH KFXKS.
Write THE EUGft iS/ GJ., 62 Hunter-3:re3t, Syfney
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rjlHlv Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City!
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
RUNIC, 12,482 tons, to Sail 17th AUGUST,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AERIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
: vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with r ading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
3X1733; iTT” -
Tli res- Weekly S¥iail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
Captain Niedermeyer,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 21st AUGUST NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
■=J
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
iadame Panza, -
FOREIGN ST A vi Ps.
SHOT
("''HEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5 Bolivia, 4d
Packets 50, Is ; 101, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
mien
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, S VIJ .V JS I',
SDlOHd
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Lnie; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
ExpUin wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
FAUST.
ff
GRAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
arranged for Pianoforte by Warwick Williams.
Published at 4s.
Also,
WALTZ and stirring SOLDIERS’ CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO,, London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
J. J. MILLER’S SPORTING PAMPHLET.
Illustrate,d. Mow Heady.
The most reliable reference on all spot ting- matters
Contains nominations, weights and full performances
of all horses engaged in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups, and other races. Post free, 1/1. All Booksellers
JUlan (f C I
Melbourne
3*h« best House for
music. Pianos. Violins <md
all TTlustcal sundries
Collins
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(1.1 M IT 101 >).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT 1-IRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
August 16.
S.S. Marloo (from Mel-
bourne), Tuesday, August 27.
Saturday, August 24.
bkisbane
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
August 16.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
fi „: lO S n Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
«f„L FOrt f^ tw . een Me ib°urne and Cairns with the
r th ,* A ,' U-S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
u ' f. or '^ <le 'j u<le and W.A. all tickets are inter-
"fceabie with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
mrnnnDvn 6ll Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
IvJmnv ANI> KOCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
ivrmpv’ and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
I ortnightly.
Passenger A ceoniniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
tirst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
lor Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
streef, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
p'and o. "company!
The Royal Mail Sleamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Syd ney,
No >T
Steamer.
Commander.
VICTORIA
ROME
HIMALAYA
CHINA
ARCADIA
Aug.
Sept.
Sept.
Oct.
... Oct.
. 6525 F. C. A. Lyon, R.N.R.
5546 E. Street
. 6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R
7912 T. S. Angus
6663 A. C. Log'gin
Ihe Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l lOs-to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
. ..w.ji.vujuu Duuncu tu AJUIII uixy, xuuia, Uflina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their HKgage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt St reet, Sydney,
iniiiiiiii inn mi Et 'i n °i m i Ao-enh.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HUB ART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND a.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, aimd JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns | Commander. |Leave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN 3600 P. T. Helms ...'August 31
GUTHRIE .. 2500|W. G. M‘Arthur .. September 28
EASTERN .. 360 C Winthrop Ellis ..October 19
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.’
- 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Uliliairaiih, & go.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,.
COOLG-AEDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIR FORTNIGHTLY betiveen
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
mhlwraith, mpeacharn and CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Each and every official utterance re the
farm-burning policy in the Transvaal is to the
effeot that looting is absolutely prevented, and
houses burnt only as a military necessity. A
N.S.W. trooper, in a letter published in New-
castle Herald says:—
I got 101b. tobacco, one Kruger sovereign, and some
silver pieces. After we loot the houses, if we find any
arms or ammunition, we burn them down.
By this trooper’s showing looting is the regular
practice, whether there be arms in the houses or
not.
The question as to why King Edward sold
his late mother’s sherry by auction when he might
have graciously, royally and charitably divided it
among the London hospitals doesn’t seem to have
been answered. In the light of H.M.’s unex-
pected fondness for pomp and circumstance in
ceremonial, the knocking-down of those dozens of
sherries to the highest bidder was a strangely in-
consistent and undignified transaction. It set the
snobocracy snorting and the mob jeering. And
the Crown can’t afford to invite ridicule.
“ Talbingo ” discourses philosophically on
women:—
“ E.D.’s ” “ Words about Women ” (May 25) are not
merely pleasant satire, but hard, three-cornered facts.
But, by way of reply—Woman is, and always will be, what
men demand of her. Thus, she will go to the stake for
Truth’s sake, and tell a lie about her age, because men
demand she should be a heroine, and throw her aside as a
worn-out chattel as soon as. the first bloom of youth is
passed. Me the selection of a husband and a hat: she
considers more the unimportant frivolities of life than
matters of deep import, because 99 per cent, of men
prefer their wife to be a squaw instead of a companion.
Every man has a harem, and no two individuals therein
must be similar. First, his mother must be a dear old
fool, blind to all his faults and ever ready to help him in
all his scrapes. Second, his sister must be attractive and
good, a girl of whom he can be proud, and who
will help him think he is too good for his wife.
Third, he demands his wife to be spotless. She
must be a noble mother and a good advt. for the
choice of her husband; also a peg on which he
can hang all his shortcomings, but she must suffer
unmurmuringly and with gratitude all delinquencies of
her lord and master. Fourth, he requires his mistress to
be dashing, voluptuous, and notorious for her amours.
Fifth, his “ chum ” must be a girl with plenty in her,
self-willed, vigorous, and refreshing. Some of each of
these styles of femininity are necessary to man, and it is
to the attempt to supply the demand in one person that
the instability, whimsicality, and variability of the female
character are due.
Woman’s aggravatingness is owing to the fact that a
man holds cheaply that which is his and howls for that
which he cannot get. Thus he crushes remorselessly
the heart of the little household angel who, on his daily
return, meets him with smiling, never-failing constancy,
while he goes off his head with love for her who imbues
him with a presentiment that he may come home any day
to find her flown to the bosom of another. Man should not
complain when woman heaps trouble on him, as it is
merely the case of the too-venturesome inventor when
some of his machinery “ busts up.” Woman is as she is,
vain and weak, and such she will be until men, out of
their pjvn nobility, recognising her a creature of heart
and brain, despite her physical inferiority, demand some-
thing more of her than a toy to be cast aside when the
mechanism becomes familiar —a machine to be replaced
on showing the least signs of wear and tear.
The fame qf E. N. Braddon, of Tasmania,
reached the land of Twain a short time ago. But
he wasn’t heard of as a statesman or humorist
(both of which he is), but as a champion axe-
wielder. True, his renowned Blot became known
in Yankee-land ; still, it was chiefly as a woodman
he was heard of over there. This is a letter he
received from a N.Y. firm of manufacturers :
Mr. Blot Braddon, Tasmania, near Brisbane, Queens-
land, Australia. Dear Sir. —Having heard of you as a
champion wood-chopper, we desire to call your attention
to the merit of our axes. The skilled choppers of this
country pronounce our axes to be by far the best that
are made, and we think if you give them a trial you will
say the same. We especially recommend our black, flint-
edge, tempered axes, and if you inquire at your iron-
monger’s for them, and try one, we are satisfied that you
will never use any other brand of axes. In case you do
like and use the axes, we shall be greatly pleased to hear
from you.
The ex-Premier was at the time taking a great
personal interest in an inter-State chopping match
that was to come off in his constituency of West
Devon, Tasmania, and somehow the news got
abroad that he cut down trees personally.
HAVE UNI
a bad Leg
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Jcc. Price, in Great Britain, per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents .: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
greettktbel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Date*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
The Pistol and the Bottle.
The man who has once driven a burglar out of
his house with a pistol is likely to keep the
weapon handy by for use in the future.
On a similar principle Mrs. Elizabeth Langmaid
is never without a bottle of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup where she can lay hands on it any day.
About four years ago she was taken bad with
what was called “a complication of complaints.”
The doctors said she had an abscess on one of her
lungs, and also indigestion and heart troubles.
And, seeing how she looked and felt, we should
have believed him without a moment’s hesitation.
“You can get an idea,” she says, “how bad I
was when I tell you I lay helpless in bed nearly
nine months.”
(That does give us the idea and no mistake.
Save for the hope of recovery—which seldom
quite perishes in the mind—l would as lief be
dead, and so have the trouble over and done
with.)
“Finally,” Mrs. Langmaid goes on to say,
“ when I got out of bed, all of me that could
waste away was gone. I was just a skeleton
covered by a skin. In truth they wrapped me in
wadding—for appearance and for such comfort
and warmth as the protection might give me.
“ Whatever my complaint was I always had a
dreadful pain in my sides and under the shoulder-
blades ; but the medicines I took had no more
effect on it than so much sweetened water would
have had.
“While in this miserable condition, I remem-
bered how different friends of mine had spoken
of the virtues of Seigel’s Syrup for many kinds
of ailments that nothing else seemed able to help.
“ Anyway I was sure it would be no mistake to
try it, and so I got a bottle from Campbell-& Co.’s
store in this town. Up to that time I always had
a great feeling of weariness and drowsiness after
eating, and could not shake it off.
“But to my delight I soon discovered that a
dose of the Syrup dispelled this almost im-
mediately, and by the time I had finished the
first bottle I was greatly improved.
“As you will suppose, I persevered in taking
the remedy until by degrees I got strong again.
Gradually, too, I picked up my lost flesh, and
recovered my former good health.
“Ever since then I keep a bottle of Seigel’s
Syrup in the house, and take a dose whenever I
feel out of sorts in any way.
“ You may publish this if you like, and I shall
always be glad to hear of Seigel’s Syrup doing
for others what it did for me.” Elizabeth
Langmaid, Market St., Muswellbrook. N.S.W.,
Sept. 26th, 1899.*
f THE^
[DEAF.
VKAfi>
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
They restore the hearing, and
relieve singing, roaring, and
buzzing noises in the ears.
Many benefited after trying-
other remedies without success.
Testimonials from all the States.
Send a post-card to-day for
illustrated book, FREE.
Address, J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
gsd
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECT RIG
KELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
£ED
DEAF
m*
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, m
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
g
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A. gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
1 w*
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 257-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU3ES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
s
If
JC
ME
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System. Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands. and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
aWiftlßHl
ftkllU4l| I
5 ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALIXE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 211/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Wood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFULINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Waiting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted,. 1/6*.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strt ngth and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough: Pills-A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza.. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12si. and 235. 6d,
Electric Belts: —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all! Spinal and Kifdnev Affections;;
42j. and 63sk Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/• and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/• and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, I/-.
iWwnnrrrti
vmmmm
Mtmsmvm
—— / ' - aV -'■•i
nan ,//,>ws(t*vis»m■ ~^-*p
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 OEOROE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hf>
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE-309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.-PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER CITT-Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE-Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Now this is a business par. I want you,
my dear Arini, to provide Atcherley and Dawson’s
Globe Tea for your next “At Home.” You can
get a canister of 241bs. for £1 Bs., the former price
of which was £2 2s. A. and D. are able to let
you save 7d. a pound because they’ve done away
with the army of canvassers they used to employ,
and the giving of credit. Send a P.O. or cheque,
and if you don’t like the tea you can return it, and
A. and D. will return you your money.
The two individuals who are charged with
attempting to stick up the bank at Henty
(N.S.W.) and ineffectually shooting the manager
(the manager proved to be much the more prompt
shooter of the two) appear to have been both reason-
ably well off. They had much portable property, as
well as a savings’-bank account apiece. Also they
had six books of Deadwood Dick literature, and a
large quantity of stamps. Whether it was reading
flashy literature or stamp-collecting which brought
about their troubles isn’t clear—probably the for-
mer. Anyhow, both the one who is in the hospi-
tal and the one who is in gaol talk in something
approaching the lofty strain which the large-
hatted cowboy in the sixpenny howl uses to his
Indian captors when he is waiting to be officially
scalped by the tribe. A law absolutely prohibit-
ing the sale of books with a picture of a large-
hatted person with a gun on the cover might be
w:orth trying.
A bookie who died in Maoriland lately waB
buried immediately after breakfast in order that the
fraternity might have an uninterrupted business day—the
occasion of a race-meet!
Yell by H. Cuthbert, of Victoria’s House
of 48 Rich Landlords, about the proposed popu-
larly-elected Convention to revise Vic. Constitu-
tion :
This House is not going to give up its privileges to men
elected on the One Man One Vote principle, or yield up
the trust reposed in members by their constituents, who
COMPRISE MEN OF THRIFT AND INTELLIGENCE THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY.
What an illogical old man ! If the Council’s con-
stituents are men of such intelligence, why can’t
the Council trust them to elect any one of their
intelligent selves that they please to be M’s.L.C. ?
Under the present Constitution, out of the Coun-
cil’s 129,000 intelligent electors, about 127,000
intelligent men are declared, by the property-
qualification for members, wholly unfit to sit in
the Council. If these men are intelligent, then it
is a gross insult to shut them out. If they aren’t
intelligent, then the Council is a House of Fools
elected by Fools.
A specimen of the reforms which ex-Lands
Minister M‘Coll, the man who always loomed so
large in the eyes of his messengers, effected in
Vic. Lands Department has just come to light.
Finding that many letters written to the depart-
ment were insufficiently stamped, M‘Coll ordered
that the surcharges should be collected from the
senders. For this purpose a special clerk was
employed. His duty to the State was most use-
ful. Whenever a letter arrived on which there
was 2d. to pay he paid the postman, and then
despatched a letter to the sender demanding re-
payment of the 2d. Sometimes sender paid the
money, more often he didn’t. The amount paid
by the department in surcharges totalled about
£3O a year, and apart altogether from cost of
stationery and postage on letters demanding re-
payments, the clerk’s salary cost the country £l2O
more than the sum recovered.
“The Echuca Miracle.”
In the town of Echuca a case has recently
occurred which is the talk of the town and district.
People marvel and cannot believe what their eyes
have seen. Mr. Michael O’Brien is a respected
citizen, and well known in the community, and
the public can vouch for this remarkable restora-
tion to health and happiness. He relates his ex-
perience, sufferings and cure:—“ I have been a
great sufferer during
the last three years,
and have tried most
patent medicines
which are being ad-
vertised ; also three
doctors of this town
and two in Mel-
bourne, and received
but little benefit
from any of the
same. I was in a
very bad state, and
had lost all hope of
recovery, when,
luckily for me, a
small book was left
at my house, and
V*
this (upon reading the cases that had been cured
by your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills), at once
put new hope in my heart, and lat once purchased
a bottle from Mr Cunningham, the local chemist,
and upon using this bottle of your Pillsf' I found
they had made a great improvement in my health;
so I again purchased in all eight bottles, and am
now in the best of health, which I owe ~to your
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. My case was
one of severe indigestion, being informed by the
doctor to that effect. You may publish this
as you think fit, as it may be the means of help-
ing those who suffer from a similar com-
plaint ; and being well known in this town, I am
sure there are numbers of my friends \idto will
confirm all I have stated in this letter.” DrMorse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
T7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Otiice.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
sdg
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, £3 3s.
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “SIIARPSHOOTING FOR SPORT OR WAR,” 1/- net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
&3T All Rifle Shots should read this Book. Hvjf
Ch.a.s. W. Buckland.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
-A
THE IDEAL BICYCLE
is one that will run well,
the maximum satisfactory service and pleasure
of trouble and expense. Such a Bicycle is . . .
wear well, look well, giving
with the minimum amount
Buyers can purchase on easy terms.
Branches in Every State.
THE RED BIRD
Red Bird Bicycle Department —
64 KING STREET, BYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Time (8.9) registered for Y.A.T.C. G.N. Chase
(about 4m.), Saturday, is speediest since the distance was
extended (in ’B7) from 2jm. Previous best was Larrikin’s
8. Hi, in ’96, with 10.9 up. Latest winner, Arcadia,
bumped 10.7. Official information is that first 3m. were
covered in 6.13 J, the last mile in 1.55 J, last 6fur. inl.26i,
and finishing Jm. in 57£.
* ", * » •
V.A.T.C. G.N. course embraces 24 fences.
Bethnal (13.4) went out at 9-2 against after being heavily
supported for days before. The third fence settled Ric-
carton, but neither he nor his rider was hurt. The
eighth brought Oroua (A . Williams up) a cropper, both
unscathed; Carbinier and Rackstraw blundered badly at
the 11th, when clever jockeyship of Dickenson and Withey
alone saved a fall. At the fatal 13th (with posts and rails
at the back) The Sheik sprawled without serious results.
The 18th dished Carbinier and the favorite, and the next
one brought Rackstraw flop. Nilus failed at the 21st,
where the chapter of accidents ended. Rackstraw’s rider
was thought to be dead till examination revealed nothing
more harmful than shock. Williamson (Nilus’s pilot) had
his collar-bone broken. With full 5 fur. still to negotiate
the field had dwindled to nine. Thence on Arcadia
(going well and willing) won in a canter by eight lengths
from Sir Arthur, who finished two lengths ahead of the
much-distressed second favorite —Freedom.
* * * •
Backers of Arcadia for the G.N. Hurdle at
Flemington, in which the gelding ran badly, must
have been mortified to see him run away with the
Steeple. The comparatively easy Caulfield jumps
give the hurdle-racers a good chance in the 4-mile
event, but, strange to say, it has almost invariably
fallen to a ’chaser of the strong and steady class. Arcadia’s
was 9sec. faster than the time of Chelsea and Domino, the
two previous winners.
• * * *
“Ancient” : First V.A.T.O. Steeple (2|m.),
run in ’B2, went to Left Bower, with Corrigan up. Prize
only 140sovs., with a 7sovs. sweep. In ’B5, when Gran-
ville won, of nine that lined up only four saw the tussle
out. In ’B7 the journey was lengthened to 4m., and
prize-money swelled to £5OO. Blue Mountain—trained
and ridden by Jim Scobie—scooped it. Next year, when
the race was worth a “ thou.,” S. Miller, with Eagley and
Mernder as named, supplied first and second. Long-dead
Tommy Corrigan scored his third success with Sir Wilfred
in ’9O. Two years later the greatest thing ever done in a
lepping event occurred. Miller’s marvel, Redleap, started
at 6 to 4, and won all the way from 10 others with the
back-breaker of 13.12 in the saddle. Daimio, in ’95, got
close to Redleap’s feat. He humped 13.3 to the front
with a field of 14 behind him. When Britomarte won in
’97 9of 11 starters came down. Domino carried 13.5 past
the post first in ’99.
* • * •
In 20 V.A.T.C. ’Chases only six favorites have
won. Hottest was .Martin Loughlin’s Game, at “ evens,”
15 years ago. Britomarte was the only winning mare.
* * » •
Save last year’s (17), Saturday’s was the biggest
field in 10 years. Eighteen turned out in ’9l. V.A.T.O.
’Chase has been on the cards 19 years, and—bar Gran-
ville’s 10.6, Eaglet’s 9.10, Kestrel’s 9.7, and Britomarte’s
9.s—Arcadia’s 10.7 is the lightest weight borne to the
front at the right end.
* * * *
Throughout Caulfield, Saturday, not a single
favorite got home, and only Lock (Oma Plate), and
Kawana (St. Aubin Welter), of punter-supported nags
scored to any extent. Arcadia, winner of the big lepping
event, has never been over a ’Chase course in public
before, hence sixteens and occasional twenties were ob-
tainable against him up to flag-fall. The big knock of the
day was M.L. prad Record Reign’s failure in Malakoff
Stakes. Heavily backed down to 10 to 9 (“ English
odds ”) he wasn’t in it at the finish with W.P. (Commotion-
Phantasma) who literally cleared out and passed the
judge four lengths to the good. Recent form was so
much against W.P.’s chance of annexing such a high-class
race in such fine fashion that while twenties were freely
offered any price could have been had for the asking.
Record Reign is booked for India, and ran in Kour
Sahib Patiala’s name.
* * * «
Stakes won at Caulfield G.N. meet totted up
£3720. Mr. J. Farrell, with Arcadia, scooped £1000;
then followed Mr. Row, £895—£850 of which came
through Repeater’s success in hurdles.
**m * *
First acceptances for Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups were made Monday. Fifty-seven have left the
former and 46 the latter since the weights were issued.
There are 110 still in Melbourne Cup. General entries for
A.J.O. Spring meet tot up 686, as against 677 last year.
Of the 117 originally in Epsom Handicap 45 still remain.
The Metrop has 3 more (48)—just half the number dealt
with by the han^icapper.
* • * *
Trebles recently backed in Maoriland for Caul-
field, Melb., andN.Z. Cups are—Kinglike, San Fran, and
Advance ; Aurous, Dreamland, and Cannie Chiel; Ampier,
Australian Colours, and Advance ; Wakeful, La Carabine,
and Advance.
* * * •
Rupert Clarke heads last season’s winning
owners with £8552. W. H. Mate (£4122) did best in
N.S.W.
* * * *
Frank Kuhn, with 62, only tops the list of
successful N.S.W. metrop. jocks, as country-rider Jordan
is credited with over 70 wins. Kuhn has begun well this
season, winning twice at Canterbury Saturday week,
twice at Warwick Farm following Monday, and once at
Moorefield last Saturday.
• • * «
Eleven ran in Adelaide R.C.G.N. Hurdles,
Saturday. Outsider Barnsley won with something in
hand from Hornpipe. Ebb—who got home last year
—was third, while favorite Leiroo never looked dan-
gerous. Machine recorded £2499, and dividend was £l2
odd. Money put through tote during the day reached
£10,636—an increase of £1402 on.last year’s transactions.
• * * •
Ikey Mo’s over-night quotations for Broken
Hill Cup, as published in Barrier Miner of July 23rd, are
an object-lesson in the rapacity and audacity' of that
hook-nosed protege of the parsons :
3 to 1 v. Research
4 to 1 v. The Bird
5 to 1 v. Philippa
6 to 1 v. Precaution
6 to 1 v. The Sailor J
6 to 1 v. Albani
6 to 1 v. Rainbow
7 to 1 v. Lord Kitchener
20 to 1 v. Erin’s Isle.
Now, if Ikey laid the odds “to lose a’undred ” against
each of the eight first-named, keeping Erin’s Isle for a
“ skinner,” his little volume would read thus :
' To pay out.
£lOO to £33 = £133
104 to 26 = 130
110 to 22 = 132
112 to 18J- = 130 J
112 to 18| = 130 J
112 to 18£ = 130 J
112 to IB£ = 130|
114 to 16 = 130
£l7l
Total receipts from confiding punters .. £l7l
Highest possible amount to pay out .. 133
Certain Profit .. .. £3B
Possible Profit .. .. £l7l
The Tote’s commission (7J per cent.) on the same takings
would be something under £l3, or one-third of the com.
charged by Ike ; and the Tote has no possible “ skinner.”
Therefore, dear brethering, the Scripture teacheth us to
protest against any interference' with Moses and his
Profits.
The age of chivalry is not dead. At Moorefield
(Sydney) course, on Saturday last, F. Kuhn, who was
riding Jeannette in the Stewards’ Mile, seized the bridle
of the unruly Pretence, and led her up to the barrier. As
Jeannette would probably have won had Pretence been
left, it would be interesting to get the opinion of Jean-
nette’s owner and backers, on this new phase of modern
racecourse politeness.
* • ! * *
P.M.G. Drake’s proposed interception of mail
matter to “ Tattersall ” and other sweep-promoters is glar-
ingly dishonest in the fact that he doesn’t propose to
suppress the gambling telegram, or the ordinary turf
commission letter, which, in most cases, includes money
for Ikey Mo. Many thousands of such letters and tele-
grams are delivered by the States’ postal departments
every year. Indeed, at Cup-time one bookmaking firm
receives hundreds of orders per day, bj’ wire and post.
The racecourses of Australia are furnished by the local
Government with telegraph offices for the convenience of
gamblers. And the section of the community which
deplores the rapid increase in the number of race-meet-
ings whereat these telegraph offices rake in the unhal-
lowed silver of punters and “ books,” is far greater than the
snuffiebustious section which objects to “ Tatt.’s” sweep
on a limited number of events. Does Drake purpose a
refusal of postal' department connivance at any sort of
gambling, or does he merely seek to crush the compara-
tively harmless sweep?
* * * *
“A race-meeting with the ’k’rect card in mourn-
ing ” (writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent) “ does
not conduce to a hilarious gathering, and Ascot pretended
to take its pleasure sadly. Society decked itself in black
and white only, and, following the American gang, un-
patriotically won by English horses’ defeats. In the four
days over £45,000 in stakes were battled for by 257 horses
in the 28 races, and the Yank, W. 0. Whitney, scooped
top with £6OOO odd. Lucky Bob Sievier did well,
netting nearly £3OOO in stakes alone with two horses.
Whitney ran 13 horses, 10 of which brought him prize
money. Very picturesque course—there were only two
classes evident—the ‘ swaggerest ’ and the ‘ very anyhow ’
people—no middle class, just Ist and 3rd. Saw the lath-
like Lester Reiff bring home.'four winners on the last day,
and, despite the hot sun, had he been riding a hammock
in an ice-chest he could not have looked cooler and more
blas6ly indifferent. He is the calmest, cleverest jockey I
ever saw, and a nice gentleman for a poker-party.”
“Among the flatites at Ascot t’other day,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ I found
old Jem Mace making dollar wagers with his patrons, and
we communed. He of the one-time-rubber-neck that
rendered for him a head-guard almost unnecessary, has
just turned 70, weighs over 15 st., and looks remarkably
healthy, though, of course, not fit. He is now managing
a pub. and boxing saloon on,a high-class scale in ‘ Brum.’
for which he gets (he said) a pound a day and his 1 keep.’
A very shrewd young person is Jem. Spoke kindly of old
Australian days, of his Melbourne pub., the V.R.C., —later
the Criterion—Bourke Street, and of Larry Foley, to whose
boxing and fortunes J.M. seemed to feel he had con-
tributed a foundation brick or two. He has now no inten-
tion of ‘ Austy ’ —ing it again. He has written his life and
experiences, and hopes to find a publisher for it shortly.
His punching work has deformed his hands, the back of
the palms being steeply arched to the wrist as if the
metacarpus had been permanently knocked bow-shape
from continual punching. A fairly modest, well-spoken,
interesting old chap I found the ‘ ex-champion of
England.”’
* • * *
It was allowed to pass without notice by Aus-
tralian papers. Among the unplaced lot in the English
Derby was Whrgrave, son of a horse called Carbine.
* * * »
Cabled that “ Havilah ” White (N.S.W.) is
sending English stallion, Louis XIII. to Sidney. Said
he cost 3000 gs. when a yearling, but through an accident
was never trained. His dam, Elgentyne, gave the world
Briarroot, winner of the IOOOgs. Mabiile (grandam of
Louis XIII.) was the dam of Mazurka, and full sister to
Cremorne, winner of the Derby.
* * " * *
Reported financial wreck of R. S. Sievier
(“ Sutton ”) can’t be true. He still owns Sceptre, Laven-
gro, and Duke of Westminster, which would bring him
£40,000 any moment he liked to sell.
* * * *
Apropos Otto Cribb’s death : Although the
coroner’s jury returned a verdict of “accidental death” the
Crown is proceeding with the prosecution of the officials,
seconds and surviving principal.
♦ * * *
The late Peter Jackson’s historic fight with
Farnan, one of the last of the old bare-knuckle prize-ring
goes, occurred in a deserted quarry at Yarraville (Melb.).
The place was a natural amphitheatre, and spectators
were grouped about the rising rocks, with the ring staked
out on a patch of green. Farnan was a S. Melb. black-
smith, and, though the darkey was a comparative
youngster at the time, he gave the man of iron a severe
gruelling. One of the secrets of Peter Jackson’s Success
was his abnormal reach. With outspread arms a well-
formed man is supposed to measure between his finger-
tips as much as his height. Most men, however, are less
in spread of arms, but Peter Jackson, 6ft. lin. high,
-measured no less than 7ft. 6in. from one finger to the
other.
• « ' * *
’Ome heavyweight bruising contest in June
ended in Yankee middleweight O’Brien still retaining the
doubtful distinction from the aspiring Harry Newmier.
’Twas a good thumping affair. Both stood toe to toe
mixing things at lightning gait, fighting in holds and
rolling on the floor together: Yank’s remarkable con-
dition and greater physical force won in the sixth round.
Newmier, a barge laborer, is seven years older than
O’Brien, and was once walloped by Tas. Albury Clifford,
now of Sydney. There’s a fortune for an Englishman who
smashes O’Brien ; and he needn’t be a Peter Jackson
either.
* * • •
“ Old Timer ” : The Passing of the Australian
pugs, who lately bossed America is almost complete.
Only Dan Creedon now remains in the game. Fitz-
simmons has “ chucked ” it for good. Jim Hall is slowly
dying of consumption. “Gentleman” George Dawson
long ago retired to be all-round instructor of the wealthy
Chicago Athletic Club. Joe Goddard is quite dead athleti-
cally, though he tries to make believe he isn’t. Griffo
spends his time between pubs!’and police-stations. ’Tis
stated that while one-time 6ft. heavyweight, Jim
Hall, has wasted to the 8.12 class, Griffo’s load of tissue
would force him among the big fellows if he ever fought
again, which isn’t at all likely. Both Griffo and Hall
have frittered thousands in their time ; now neither has a
bean, though the latter still has friends. Pugilistic his-
tory bristles with like cases. With the exception of
Larry Foley, all Australia’s best fighters have finished in
poverty.
* * * *
Anent Irishman P. O’Connor’s recent remark-
able “ lep ” of 24ft. 9in. Same man has cleared 24ft. more
times than any other athlete in public, and may yet clear
the 25ft. Fry, Prinstein, Newburn and Leahy got over
23ft. at the same meeting. This latest world’s record
causes the apocryphal long-jumping feat of old-time
Phaulus, of Cretona, and Chienis, the Spartan, to become
less of an exaggeration in one’s eyes. First-named is
credited with lepping 55ft., and last-named 52ft. Possi-
bly both had poles or some other like aids !
* « * •
World’s broad jump record-holder, Peter
O’Connor, is 6ft. and scales 1J.4. Thin, wiry and muscular,
he is as hard as iron all over, and carries barely an ounce
of superfluous flesh His style of jumping is complete.
He runs, gathers up like a ball, and; rising high in the
air as if shot from a catapult, soars along and descends
gracefully and easily.
* * * *
Metallician Oxenham (120) got away with the
honors and spoils attached to Sydney Tatt’s. billiard
tournament. His opponent in the final was D. Melville
(70). From 2 to 1 before the opening, odds on “Oxy”
went up to eights. Biggest breaks throughout were :
Oxenham, 19 and 17; Melville, 17 and 16. Oxenham
ultimately finished 41 to the good, and whacked the first"
money (£5O) among the attendants.
• » • *
Amateur billiard supremacy of N.S.W. at
Sydney Sports Club is not remarkable for breaks nor
general excitement. Most competitors have adopted some
crack-brained worn deplume and so destroyed the per-
sonal interest. Best break to time of writing was Rum-
ball’s 80 (Monday night), which more than doubles any of
his other totals. Previously “Bill” Lyons’ 67 and 65
compiled against “ Te Moana” (Mcßride) were the top
figures. The winner of the Belfield-“ Pyramids ” match
(Tuesday) “ Mai,” Lyons, and Rumball were to have de-
cided the semi-finals Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
The final (1000 up) is fixed for this Friday and Saturday.
On form evidenced so far, Lyons’ chance looks rosiest, as
he shapes better and is a more consistent scorer than the
others.
* * * *
At semi-finals of Sydney first grade Rugby,
Saturday, 'Varsity fairly laid over South Sydney by 22 to
nil, and Glebe put Newtown down 13 to 3. ’Varsity
shaped excellently to the applause of a six thousand
audience. Same form would render the premiership a
good thing for ’Varsity, but the team is notoriously un-
reliable.
*****
The recent beating of Vic. by S.A at the
former’s own peculiar code of football was fair and square
—and the first on record, for any previous victories have
been over an “ alternative ” team on the Monday. In the
opinion of many, the game is being spoilt by excessive
handball, the knocking-on (which is allowed) being per-
sistent, and often hardly distinguishable from a throw
(which is not).
*•* . *
Latest anent Albatrott at ’Ome is that he’s
giving fielders a heap of leather-hunting. At “Lords,”
early last month, he compiled 18 (2, 4,4, 4,4) in one over.
A lot of nonsense was talked about Ranji.
“ never getting out ” if he came to Australia, but it might
come near being literally true of W. G. Quaife, one of
Maclaren’s latest recruits. He is a little man with infinite
patience—too much of it for three-day matches—but just
the thing when time does not matter. The latest aver-
ages show him on top with 867 for 14 innings (three not-
outs) ; average, 78, or 10 ahead of Fry, against Ranji.’s
40 and Maclaren’s 22! His last three innings were
centuries. Three years ago Quaife played from July 27
to August 10 without getting out. When all the rest of
Warwickshire were got rid of he just carried his bat till
the next match. His scores were 60, 117, 157, 61, 24, and
52, all not-out, except the last—47l runs before his
wicket fell.
• * « *
London Strand Mag. relates some curious
cricket incidents. Writer of the article was not aware of
the following, which happened on Melb. ground when
Stephenson’s first All England XI. met the Vic. players in
’62 : One of the Englishmen had his middle stump knocked
clean out by a ball; the hot sun having melted the var-
nish the bails were glued together, and did not fall. The
batsman was not out. During same match an English-
man, running fast in the long-field to catch a ball with
the sun in his eyes, missed the leather and caught a
swallow, which he placed inside his flannel-shirt for safety
till the game was over.
» » * *
M.L. pigeon shooting supremacy was decided
at Petone, t’other day. Twenty-one cracks competed.
G. H. Chavannes grassed 19 out of 21 and won, with D.
Fraser and R. J. Whittle, a dead-heat, second. Last
year the premiership went to J. Peat, who killed 20 to
Ghavannes’ 19, and Peat would not have been there but
for the suasion of Ghavannes who wanted a chum. This
time Peat’s bag was only 11.
« * * *
Australian pigeon-shots, Donald Mackintosh
and A. W. Eales have been making money at Home at
Clubs’ weekly competitions. At one big affair Eales
scooped in about £175 in one afternoon, but it is the con-
tinual winning of small sweeps that keeps their pockets
bulging.
• * * *
Once famous sculler, James A. Messenger, of
Teddington (Eng.), is dead at 75. He was English
champion from ’54 to ’57, and there were giants in those
days. The old man was “ head barge master and water-
man to the Queen ” for 40 years. Charles -and Harry
Messenger, of Double Bay, Sydney, are his sons,, and that
latest skilled oarsman, Charlie Messenger secundus, is a
grandson. Three generations of crack scullers !
* * » *
Considered likely that the Cycle Boards Bill
will pass M.L. Parliament. The tracks to be laid down on
roads will cost about £5O a mile, and it is estimated that
50 miles per year will be made when the Bill becomes law.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—How do our legislators expect
us to keep the close-season for game when some of them-
selves are the worst offenders ? I have myself seen an ex-
N.S.W. Minister of the Crown out all day Sunday after
quail, when heavy penalties were attached to the game.
And he’s not the only one, by a long way.—Piccola.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—lt costs an owner £25, includ-
ing jockey’s fee, to run for V.R.O. Grand National
Steeple, the stake of which is worth £l3OO. For the
V.A.T.O. G.N. Steeple of £lOOO it costs £35. Now, what-
ever opinions some of us may hold concerning the
methods of V.A.T.O. office-management, it is certain that
the club is financially strong, and, being only an agent
for the owners, the coin collected ought certainly to be
distributed among winners. A uniform scale of charges
is urgently needed. Even Maoriland lags behind, for it
costs an M.L. owner anything from 1 to 5 p.c. in nomina-
tion and acceptance fees. Auckland and Canterbury
clubs are liberal to owners, but even they differ in their
tariffs. The clubs that study owners study their own in-
terests, and so profit goes with liberality and uniformity.
—B.M.
* * * *
“ Tattersall ” Adams once flew at much smaller
game. About 30 odd years ago he raced an old farmer,
named Cronin, for £2 a-side, on Wollongong racecourse.
Each rode his own nag. “ Tatt.” won, hands-down.


NOVELTIES
..IN..
SILVER
BRUSHWARE
Silver Hall-marked Hair Brushes,
17/6, 19/6, 21/-, 22/6
Silver Hall-marked Oloth Brushes,
8/6, 10/6 to 21/-
Silver Hall-marked Military Brushes,
16/6, 18/6 to 22/6
Silver Hall-marked Bonnet Whisks,
10/6 to 16/*
Silver Hall-marked Hand Mirrors,
10/6, 12/6, 32/6 to 60/-
Silver Hall-marked Combs,
5/6, 8/6, 10/6 to 21/-
sd
Silver Hall-Marked Hair Brush,
Registered Design,
£1 17s. 6d.
The |i|odern jßrt Jewellery Co.
187 §itt SL, (Sydney
Next Shadier 1 s Cafd.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
gsd
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
M
" "
m
ftm
./
'mviv
■as
1
l
la
m
i/M
;w<-’
m
M
ijlUMl
...: '‘‘MtfjlMKll
• ~ •’ iiihlUnßi ill!
V
m\
From H.K.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE,
(The German Ambassador's Daughter.)
“' KOKO' for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and Is In EVERY way excellent.
Princess HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(or Schaumburg Llppe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(or Greece), Princess Henry Reuse,
I Rear-Admiral Tlnklar. &c.. Ac.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts
| to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriS, prevents hair from falling, is the most
ill cleanly of ail hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IX
111 for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE- AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
lit because it keeps dandriff away, and makeß the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
||| as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it In what-
-111 ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
||l because it keepß the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
l|i position desired.
THEY ALL LIKE IT. *
i because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
1b needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
M
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, Ac. r
Australian Depot: Koko-Marlcopas Co., Ld.,l4,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
gds
In the search for arguments against the
hated Factories Act, the Vic. Tory stoops very
low. The closing of a certain country tannery
owing to the outrageous and impossible rate of
wages fixed under the Act, or through its tyran-
nous operation in other ways, was a strong argu-
ment with the Fat party recently. And when it
was explained that this couldn’t be because the
Act didn’t apply in that district , Enabling of the
Jaw, speaking in the House of 48 Rich Landlords,
very nearly called Chief Inspector of Factories
Ord a direct Ananias. Enabling and the Argus
both quoted as evidence an alleged Government
Gazette in which the Act was extended to the
district in question. And it now appears there
is no such Gazette notice—only a notice autho-
rising the owner of that particular tannery to vote
in the selection of a Wages Board, with a view to
the possible extension of the Act to his district —
an extension which never cams off. But the
tanner who was crushed by an Act which was
never applied in his district at all is doing
good service as an argument against the Act all
the same.
The present Sydney pneumonia-scare is
largely due to the undue prominence given by the
press to the malady’s prevalence—and more
especially by the Sunday press. Lodge-doctors
generally find themselves busier on Mondays and
Tuesdays than on other days. The average lodge-
patient, who pays 4Jd. a week to his doctor for
attendance on his family of 10 children, has time
on Sundays to investigate his own and his
family’s symptoms, and he compares them with
those enumerated in the sensational interview with
one of the “leading” city medical men in the
Sunday print. Consequently, on Monday, Tommy
and Billy and Molly and Polly are all trotted off
to the doctor’s to see if they haven’t got “ pew-
monia.” Instead of calming the public during an
epidemic, the sensation-loving press does all it can
to scare it, and thereby drives it into the use of
so-called preventives for “warding-off ” disease—
that is, whisky. Although the press advertises
the virtues of whisky, it doesn’t mention the fact
that the whisky-pneumonia case is the hardest to
pull through alive.
■ ■ ■
Sl>aVii)g Pots
We Stock in Immense Variety.
In White China with Solid Silver Mounts, 7/6 each.
In Best Electroplate that will last a lifetime, 15 6 each.
(These are plated on White Metal and almost look like Silver.)
In Solid Silver, from 50/- to 78/-
The best Camel Hair Brushes in Electroplate, 4/6 each.
~ ~ ~ ~ in Solid Silver, 12/6.
These form a capital present for a mom.
They look so good ; they are used daily.
v®i.
ss
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
HUNTER ST. (ONLY), SYDNEY
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castle reagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair_
g
Tbs
CallagbaQ
Boot
Our Boots can bo
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as wo wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6; post paid, 23/6
Lack, „ „ 21 /-; ~ 22/-
■*“ All sizes and fittings.
Your orders are filled
the SAUK DAT as received.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St, Sydney
The Westralian big gold-producers: Great Fin-
gall, 3928 tons for 63610 z. This monthly output will be
much increased, if not doubled, when the larger equip-
ment is completed. Within the next few weeks the lode
will be struck in its lowest level, and, if as good and as
big there as in several levels above, a substantial rise will
take place in these shares. Present price, £8 15s. It is
quite possible, as in many another mine in Westralia,
that the lowest level will be the poorest, but, as there
has been a gradual improvement with depth in this mine,
a big change for the worse is not likely to take place in
100 ft.
* * * *
Peak Hill (W.A.): Of this mine a local corres-
pondent says that no developments have taken place in
the main shaft, and the reef, Of which much was said
when struck, proved to be only a bulge, and has cut out.
June yield, 15300 z., tonnage not stated, but estimated to
have been 2400 tons. Directors growling about expenses ;
50 miners “sacked”; manager expects to run the 40-
head mill from the open cut, which is opening out fairly
well. Last month 100 bags of specimens were taken from
the rubbly wash —another indication that what is locally
known as the “ Patch ”is an alluvial deposit. There are
300,000 shares in this co., all but a few thousands of which
have been issued. Within the last three years they have
been up to £lO and down to £3. The mine has never paid
more than 4s. a year in divs., and has paid nothing this
year. It still has a market value of upwards of a million*
which is one of those things no Australian mining mail
can understand. * * *
London and Globe : Cabled that at last even
the directors of this swindling concern are pleading for
compulsory liquidation, and when it is granted writer can
picture the squirm of certain persons who run London
financial newspapers that have been born in corruption
and fostered in boodle.
• ♦ * •
Sons of Gwalia: 10,019 tons, 60340z5., and this
has long been going on without a div. But the co. has
added greatly to its plant, has done much development
work, and taken in additional leases so as to make sure to
have the underlay of the lode to a workable depth.
Lake View Consols : 9258 tons, 14,2450 z., valued
at £54,000 ; announced that the co. has decided to give
the money-value every month. Better still if it would
also give the total working cost, so the public would
know the profit made on this enormous production, the
second largest on the field. Shares, £7 I2s. 6d. less than
a third of what they have been, and less than half the
price they were when the monthly yields were not half
the size! The “rigging” of Lake View shares by the
London and Globe 00. has completely shattered public
confidence in mine and management.
* * *
Golden Horsehoe: 9044 tons, 15,4090 z. The
biggest gold and profit-producer of the State, and although
little more than IOOOoz. greater than last month’s yield
from Lake View, there is a marked difference in the mar-
ket valuation of the two mines. Golden Horseshoes are
over £ll in London, and as there are over 50,000 more
shares than in the Lake View, it will be seen that the
market-value of one mine is nearly double that of the
other.
* • • *
Great Boulder: July production, 7637 tons,
12,2140 z. ; shares, at 18s., are much lower than when the
monthly yield was much less.
Perseverance : 9441 tons, 12,6300 z.; average loz.
6dwt. 18gr. Transpired at the 'meeting held in London
recently that the gold is only worth £3 ss. per oz. or 20
per cent, less than fine gold, so that 12,0000 z. per month
only means the value of 10,000 oz. It would be easy to
make a deduction from the bullion to bring the gold up
to standard or fine, but that would not suit the market
book. ’Twas ever thus with the W.A. mines, especially
with those of the Golden Mile. With the Perseverance
the extraction has e
to expect when the enormousisu p h greater than
cost of treatment per ton was so e m k h g b ac* a 8 long
rsass “S.l rs»r »%•
and richer reef, with no sulphide problem
3
tralia. Tb . rpu p perseverance has one block of
Westralian mining, lne , ou f S id e of its own
Merton’s Reward : weeks
SSSsfsiST®tf«sSsS£
sissTZi
will be abundant, bo far Merton <( „ Merton
price on his mine, which he runs as a noouy
navs the highest mining wages in the State, ana
hardest-working tnan on the miners himself.
Woodlark Island: “The latest from the
SsfflaßSrjSJSsjggaatf™
will have to work has had the eyes picked Most
of the gold is contained in the pug-veins, which are so
variable'in size and quality that it .8 to
state the value of any face for more : to
at a time. Speaking generally, it would be a fan: cning to
say that, with the lode averaging 10ft. wide, it willl be
found that the pug will average aoout one-fourth of the
vein and in value will be worth 2oz. per ton, although t
is very difficult to strike an average, assays gwng a fev
dwts at the lowest to nearly 20oz. for the highest
Cleaned up at the mill for 180 tons crushed, and obtained
ffioz Idwt smelted bullion. The tailings, showed 2dwts.
15gr per ton. No means exist as yet for taking an aver
age sample to show the value of the ore„ o win?to
anmnle the heap as it stands will not do, owing to
the patchy nature of the ore.” This conveys a very clear
idea of the erratic character of this mine.
Westralia has found out several things about
Forrest’s huge scheme for carrying water some 200 or 300
miles by pipes to Coolgardie. First, it won t be finis
nearly so soon as expected. Second, water can tbe s P
plied at 3s. 6d. per 1000 gaUons-the P r 'ce wil! be more
like 6s Thirdly, Forrest’s estimates made no provision
for laving pipes through the towns and connecting the
water-supply 3 with. the houses. Fourth, there is a great
dread that the pipes won’t stand the press urcofwat
at least the Department appears scared ou ° f
the idea of making a trial of the h old ingcapaeit;Vofthe
pipes already laid. Lastly, the failureto find anythin ™
much promise outside the Golden Mile at Ka'goorlie
raises a horrible fear that the best days of the fields may
be over soon after the water gets there.
The enormous sums lent on pastoral properties
earning- no interest for the banks are Deposits turned
out to grass.”


According to a recent cable :
Mr. H. H. Asquith, M.P., Home Secretary in the last
Liberal Government, addressing a meeting of the Essex
Liberal Federation, affirmed that the Liberal Imperialists
neither repented nor recanted their view that the war in
South Africa was forced upon Great Britain without
adequate reason and entirely against her will. . . . The
war in South Africa was most humanely conducted. . . .
He hoped in the future to see in South Africa a free and
federated dominion on the model of Canada and Aus-
tralia,
It is Worth while comparing the above with the
following expressions made use of by Lord Howe
wheti Britain Was prosecuting the war against
thei colonies of America over a century ago :
1 kno w too well England’s abounding pride and deficient
Wisdom. Her fondness for conquest, her lust for
dominion, and her thirst for a gainful monopoly will join
to hide her true interests from her eyes, and continually
goad her ori in ruinous distant expeditions both of lives
and treasures.
They both amount to the same thing, anyhow.
Editor Bulletin.—l wish, through your
widely circulated paper, to warn any Australians
who may think of going to the Phillipine Islands ;
as I have met several stranded here (Hongkong)
who came over with that intention. The islands
are still under martial law, and the Americans
are determined that no one but Americans shall
settle there. Also, all the old oppressive Spanish
laws are being upheld by the Yankee authorities,
and the place is worse for a British subject than
before the war. Even anybody wishing simply to
visit the islands has to get a permit from the
American Consul at Singapore or Hongkong with
whom he must also deposit his return - fare.
British steamers at any Phillipine port have to
have six soldiers billeted on them, and to find
these in food and liquor. In fact all the old
Spanish times are still in full force. Surely,
enough said !— B. Fitzalan Howard.
Judge Backhouse, in his report on the
Victorian minimum-wage system, states, no
doubt quite truly, that it tends to crowd out the
inferior workman. It i 3 possible to make special
provision for the aged workman, but the inferior
workman, under the new order of things, is likely
to have a bad time. When the employer has to
pay good wages he naturally wants good work.
This may be roafh on the inferior workman, but
it is certainly good for the country at large. The
country of slummocky, half-trained artisans never
amounts to much. It is always dependent on
other countries for a huge proportion of its pro-
ducts. If it builds up an export trade its products
are always selling at a low figure in the world’s
marine store amid the world’s general contempt.
The inferior workman (who is mostly inferior
because he doesn’t take the trouble to be any-
thing else) brings the country’s goods into such
discredit that even those turned out by the
superior workman (having the national discredit
on them) don’t fetch their fair value. If anyone
can invent a system whereby the inferior workman
can be crowded out, the tribe will, in time, cease
to exist. The new generation will, under compul-
sion, cease to be inferior. If no such system is in-
vented he will increase and multiply. The ten-
dency of the average man is to be as inferior as he
can be while yet making a living.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarenee-st., Sydney, N.S.W
THE NEWEST OF THE NEW.
If you Buy it from us it’s all right.
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. F37o4.—New Lucky Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 11s 6d.
No. E 8739. —Fine Dia-
mond and 18c. Gold
Bing, £4 10s.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
£l7 10s.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £1 10s.
■ sffir'
No. F3ss3.—New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12s 6d.
No. F 593. —Fine Pearl New Moon and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
SM
%
No. F4s46.—Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch 1 , £9 10s.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
N0.F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2, 105.
Illliimi
®m3FU
No. Es629.—New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, lCjs 6d.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
No. F4Bsl.—Fine Pearl and 15c. Gold
Brooch, £3 15s.
No. EB6oo.—Pair of 9c.
Gold Tie Clips, 5s 6d.
Heavy Make, 10s 6d.
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 GEORGE ST. and
STRAND, SYDNEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFDTITIOU.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
sdg
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogtie of
Kooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 HP. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
(LIMITED),
Uawarra). near SYDNEY.
DAPTO (Dale
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
'
m
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW,ARRA’
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD AfTr.TT/1 a
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.9.W.


A certairi Southern Bohemian club
adopted the plan of caricaturing undesirables out
t>f the show because satire was the only thing that
could pierce the hide of one brilliant but erratic
member strongly suspected of dossing there. At
least, after several surprise visits by the committee
at an unearthly hour, he was found snoring sweetly
while his shirt, which he had washed out in the
bath and ironed with a tin pannikin, aired nicely
before the kerosene lamp-stove. As a financier
that member had points about him. He took an
overwhelming interest in the commissariat, and
whenever he found victuals even slightly reduced
he bought all sorts of nice things, and collected
the price thereof from the secretary next day per
medium of a note to the effect that “ I have this
day purchased for the use and delectation of the
members, the following goods, as per schedule
attached.” Then followed the schedule and the
bill for the amount. The secretary, the mildest
man that ever dodged a creditor, paid up and
angrily requested the Brilliant One to leave the
commissariat alone for the future. But the 8.0.
went,on serenely, buying just whatever he listed
and making wonderful excuses for his interfer-
ence (it seemed that he always interfered when to
have done otherwise would have jeopardised
the honor and credit of the club) till the swarm of
caricatures stung him so that he kept right away
from the institution. Then something happened
that drove the club to temporary suicide. One
pleasant morning two members who had been out
all night on press duty decided to go there and
have breakfast. It was hot weather and they
were wearing tennis shoes, or some sort of foot
gear that made little or no noise. When they
reached the door they saw an artistic member
sitting in a wicker chair, peacefully washing his
socks in the washing-up bowl, while on the gas
stove his week’s supply of handkerchiefs bubbled
away merrily in the tea-kettle. It was a pleasant,
idyllic sight, but it roused the club to fury, and
caused it to dissolve and form itself into a new club
which knew not those members who boiled hand-
kerchiefs in the tea-kettle. Shocks never come
singly, and it was about then that the bill for all
the goods “for the use and delectation of the
members” came home, with demand for imme-
diate payment. But the club still survives and
lias a good time on the whole.
At a recent Melbourne meeting the
Christian Social Union it was decided that, in
view of the violently conflicting evidence about
the Kanaka-question, “it was right to look to
the leaders of the Anglican Church for guidance,
and two members were accordingly deputed to
appeal to the Anglican bishops in Queensland
and Tasmania for light upon the subject. Now,
what advice will those bishops give? Why, the
same advice as is given by the Argus and the
Brisbane Courier— that we should take the nigger
to our bosom. What advice does Toorak give ?
What advice is given by the Sydney Points?
Why, Respectable advice. And that is what the
Anglican Church, as a church, will always give.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr R assmussen’s advt. on page
21 of this issue *
sdg
HAIR TONIC
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Palling 1 Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business.
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, TefTPITT STREET, SYDNEY, M.S.W.
H
h
mm
m
&
HOME talk.
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
30 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FRIE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Fume as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of yqungand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physician. Chapters
aie devoted lo innumerable interesting: subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which n akes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women boih in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a 1 right future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in ils covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easv. is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post, Is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post, is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—-Parties,Love, Dress, etc, Is6d post.
Every Man IDs Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide : simple tests for minerals, 3s 6d,
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, hew work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is6d post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 Ulus. Is 6d posted.
Dover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman's Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is (id post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
CheVasse's Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderfi'l Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted. -
How to Mesmerise, Is 6 1 posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 0d posted.
U"OTE. — SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) than
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND BA HE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG,BOOR CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, is Park street, sypNEy
0 Ho
iV-r
J
m
>\
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
: strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
: CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
j THEY MAKE PERFECT WIEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
: LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 1 10 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a«tn Jhments. .. 3 3 0
. liadies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to — {
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney {
V
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and' give you new vim and eonldence.
This-Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be str mger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. ClarksouL’a Re-Invieforator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladnesk of yputhful
'men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Desp m lent, Losing Memory, I)ys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a wea <, general coliapse of all vital
parts 'the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLAItKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
win brin" happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
b THEIR TOUGH IS MAGNETIC.
Price— ELECTRIC BELT, ids. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
OAi/L (QiJ WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
CORNER ELIZABETH
DKIJGr STORM
AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
f FREEMAN AWALLACE
FI FfiTßn-MEDICfiL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists inAusb^
Received Hijhly Commendable Press Routes
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c., &c.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification ancl . Re f ” t^,*a e Q reat rn
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, ® out *
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Room
by our Physician-in-Chief.
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and I dison,
Ml
m
SMBS
Yours truly ... ,
HOWARD FREEH AN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist. l
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Pounder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their profess.ona
work. But to have the privilege of being show "throng
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to sec ana
learn something of the real character of their wide pra
t'ce, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in
dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for e>eing
and examining the polished steel articles "»th which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. Thi collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Game
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way. ~ •_» ~ „
The correspondence department is a veritaoie e\e-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the w-ork of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feehngs and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people w'hose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonde
m
HEALTH
cl
B&lA
AC'E
■
•Vf
tKI
■
m
elect
STRENGTH
«S
medical
S&BESSg:
.
IUROJCAUNSTITb
CICAL
Am
m
WWm* -»«5
Dttlifc
J - i .... r ; ■-•
gg| i i**!b*«»K*s' , •> v .. .;gg
‘
s»*.’• l^wn
Premises : Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores'of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power. .
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions— that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march ot civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting* to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
he, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, arid work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison, why !
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same wav, when we talk .of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows. .
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
he pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are^ 1 Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Rieord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that contacted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and SuificaJ Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
mb •«£
ife >. i
Yours truly . . .
Hie HARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consultin']
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftieal medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


Nearly 50 years of experience has taught
Callaghan and Son that a boot in which the
leather has been truly cut (so that the strain is
evenly distributed) and then firmly sewn will last
twice as long as the carelessly-made boot. The
sterling qualities of The Callaghan Boot, and the
fact that it ever holds its shape has made the firm
immensely popular. The firm is now working up
a big country trade, having instituted the satisfy-
ing system whereby boots can be exchanged if
not suitable, or money returned to customers if
they are not pleased with the boots when they
receive them.*
Antiuric, the great rheumatism and neur-
algia specific. We can prove that a few shillings’
worth of Antiuric has cured rheumatism after
hundreds of pounds have been paid to doctors
without obtaining relief. Highest references to
responsible persons. A course of treatment, suffi-
cient for any ordinary case, sent post-paid to any
part of Australasia on receipt of 55., postal-note
or money-order; stamps, 6d. extra. Address—
Antiuric Co., Box 842, Sydney.*
Concerning Sheep Dip.—A good dip kills all
insects and their eggs, and thus gives to the sheep free-
dom from irritation, and consequent peace to feed and
rest. An immediate improvement in the state of the
skin, and in general health, is the first benefit, conducing
to a proper supply of yolk and a vigorous growth of wool.
The other great gain from a suitable dip is that a tip is
formed on the staple that, whilst not only protecting it
from wasting effects of the hot sun, binds the fibres
together and prevents dust and other matter from getting
into the wool. No farmer can hope to keep his head
above water if he neglects to use a good dip and goes in
for fattening ticks, etc., at the expense of wool and
mutton. Which is the best dip ? The Encyclopaedia
Britannica (latest edition) while condemning arsenical and
mercurial salves and washes says :—“ McDougall’s Dip has
been used for very many years and we can testify to its
efficacy and safety.”*
Having glutted its soul with the details of 1356
country towns, and read all about the 24,000 pastoralists,
and the names of 30,000 people who live outside Sydney
and its suburbs, Tub Bulletin feels justified in saying
that “ Hall’s Directory and Gazetteer of N.S. W.” is a useful
and valuable work. It is a mine of information
about every country town, and to such as go down to the
great wilderness on that mysterious mission known as
“ business ” it is full of information where they may find
victims. The only objectionable feature about the well-
bound production is that an enterprising firm of under-
takers grabbed the top of every page for advertising
pages. The writer has a bad cough and hates under-
takers.*
“BULLETINS” FOR SALE —'
. . OVER 18 YEARS . .
tsr WHOLE OF 6d. EDITION COMPLETE.
Bulletin,” Box 695, G.P.O.
Missing Friends.
IF GEORGE SCHOFIELD, otherwise GEORGE
MALLINSON, of Huddersfield, will communicate
with the undersigned, he will hear of something to his
advantage.
J. A. THOMPSON, Solicitor,
l6 Norwich Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MARIE LLOYD. ALEC. HURLEY.
iTED HANLEY.
CELINA BOBE (Xylophone Expert aud Violiniste).
ERNEST SWALLGTW (Lightning Banjoist).
LENNON, HYMAIiI & LENNON (Acrobatic Comedians).
MDLLE. LUCRETIA (Burlesque Artist).
MISS MARY LYNjNE (Operatic Contralto).
ADELE LIBRA (W(ire-Walker and Globe-Runner).
The American Bioscope, and all Our Great Double Co.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
Re-appearance for a Short Farewell Season of Mr.
AUSTIN RUDD.
The Wonderful ZOBEDIE, the World’s Greatest Hand
Balancer, Ascensionist, and Equilibrist, and
ARNOLDI, the Clever Young Juggler and Equilibrist,
and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
THIRD WEEK of WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, interesting Revival of
Wilson Barrett’s Great Play,
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS,
In which the entire co. will appear.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ? OF THE HOUR I
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME I
EVERY EVENING.
CHARLES ARNOLD’S LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
. . in .'.
WHY SMITH L€FT NOM€,
Preceded by THE GREY PARROT.
MATINEE, SATURDAY at 2.
Simply an Enormous Success Manager, L. J. Lour.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, LA BOH EM E.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 16, for the First Time this Season,
Verdi’s Bright and Popular Opera,
UN BALLO IN MASCHERO.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 4s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Henry Lee and J. G. Rial .. .. Lessees.
Jas. H. Love General Manager.
, EVERY NIGHT
(Except Sunday),
And at the FAMILY MATINEES WEDNESDAY and
SATURDAY.
“THE WORLDS ENTERTAINERS ”
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE).
The Prices are in reach of all l A3T Is., 25., 3s.
Children under 12 years Half-price at Matinees (Except
in Gallery).
Reserved Seats at Elvy’s ; also at Theatre.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
THIRD WEEK of
The Great Picturesque and Unique Drama,
THE WHITE HEATHER,
One of Bland Holt’s Most Marvellous Productions.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE, sY Un «.
™ (Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-slreet.)
23rd WEEK. (Still More Novelties.) 23rd WEEK.
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE CO.
CHAS. FANINC, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENIS CARNEY, the “ Yorkshire Comedian.”
Enormous Sucoess of the LESLIE BROS. (Fred, and Will)
Re-appearance of WILL STEVENS, TED HER3ERTE. First
Appearance, Misses NETTIE WARDEN, MAY DAGMAR.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15.
TH EAT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
MRS. DANE’S DEFENCE,
An Original Play in Four Acts, by Henry Arthur
Jones, Author of “ The Liars,” &c.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson
A GREAT AND GLORIOUS SUCCESS.
THE MARINERS OF ENGLAND;
OR, THE DAYS OF NELSON.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Etvy’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at a quarter to 8,
THE SUCOESS OF ALL SUCCESSES,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
As Presented by Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s
sd
gsd
[lothing Succeeds like Appearance.
Up-to-Date Style for Up-to-Date People.
42s
The Suit
with Extra
Trousers
42s
with Extra
Trousers
to Order
Holds the Commonwealth's Record
FOR . . .
Style, Fit, and Finish
L Only address in the States, opp.fi.P.O.rfclb.,
OUR NEW 1902 STYLE.
15
FOLDS FLAT in lin. SPACE. WEIGHS 10 lbs.
Enjoy TURKISH BATHS at Home, m each
SQUARE QUAKER
Folding-, Hot
Air and Vapour
BATH CABINET
Guaranteed to cure Influenza, and the most
obstinate of diseases without drugs. Every home should
have one. All symptoms of Pneumonia, Influenza, Fevers,
Throat and Lung Troubles are broken up and-eradicated from
the system in one night. Why will you do without one?
Price reduced to 30a. t including Vapour
and formula for Medicated Baths. Valuable Descriptive Book
Free.
Address all communications to —
A. J. LAWRENCE,
A Good Agent wanted
in every tovm.
SOLE AGENT,
26 Jamieson St., Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.
* H3JLVAA NVWHSnS
gsd
g
dg
GIN METAL
• CASE-
a
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
A
PHYSICIAN AND
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAYING had 30 vears experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world. ... .. _ _ ~ _
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment. co;KrslI j LTATI O3Xr (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send," as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for email
«Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing..
N0S1VMS HaQ
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
ft
At Poverty Point.
Stated that Mrs. Langtry, who has let her own London
theatre for a few months, will make a provincial tour
under engagement to a Mr. Mouillot, instead of running
the show as her own spec. If it is true that the sanguine
Mouillot has contracted to pay the full-blown Lily a
.alary of £2OO a week, she must be a wonderful woman.
About 50 years of age, no longer beautiful, even in her
stage war-paint, and not even a great actress. Yet she
can get £2OO a week as a “ star 1 ”
Re the “ definite ” decision of Melba to come along next
year. Two years ago writer saw letters from the can-
tatrice to some friends in which an assurance just as
definite was given, with the pathetically homesick adden-
dum : “ Get this in the newspapers if you can.”
‘ ‘ The most paralysing thing at Stafford House big charity
festival of snobbery (writes Tiie Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent) was Arthur Roberts’s pantomime of a girl
undressing in a bathing-machine. Quadruple-chinned
and nut-cracker-faced duchesses, countesses, &c., laughed
most plebeianly ; and Arthur, as usual, got right on to
the knuckle. It was a cruel shock to the snobs at three
guineas a head, who said, ‘ ’Ow ’orrid it was of the haris-
toeracy.’ ”
Kyrle Bellew expects great things of his Palmer River
leases (which include the old Ida). His camp is most
luxurious —tables, chairs, bed, and shower (the shower’s
all right). The canvas walls are covered with good pic-
tures, and a thick carpet adorns the floor.
London Referee was lately sending round the hat for
Alma Stanley, who “sorely needs help.” And yet Alma
Stanley for years commanded a salary of £3O, £4O, and
£5O a week. In ’97 she was starring in Australia with
Harry Paulton, and towards the end of their not too suc-
cessful tour she made a hit as the heroine of the old man’s
clever comedy, “ Niobe.”
A much-discussed item is the “scene” during the
second performance of the Italian Opera co. at Her
. Majesty’s, Sydney. A well-advertised public character
, grew so turbulent in the d.c. that he had to be removed
by force, much to the detriment of the personal appear-
anpe of the “ chuckers-out.”
“ J.X.” : There was an Italian cyclist named Dani, and
the treadle-pushers of Melbourne seem to have got hold of
the idea that tenor Dani is identical with the other fel-
low, and that his voice.was first “discovered” at a
cyclists’ smoke night. Good voices in Italy don’t go un-
suspected by the owners until a casual discoverer comes
along. Boys dream of an operatic career before they as-
pire to triumphs on the track.
The drollest item in Wilson Barrett’s talks to the inter-
viewers is the statement that Williamson happened to
.catch him in a disengaged moment and persuaded him to
fill ;up the extraordinary gap in his “bookings” with
another Australian tour.
Maud Wheeler, writing from London to Sydney Truth :
—“ .. . Presently comes Ellen Terry, a tall, graceful
Woman, whose determined jaw and wide mouth could
never have been beautiful. The slightness of youth is
gone, but a little flesh is not unbecoming. She looked
about thirty, and wore a wig and diamond combs in her
hair. Her voice, to begin at the start, was. harsh and
broken, but as she went on it became mellow and ringing,
and the irresistible power of the actress came out. She
is powerful and pathetic and strong, with the very
essence of art. A very weary old woman, poor and for-
lorn in her old age, after a long life of hard work—yet,
what an actress !• And she has power to thrill, to make
you believe she was, indeed, that auburn-haired Henrietta
Maria whom poor, weak, wavering indolent Charles loved
so dearly. . . . Irving? Well, what of him? A man
comes on the stage with two pretty, golden-haired
children, clad in white. He wears a dress of
sombre black, his fair hair flows over the
point lace collar on his shoulders ; on his _ long,
white, elegant hands diamonds sparkle ; from his ears
droop pear-shaped pearls ; about his neck is a blue ribbon
with a star hanging from it; over one shoulder a purple
cloak. All is perfect. The man speaks, it is a mumble ;
he has no voice, or he is too tired to exert it. When he
does let it go it’s a hard voice with a strong, nasal in-
flection, with no power, with no music in it—a sort of
toneless voice, the sad voice of a very old man on whom
the weight of his long life is beginning to tell. Irving
is 72 ; and he, apparently, has not the physical strength
to act. The armor bows him almost to the earth in the
battle-field scene. The gesticulation was good, the make-
up perfect, but Irving seems done for. He doesn’t act;
he merely goes through the show very quietly, never
troubling himself to assume the character. The effect is
disappointing. One expects to see a great actor playing
a fine part* arid instead sees a man who mumbles away
without opening his mouth or troubling about the effect
he is producing in any way, except by being on the stage.
Irving did not pay his audience the compliment of any
effort; so that it was the most disappointing show possible
to witness.” At this rate, Irving must be about due for a
visit to Australia.
Actor-manager Robert Henry has been ordered by
Queensland Supreme Court to inhabit His Majesty’s com-
modious and well-ventilated gaol till further notice. The
first trouble arose through that agile person using
“ What Happened to Jones ” without the owner’s permis-
sion. The Supreme Court ordered him to leave off. This
was very moderate on the part of the Supreme Court ; if
defendant, instead of using Arnold’s comedy in Towns-
ville, had been found using Arnold’s money there without
Arnold’s authority, it would probably have been called
plain, ordinary stealing, and the result would have been
six months or more. Then defendant changed the title
of the play to “ What Became of Parker,” and produced
it under that thin disguise. The Chief-Justice said it was
a clumsy device, and sent R. Henry to gaol indefinitely
for contempt. Which is one of the circuitous ways of
the law. The actor-manager doesn’t “goup ” for unlaw-
fully using Arnold’s play to the latter’s loss, but
for insulting the pomp of the court by not leaving off
when ordered.
The names of the Italian opera people are not a severe
ordeal for the uninitiated this time. Benedetto, Dani,
Cannonieri, Cattadori, Tondini, Loiribardi, and Sapio can
be pronounced at Australian sight, so to speak. Bassich
and Vaccari (Bas-sish and Vack-cari) are correctly guessed
at, as a rule ; also Marco-mi-ni is an easy one. Most
people know that the g is dropped out of Travaglini, and
that the double z is pronounced as tz in Bozzoli, whereas
the one z in conductor Hazon’s name has the sound of an s.
Mick Simmons’ C. 8.8. briar pipes are like
good artists—they draw well.


Two New Plymouth (M.L.) advts. :
TTTASHER LADY Wanted for half or three-quarters
v ' day per week, east end of town. Please leave
name and address at Herald office.
TUANTED a highly educated Gentleman with
'' University Education, M.A. preferred, to dig
spuds. Must be able to speak French, German and
Irish. Apply, with references in Hebrew, to
“ Scholasticus,” Herald office.
Of a recent outburst of the Kloet volcano*
in Java (from the Northern Territory paper):
The outburst was attended by great loss of life. Tor-
rents of lava and hot mud flowed amid showers of ashes
and stones. Many natives and a few Europeans perished.
On an estate called Alas Kedarung, the manager, amid a
shower of stones, fled from a torrent of lava in a carriage
with his wife, two children, and a nurse. The lava over-
took them. The children, the nurse, the syce, and the
horses perished. The parents jumped into a clump of
bamboos and saved themselves. The lava also consumed
the superintendent of the estate and about 25 coolies.
Many coffee estates in the neighborhood were destroyed.
The country around was strewn with corpses.
Premier Peacock’s Bill for the reform of
Vic. Constitution is quite tame, after all, and cal-
culated to eat vegetables out of the hand. It
provides: (1) That both Assembly and Leg.
Council must first agree to the establishment of a
popularly-elected Convention; (2) The Conven-
tion is to draft a new Constitution ; (3) Both
Houses of Parliament are to consider it and sug-
gest amendments ; (4) The Convention is to con-
sider the amendments and finish its Bill, which
will then be submitted to a popular vote ; (5) Even
if the people endorse it by a 10 to 1 majority it
must be accepted by both Assembly and Council
before it becomes law. And the Tory party
bellows mournfully that this is a dark and unholy
scheme for rending from the 48 Rich Landlords
their just authority. Unless Peacock is far more
ferocious than his Bill the prospect of anything
b“'"" done is very small.
The latest Jaypeeism : Writer came across
a legal document, t’other day, the signature
which was attested by a J.P., who signed as “ a
marksman.” Tne faynce made his mark, and
underneath was the ceru:icate by an ordinary
man — i.e., not a J.P. —which stated that the docu-
ment “was read over and explained to (the
J.P.), and he appeared to fully understand the
same.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
S.M. Herald advt. (15/7/’01) :
X\T ANTED, a Young LAD for Grocery Store, good-
' ’ looking, address, and good salesman, willing
to work and canvass for orders, an athlete and
musical preferred, engagement for 12 months.
Steerage passage paid to Fiji ; salary, 10s. per week,
with board and lodging. Apply by letter —Box 1180,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Nothing said about return passage, but perhaps if
he adds typewriting, mathematics, and an exten-
sive knowledge of demonology, hydrostatics and
church architecture to his other accomplishments
he will be allowed to row himself home to Aus-
tralia again in his employer’s boat on giving good
security for its return.
ENERAL DEBILITY.
Two Years’ Sufferings.
-A- IFHHEILTID I3sT USTIEIEID.
The Case of
Mr. ROBERT GRAHAM.
{Reported for “ The Star.”)
The increased facilities for recreation
Afforded to shopkeepers and their em-
ploy es under the provisions of the Early
Closing Bill are often appreciated by people
who do not come directly within the
operation of the Act. It gives “ outsiders ”
an opportunity of meeting folks e joying a
half-holiday in the middle of the week who
are not at liberty at any other time, except
after business hours. Knowing that Mr.
Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street,
Chippendale, was always disengaged on
Wednesday afternoons, our reporter
thought it an opportune time to obtain an
interview in relation to his indisposition,
and was rewarded by finding the gentleman
mentioned sitting on his verandah.
*‘l have called to ask a few question
about your illness.” began the scribe.
“ You are quite welcome to ask as many
questions as you like, and I will freely
answer them. ”
“ What was your complaint, and how
long were you ill ? ”
“ I suffered from debility, in conjunction
with indigestion, for fully two years.
I had been engaged in sewer work for
some time, and the bad air played havoc
with my constitution. My health had been
very indifferent for a long time before I
paid much attention to it, and then it was
compulsory, for the disease had worked so
slowly and so stealthily that I did not
give in till it had mastered me completely.
I thought that the unhealthy feelings would
§o away when the sewer work was finished ;
ut I was greatly mistaken. I could not
go on working through the violent pains in
my head and chest, which afterwards ex-
tended all over my body, and 1 got very
feeble in the )e s. My appetite became
fickle, and gradually died away altogether.
Anything I did succeed in getting down had
a nauseous taste, and p oved quite unpalat-
able. I could not sleep well at night. 'I
went to bed feeling tired and weary, and
after sleeping an hour or so I had to put
in the remainder of the night wide awake
When it was time to get up I had to drag
myself out of bed with much reluctance, not
having enough energy to dress. I could
nob look at my breakfast, and would start
the day with only a cup of tea on my
stomach. My strength gradually caved in,
as I could not take any food to sustain it,
and I lost all animation and vitality. Water
was my principal drink, being always
thirsty, My Btomaeh was too much upset
to allow of my taking anything else, so you
may imagine how debilitated I was. There
was not an hour of the day or night that I
could say I was free from a depressing
languidness that made me melancholy be-
yond description. A sign of my weakness
was the way I used to perspire without any
exertion. Before I was taken ill I was as
hard as nails, and could do a good day’s
work without raising a sweat. In other
ways the debility made itself manifest,
notably by the symptoms of extreme
nervousness from which I suffered. I
used to think I had not got •in J nerves at
all, but now the least thing ?. ouid startle
me, and set me all of a tremble. I fought
hard against my affliction, and often forced
myself to eat when I had not the Bjightesb
inclination for food. The result was usually
very disagreeable, my enfeebled digestion
constantly turning on me. I experienced
dull, achjng pains between the shoulders
shortly after these forced repasts, and it
was not long before the food came up agaiaj
The rgtchihg Involved in the
made ipy headaches, from which I was
never free, iuerease in violence. My
tongue was coated with a thick, slimy sub-
stance, which made my breath disagreeable.
The fellows with whom I worked used to
remark how awfully miserable I looked,
and in truth I was frightfully thin and
pale.”
“ What medicines did you take during
your illness ? ” (*.
“I think I must have taken every
medicine under the sun. At all events I
visited the hospital for six weeks, and
brought back all sorts of physio and pills,
but they did not benefit me in the Slightest
degree. I did not get any relief from pain,
neither did they promote an appetite. Ab
the end of six weeks I gave the hospital
best, and consulted a doctor. He advised
me to take Clements Tonic. I felt rather
doubtful about his advice. After having
taken so many mixtures before. I became
very incredulous about medicine'', and so I
sought the advice of another doctor, who
also recommended me to take Clements
Tonic. Withbut more delay I procured a
bottle, and the«effect was most remarkable.
I had believed that my nervousness could
not be cured by any medicine, but to my
unspeakable delight I felt my nerves more
restful in three or four days after vne intro-
duction of Clements Tonic. Sound refresh-
ing sleep came back quite naturally, and
my terrific headaches were amongst the first
of my tormenting symptoms to be subdued.
The bodily pains left me one by one, and
my strength returned as my appetite got
better, thus enabling me to eat the food
that my worn-out frame so much needed.
There was an entire absence of pain in the
stomach after eating, and I was never after-
wards in doubt about my meals being
properly digested and doing their work
thoroughly. Clements Tonic restored my
bowels to healthy action, and my tongue
lost its obnoxious roughness and became
clean and sweet again. The excessive
perspiration no longer remained to remind
me of my weakness, as I became stronger
and stouter every day. I took quite a
different view of life under my altered con-
ditions, and the feelings of melancholy
troubl ed me no more. W hen I had taken four
bottles of Clements Tonic I was quite strong
again, my nerves were as sound as a bell,
and my digestion was all that I could wish it
to be.” 4
“Can I report these particulars in the
papers.”
“You may with pleasure. I owe my
restoration to health solely to Clements
Tonic, and if any people should happen to
read about my case who are suffering in the
same way they may be glad of my experience.
Publish how and when you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street, Chip,
pendale, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of ray illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements-rwhieh I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the previsions of an Act made and passed in
thenmtb year pf the reign Of her present Majesty,
intituled An Aet for the mere effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments pf the Government of New South Wales,
and tp substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression pf voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavit#."
Declared at Chippendale, this 16th day of Amrust
one thousand nine hundred, before me, 7
ALFRED MITCHELL
Business Announcements.
(Hood Tailoripg-
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SEDGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from ss. to £7 153.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this paper.
Of all Photographic Dealers , or of—
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT
THE EASTMAN KODAK.
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. I? sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually 1 destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
POWELL’S BALSAM
-p^SAMop.
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest rnring the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell's Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of-Weakness and De.
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E> PARKHURBT, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAT YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co. r Z r :
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
dg
Our Suit to Order at
42/-. i» marvel'ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits*
to order, £s*
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s <uits. Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig»dye, 25/-
Lonc Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-
i Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed or Serge Trousers,
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and V ests, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
Si/6.3/6, 4/6, 5/6-
Crimean
7/6.
Shirts, 5/6.
Gent’s Sp’endid Bal-
moral Boots .6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
bo don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7he
Philosophy of Dress.
patterns of all kinds
and si'lf-measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns#
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
' Tbe Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill*
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
dsg
Avoid
imitations
)
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in eaccbange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
■QOLARINE
Absolutely the Best
METAL POLISH.
N. 6(JTHRIP6€ Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS for N.S.W., Queensland & New Caledonia,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
v gout v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence,
| Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
j Strand, London, England. Sold by all
I, chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper.-— Medical Review.
DON’T POISON'
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. 4=BP r “ ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
V ' ’rive a fair trial before payment.
ds
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
frice of Medicator (size, 4 inches long. Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10
Post Free-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.


THE AUSTRALIAN CEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth -st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The cake that was eaten—it is the same in
London: —
UNEMPLOYED YEOMANRY.
(To the Editor of “London Daily Telegraph.”
Sir, —I should like to thank Col. Lucas for his spirited
appeal to employers which appeared in your issue of the
12th inst. Far from exaggerating the case for the re-
turned Yeoman, he has, if anything, understated it.
Take my own case as an example, and I am only one
among hundreds perhaps more deserving or more neces-
sitous than myself. I have been home some six weeks,
and have made every effort to obtain a clerkship in the
city, but am always met with the same rebuff. When I
say that I have been away on active service for more than
a year, I am told that they couldn’t think of engaging
me, despite my qualifications, the supposition being that
during my absence I must have got out of touch with
city affairs.
Just before I went away I witnessed the general exhi-
bition of “patriotism” caused by the relief of Lady-
smith, and heard men shouting that
“ He’s out on active service,
Wiping something off a slate,”
but I never imagined that, after wiping the slate, and
bearing the brunt of a hard campaign, we should be cold-
shouldered when we returned, and refused employment
upon such paltry grounds by the very traders whose
interests we sacrificed so much to protect. There are
hundreds of men who can substantiate my complaint, but
if you will spare a little space for the insertion of this
letter perhaps city employers may be brought to recon-
sider the course they are adopting.
I am, Sir, faithfully yours, YEOMAN.
June 14.
Moral: Fighting for Cohen pays no dividends.
Except to Cohen.
General Bailer, talking at the Colonial
Club, London, recently, said something good for
Colonials. Here’s his tailpiece :
He hoped they would understand in what he had
endeavored to say that he meant that the worst thing in
the world that could happen to any country was what
was known as the Jingo feeling.
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
This is a dangerous deceitful world for any
widow in comfortable circumstances who goes
travelling around with only a marriageable
daughter to look after her. A recent cable
reported the arrest in London of two men from
Melbourne on a charge of swindling Mrs. and
Miss Renwick, also from Melbourne. The evi-
dence seems to show that the spielers either
followed the susceptible relict and her offspring to
England, or discovered them there by accident,
and did a “mash.” Probably they tossed-up to
decide which of them should tell the sweetest,
sweetest story ever told to the young ’un, whilst
his mate was winning the affections of mamma.
Anyhow, they took the two confiding creatures to
Paris under promise of a double marriage, got
£BOO from them, and fled withoi t troubling to
carry out the contract. Then the elder victim
reluctantly concluded that the irresistible Aus-
tralian gentlemen had been fraudulent wooers.
There are limits to the amorous credulousness of
even the Widow O’Brien that Johnny Sheridan
created.
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
C. BRANDAUER & Co/sj
Circular-Pointed Pens. J
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
Usk your Storekeeper for on Assorted Sample Box of either series.
aßaSaila
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
[Pate ited and
Registered.]
Latest Novelty in Corsets ..
THOMSON^
‘GRACIOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
Extract from Madame Schild’s
Fashion Journals for March.
&
m
*‘A New Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa ’
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
at once, and is as easy as a glove. It is boned with RUSTLESS
* SILVIDE,' and the bones cannot push through."
Made in Colors, White, French Gray, and Black.
Makers: \V. S. THOMSON <Sr Co., Ed,, 112, Fore St., L,orirjon r , Eng.
Makers oi the Celebrated New Model ‘ Glove-Fitting.’ &* L a Noblesse ’ Corsets
Of all dealers throughout the World.
Beanie's Bronchitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS ÜBMBDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
33EWAR.E OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much" interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the emjity bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and.rapidiv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove iis distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ Mj' wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broohitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Suath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
e
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
9
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.Wi”
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
9
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W._LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
•
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a lona' and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & 00.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first in lication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qfg ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD Is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD la sold In Tina byOhamlata, Be., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by, #
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


?&e PIANOLA
“It is astonishing to see
this little device at work
executing the masterpieces
of pianoforte literature
■with a dexterity, clearness,
and velocity which no
pla> er, however great, can
approach. Every one who
wishes to hear absolutely
faultless, free from _ any
k ind of nervousness, piano-
playing should buy a Pi-
anola. It Is perfection
I. J. Paderewski.
Has arrested the attention of the
musical world. Its claims have been
investigated and verified by the great
pianists themselves.
This verification of its claims makes them interesting
worthy of attention.
[HE PIANOLA is an instrument by means of which any one
can play the Piano. .
This is accomplished by simply rolling the Pianola m
front of any piano, allowing the felt-covered fingers to rest
upon the keys of the piano, then inserting a roll of perforated paper
into the sockets, and operating the pedals. Playing-directions appear
upon the roll as the music unwinds.
Thus the Pianola provides a substitute for the human fingers and
a correct technique for any piece.
The artistic effects and vivifying personality are given to the ren-
dition by the player, who controls the expression. It is entirely subject
to his will. He may vary the touch from the most delicate pianissimo
to the “ lion's touch of Rubinstein.” #
This human element is the distinctive feature of the Pianola, and
removes it from the ranks of purely mechanical musical instruments. It
taxes the credulity of all who have not heard it, but is substantiated by
the fact that the Pianola
is the only Piano-Player
endorsed by musicians
of note.
Henry Hi. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia.
323 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
Send for Catalogue
Illustrations and
culars.
c
•ontaining
I 'nil parti-
The Pianola is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
•• *'■
m
■i
4m
m
* ■ »
1
■
■
■
(■l
;
.
wmmk
mm
■■■■£ol
iiiSiiii
i
.. ! I
wMmrn,
The Mere Truth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You have had a great success, Vaunec,” said
the Englishman, in his staid, elderly voice; “a
succ&s fou, one might say.”
He looked up at the young man who was standing
beside a deeply-cushioned invalid’s chair, in which
lay a woman of between 40 and 50, thin and
fragile, but delicately sweet in tint as the silks
that swathed her.
“I? A great success?” questioned Max
Vauneo. He moved, so that he stood behind the
chair, out of its ocoupant’s sight, and then he
shook his head, meaningly, at the other man.
“ A great success ? ” he repeated ; “I don’t know
what you mean, Tresham.”
“Ah?” said the other, carelessly; “it must
have been some false rumour —perhaps the shadow
of a coming truth. We all expect a great success
from you, some of these days; don’t we, Miss
Cecil ? ” he appealed to the woman in the chair.
“ No ; Aunt Mary has ceased to hope anything
from me,” broke in Vauneo, before she could
reply. “ She knows just how little to expect; it
has kept her from being disappointed, so far.*
“ Yes, I’ve managed not to be disappointed in
him,” Mary Cecil said, glancing up at him with
proud, loving eyes.
“Seriously,” said Max, “it wouldn’t do to ex-
pect a great deal from me. I’m lazy, to begin
with.”
“Oh ! I didn’t expect you to write this great
work,’* said the other man, with a light emphasis
that made Max Vaunec move uncomfortably.
“I’m afraid I must be going, Aunt Mary, he
said to the invalid. “I’ll come back after dinner.
Mr Tresham is dining here, isn’t he ? And he s
an old friend who must have all kinds of versions
of old times to conjure up to you. So you won t
b6 ‘‘Neff'but COiflo back early, Max,” said the
weak, sweet voice. I want you to talk to Mr.
Troshftin.
“I’ll try,” he said. Then turning to Tresham
he added, “You could find those business ad-
dresses you wanted in my room—shall I show
you whore, in case I cannot get back early .
“ Thanks,” said Tresham, rising. They passed
together out of the light, flower-scented room into
fee dim, cool hall. ,
“ I see you haven’t told Miss Cecil about your
novel,” said the elder man, out there. “Thats
foolish ; she is sure to hear of it.”
“I don’t think so,” said Max, quickly. She
hardly ever sees visitors, except the few 1 bring
home; and I’ve warned them. And she never
goes out. Really, only a few people in Melbourne
know that I wrote ‘The Mere Truth.’ You are
an exception.” „ ~ rl , ,
“It’s a clever book, Vaunec, said Tresham.
“ I read it on the way out. Clever—but just a
little too-you know; eh? I donjt wonder you
don’t wish to see it in her hands. He nodded
towards the closed door.
A little flu o1 * crept up under Max Vaunec s
dark skin. , , ... , . ,
“ Yes, one reels that,” he agreed, with a boyish
eagerness. He was very young, for all his suc-
cessful novel. “ Yes, I can’t face her knowledge
of the thoughts, the things, that make up one s
experience. It isn’t so much the change it might
make in her attitude towards me; though that
mightn’t be easy to bear; but I shrink even more
from letting her associate in thought with—with
all that she is so innocent of, and that I had
to put into that book. You know the feeling,
don’t you ? She is sweet as she is, don t you think
so ’ She has lived her secluded life here ever since
I can remember her, in this corner, without ever
coming into contact with the soil of the world ;
and one doesn’t want her to now.”
“I understand,” the other man said, thought-
fullv He was much older than the young author,
whom he looked at reflectively for a moment.
' “ Don’t you think it’s a pity?” he continued—and
then broke off. ‘ ‘ But I’ll see you again, Vaunec.
I’ll go back now or she will wonder what we are
A few minutes *ater he was back in the sweet-
scented, dainty room, and Mary Cecil was looking
eagerly at him from her beautiful sunken eyes.
“ What do you think of my nephew ?’’ she was
asking. ‘ ‘ Isn’t a sick old maid lucky to have had
such a boy to bring up ? , <t T
»He seems a fine fellow,” agreed the man. I
hope you haven’t spoilt him.”
‘‘No- how could I? He has been to our best
school, to our University ; I’™ only *£* hl s “
vacations, and intervals like that. But those
times have made life bearable ; and now that he s
a man he makes his headquarters here with me,
of his own free will, and I see a great deal of him.
I think I am almost happier than I ve ever been
b6 “°Ever before ! ” echoed the man. He took a,
sudden resolve, and drew nearer, leaning forward
t °“Sii l clciV’ I he e said, “I come to Australia
almost wholly to bring a message to you.
“Yes?” she said, with a kind of breathless
miestion." There died from her eyes an unrestful
glitter, an excited avoidance of something she had
feared. It was no use avoiding it; it was here.
Her face changed from forced cheerfulness to
Ba ST« e ’' P Sme i °in Trestan', low tone,; “my
brother,’ who loved you, is dead. He wrote to
you before he died. He gaye me this letter and
this packet to be given to you with my own
hands. He never forgot those weeks when he and
you believed yourselves man and wife ; he never
forgot for an instant what was to him the torture
of losing you. He knew that the resolve which
brought you out here to your sister and her hus-
band was a wise one ; but he never ceased to feel
its cruelty. He lost his balance with the loss of
you. 1 It ruined him.” He paused a moment; the
thin outline beneath the silk draperies lay like
that of a corpse upon the long chair. His wife,
he went on, “is still alive. We found out how
shoTad tricked us into believing her dead, for her
own ends. He never saw her. You know he was
blameless in intention—to you ?
“I know,” she said.
“ That is all,” said the man.
“Thank you,” she answered. Then, with an
forcing herself to speak, she added, 1
fe “ed Sling like this.' Yet I tried not to
think of it—not to remember who you were. I
have always endeavoured to forget. It was
toother life, all that. I am different, I am
another creature, now. You can see-since my
accident—almost since I readied Australia, that is
have been -this! ” She let her eyes rest on her
own still limbs; laid along the chair.
The man bowed his head silently.
“And lying here,” she went on I have come
to hate the world and its ways. I want to forget
it. I shrink from it. The few people I ever see
seem to feel that, and they help to keep this
corner sacred, as it were. Nothing ugly comes
here to disturb, to repel; and. sometimes 1 f oo i
that to those few who come it is a kind of refuge
—as it is to me ; and I tell myself that my recoil
from those passionate days and my desperate care
to keep my secret, have been good and right; for
to those young men who are my fnends ana
Max’s, I am an influence for good. Perhaps it
they knew all about me I couldn’t be. Of course,
they must live, they must go through the tire.
But to keep them caring for something qui ot >
something unassociated with the soil of life tha
would be good.” . .
She stopped, shaken with the outpouring oi
long-pent thoughts.
“ Don’t you think I am right ? ” she asked, with
wistful pleading. “ I deceive Max, whom 1 love.
But isn’t it better so ? He thinks me an angel—
ignorant of all the wrongs of this world. Isnt it
better to keep this ideal in him ? It would kill
me to have that belief of his destroyed. Don t
you think I am right ? ” n
He hesitated a second before he said “Yes.
“You hesitated,” she cried. “Why? What
wrong can there be ? ”
“No wrong,” he replied, slowly, only some-
times deception breeds deception.”
She smiled a sad little smile. “ I know what
you mean,” she said. “ But there is no wrong in
that.” She drew from below her heaped-up
cushions a book, and held it towards him.
“It’s fine,” she said, “and true.„ One loves—
and fears—a man for work like this.”
It was Max’s book, “ The Mere Truth.
A.E.L.
The Jews, all over Australia, are beginning
an agitation for a reduction of their burial-fees.
These seem to claim adjustment, in fairness.
Christians bury three in a grave, but it is sternly
obligatory on a Jew only to have one, even if it
be a still-born child, whose grave costs £2 10s. m
many places. Then again, the Jews think they
ought not to be charged extra for Sunday burials,
as they cannot bury on Saturday.
At Kilmore (Vic.), recently, an old-age
pensioner was haled before the local aggregate
Pontius Pilate for having “insufficient visible
means of support ” —in other words, it was pro-
posed to gaol him on the ground that Government
didn’t give him enough to live on. The ordinary
J.P. would have enthusiastically awarded him
three months, but the P.M. chanced to be present,
and he ruled that the Law had decided the pension
to be sufficient, and the Law couldn’t call itsell
a liar without compromising its dignity.
The authors of the N.S. W. agitation against
the Interstate Commission Bill thought to streng-
then their hands by combining the movement
against the Postal Bill with their own, so monster
petitions were paraded for. signatures, which in-
cluded both measures. This was not noticed by
the Evangelical Council, Ikey Mo, the Dili
Mackys, Christian Endeavourers, and sich, many
of whom enthusiastically signed the petition, only
to find they were beseeching Parliament to allow
Tattersall’s sweeps to continue m Hobart, bo
now the papers teem with appeals from horrified
Saints imploring their followers to Sign the
counter-petition in favor of the Postal Bill. Ail
of which is a further proof of the hollowness of
the petition-at-the-street-coruers idea, at ss. per
100 signatures.
The Christian Advocate, New Aork,
gives the rigs, up to date, of Australia’s dear old
friend, the prophet John Alex. Dowie :
<<Can you be born without the aid of a doctor? .asked
“ Dr.” Dowie, preaching on a recent Sunday in Chicago.
“ Yes ” replied the congregation. “ Can you live without
a doctor?” he continued. “Yes,” was the answer.
“ Ought you not to be allowed to die without a doctor, if
you want to ?” “ Yes.” “ I want every woman in Zion
to listen to this question, and reply to it instantly . If
vou knew you were going to die with your next child,
would vou wish to have a doctor by your bedside ? Six
hundred women arose and screamed, “No 1 No ! No!
Dowie waved his amis triumphantly. You call that
fanaticism ; ” he said ; “ Then, you liars and dogs of the
Press you villainous, distorted creatures who call your-
selves medical men, make the most of it. If it is fanaticism
to believe what God teaches, we are fanatics.”
Observe the question, “ Your next child.” They
come toppling there. Another American paper
states that —
Dr Dowie, who recently informed his followers that he
was the prophet Elijah, is mixing up the roles of prophet
and archangel. An Express message from Chicago says
he nreached a sermon in his church arrayed in celestial
fflorv On the back of his coat he had sewn wings 18m.
long and Bin. wide ; while the Zionite colors-purple,
orange and white—completed his angelic costume.
Gurr, the pious linen-draper who poses
Victoria’s Minister for Education, has at last got
himself into a tight place. His religiosity, or his
desire to please its professors, led him into pro-
mising a deputation that he would introduce a
Bill dealing with religious instruction in State
schools. This was in direct opposition to Cabinet
instructions. Religious instruction was one of the
first matters discussed by Peacock and co. when
they set to work seriously on their measures lor
the session, and it was decided without much
hesitation to leave the subject severely alone.
Peacock warned Gurr, wHen he saw that a crowd
of religious deputations was going to wait on
him of the decision of the Cabinet. l\otwith-
standing this reminder, Gurr blundered into a
hole The incident has caused much friction in
the Cabinet, and Gurr was given to understand by
Peacock that he would have to fall out unless he
exercised more control over his silly tongue. Ihe
only reason that Gurr is kept m the Cabinet is
because he carries David Syme’s stamp of ap-
proval.
Part of the sudden newspaper outburst
against the Vic. minimum-wage law is logical
enough, for when border tariffs are abohsned, the
high-wage Vic. manufacturer will be at a grievous
disadvantage unless the other States likewise
abolish sweating. But part of it is just greed
and sudden personal shock. A few months ago a
Printers’-wages Board was appointed. Ihe Board
has not yet completed its work, but it has got far
enough to touch the pockets of Victorian news-
paper proprietors. In the first place, the Board
determined to raise the price of machine-setting
from 3d. to 3|d. a thousand. Then there was a
suggestion that the “readers” on the big papers,
who are being shockingly paid at present, should
have their wages raised from 15 to 20 per cent.
As soon as these things became known there was
a move in the newspapers to rake up everything
calculated to create a bad impression against the
Act. Hundreds of reasons were found for the
suspension of the measure, in the vain hope that
it would never be enforced again. To a certain
extent the newspaper howlers have gained their
point The Peacock Government, under pres-
sure weakly consented to pass an order-m-council
empowering the Board to consider time an
place ” In other words, Peacock wants to force
the Board into considering whether special rates
should not be fixed for city as against country
papers, and for the evening Herald as against
the morning* papers.


3
He Mans
... for *—
tliousness.
cure ..
■ ■
a
m
NFLUENZ A is not generally understood by the greater part of those
who suffer from it. It is, in reality, an aggravated form of cold,
supplemented by a general weakness of the whole system. Ordinary
colds, it is well known, are caused by the congestion of the blood,
which, as a rule, is most prominent in the head or throat. Influenza
can be traced to the same cause, and irregular or insufficient liver
action is, in most cases, responsible for both. When the liver,
through any derangement of the digestive organism, ceases to act in
a proper manner, a certain amount of bile finds its way into the
blood, and, at the same time, the blood created from food consumed
is of a decidedly poor quality. In this manner the blood becomes
congested, the circulation sluggish, and a cold is the result. The
circulation of the blood now being much lower than usual, the entire
system is affected. The nervous organism becomes unstrung, the appetite poor, and the rest
disturbed. The body is extremely susceptible to chills, and the slightest draught causes a
violent attaok of coughing or sneezing. Many so-called cures for influenza fail to get at the
root of the trouble, and only afford temporary relief. A medicine that will keep the liver in
thorough and regular working order, and the digestion right, will, without doubt, prove the
most effective preventative and cure for influenza and colds. This is what Bile* Beans for
Biliousness will do, and no better remedy can be found for these ailments. Bile Beans have
proved m hundreds of cases to be the most effective known remedy in dealing with influenza,
colds, and all ailments arising from such complaints. Obtainable from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, price 13Jd. per Box, or from the Australian Depot, Bile Beans Manufac-
turing Co., 39 Pitt-st., Sydney.
AND WINTER
CONSTIPATION
QUALITY IS HIGHER HERE
And the Prices are as Low as elsewhere for humdrum
Styles. —That is one of the advantages of buying from us.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
Box, 8s 6d.
No. W 9. Silvei-Plated Jewel-Case
Satin-l.'ned, £1 is. ’
No. W 24. Embossed and Silver-
Plated Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6(L
No. F5173A. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6cL
No. P 839. Silver-Plated Butter Dish,
with Knife, 9s 6d.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18a 6d.
gds
No. W2OlB. Egff-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated, £1 la.
No. W 36. Best Silver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Spectacle Case,
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4588. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. E 9070. Combination Egg Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Fork, 13/6.
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY.
The Cattle-Boats.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Four weeks from Monte Video,
And sights that fe w men sees—
A -prayin’’ that the clouds will blow
A healthy, spankin' breeze ;
With glass a-showin’, down below ,
A himdred odd degrees.
When God made out His shippin’ notes
And sent this world to sea,
He must have missed the cattle-boats
And cattle-men like me.
He meant all farms to be ashore,
Not sailin’ full and by,
With chokin’ bullocks sweatin’ gora
And layin’ down to die.
He didn’t authorise that hells
Should wander on His seas,
A-liftin’ to the swingin’ swells—
Such reekin’ hells as these,
That squatter out and tumble in
To be the shippers’ gain,
With cattle-keepers spoutin’ sin,
And cattle mad with pain.
We ships ’em at the River Plate,
And from the States they come,
With bleedin’ horns and starin’ hate—
Thank God, the brutes are dumb !
We rig up win’s’ls so’s to try
And purify the air ;
So if they go and drop and die,
That isn’t our affair.
The stokers sometimes feel that God
Is workin’ wonders near,
A-watchin’ by a fractured rod
That’s fighting Death and Fear.
But hoistin’ out the dead and maimed
And dodgin’ every roll,
A man might doubt, nor be ashamed,
If he has got a soul.
The pirates old that used to float,
A-steerin’ by the stars,
Would know a stinkin’ cattle-boat
Before they raised her spars.
By carcases and brimstone smell
And other smells they’d know
They’d struck a border state of Hell,
And they would let her go;
A-driftin’ with a silent screw
Or rollin’ big degrees,
With chokin’ scuppers all a-spue
A poisonin’ the seas.
The sharks they slink around her flanks—
The sharks are very wise ;
And oh ! they love the cattle-tanks
And every beast that dies.
We ain’t in Heaven’s shippin’ notes,
And God don’t surely know
That such dam’ things as cattle-boats
Are tradin’ to and fro—
A-plungin’ till their stock is piled
In heaps, all blood and hair,
And men are killed, to put it mild,
For facin’ Death too fair.
The coal-ships most are bound for Hell,
Where coal is rulin’ high;
The liner rings her dinner-bell
And swaggers stately by,
With passengers a-suckin’ hard
At pipes and strong cigars :
They seem to know a cattle-yard—
Perhaps it’s by our spars.
Pass rovmd the chain ! Now easy ! Oh,
What cheerful tasks are these /—
A-liftin' dead 'uns from below
And prayin' for a breeze.
God didn't mean that Hell should go
A-howlin' on His seas.
M.li.
QUILP N.
A Little Letter from London.
London, June, 1901.
My Dear Friends,—
London, London, London, London, London!
And June too, and the very houses out in
flower. Even the old brown London houses—and
such yellow sunshine and blue sky and clear, orisp
goldness in the days that I wonder London doesn’t
start a libel-action against Australia for taking
away its character.
Well, and London is like this then, is it?. Bern-
hardt and Rejane to be had for a shilling. Calve
and Eames and Melba, Paderewski and Kubolik,
and Ysaye and Buboni, Sargent and Solomon and
Shannon all round the corner, all in the next
street, or the next again, instead of a world away.
And Ireland and Scotland and France so close that
you are there in a few hours.
That’s what paralyses an Australian, the near-
ness of Paris, of Scotland, Ireland, Switzerland.
At present lam mad on Rejane. Nobody knows
how to do anything but the French. Last night
I saw this great actress play Sapho. She has just
come over, bringing her entire company from the
Vaudeville Theatre, Paris. London is wild over
her, seeing in her Bernhardt’s only successor.
Poor Bernhardt! Rejane stole away her husband,
and now that her husband is dead, she is stealing
her laurels—which are much less easy to steal.
Rejane’s Sapho is so acted and so staged that
you do not look at, but live in, the scenes por-
trayed. Simplicity and consummate naturalness
remove all suspicion of acting. They come, talk,
eat, weep, quarrel, come and go, these Frenchmen
and girls, unconscious that the blind is up, and
thousands of eyes are peering in. Rejane comes
creeping into the first act; in Jean’s room—in a
heavy, black, glittering frock, falling off her
shoulders, but covered for the moment with
a heavier and still more glittering black
cloak, whose hood is drawn above the head
and tied with a stiff bow that sticks out over th«
auburn hair and white face like the horns of a
devil. How she moves, this womar ! Her figure
is inordinately Parisian. At the back it curves in
from neck to waist ; then goes rolling out in a
great round that continues till the hips are in-
cluded and passed. This abnormal curve comes
off and on. It is the fashion just now to keep it
t ! ee 1* , on a ny of the Regent-street
modwtes. In front her figure bears evidence of
the straight corset that doesn’t let the waist press
in at the waist. 1
thin, white, scraggy face, a big, red
mouth, heavy-lidded brown eyes, and the triumph
wl, f - and dre and cllarm over beauty—this is
what Rejane gives you.
When she kisses Jean her white face goes shades
Her acting doesn’t stop at the kiss j she
acts through it and after it, coming back from a
kiss a changed woman, with another face, another
expression. The play isn’t shocking in the least.
It s so utterly French, and is acted in such a
French homely way, that it could not offend any-
one hkely to be there. Rejane is great in two
ü bh ® persuades you beyond all shadow of
doubt that whatever she does could not be done
any other way ; and she leaves you to discover her
ail r~. b now her for days and days afterwards.
It is only to-day that I see that Sapho was corn-
mon. I remember now how Rejane was never
very elegant ” with her hands and fingers ; how
she got her dress twisted about her when she
knelt on the sofa ; how she laughed and sang. At
the time I vaguely felt there was something about
Rejane that I did not like.
She leaves you to discover her, just as you are
leftt° discover women you meet in “ real life.”
Mrs. Pat. Campbell models herself on Rejane.
1 saw her in “Maziana,” a Spanish play, with
litheradge doing lover. Mrs. Pat. is thin, dark,
Bweet, and affected. She has a habit of sniffing,
and a laugh smothered at the back of her nose,
with the lips kept shut, is a feature of her acting
that irritates. Beryl Faber also laughed that way
I noticed. Poor Mrs. Pat. worked hard, and was
magnificently frocked, but her house was almost
empty. I am sorry to say that our own Tith.
can fbe regarded as a draw. He seems sadly mis-
placed. His method, too, is glaringly opposed to
Mrs. Pat’s. She drops her speeches off as if she
He delivers his in a reciting voice.
When he recites his love to her, and she lets
fall little naturally-uttered words, the incon-
gruity irritates one out of all sympathy with them
both. It is a pity to see Tith. so misfitted. Can
you imagine him masquerading as a Spanish lover
whom everyone calls Dan-y-ell ? All the same,
out of the whole co. he looks the real man—looks
like daffodils and Australia, a nice, quiet good
look.
Mrs. Pat’s frocks were marked with the new
feature of all good frocks, short wide sash tied at
the back in a big fat bow. Beryl Faher looked
charmingly pretty and cool in empire frocks, and
big flat hats. Another member of the Spanish
menage has also been in Sydney, Miss Italia
Conti. She brought in Mrs. Pat’s cloak once,
and shut the door once, as far as I can remember.
A play that society is making much of is
Esmond’s comedy, “ The Wilderness,” with
George Alexander playing lover to dainty Eva
Moore. I confess George Alexander makes me
tired. I hate his love-making. Perhaps I look at
it from a man’s point of view, for all women adore
him, and the only word against him comes from
men. He is sq sentimental, so Family HERALD-ish.
He sits in an arm chair and Eva Moore comes and
sits on the arm of it. In the play Eva is George’s
wife, and they are still dla honeymoon. She draws
his head over towards her—and he gets into an
extraordinary attitude. It may be natural, hut one
doesn’t like to see it on the; stage. He crouches
sideways till she is leaning round him and he is
looking up back at her, and. her head is on his side
and his is on hers. That sounds complicated, hut
he looks quite happy in this silly pose with Eva
looking for grey hairs. The Drawing Room is
written all over this popular actor, considered by
many The Ideal Lover.
“ The Wilderness,” by the author of “ One Sum-
mer’s Day,” that pretty slight thing the Broughs
played a couple years ago. It marks the present
English craze. Bernard Shaw says everything
has to be labelled in England, so I feel quite
justified in putting a label on what England likes
best just now in Art, Literature, Drama.
For want of a better word I shall make use of
the epithet “ idyllic.” You can call it wishy-
washy, if you prefer.
Where do I see it ?
In the pictures at the Academy, in the plays at
the theatre, in the hats in the park, in the books
on the bookstalls, in the stories in the magazines.
What about the hats? Well, there are straw-
berries and cherries, and black daisies with white
hearts, and strings of chiffon and streamers of
lace or chiffon hanging yards down the back.
And they are wearing here a hat that nobody
would patronise in Sydney, the frilly pink, blue
or white muslin. And all the hat ribbons are
spotted, black spotted in whi ce, or white spotted
in blaok, put on in a low boW. And the hats are
wide and crinkled round the brim, ever so idyllic.
But perhaps the most “ idyllic ” thing I have seen
here was Ethel Haydon singing at the Palaoe. The
silliest song in the whole wide world, with a refrain
“Cuckoo, cuckoo.” She looked pretty in a
black jet frock with long sleeves and low bodice,
but was merely one of the performers. She sang
her little song in a little voice, and repeated the
last verse, and was gone, leaving no impression at
all behind her.
I could rattle on and on, but if I don’t stop now
I shall be telling you something about the King
that might end in my being beheaded for high
treason—for even the King is an Idyl these days.
—Good-bye and farewell,
L.M.
Query : Suppose the authority of the
Inter-State Commission is limited to preventing
unfair competition and differential rates on rail-
ways, what is to prevent Victoria, instead of
attracting western N.S.W. wool to Melbourne by
giving specially-low railway charges on such wool
when carted to its railway termini on the Murray,
turning common carrier and bullock-driver ? In
other words—suppose that it charged the western
N.S.W. squatter the usual wool rates on its rail-
way line, but carried his wool to the Vic. railway
line in the Vic. Government’s gratis bullock-dray.
N.S.W. couldn’t shut out the bullock-dray of a
friendly State; the Inter-State Commission would
have no power to interfere with mere road-traffic,
and the concession would probably cost Victoria
no more than the present differential railway
rate does.
When any friendless unfortunate is picked
up dying in the Melbourne streets the first
impulse is to get him along to the big Melb. Hos-
pital as soon as possible, but it happens with
dreadful regularity that the hospital is full, and
the door is figuratively slammed in the face of the
poor patient. Yet another recent instance
when a deserted old man with one foot in the
grave was wheeled along by a policeman and
couldn’t be taken in, because the institution was
even more overcrowded than usual. The Alfred
Hospital, a couple of miles further on, was
strongly recommended to the poor old fellow as a
good place to shuffle off in, but ere he could be
carted so far, his other foot had got over the
margin, and he was just wheeled round to be put
m the morgue instead. Gruesome, but that’s how
they have managed these things in Melbourne for
many years.


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
ms
m
ms.
f
f
U*B
tu-wi
z
ms.
ii/iii
“I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, 'and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
fksh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
1 Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consume 'on,
HAS MADE
1 1 Ml w
jtoigToiuc
an absolute necessity in the home
OR kit oe every colonial.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared, by
W.T.OWBRIDK, M.P.S., Cbemist, Mn.lL
Sold in bottles, at Is lid, 2*. 9d. 4*.6&; &
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
A
li*
OOPYEXGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
17 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills,. h lush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosdveness, Klot ches ' on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and ' -Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. t tLJt J lrtft J JJUkShi
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. o
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WUWaH A
GlflNTfA A BOX.” , t
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a ✓
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. 1
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tne
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he WQrld. Full directions with each Pox.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
S. FREEMAN 4 SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING' POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Beipg a series of articles repriotgd
fro n} “Tbe BOlletio,” Witb an
appendix dealing Witb tbc Fiscal
Q6gStioi).
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
m:
I v
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most grentle
h.edicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ox tue Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
- :
mm
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
3PO
o
*
IRISH
mM
IRISH MOSS
OtOROt^BONNINGTON.
MOS
TOE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MLAmiFAOTIJRERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THffi LADIJBIS.
w_ c. ZKIIILTDIR.IODGKEI & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y’OltlC STREIiT, SIDNEI
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
CEORCE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week; Bedroom (double), 6s. per Day, or Two
Guineas per week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager"
will receive prompt attention.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
have Wrought Iron Valve
*< Uiv i n »>w i’ON.
TRADE MARK.
PUMPS, both Horizontal & Uertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
plunger ano ring pattern
■
w&.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE block:, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
NEWMAN’S
THROAT PASTILLES
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATETUIt—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ERAS MIC
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating' and refreshing influence-
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
V ■ ' . ’ •
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
.1
0
:#
v
THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
ilnd entirely removes
:• ■
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
BEETHAM & SON, CHELTE
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney
p
02
%
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED, ,
. MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of ■
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
Si
X3XT STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery and Mine and
Mill Supplies. 60 C | arenQe street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London.
gkr,:ecs-o:r/y- co.,
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
.
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
SturtevantV Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
1
gj, WE.. -- ]
TOPLWORIiS©
Pjyiwgfe
stcLMtl*i«P
tSArt
emSiSMSn
iuasaa
SK3SW
