

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
M ining
107
and Contractors
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’
Kent
Sydney,
Street,
—FOR —
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2*70
Prize
Medals.
32,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
df
SEND POE PEIOES AND PABTIOULAES
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINE^>
AUSTRALIA.
83t Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86 *, Btreet , SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
ston,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
EOO*
> ‘
STEAM ENGINES
Motion Ttora,s]a.in.g
and BOILERS and PUMPS.
Maobixxea, Saw Benoliea, &0., &os
THORNE'S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
-g-aoi-B: 00. Ltd., Sydney.
RACKAROCK>^
HOBART,
gdf
TO
MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Kilda Railway Stftio °an° Cab ” °lnfs’" 5
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIPW
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week *
RESERVE EXTRA.
IESERVEPPEGIAL
SUPREME
aa hj w~% nja m b| )a __ _ RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. Burjui.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of tho
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
' Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS-
&
¥4
PIONEER
leather
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-sb., Brisbane, Q. •
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;■ H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st:, Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland :
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Prioe 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agent. = J. BARRE JOHNSTON ft CO., Loftn. street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNCY
— QSr:i ? SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
Of/ pV.W
USE
Head Office:
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
What Price WATERBBRY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
What Quality WATER6URY Watches ?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOiS.
.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and rarefniti,
for' C the LAN T ° F f ABLE FfJBNISHINGs"by
. lar =f sfc and most complete in the
colonies, and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE W ORLD-RENOWNED
EDI SWAN
economy in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIRE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the Eira a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin a Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
V01.22.~N0. 1130. j
("Saturday, October 12, 1901.
Pedstered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The jfulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories;
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. %* “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gborge-st., Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
wmm
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
(REGISTERED).
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
“AS OTHERS SAW HIM”
Place : The Conservative Working Men’s Club, Jerusalem.
Time: A.D. 82. Judas, patriot and Imperialist,
loq.
(A peace meeting has been called on “ The Mount ” by
Jesus, a Socialist agitator from Nazareth.)
What’s all the bally talk about
This Jesus? Guess he ain’t much good.
We wants a man to shoot and shout,
And build an Empire up on blood.
We’ll belt this beggar all we can—
Why, he’s a pro-Samaritan !
He says the Jew’s not worth a cuss
Above the measly Gentile throng—
What blasted rot! —but, as for us,
We backs our country, right or wrong.
No matter how this traitor raves.
We’ll sing, “ Jews never shall be slaves.”
If he’s a Gawd that’s worth a cent,
Why should we need to fish or delve ?
Why don’t he grab a continent,
And slice it out among the twelve ?
But he’s no Rhodes—the snivelling cur
Gives out his gospels for the poor.
He calls our gracious King a fox—
The earth, he says, is for the meek—
And if a fellow gives you knocks,
You’ve got to turn the other cheek.
The little Israeler’s no Jew—
We’ll smash his meeting—and him too.
There’s Fowler of the Sanhedrim,
And Price Hughes, of the Synagogue—
They both have taken stock of him,
And vote him a seditious dog.
You bet your boots he ain’t no Gawd—
Let’s crucify the blooming fraud.
— George Gilbertson, in Labour Leader.
Elementary Education.
THEY are face to face : the teacher and the
child. On what the teacher sees in the
child depends, in a great measure, his
future educational success. Light, hue,
and curve in the face before him,' are significant:
they are the work .of the dead. And the dead are
eloquent in the spirit within. Before the true
teacher’s gaze the child fades into grey antiquity,
becomes, in fact, ‘ ‘ ancestral voices heard from
far.” His conception and interpretation of the
power of the past will guide the teacher in
his plans for the future welfare of the child. He
will work with nature. And the little one ? There
is an appeal in his questioning eyes: will it pass
into terror, or into the joy and faith of a pure and
warm heart ? I am speaking of the normal off-
spring of to-day: the brute, by reversion,—the
blame on the past—requires special treatment.
It is manifest that much depends on the teacher.
He must, in the ideal system Of education, be an
adult; he must have found his true self. It is
folly and waste to place the most sensitive time of
life into the charge of youth which is necessarily
ignorant of the best that is to come. And it is
well for the children that their teacher should
have conquered his world, and gained his own
through tribulation. There are those who can
grow tender before the first green and the buds of
the year, and yet be bitter and harsh with their
human springlets ; they can watch with pleasure,
certainly not the purest, a growing flower,
and find no joy in the unfolding petals
of a soul: such are unfitted to teach the
young. For there is no great work done
without love. It inspires with graceful tact,
freshness, and deep tenderness—it is the essential
wisdom of life. With love the teacher can serve,
endure, and find the beautiful in the humblest.
He is Great Heart leading his little flock by quiet
waters and lodges in green pastures. He feels
that the loss of one to the earth would leave a
large place desolate in his heart. From all this
flows the ease necessary to perfect command. He
can work with his children and idle with them,
too, when the time is gracious. He has had his
day, and what is wise and beautiful in it he would
hoard for his little ones.
The educator does not neglect the environment.
All that makes for physical comfort and health,
is carefully studied and adopted. Knowing the
subtle moulding power of surroundings, at that
sympathetic period of youth he is anxious to have
on his walls prints or autotypes of “ the things
that are more excellent.” It is his wish that his
playground may have a good pitch : for he remem-
bers “ with advantage ” the “rigours” of the
game, and the keen odours of the trodden grass,
and the grateful shade of the trees on the lawn.
Here let me point to the value of the Tasmanian
blackwood as a shade-tree for the playing-fields.
It is of a graceful shape, has quite decorative ever-
green leaves, and, with room, really affords la
shelter and shade.
‘ ‘ Et jam summa procnl villarum culmina, fumant;
Majoresque cadunt altis de montibus umbra.”
But with _ right feeling to his charge and with
perfect environment, there is something more
demanded from a teacher—he must have a definite
aim. Let the idea that a child is to be prepared
for the technical school, or beyond, be dismissed
from the mind for ever. The object of the teacher
is to develop the child in body, soul, and mind,
believing that such a developed child, when the
time comes, will bring to any special eallingapower
unpossessed by one trained only for that kind
of employment. The child is to be taught the art
of living—to live so in the present that the beauti-
ful moment may be a store of hope, peace, and
joy for all his days. And this must not be taught
formally, but incidentally, and with a due regard
to the development of those ancestral inheritances
of which I have made mention. To rpake my
meaning clear, let me consider the case of the
child I know best. Keen, almost to pain, were
my first delights over the wild nuts, with
* their heraldic fringes, in the hedge; over
the acorn and its cup ; over the rich glossy brown
of the chestnut in its prickly green mould. Now,
if I had had a teacher capable of discerning my
passion for these natural objects, and of fostering
and feeding its growth, how much more beautiful
„nd sustaining my after life would have been.
But I was put in the mill and ground out after the
same pattern as my contemporaries. The educa-
tion of a child should develop him, guide and
strengthen his judgment, clear his eye, discipline
him with happy thoughts, and give him the
power of utterance. And, withal, there should
be in it a touch of Romance. Do you not remem-
ber the little hostel in the forest ? We shall never
sup there again with the same gusto ! The roof
is fallen, and the robbers are dead.
, I have said that education is three-told: Of
oody, soul, and mind. Go down to the bathing-
pool and see the beauty of the young human body.
Is it not a desirable thing to retain that fresh
vigour ? Of course it is ! We know it —O youth !
We cannot devote the greater part of our lives, as
the ancient Greeks did, to the culture of the body,
but we can do much to perfect it. We must learn
u 6 °f. our being: the child must be taught
that thereis such a law guarded by heavy penalties,
and yet blessed in the keeping. And the highest
success of the teacher, in this part of his labour, is
to get the children not only to obey the law of
physical well-doing, but also to love it. Light,
water, and exercise—these are the essentials.
After the basis—the body, the soul. The cul-
ture of the soul is the only protection against vice.
(Here let the parent lift his eyes and look at his
little ones and read the remainder of this para-
graph with his heart). We want children as pure
as the dew. No dry morality will serve: a
religious atmosphere must emanate from the
teacher. He has to deal with that sense of yearn-
ing for the divine which has created all religions ;
to show that the world is governed by reason-
otherwise there could be no science ; and to point
out that this Supreme Force, or God, not only
calls our hearts to him, but also,' in communion
with him, in great measure satisfies our longings.
He may inf§r from the beauty of earth, and the
messages of day and of night, that this Reason is
kindly disposed to us; nay, he may suggest that,
perhaps, behind this veil of tilings there is a com-
panion, a heart like ours. He may see in the
stir of the under-life of Spring, and in the
symbolism of the root among the worms
in the dark earth and the flower in blue sunny
air, a dim promise of immortality, of a home at
last. But he should teach that noble service looks
for no reward—and yet “wins the laurel”; that
it is good to strike for the right in the battle of
life ; and that if the end is sleep, well ! if the
eternal beauties of Heaven, well ! From the
Bible can be drawn certain lines, at once -simple
and exalted, which the children should learn. The
words have been steeped in the emotions of the
generations, and they keep their pure majesty
even for the child—as in some old church the fer-
vours of bygone congregations seem to linger and
mingle with our devotions. In after life, in the
dark hour, these words will come to him and be
full of quiet hope and healing. Let the teach-
ing make for strenuous life, for sympathy con-
verted into work. And Jesus Christ ? If you want
soul-culture you cannot shut him out. He has
absorbed the religious emotion of the world. And
we know in our hearts, with Hazlitt, “If that
Person was to come into the room, we should all
fall down and try to kiss the hem of his garment.”
But all that deals with the miraculous lies without
the province of the teacher—it is for the parent
and the pastor to deal with.
This is not even a pamphlet on School Manage-
ment, so, in treating of the development of the
mind, I can write of principles only. The senses
are the gates of the mind ; all knowledge must
pass through them—it is for the child the only
real knowledge. With the material supplied by
the senses the mind works. But within, to speak
in terms of agriculture, is a soil prepared by vast
ages, and it is the teacher’s first duty to dis-
cover what plants can grow in that soil. The
conditions are : Organic connection of the plant
with the soil, and a suitable atmosphere provided
by the teacher.- There must be organic growth—
an evolution. Cramming sticks seeds in soils
which have not the elements of food for the
plant; it sticks plucked-flowers in the ground, as
an impatient child makes an immediate garden.
We know, also, that it is possible to force
plants by over-stimulating manures, and that the
resulting vegetation is unhealthy; so, in like
manner, it is possible to unhealthily over-stimu-
late the child. In education, we must imitate the
long, unforced, unhurried, operations of God’s
providence. All knowledge unassimilated is use-
less, lumbering up the brain.
To change the figure, the teacher must en-
deavour, working according to the laws of the
child’s nature, to produce in his mind a persistent
image, or, in other‘words, an idea. With the.
idea must be associated the word. The senses are
employed ; ideas produced ; and words associated
with the ideas. From the known the teacher
works to the unknown, striving after clear ideas
and exact expression. Of methods this is not the
place to write.
But of one method of bringing the children face
to face with nature I should like to speak. Each
day the pupil writes a sentence descriptive of a
thing seen. Let me quote a few to show the value
of.the practice :
By the river is a tree half flame, half green shadow.
These, if I remember aright, are almost the
very words of the Celtic bard quoted by Matthew
Arnold. The boy and the bard saw with the
same eyes; and, as I read the sentence, the walls
fell away, and I stood by the sunlit ford and the
ancient forest roots.
This morning I noticed the tops of some bull-rushes
sticking out of a creek, and they were quivering like
something in great agony.
There is a wonderful parallel to this in An
Inland Voyage. The spelling is untouched.
Yesterday I saw a flock of sparrows flying over my head,
and they were so packed together that they resembled a
thick brown cloth.
Surely that is a thing seen and expressed.
This morning I noticed a large black Cormorant flying
against a sky of blue.
I am reminded of Poe in the reading.
As I was coming down this morning I heard a quail
calling, in a kind of whistle, to its mates.
There, it seems to me, is the true idyllic note.
This morning I saw a weeping-willow, which from a
distance resembled a number of fountains of green water.
The boy has caught the essential spirit of that
most beautiful tree.
I could quote many more of these original
transcripts from nature, but the above will serve.
I hope, in time, to call in the help of plasticine
and of pastel. In such appreciations lies the hope
of national literature, art, and love of country.
And now to speak of the examination of
children. An examination should not be a duel.
The questions should not deal with exceptions and
puzzles, but should recognise the individuality of
the child, be plainly worded, and should honestly
endeavour to find out what the child knows.
Honour and courtesy demand that they should be
answerable by a well-prepared pupil in the given
time.
In the ideal system of education adults will be
employed. They have to deal with the most
precious part of the nation, and so will be care-
fully selected. The inspectors will be numerous—
friends; and they will join with the teacher in
watching the various harmonious growths in their
human gardens, exercising a personal, loving care.
The present method of examination with its
separation of the idea and the word (cram), its
lack of recognition of the individuality of the
child, its hap-hazard questions and markings, is
doomed to be swept away. The teachers are
waiting for the parents.
In my second paper on education I inadvertently
called the above outline mine. All that is true in
it is, I doubt not, the property, by experience and
thought, of every earnest teacher in Australia —
and elsewhere.
To gain the love of our children, and to guide
them into a harmonious development of their
powers, is not to live in vain. There is a sort of
immortality in it.
Non omnis moriar ; mvltaque pars mei
Vitabit Libitinam.
TAS.
JAMES HEBBLETHWAITE.
There is a good deal of crude capacity in A
Woman, “ a Tale of Australian Life in the Early
Fifties,” written by R. J. Stuart-Robertson and
published by J. A. Bradley at Cobar Leader office,
N.S.W., in 73 pp. demy quarto. With training
and practice the author might write tolerable
fiction. The preface is a curiosity, reduced in
fac-simile below.
Lond. Academy readers have been trying to
coin “ words useful in literary criticism.” Some
results —
Phonoscribe—a writer who uses the phonograph.
Phonoscribed—spoken into a phonograph.
Noisicrucians—writers of the sensational religious
novel.
Sangferratic—tending to blood and iron : writing
of the Kipling order.
Scriptograde—rate of writing.
Shamorist —the writer of imaginary love-letters
and confessions.
New derivations and old, from Dr.
Skeat’s recent Notes on English Etymology :—
“ Crease is crest, with its t dropped. If you
fold apiece of paper, and open it partially,
you can invert it on a table so that the fold
or ‘crest’ resembles the ridge of a hill or
a roof. In West Cornwall ‘crease’ actu-
ally means a ‘ ridge-tile.’ Dr. Skeat
agrees that, a ‘ bon-fire,’ now lit for re-
joicing, is really a ‘ bone-fire ’ kindled to
consume dead bodies in a pestilence, and he
quotes a 1603 translation of Ovid :
So either lothly on the ground vnburied they did lie,
Or els without solemnitie were burnt in bone-fires hie.
Dismal is dies mali (evil days) received through
old French. Dr. Skeat says that gallop is really
compounded of the two Norse words which exist
separately in English as wold and hop. A man
galloping is a wold-hopper, though he may not
know it. A strange derivation is that of pedigree,
from Anglo-French ‘pe de grue,’ the foot of a
crane. The three short lines radiating from one
point, which are the impress of a crane’s foot, were
used in old pedigrees to signify the branching out
of a family, and a similar sign is till used by
genealogists.”
Melb. Book Lover recalls two interesting quota-
tions—
In regard to Australia, it is in my eyes preponderately
probable that long before this century (19th) is at an end,
the settlements in that vast and distant country will all
of them have emancipated themselves, changing the
government from a dependency on the English monarchy
into a representative democracy.— Jeremy Bentham.
Farewell, Australia ! You are a rising child, and
doubtless some day will reign a great princess in the
South ; but you are too great and ambitious for affection,
yet not great enough for respect. I leave your shores
without sorrow or regret.— Charles Darwin.
As to the Transvaal “war,” “Mr. Dooley” is
pungent: —
Ye r-read in th’ pa-pers ivry day iv a threemenjoua
engagement. “ Th’ column undher th’ Hon. Lord Gin’ral
T. Puritington-Canew met to-day an’ defeated with
gr-reat loss th’ Kootzenhammer commando, con-
sistin’ iv Mr. and Mrs, Kootzenhammer, their son
August, their daughter Lena, and baby Kootzen-
hammer, who was in ar-rums, an’ will be exicuted
accordin’ to th’ decrees iv May tinth, fifteenth, an
sixteenth, an’June ninth, whin caught. Th’Hon. Lora
Gin’ral Puntington-Oanew rayports that he captured wan
cow, wan duck, wan pound'iv ham, two cans iv beans,
an’ a baby carredge. Th’ commando escaped, in
gin’ral larned from th’ cow, who had been shot, that til
Boers ar-re in disprate condition an’ cannot hold out
much longer.”
“ Whin we fought,” says Mr. Dooley, “we had
t’ lick th’ inimy ; but th’ English tell th’ Boors,,
‘Ye’re disqualified, Boors, by th’ rules of th
Marlybone Cricket Club, which is th’ standard iv
all th’ cricket clubs iv th’ world. Anny hits ye
make after this notice don’t count,’ they say.
A subscriber to a Brisbane Library recently
applied for “Steele Rudd’s” On Our Selection.
The book could not be found on the Fiction shelf ;
but a strenuous search discovered it under the
heading of Agriculture. “Steele Rudd” lives
in Brisbane, too; but fame is such, after all.
The Three Days’ Terror, by J- S.
Fletcher (John Long), is quite readable,
and not badly compounded. The author
snips a little bit of The Wa/r of the
Worlds, a little bit of The Island of Dr.
Moreau, and a little bit of The Iron
Pirate; mixes with Zanoni and The
Great God Pan; and serves as a sensa-
tional novel. The chief sensation is the
destruction of Charing Cross, London, by
a new explosive which disintegrates steel
and flesh to fine dust in a twinkling. J.
S. Fletcher does not explain how it is
done, but only a tyro would expect ex-
planation. There is a strict limit to
Horror, and when an author has done his
best he takes refuge in the Unknown.
Stevenson cleverly points out that Poe
knew no more than his readers what bale-
ful thing existed in the Pit of the pendu-
lum ; but he gets his effect by making
you believe that there is something
which you must shudder at.
Some of these days action will have to
be taken by Australian authors and pub-
lishers against the literary thief in Eng-
land and elsewhere. Australian law in
the matter is governed by English,
English law is represented by this para-
graph from Lona. Morning Leader of Bth
August last: —
Literary Larceny. —Damages for “ Lifting ”
an Article Without Acknowledgment.—At the
Maidstone County Court, yesterday, before
Judge Emden, Mr. W. P. Boorman, proprietor
of the Kent Messenger and Maidstone Tele-
graph, made a claim against the owners of the
Paper and Pulp newspaper, for infringement
of copyright.
At the end of March last, the plaintiff pub-
lished in his newspaper an article dealing with
the paper-trade in Maidstone, and, a fortnight
later, the defendants, with the omission of one
short sentence, reproduced in Paper and Pulp
the whole of the article, word for word, without
making any acknowledgment of its being culled.
During the hearing of the case it transpired
that the contributor of the article had previ-
ously offered a similar article to the defendants,
who tendered a price for it which the author
declined to accept.
His Honor, in giving judgment for the plain-
riff, awarding £5 and full costs on the £2O scale,
said the case showed that there was unfortu-
nately a state of affairs existing not at all credit-
able to literary' men. Defendants, although
given an opportunity, had not met the plaintiff fairly.
It seemed to him a deliberate attempt to rob a person
of his literary brains.
A drawing from the German Jugend, repro-
duced in M.L. Triad : —
TOLSTOY’S EXCOMMUNICATION.
CEORUS OF RUSSIAN PRIESTS : “ Out with him! His
cross is far too great for our church!”
“Jones married! You don’t say so! Why,
I saw him alive only yesterday!”— From the
Greek.
PREFRCE.
'This* Novel' entitled “A "Woman," has been
'written by the Secretary ot the Cobar School of Arts,
<and ‘published at the Cobar Leader Office.
It is being placed before the public jar tale,
toilh the object ot establishing the nucleus of a fund
to enable the Cobar School of Arts to erect a building
of their own, obviating the necessity of having to hire
one, as at present. Half the net proceeds of the sale
of this work will be devoted to that purpose and paid
into the School of Arts Building Fund.
7he Committee betiece that, with a building
! large enough to accommodate its .Members and its
Library, the institution will become a flourishing one
and worthy of so important a centre, instead oj receiv-
ing the insufficient support it has had in the past.
We, therefore, have much pleasure in offering
this book to the public,
W,'j'ffffffl Patron.
~~ yAf-• ff. .; Pres!dent.
(yUZtf Vice-President.
Seerstary.


M‘DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUG ALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3XT.Z. L. Hz.. TS/L. -A.. Co., Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
woo
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINGHCOUBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
THE
f OUiS* Velveteen
Ba
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0“U"l"S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits
FRINGES, Best Natural Curlv Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. long, 9/0, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
1.0/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misU d. Our Plai's and Tails are
twice as thick as-sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” : W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-SI 1 ., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
FOREIGN STAMPS.
mtm
•$4
-S'*
UP
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d J
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Bolivia, 4d. Packets 50, Is; 100,2 s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel-Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns him'self inside out), Mafelcing
Grub (or nerve7strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Gla.ss, and, last of all, The Spider aricl the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
HAVE THE
BEST.
I
E
liiiispw
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pwkets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web hence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
«806
SBO7
CBB
£aoa
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId frny 61 our Celebrated CAN’J-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One wilPb’e Exchanged for it immediately On Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. la. 2d.
Mick Simmons, h-aymamt, Sydney.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHiIUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlae Glrowera.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Come Cm Effected by Tamer’s Safe Care.
The curative properties of Warner’s Safe Cure are so well known that it is only necessary for
anyone to make inquiry for them to hear from the lips of those whom they know many instances of
the healing virtue of this remarkable medicine.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts scientifically. It exercises a specific action upon the liver and kidneys,
restoring them to health and activity. When the kidneys and liver are properly performing their
appointed task of extracting the urinary and biliary poisons, all dise ses arising from the presence of
these poisons in the system are overcome, and the cure effected is radical because it is natural.
The common diseases caused by the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the system are :
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Diseases
Bright’s Disease
For the reason stated, Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over all these diseases. The
following typical letters are worth reading.
Kidney Disease Cured.
Post Office Hotel, Maryborough, Q.,
Nov. 3, 1900.
Hear Sirs,—l have much pleasure indeed in forwarding
the following testimonial as to the marvellous curative
properties of Warner’s Safe Cure, and you are at liberty
to use it in anv way you think fit.
I mp.y state briefly that I was a sufferer from chronic
Kidney Disease, which made my life perfectly unbear-
able. ft is needless to say that I tri d the best available
doctors both in England and Australia, with but one
result—absolute failure. I also tried different proprietary
medicines, but with no beneficial results. During this
time you can well understand the pain and misery I
endured—to sav nothing of the expense. I was staying
with a professional friend, and related my trouble to him.
He suggested Warner’s Safe Cutte. I ridiculed the idea,
telling him I was heartily sick of both doctors and medi-
cine. The symptoms gradually became worse, the pain
more intense, and, in a fit of desperation, I despatched
inv assistant for a b»ttle of your invaluable remedy,
although expecting no better results from it than from
other in ■dieiries I had used. Thank God for that bottle.
It was but the forerunner of my complete cure. I used
half a doxen bottles, and my cure was perfect as
well as ui irvellous. I h ive recommended the medicine to
a number of friends, and they are not slow to endorse
what I hive written. Hoping, sirs, that your remedy
will be extensively used in ar cases to my own, and
wishing you every success and prosperity, I remain,
Yours sincerely,
L. C. Skowdon,
Surgeon Dentist.
Messrs. H. 11. Warner & Co., Limited.
Indigestion Cured.
54 McCormick Street, Port Melbourne, Vic.,
August 24, 1900.
Sirs -srHaving been a sufferer for a long time frejm
Indigestion and Heartburn, I was advised to give War-
ner’s Safe Cure a trial. I did so. and it has completely
cured me. I want to recommend it to fellow sufferers,
knowing that it would do then? a vast amount of good.
You can make any use of this letter you may wish to, as
I am grateful for the cure.
I remain,
Patrick McGrath.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Barcaldine, Queensland,
November 5, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—l suffered severely from Indigestion, which
caused great pain in my chest and between the shoulders.
After passing several sleepless nights I determined to try
Warner’s Safe Cure, and am now pleasgd to say that the
paii.s have entirely left me.
Yours faithfully,
Messrs. H. H. Warner i
Reginald Parnell.
; Co., Limit ?d.
Liver Disease Cured.
Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.,
March 28, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—For many months I suffered from Liver
Complaint, which caused me the greatest ago.ny. I tried
various remedies, but they did me po good. Finally, I
was persuaded to give your valuable Warner’s Safe Cure
a trial, and was surprised at the relief from pain and the
benefit I received.
Yours faithfully, .
A. J. Standby,
Wool Classer.
To the Proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure, Melbourne.
Bourke Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
September 18, 1899.
Dear Sirs,—
For years I was a martyr to Liver and Kidney Com-
plaint until I tried Warner's Safe Cure, when I obtained
a most beneficial result. In fact, after taking a few
bottles I seemed a new woman.
j Ilxisii
Messrs. 11. 11. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Biliousness Cured.
73 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
April 20, 1901.
Gentlemen, —
I can certify with pleasure as to the merits of Warner’s
Safe Cure. I suffered a great deal from Biliousness and
pains in the back until, upon strong recommendation, I
used this medicine. The result was that after taking four
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and two vials of Safe Pills, I
became as well as ever I was in my life, and I have had no
return of the complaint since.
Yours truly,
W. Southorn.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co:, Limited.
Sciatica. Cured.
Wood’s Siding 1 , Railway Station,
South Brunswick, Vic.,
January 18, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—lt is now nearly nine years since I was sud-
denly attacked with Sciatica in the back and hips. I
suffered excruciating pain, and was unable to dress my-
self or move about the house. I lost flesh until I was like
a skeleton. I was under the charge of a doctor for a long
while, but he could give me no relief. At last he gave
me up, saying mine was a hopeless.case. I was in despair
when a friend advised me to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure, alternately, as well as
Warner’s Safe Pills. I was sceptical, but being strongly
urged I gave the medicines a trial. At first I got no
relief, but my wife persuaded me to persevere. After the
second bottle, to my great joy, the pains disappeared like
magic. I improved rapidly. My strength and appetite
increased, and I was able to sleep soundly, which I had
not done for months. I was quite a new man. I took in
all six bottles of the medicines and two bottles of pills,
and was completely cured.
Yours truly,
F. Miller.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Rhematism Cured.
Addington, Christchurch, N.Z.
Dear Sirs,—For many years I was suffering with Rheu-
matic pains all over my body, hands, and feet, and often-
times I was unable to walk across the room without the
aid of table or chair to lean on. My hands and arms were
very much swollen, as if with dropsy. I consulted a
physician, who said I would have to give up work and
take a long rest. He prescribed for me, and gave me
medicines, which gave me a little ease, but failed to cure
me. I was getting as bad as ever, when I was advised to
try Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once purchased a bottle of
the medicine and commenced its use. In a very short
time I began to improve, getting better and stronger,
and the pains less severe. I continued its use a w’hile
longer, when the pains all left me, and all symptoms of
dropsy disappeared. For the last twelve months I have
been i.n splendid health. lam fully convinced that my
cure is permanent.
Ann Newcombe,
Caretaker Addington State School.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne, Vic.
Neuralgia Cured.
81 Brougham Street, Kew, Vic.,
December 27,1900.
Dear Sirs, —I. can safely recommend Warnqr’s Safe Cure
tjo anyone suffering from Neuralgic pains, as I haye used
this medicine myself for Neuralgia. I took two bottles
with immediate good results.
Yours faithfully,
E. H. Thompson.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Gravel Cured.
Lilydale, Victoria,
February 23, 1900.
Dear Sira.—lt has long been my intention to send you
a few lines in reference to my cure by the use of Warner's
Safe Cure. I now do so, and trust that by this means
other sufferer* will obtain relief.
Some eight years ago I was seized with severe pain in
my left side, which continued to get worse until I could
bear it n'o longer, and consulted a doctor. He said I was
suffering from Gravel, and prescribed for me. The
medicine he gave me did not ease the pain in the least.
Someone then advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and
I did so. The first few doses gave me ease. I continued
to take the medicine, and have since had no return of the
complaint.
W. V. Daniels,
Butcher
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Stone in Bladder Cured.
8 Victoria Street, Paddington, N.S.W.,
July 2s, 1900.
Some five years ago I was under medical treatment for
severe pains in the back ; in fact, I was completely done
up. The doctor who attended me wanted me to undergo
an operation by crushing a stone in my bladder, but I
did not like the idea, although the pain I was suffering
was severe.
A friend who came to see me advised me to try Warner’s
Safe Cure. I did, and after taking sojne three or four
bottles I began to feel better. I continued the course for
about five months, and,, thanks to this medicine, I became
free from any trouble whatever.
T. J. Castker.
To the Proprietors Warner’s Safe Cure.
Kidney and Bladder Disease Cured.
William Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney,
May 26, 1899.
Sirs, —This is to certify that I have suffered from a very
bad condition of my kidneys and bladder. I tried all
sorts of medicines, but got no relief until a friend told me
to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and after taking
five or six bottles wag,completely cured. lam now well
and strong, and able to go ahout my household duties.
I am, yours truly,
Mrs. Ryan.
To Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Hornsby Street, Maldon, Via,
December 971899.
It gives me very great pleasure to be able to testify as
to the excellence of Warner’s Safe Cure. I have found
nothing equal to it for Kidney and Bladder Complaint,
from which I suffered. I have never been” better in my
life than I am now.
George Aust,
Storekeeper (late of Scarsdale).
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Headache and Loin Pains Curea.
Doncaster Hotel, Harden, N.S.W.
June 15,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
For about three years I wgs a cpqptant sufferer from
bad headaches and severe pains across the loins.
On the advigg of a fellow-traveller I gave Warner’s Safe
Cure a trial, with the result that after taking three
bottles I was completely restored to health.
Yours truly,
M. J. Syl. Mallamy.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
MELBOURNE O. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name .
Address
£ s :
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
MELBOURNE 0. (SPECIAL)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE) 100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
%
Address
gd
ALSO
OPEN ON
Sandlxurst C., 2*Ztl3. IXTov , 100,009 at 5.
3XTo'W"ca,s'tl© 0., 12th. Dec., so, ooo at 5.
• Summer 0., 26th Dec., so, ooo at 5.
- f
Carrington S., 28th Dec., so, ooo at 5.
Brighton P., Ist Jan., 25,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “Tattersail, 9 ’ care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


gr
d
Like the flight of the
swiftest bird is the prog-
( ress of a hacking cough
into consumption. First
a cold, then a settled cough, then slow
fever, night sweats, and hemorrhages.
Don’t neglect your cough. Stop it
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as possi-
ble —the sooner the better —to take
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
the most effective remedy for coughs
of every kind and in every stage.
One of the most annoying coughs is
a throat cough, where you have that
constant tickling in your throat. It
comes on worse at night, keeps you
awake, and makes you have that
smothered feeling in the chest. It
hardly seems possible what one dose
of Cherry Pectoral will do for this
kind of a cough, it brings such mark id
relief.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When the cough gets down deep in
the chest and the lungs are painful,
put one of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Plasters directly over the tender lung.
It will draw out all the soreness.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
I
£(T|(ID6
Beware-'•"
r
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend
Soda Water, Id. per do*.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per do*.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWN SUPPLIES OF
DERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect Tub stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls. Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says : It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.” /■ - ,
Mr. P. Kennedy, CJoolgardie, says Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.” _ , .
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says I haie made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.
Mr VV Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, _ N.S.W.,
says It is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
fo llr°BußK, P Ya S lgo, W.A., says Since getting one of
your Machines, and making niy own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.” 1 .
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says : Machine great
BU E C Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.” _ , f
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says . Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
U Th. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
■centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
■Call andsee these Machines, or write for Circular descnb-
ng them, List. _
Pavlestord Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
J 407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. .
Grown-up children will play with fireworks
under the influence of “loyalty” and other
primitive sentiments. The Portuguese pyrotech-
nist responsible for the latest calamity used
dynamite instead of powder so as to amuse the
fools with a real first-class noise. Result, 15
killed, 22 injured. The head of one man was
blown along with the force of a cannon-ball and
killed a woman whom it struck !
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The introduction of sixpenny telegrams
in Maoriland resulted last year in an increase of
business of upwards of 54 per cent., and a reduc-
tion in the deficiency in telegraph business from
the £30,000 of two years ago to £8036 last year.
The net revenue of the combined postal and tele-
graph business was £85,564, and if credit were
given for franked official correspondence and
Government telegrams, the result would be even
better.
The bitter cry of senatorial warrior Neild
about the “spoliation” of New South Wales in
the matter of the Commonwealth Property Ac-
quisition Bill is an amusing outburst. .The people
of the Commonwealth have to take over from the
people of the States of the Commonwealth their
postal, telegraphic, and other properties, and pay
them for them. As the same people have to pay
the money and to receive the money it is proposed
to set one item against the other, which seems
logical. If a man owes himself £2 it is bad policy
and a waste of interest to pawn his watch to raise
the money, and pay it to himself, and give himself
a receipt with a twopenny stamp on it, and then
go and get his watch out again. But the Neild
crowd has a vague idea that there is a huge con-
spiracy somewhere, and though the system
applies equally to all the States, it darkly sus-
pects that N.S.W. is being robbed by parties
unknown.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIP*
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A 'astralla.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane ft'lan &
AOstraliao MQtOal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
AGBICuISuSl A LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
. Q , ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HMUIW.
Com merciaJ
Buggy,
£l4 10&-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ol Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIM.IER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORI
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars
bv return post. Carriages, Broughams &c..
First-class 'Workmen. Send for a Catalogue
D, SYDNEY
. Quotation
Repaired by
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
n®
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
j. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
s?i *•«'
■ '« / :
' , J| f , , ■> ' .
§f. § ?
vm
ROB€RTS’
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY— —™
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (Single) .. 3s. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) .. 68. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“ THE MANAGER ”
will receive prompt attention
THE
‘PLUM’
th
Pill
THE
‘PLUM’
ptjtt FMEN This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
G nip , bell'and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edle Sat is required to raneasy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits/ 6 WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. Bd.
“ RAZOLEB ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21ft
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
ipgsr- please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
“I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
_ A
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s (id to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send, to us for Price Lists of. Any thing you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
|3g* Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
n „ , -r- T— t \i X/ New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
GRAIG & 6BO-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery IVlanuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A‘6; 2-Sprmg Sulkies, £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, Lit.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carte,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNit/
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
JL
r
Delivered at any Wharf er
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Swim out for Canaan!
When the duns come rollin’ in, man, and the sun s
half hid with Woe, —
If you can’t get time to sin, man, just you let the
blame’ thing go !
If the missus goes on spendin’, tho’ you’ve warned
her quids are few,
You should cease your daily blendin’ of red curses
with the blue ;
When you see your credit’s wanin’, and your feet
touch sands of debt,
Oh, swim out ! and strike for Canaan, ’cos your
swag is get tin’ wet !
If you meet an old fish-liar, who doth straightway
start to tell
How one year when things were dryer than the
minarets of Hell,
He caught such a mighty flat-head ! weighing
thirty thousand pounds ;
’Long with Jackwant, one hot Sunday, fishin in
the Harbor-bounds:
Just remark such truth is painin’ in a knight of
rod and net;
Then swim out! and mooch for Canaan, cos your
swag is gettin’ wet !
And when years crowd round your carcase, and
your soul gets old and brown,
Flout the med. whose vain remark is that your
system’s “broken-down.”
You know better !—your aorta swings with
carmine, stampin’ life;
All you want’s less drinkin’ water and some hot,
new brand of wife.
You will feel her warmth of Spain in all the life
to come, you bet:
So swim out, and start for Canaan, ’cos your swag
is gettin’ wet!
VIO.
THE BETRAYER.
The Old Shanty.
There is a wayside shanty in the Never-Never
land,
Where thirsty drovers stop to rest, aweary of the
sand ;
There, when a boy, I watched the sheep pass
bleating towards the towns,
To change for ghastly slaughter-sheds the peace
of sleepy downs.
And there at noon the locusts sang, and hoarse-
voiced crows flew by,
And strings of swans from distant lakes hung far
within the sky;
The wind sang sweeter in the trees than any wind
I hear,
And every sound of every bird was magic to the
ear.
At night across the shadowy plains the spectral
curlew flies,
And to his sorry mate afar in long-drawn notes he
cries;
But when the morning breaks one hears the
merriest of glees,
When jocund jackies roar with mirth among the
messmate-trees.
And when I’m sick and weary of this tramping to
and fro
I’ll take my journey bushward, past the sunlit
hills, and go
To that old wayside shanty standing lonely in the
wild,
That I dream of as a man, having loved it as a
child.
THE WANDERER.


Queensland Premier Philp is of opinion
tlrat“ there is no need for hurry” in the matter
of Old Age Pensions. In matters like this there
never was any needless velocity about the Con-
tinuous Government.
Of 283.777 sq. miles of country 'in the
Northern Territory held under lease of some-sort,
only 28,692 sq. miles is returned as stocked. Two
London and Melbourne land-grab syndicates
which, over two yeai’s ago, took up 139,110 sq.
miles, have apparently not made any attempt to
stock any of it. “The effect,” writes Govt.-
Resident Dash wood, “is that this vast area is
withdrawn from the bona fide pastoralist; the
stocking provisions have practically become a
dead letter.” For the privilege of holding this
country all that these gamblers in seasons and
circumstances pay is 6d. per sq. mile per year for
the first seven years !
A Fitzroy (Molb.) shopkeeper was fined
t’other day for letting rain-water drip from his
verandah-gutters on to the pavement. He was a
foreigner, and pleaded that in his country the
landlord would be held responsible for defects in
his own property. The “honorarium” didn’t
enlighten him, but he might have explained that
in this, country the landlord class has a very big
say in the making of the laws, and always takes
care to'pass-its responsibilities on to the handiest
adjacent shoulders.
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yoi
ftever can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice,* and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE/YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once far
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&fl. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 78, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents-: ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney... Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gneen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
NLORODYNE.
i4y!
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &g., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28; 1895, says:
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
gd
We grant every purchaser
of our
1C LHC TIIIC
HELTS and
A El’Ll A N'CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can h,e
felt by the wearer through
till the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cu.e .you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full.amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing', we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
IHMII
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR QWN
iERATEDWATERS.
'J'HE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpenee per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others foj; SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
*•
FACTS-
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
VINOLIA SOAP
IN FIVE KINDS.
is unsurpassed for the complexion,
is guaranteed pure, and will stand all tests,
yields a most soothing and abundant lather,
is made from the finest materials.
keeps the skin as soft as velvet.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
.. FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITCHING FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor B4BY reports:
“An emollient antiseptic cream,. For acne
spots on the fcice, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and'
Removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic. ”
FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOILET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“ Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,
which are aptJ,o cause acne by blocking up
the pores of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
N FOUR SIZES.
Dr. Cilarkaon’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence
Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’.study and
experiments. It is .unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expanse for renewals or repairs. 7
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
bripgs the of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys.
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
Will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves inn n it , , .
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC gaTIS 19 truly wonderful *
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
%
CALLER — ■
CUT
RATE
DK.UQ STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
XT
s
A
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
Ipimay)
lIAUNtdb
HHMiUUK
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy f@r each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALIHE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/C Course, 28/6.
ALFALIfS-E BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIHE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIHE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted. *
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wond'erful Remedy for Coughs, Cplds, Con-
sumptioi}, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric .current? unequalled as a
cure for all Spiral and Kidney,,Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmusserji, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSE'N)
547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hi*
• INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE---15 Pulteney-st.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE-Hannan-st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lamb ton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


Tturkey has been, within the last few
months, embroiled with England as well as with
Franee. The cables kept silent as to the English
trouble ; London is suffering just now from severe
war-sickness.
The loaves-and-fishes, in the shape of
advts., are most judiciously distributed by the
Queensland Ministry. During the first six months
of 1901, of £778 spent in plaoating the Brisbane
weeklies £773 went to five prints which are thick-
and-thin Government supporters, and only £45 to
the opposition journal, which has a circulation
equal totheo'her five put together. But, then,
support must be bought and opposition punished.
Extracts from speech in S.A. Legislative
Council by the dreadful and hon. Warren
M.L.C,.: —
He further congratulated the -Government on the
loyalty they had shown in altering the disloyal imprint
on oiiioial envelopes “On Public Service” to “ On His
Majesty's Service.” He would like them to go a step
further, and balance bearing the disloyal im-
print publicly burnt by the common hangman. . . By
importing laborers from India—their fellow-subjects—
they would, tn a measure, relieve ov'Cr-populaterl pro-
vinces, and save thousands from death b.v starvation. . .
Christianity made no difference between the white and
the black man. . . It was high time strikes were made
unlawful. . . A strike should be dealt with in the same
way as a mutiny on board ship. . . He hoped the com-
pany tb it was prepared to work the trams by electricity
would he successful.
Cheap nigger labor;, syndicates, monopolies,
boodle and bogus Christianity—haw they do hang
together !
The early records of Maoriland are in the
possession of the N.S.W."Govt., which at one
time governed the isles. Seddon intends asking
the See Government to make him a present of
them. In ease of refusal, his Govt, will have the
documents copied.
Re Special Sale of Lands Act in Banana-
land. A previous Act prohibited the selling of
land within 20 miles of a railway. Now blocks of
forty to fifty thousand acres are to be sold —often
right alongside a railway. So that under the run
resumptions just falling in, one-fourth of the-land
is likely to be sold in colossal blocks, wK’e the
remaining three-fourths is to-" have its term of
lexse hugely extended. Taken altogether, this
will be, in its ultimate effects, a much more mis-
chievous, piece of work than even the Normanton-
Cloncurry railway.
Extracts from a British soldier’s letter,
published in Manchester Guardian :—
We went to Vrende next, and after.a day’s rest left
thac place in a shocking- state. j«We killed thousands of
sheep, and put them in every house. The stench in a
week will be horrible. It is to prev'ent the Boers froln
returning. 'X
What a row there was in the early stages of the
war about the alleged intention of the Boers to
use poison as a weapon ! Yet it proved to be only
a rumour, and nothing came of it. Now it seems
that Kitchener is employing poison. ' The reek of
thousands of dead aniipals is just as deadly as
cyanide. Ptomaine poisoning is probably the
scientific name for it.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, END.
r.ubwcants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keep**
dealings perfectly Mica.Packings last twice as long as ordinarv, and are 25% lighter. They do-
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in.appearance to electro-plaDe.
Sole Agent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarence-tt., Sydney, N.S.W.
rg
4IZ.GEORGE
YDA/ry.
No. W 7. Silver-Plated Hair-Pin
8s Cd.
No. Vvy. Silver-Plated •/ wel-Case
Satin-lined, £1 is. •’
No. W 24, Embossed and Silver-
Plat.e4 Hair-Pin Box, 10s 6d.
No. F5178a. Silver-
Plated Spectacle
Case, 10s 6d.
No. FS39. Si’ver Plated Butter Dish,
with Kui.'e, 9s 6d.
es^
No W2OlB. Efr-ff-Shape Satin-lined
Jewel-Case, best Silver-Plated,' &\ Is.
No. F 4457. Silver-Plated Ink-
Stand, 18s 6d.
..
mat HBt
No. W. 3.6. Best Sjiver-Plated
Shaving Mug, £1 2s 6d.
No. F 4587. Leather
Speotacle Case, ■
Plated Mounts,
7s 6d.
No. F 4707. Carved Ivory Handle Bread Fork, 11s 6d.
No. F 4538. Silver Glove Button-Hook, 2s.
No. 159070. Combination Egg: Frame and
Cruet, Cut-Glass and Best Silver-Plate,
£1 15s.
No. F 4709. Carved Pearl
Handle Bread Pork, 13/6.
m
No. F 4849. Silver-Plated Fern Pot
Height, 8 inches, £3.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMP*ETITJO]Vr.
WINES
The Bed Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price Lis t of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
Frehch’s Acting Edition,
f
Rare Books
French Novels
'Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Kooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
NGINES
FROM 5 H.P. TO 100 H.P.
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
J3A.PTO (Lalso
(LIMITED),
llawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
l
9.
i
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT GASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
For all information warding Rato. .to., apply to P. S. Mom,, Manager, The Smelting Company of Aaatr.li,,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
of ASSAYS.
Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


BRAUN
ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
gd
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
•Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2 i in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
White fob Pakticulaes to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
OUR WCPPIN6 RINGS ANP K€€P€RS
Are admitted to be the best value in Australia
for Quality, Finish and Durability*
■All Rings are stamped with
the English Hall Mark. . . .
m
GOODS
POST
9ct. Gold WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, all Widths and Designs* from 5s fid, 7s fid, 10s fid, 12s 6d each.
15ct. ~ ~ „ „ >, »> >. 12s 6il, 17s fid, 22s fid, 27s fid each.
18ct. „ „ „ ~ „ » 15s, 20s, 255, 32s fid each.
wMJzv/m,
Art Jewellers find Opticians, 90 King-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3642.
Send for
Size Card
and
Catalogue.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
a
ELECTRICON
»
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
6O-64 Hunter-st., Sydney. __
Sore Eyes X Blight X
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
For
Uniform
Quality
Absolute
Purity
Excellent
Flavor
Hennessy’s
Brandy
stands alone>
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
a
w
a
if .. \ '
■
Q
■■■ :• Srf*
Irt
m
9
<«, ..* <;, *&
f
**
!■ ' v
W?
■
.
•> ■:
*
HJEJS
!SS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
Latest Novelty in Corsets...
THOMSONS
‘GRACIOSA’
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
Extract from Madame Schild’s
Fashion Journals for March.
[Pate ited aud
Registered.]
“A New Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa ’
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
at once, and is as easy as a glove. It is boned with RUSTLESS
‘ SILVIDE,’ and the bones cannot push through."
Made in Colors, White, French Grey, and Black. '
Makers: W. S. THOMSON & Co., Ld,, tl2, Fore St., umraoif Ensr
Makers ol the Celebrated New Model ‘ Gloye-F tting,’ & • La Noblesse ’ Corsela.
Of aJI dealers throughoi.l Wopl^.
&
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
m
Reader, do Jrou desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize th c most
I powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conque*
I pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to wir. wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued m book form a large and exhaustive TREATI. E, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely i’lustrated, containing beautiful and arthtic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
' you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
B9 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
rg
There is no question about it that • • •
CROUZELLE STUDIOS. LIMITED,
. . . TUKN OUT . . .
The Very Best Portraits
At Strictly Moderate Prices.
No Sales or Gifts, but Real Good Value from a Real Good Firm
PLEASE NOTE
Our only Address is
308 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. 2761 FOR APPOINTMENTS.
.5 Doors from Hunter Street.
QQPE>3 NAVY OUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
• Agents—Virgoe, Son and Ohapman.
HORSE-OWKTERS, &c.
Jarpgs & Sops’ HorSg apd Cattle Rgtpgdigs-
Assorted Medicine Chests -from £1 upwards.>>
Single Article forwarded Post Free.
Obtainable OWL DRUG CO., BATHURST and LIVERPOOL STREETS; All Leading
Chemists; or at SYDNEY OFEICE, IMPERIAL ARCADE.
1
SI
m
i
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment
A POLICY FOE THE COMMONWEALTH.
Prioe SIXPEArCB= Posted, Oca..


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1130.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1901.
Prick 6d.
REID’S ATTITUDE ON COLORED LABOR.
“ The fine speeCh made by Mr. William M‘Millan in favor of the absolute prohibition of colored immigration almost exactly defined my views. ”-G.H. REID to Melbourne interviewer.
The prohibition of colored labor on mail steamers shows absolute unwisdom and rank folly.”-The same G. H. REID two minutes later.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waveriey, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Etd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Georue Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• SI ° R
Half-yearly ... ••• u n ‘ ‘
Quarterly ...
Notice to Subscribers in, Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of Ipl postage, the subscription
to The ‘ Bulletin to Queensland will be A 1 6s. 6a. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—Bid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiib Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required-, ,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and aft Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, islieieby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in JilacTc find White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event ,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.eany picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under winch
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornwall.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1901.
The Rumoured Federal Loan.
Everywhere there are rumours about a
coming Federal loan, the first great, united,
national, all-Australian borrow on this coun-
try’s federated slate. The Barton Govern-
ment has been in office for nearly ten months
without floating a loan, and there is conse-
quently an unfinished aspect about it and
its doings. It is the only unencumbered
public body of any importance in Austral-
asia, and the situation appears unnatural.
Ever since it took over the posts and tele-
graphs and other departments, it has been
besieged with demands for new post-offices,
repairs to old ditto, new telegraph exten-
sions, and the like ; also, the burden of
finding guns, ammunition, fortifications, and
a great variety of public buildings now rests
upon it. It is assumed on all hands that it
will float the usual loan for these purposes,
and every town that wants its post-office re-
painted, and every place that wants anything
or everything, is waiting for that loan.
And then in the distance there is the ques-
tion of paying the States for property taken
over, the resumption of land for a Federal
capital, the building of that capital, the
putting of the newly-acquired telegraph and
telephone services (some of which are very
antiquated) on an up-to-date basis, and many
other responsibilities. Visions of great ten
and twenty and thii'ty million Federal loans,
and of wiid revelry in the spending thereof,
are in the air.
* * * •
This paper protests on the ground that
the loan business doesn’t pay. Australasia
had no debt of any importance in 1871.
Since then Coghlan estimates that it has
borrowed £192,711,000 from outside, in
State and local loans (“Seven Colonies,”
page 728), and of this £164,675,000 has
already gone back in interest. This is a
truly solemn fact to look back upon. If the
seven States had, during the last 29 years,
raised among them not quite one million a
year more in taxation than they have done,
they would have had all the public works
they now possess, and practically no
debt, and they could lr-'nn the new
century by abolishing about eight millions a
year of taxation that is now levied for in-
terest purposes. If they had commenced
levying land and income taxes, and the
present local rates, and other existing
imposts a little earlier, and built their
railways with the proceeds, instead of im-
posing these burdens a little later to pay
interest on the money borrowed to build
the railways, there would have been prac-
tically no Australian State or municipal
liabilities at all. And there would have been
hardly any extra taxation in the aggregate.
It has cost this country just about as much
to pay interest on the money borrowed to
build its public works as it would have cost
to build them in the first place. After
another 25 or 30-years it will have cost twice
as much taxation to pay interest on the
money borrowed for public works as it would
have cost to build them without borrowing
anything. And the thing goes on growing
at compound interest till, by reason of the
borrowing system, every public work in
Australia will have been paid for 10 or 12
or 20 times over—and still the process of
paying for them must needs continue in-
definitely.
• * * #
If we go right back to the beginning of
the loan policy, instead of only to the year
1871, the result is about this : Australasia
could have absolutely all the public works it
has now, and yet have all the money it has
now, and have paid no more taxation, and
have had no debt whatever, and no crushing
interest bill of £9,000,000 a year stretching
into far futurity, and weighing it down with
taxation. All it gained by its borrowing
policy was that the bulk of the tax burden
fell on the second part of the last half-
century, instead of being spread over it
equally. The State which wouldn’t pay a
small measure of direct taxation, fifty years
ago, to raise money for its public works, but
borrowed the funds instead, now pays a
larger measure of direct taxation to pay the
interest on these borrowings, and gets there
just the same, with the debt as a superfluous
curse thrown in. And the man who has
been an affluent taxpayer for fifty years has
paid as much under the loan policy as he
would have done if there had been no loan
policy, and all works had been paid for out
of revenue—the only difference is that the
heaviest end of the taxation strikes him in
his old age, when he is least fitted to stand
it, instead of in his youth. The generation
of ancient settlers which dies within the
next ten years will leave a crushing burden
to posterity, and these ancients will have
paid just as much as if they had left no
burden—the last of them will have paid
more. The policy of shirk didn’t even pay
the shirkers themselves, and it practically
ruined their posterity.
• * * *
The new generation is in much the same
situation as the old one. It can leave off
borrowing, if it likes, though it would pro-
bably be necessary to double the direct taxa-
tion to do it. Or, it can go on borrowing,
and treble, or quadruple, the direct taxation
later on, when it is old, to pay the new
interest bill. And then Australia will be a
good country to get out of—unless it com-
pounds with its creditors, or repudiates.
Even now it has a larger debt per head not
represented by profitable assets than any
country in Europe, with two exceptions.
And it is going to the bad faster than any
other State on earth. There must be a
bursting of the bubble some day, and what
a memorable burst it.will be !
* ♦ *
The Federal Government has great possi-
bilities before it. In the first place, it can,
by the simple process of adopting the
Canadian banking system, get the perpetual
use, without interest, of a sum which will
probably exceed £10,000,000. There are
about £20,000,000 in coin lying permanently
idle in the banks of the Commonwealth—
this is apart from the money in private
hands—and as all the coin in the country
represents borrowed money, it costs the
Commonwealth some £BOO,OOO a year to
keep this amount lying permanently idle.
For it is permanently idle—it represents the
balance which is never really put into circu-
lation ; and £BOO,OOO a year is a good deal
to pay for the knowledge that the coin is
there. A great many people don’t know
that it is there, so they don’t get even this
small return for their share of the burden.
Canada compels its banks to hold at least
40 per cent, of their cash reserves in State
paper money, and by this means the State
gets a perpetual loan from the banks—or,
rather, out of the funds of the people held
by the banks—of nearly £4,000,000, with-
out interest. It gets a perpetual loan, with-
out interest, of about another million by
reason of the State notes in circulation. If
it took over the private bank note-issues,
which amount to over £8,000,000, it would
get another large amount. And Canada
has found that, for the purpose of lying
unseen and unused in the bank cellars, State
paper, up to a certain point, answers just as
well as gold. The banks, as a matter of
course, have always disparaged a system
which slightly diminishes the profits of their
own note circulation, but years of experience
have proved that the system itself works
well enough.
This is one resource—a resource probably
worth £10,000,000 or £12,000,000 —which
lies before the Federal Government when it
wants funds with which to carry on repro-
ductive works. Then it can put the posts
and telegraphs, which now involve a loss of
about £70,000 a year, on a paying basis by
abolishing the free newspaper postage now
existing in three of the six States ; it can
probably, by this means, and by economical
management, put them on such a paying
basis that there will be a decent surplus with
which to pay for the extension of these
adjuncts of civilisation. It can levy an
£8,000,000 tariff, and keep £2,000,000 of it
for its own use. It can levy any other
taxation it pleases, and even in the State
whqre the present "burdens are heaviest
direct taxation can stand an increase of 50
per cent, before it gets up to the level of
either Maoriland or Great Britain. If the
Commonwealth levies this extra taxa-
tion now it won’t need to borrow; if it
borrows instead it will require to levy more
extra taxation later on to cover the interest
on the borrowings, and then the extra tax
will come to stay. This writer is one of
those who prefer to pay Is. in the £ income
tax while he is still comparatively young
than 2s. in the £ when he is old.
* • • *
The whole problem can be put into this
proposition. The country which pays
£1,000,000 a year for 40 years out of taxa-
tion to build public works has, at the end
of that time, £40,000,000 worth of public
works, and no debt, and no interest to pay.
Therefore, it can then probably abolish the
£1,000,000 a year taxation. The country
which borrows £1,000,000 a year for 40 years
at 3£ per cent, to build the same works also
has them at the»end of the period. On the
average it pays nearly £700,000 a year
interest, during that 40 years’ borrowing
period, so it only saves £300,000 a year.
And after that it has to pay £1,400,000
a year interest for ever, and it either files its
schedule, or else totters under heavy taxa-
tion through all the rest of the centuries,
and wonders what has happened to this
great country. The first year of the
borrowing process it feels good, for it only
pays £35,000 interest on the first borrowed
million, instead of paying the million itself.
The tenth year it doesn’t feel so good ;
instead of paying a million for building
public works it is paying £350,000 for
interest, and the relief isn’t so perceptible.
In the twentieth year, instead of paying a
million for constructing railways, it is
paying £700,000 for interest, and the
saving is hardly perceptible. By the
thirtieth year, instead of having to find
£1,000,000 for construction it has to find
£1,050,000 for interest, and it begins to be a
loser. In the fortieth year it saves the
£1,000,000 it would have to pay, under a
self-reliant policy, for construction purposes,
and pays £1,400,000 in interest, and its days
of bitter poverty have commenced. And
then, if that period of public works con-
struction is supposed to end there, the
country settles down to pay £1,400,000 a year
for ever, with the expense of remitting the in-
terest thrown in, and an occasional loss of a
million or two in discounts and expenses
on the renewal of loans. If a million a
year represented Is. in the £ income-tax,
then the country, to avoid paying this Is.
into a public works fund annually for only
40 years, enters into an arrangement where-
by it pays about 9d. in the £ for 40 years
and about Is. sd. in the £ for hundreds or
thousands of years thereafter. It is the
worst possible fool of an arrangement,
but the fact that the seven States
of Australasia have been that kind of
a fool for 40 years can’t be helped
now. The present question is : Will the
country gain wisdom by the past, or will it
be exactly that same kind of fool all over
again? The Federal Parliament is supposed
to be somewhat less imbecile than the other
legislative bodies of this country. What
kind of an example does it propose setting ?
The Queensland Land Sale Fraud.
Every semblance of its original purpose now
appears to have gone out of the Queensland
Government’s great land-sale scheme. The
original explanation was that a special and extra-
ordinary sacrifice of the public estate would have
to be made to pay off the deficit of £528,000 odd
in last year’s revenue—a deficit which arose mainly
by reason of the fact that the cost of working the
railways has been allowed to increase by £371,915
since 1898, while the earnings have only grown by
£101,125, and the extent of the railway system has
hardly increased at all. Treasurer Cribb pro-
duced a beautiful set of estimates, whereby
everything was to be all right this new financial
year, and only the shortage on the last financial
year had to be provided for by the great land-
sacrifice. Then the old shortage was cheerfully
added to the public debt, where £1,500,000 of
previous shortages went, and the Bill provides
that the extra revenue from land sales is not to be
set aside in any way to help that old shortage—
it is just to be dumped into the revenue in the
usual way, and used in the usual way, as the
Government goes along ; and all the alleged pur-
pose of the scheme vanishes into thin air.
* * • *
Premier Philp also talked largely and loosely
about a certain purpose he had of selling off
enough land to pay all Queensland’s public debt,
and making it an absolutely unencumbered State.
Seeing that the Philp Government can’t be
trusted to honestly apply £528,000 of land-sale
money to wiping off one specific item of the debt,
the prospect of it ever paying off 635,000,000 is too
small to be worth mentioning. If the great idea
was carried out honestly—nothing that Queens-
land’s Continuous Government ever does appears
to be carried out honestly—and if the great idea
could be carried out, which is not at all certain,
there might be something in it. That is to say:
(1) If there was any reliable guarantee that Queensland
wouldn’t start another public debt as soon as the old one
was got rid of.
(2) If Queensland had a graduated land tax (graduated
both as to the size and value of the holdings) sufficiently
heavy in its upper storeys to make it dead certain that
the accumulation of large estates would be impossible.
Private land-ownership is as good as State owner*
ship if every member of the community gets, or
can get on fair terms, his fair share, or about as
near to it as fallible human arithmetic will go, of
the public estate, and if the law is so adjusted
that there is a steady tendency towards sub-
division, so that future generations may get their
share also. Likewise provided the land carries its
fair share of the public burdens, and provided the
generation which sells the land doesn’t blew the
proceeds on itself, but invests them in permanent
and profitable works of which posterity will get
the benefit. But, so far, almost every copper of
the land sale money has been spent by this
generation on itself, and all the public works have
been built out of borrowed money, and a lot
of money has been borrowed for which there
are no works at all to show, and posterity
is left to pay the bill. And when Premier Philp
talks of an intention to depart from this comfort-
able swindle, and at the same time adds his
deficit to the public debt for posterity to pay, and
seizes the proceeds of extra land-sales (nominally
authorised for the express purpose of paying that
deficit) as ordinary revenue, he looks like a fine,
promising person to disencumber Queensland, or
any other place.
* 9 * *
As a matter of fact, almost all the promising
land in Queensland is either sold or leased—either
bringing in revenue or turned into revenue. That
State covers 427,838,080 acres, and all of it, save a
mostly-barren residue of 131,394,890acre5, is sold or
under lease. This is the progress in the last few
years, before the great drought came:—
Area sold. Area leased. Total,
(acres) (acres) (acres)
1893 .. 13,788,127 .. 281,316,885 .. 295,105,012
1899 .. 15,641,642 .. 280,801,539 .. 296,443,181
Even to find two million acres in six years for
sale for revenue purposes it was necessary to re-
duce the leased area. And the revenue from all
this leasehold area is only £416,000 a year—less
than one-third and a little more than a fourth of
the annual interest bill. Therefore, even if the
leased area—practically the whole available part
of the State —could be immediately so much better
managed that it would bring in four times its
present revenue, the fair inference is that the
whole lot of it would still only sell for just about
enough to pay off the debt—the operation about
which Premier Philp talks in so off-hand a
fashion.
*,* * •
The Philp Government’s present attempt at
raising the wind depends mostly on the
sale of strips of land hitherto reserved along
railway lines. Under the old Act, land
within 20 miles of a railway could not be sold
wholesale in large areas; it is now proposed to
repeal this provision and sell the reserved land
anyhow. It is apparently almost the only thing
left to sell. The desert is unsaleable. The leased
land is, to a great extent, semi-desert, and even if
it w'as available at the moment it wouldn’t fetch
so very much. Premier Philp talks wildly of
having, some day in the dim future, a great
clearing sale to pay off the £35,000,000 of public
debt. But he can’t do it till the population in-
creases immensely ; it takes a very large concourse
of buyers to make a success of a sale of these
dimensions. And by that time it will almost cer-
tainly be found that the debt has swollen to
£70,000,000 or £100,000,000, and that all the most
saleable land has been sold piecemeal for revenue
purposes in the interim. If Queensland had now
the debt it had 10 years ago, and the unsold land it
has to-day, and the population it may have 40
years hence to buy that land, Philp’s scheme
would have some logic about it. But Australia is
a barren country with extraordinary ideas of the
price it would fetch in the open market, and an
amazing habit of borrowing money on the security
of “our magnificent resources.” The trouble is to
find those magnificent resources when they are
seriously looked for.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Westralian Nightmare.
In the days when John Forrest was king of the
west side of Australia, he conceived a mighty
idea which was to give to the world a lasting
wonder. He proposed leaving to posterity a
monument in the great Coolgardie water-scheme,
and it was to make his name famous throughout
the world, and the Westralian church service
would include a special blessing for him, and put
up his picture in the churches with a halo round
his head. Now much borrowed money (which
was badly wanted for useful purposes) has been
spent on it, and it looks pretty certain that Aus-
tralia is going to own one of the most notable
white elephants on earth. It sits on the chest of
Westralia like a bad dream. It is chronic dys-
pepsia to the Premier, and a horrid nightmare to
the Treasurer. The present Government had to
take-on Forrest’s legacy, whether it liked it or
not, and the State heard the Premier, in his policy
speech, declare that he had no faith in the
scheme, but would have to carry it through,
and find a couple of millions or so to com-
plete it. The estimated cost, when Big-
JOHN, bursting with enthusiasm, conceived
this wild delusion, was about £2,225,000.
Now, the theoretical cost is badly swamped
by the actual, and the estimates alread*Jrun to
about £3,500,000. Warning was given at me start,
by an advisory board of engineers, that it would
be, to say the least, a mighty big experiment,
and not one for a country, itself in an experi-
mental stage, to exploit. The Government’s own
engineers reported that Coolgardie—and, of
course, Kalgoorlie—could be easily supplied, for
years to come, by a system of conservation and
boring. But the Forrest crowd blindly rushed
on with its great iron-pipe nightmare, rejecting
propositions which would have cost a fraction of
the enormous outlay in which the country is now
involved, and taking the risk of saddling their
successors with a colossal failure. Discrepancies
between estimates and actual cost are now bobbing
up something like this: Mundaring weir (from
which the water is to be drawn), £500,000, instead
of £200,000 estimated; 300 miles of pipes at £1
15s. each, instead of 95.; joints were to be made
at 65., and will now cost £ll9s. 6d. each ; trench for
pipes was to cost £145,000, and runs to about
double ; the contract for pumping-engines has been
placed at £247,000, and was estimated at £79,464.
The machine for caulking the joints, for which
the Forrest Government bought patent rights for
£SOOO, was to do from two to three miles a day, and
a recent nine weeks’ trial completed 200 ft. a day,
the time taken shifting it from joint to joint
having apparently been overlooked. At this rate
it will do the lot in 28 years. All this is actually
proved by the work done up to date. And, to cap
matters, Forrest had simply shoved the thing
through without any plan for distributing the
water through the towns when it reached them, and


without estimating the cost of reticulation, which
has still to be provided for. A Government ex-
inspector under the scheme, writing to the Perth
Morning Herald, makes a statement that the
inspection of plates by the Works Department —
a matter of extreme importance to ensure the
efficiency of the pipes—never is and never has
been done ; and he says that not one-fifth of them
would have passed if they had been inspected.
This, too, in face of special mention by the London
advisory board of engineers of the dangers of cor-
rosion—and now, he states, corrosion is in the
pipes, and it is as fatal to them as cancer is to a
human being, and will go through them like the
plague. And the worst of it is that this
£3.500,000 toy isn’t wanted. There isn’t a mine
at Coolgardie or Kalgoorlie short of water now.
The old-time report that the “Golden Promise”
battery is hung up till rain comes doesn’t answer
now, because water for mining or crushing pur-
poses is comparatively plentiful and much cheaper
than it is likely to be from the water scheme. It
is now found that it will cost Bs. a thousand
gallons to deliver. Forrest said he would land it
on the fields for 3s. 6>d. per thousand gallons. If
the water ever reaches the fields —and the chances
are it won’t, for there are grave doubts about that
piping ever standing the strain—the question is,
what’s going to be done with it? For drinking
purposes a fraction of the supply only would be
used. The whole thing is a hideous dream for
Westralia, which should sit heavily on the con-
science of John Forrest.
The Sex Maniac.
The dreadful outrage at Ramsay’s Bush, Sydney,
which for some days threatened to cost the life of a
young child, brings again to prominencethe folly of
our criminal system. The treatment of crime, in
the light of modern science, is a problem requiring
most of all the services of the physiologist and
pathologist. We call to its cure the politician,
the lawyer and the theologian, and fail either to
reclaim the criminal or to safeguard society. So
soon as this latest abominable crime was com-
mitted, the police suspected a certain man, and
his gaol photograph was promptly identified in
such a.manner as to bring him under a very strong
suspicion in the matter. It has since been proved
to be unfounded suspicion, but a glance at his
record serves to show the folly of our system of
dealing with criminal lunatics. He has
served sentences amounting in all to 13
years for sex offences. He was discharged from
gaol after three years’ imprisonment for a
criminal assault, and had been free for three
months when he was again arrested on three
charges of indecently assaulting girls under 14
years of age. He was sentenced to five years on
each charge, two of the sentences to be con-
current. When his imprisonment ended he was
turned loose on society, though most palpably a
dangerous lunatic. A scientific system of crimi-
nology would shut up such unhappy wretches in
asylums for life, or until there was absolute
medical proof that their sex-mania had been
cured. The present system is cruel to the
criminal, who with special treatment for his
mental disease might have a chance of recovery,
and still more cruel to society, since it exposes
children to a danger more terrible than that of
any tiger-haunted jungle.
In Praise of a Man -with a Large Hat.
“ That, in the opinion of this Senate, it is desirable that
a system of Old Age Pensions be established by the
Commonwealth. That the State Governments be invited
to authorise the Treasurer of the Commonwealth to
deduct from the sums payable to the States under section
87 of the Commonwealth Constitution Act the amounts
required to provide such pensions.”— Drake’s motion on
notice-paper of Federal Senate.
“ That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable, in,
the interests of the deserving aged poor, that the Govern-
ment should, without unnecessary delay, formulate a
national scheme for the payment of old age pensions, and
that this motion, when carried, be an instruction to the
Hon. the Attorney-General to draft the necessary
measure.”— Kino O’Malley’s motion on notice-paper of
Federal House of Representatives.
Inasmuch as the Federal Parliament will, sooner
or later—it is to be hoped it will be sooner—have
to consider the Old Age Pensions question, these
two notices are worth reading carefully in a strong
light. King O’Malley’s proposal represents the
art of doing things and taking the responsibility ;
Senator Drake’s represents the evasive dodge of
passing the responsibility along. If Drake’s pro-
position represents the real feeling of the Federal
Government on the matter, then The Bulletin is
darned sorry for the Federal Government. The
country, by its acceptance of the Constitution,
gave to the Commonwealth "Parliament charge of
the question of Old Age Pensions ; it is one of the
matters specially handed over by clause 51 of the
Constitution. In order that the Federal Parlia-
ment might have the money to pay these pen-
sions, as well as to run the posts and telegraphs,
to pay the defence force, to keep a multitude
of other transferred departments going, and
to build necessary public works, the people
gave it power to retain for its own use one-fourth
of the customs and excise, and to levy any other
kind of taxes—land-tax, income-tax, dividend-tax,
ahsentee-tax, stamp-duty, totalisator-tax, legacy
and succession duties, license duties, &c., &c. ;
also to run lotteries, to issue paper money, and to
raise the wind without limit. All the Parliament
requires is the desire to adopt a great, humane,
and progressive idea and the courage to raise the
needful funds. King O’Malley proposes simply
that the Commonwealth Parliament shall take
the credit of paying the pensions, and the obloquy
(there is always a certain amount of obloquy) of
taxing the people to provide the cash. Drake’s
proposal is that the Federal Parliament shall
announce that it is quite willing to have the honor
and credit of paying Old Age Pensions if the
States will do the dirty part of the work and
raise the coin. They are to be invited to let the
Federal Parliament retain what money is necessary
out of the three-fourths of the customs arid excise
that would otherwise go back to the States, and
are to do the unpleasant job of levying any extra
taxes that are required to make good the shortage
thu3 created. If the Commonwealth hasn’t the
moral courage to raise the money, it can’t surely
expect the States to have it. And it is an unfair
division that Drake suggests; his idea is that
the Commonwealth should pose as the benevolent
institution which gave a pension to every deserving
ancient in Australia without levying any extra
taxation to do it, while the State Governments
should be the six sordid beasts who levied a
whole lot of extra taxes without giving anybody
a pension. The Bulletin votes for King
O’Malley’s motion —for taking the glory and
honestly shouldering the responsibility along with
it. For what other purpose did the people give
to the Federal Parliament the right to pay Old
Age Pensions, and ■ unlimited powers of taxation
to pay them with ?
The Kanaka Bill.
The Federal Kanaka Abolition Bill proves to
be rather better than the published forecast
seemed to imply. The importation of Kanakas
tapers gradually off from 1901 to 1904. In 1902 it
is allowable to import 75 Kanakas for every 100
that were returned to their islands in 1901. In
1903 it is permitted to import 50 Kanakas for
every 100 returned in 1902. The rapid dying-off
of the islanders, whose bones still accumulate on
the Queensland plantations, and the fact that the
number of new Polynesians imported must always
be less than that of the live Polynesians returned,
will make a very rapid diminution in the gross
nigger. In 1904 Kanaka immigration ceases,
and by 31st December, 1906, all the islanders
under contract in Queensland must be returned.
Of course a sediment of loose Kanakas will remain,
but so long as there is no further influx this will
disappear in a few generations. The stray Poly-
nesians will die out, or drink themselves out, or
disappear by intermarriage, and if the black in-
vasion ceases there won’t be enough sediment to
leave a permanent or conspicuous black streak on
White Australia. Up in Queensland, meanwhile
the Brown Australia papers and politicians are
lamenting, like Rachel crying for her nigger and
refusing to be comforted. Premier Philp “em-
phatically protests” and demands “at least
seven years” free importation of. Kanakas. The
Courier demands ten years. Probably both of
them really wvnt ten centuries. At all events,
they both admit that they don’t propose that the
nigger should be abolished after seven or ten
years. They propose to devote that period to
working up a great, permanent pro-nigger senti-
ment. The incredibly foolish Philp says that
public indignation in Queensland —Queensland
which sent an almost absolutely s >1 id anti-nigger
contingent to the Federal Parii unent !—will
“ know no bounds.” He is also of opinion that it
won’t be worth while putting another acre under
cane, and that the industry is lo .t. Considering
the fact that the area under cane is 2477 acres
less, and the area of carie crushed. 9740 acres less
than it was three years ago, and that the product
has dropped from 163,734 tons in 1394, to 92,554
tons in 1900, the industry appears to be pretty
well lost as tilings are just now,, and it can hardly
lose itself much worse without its nigger than it is
doing with him. The sugar-product is back at
about the figures for ’94, and the rum output is less
than it was 27 years ago, in the early seventies.
Under these circumstances it looks as if the
industry badly wanted a change. Everything has
been going down for some time, except the Kanaka
death-rate, which remains three times as heavy as
the white man’s death-rate, while the death-rate
among Kanaka adults is something like six times
that among white adults of similar age. The
Queensland Registrar-General accounts for this
by “they are not a virile race ”
in other words, instead of being specially suited
for plantation work, according to the customary
lying legend of the Queensland slave-owner, they
are a frail people and only fitted to die on the
plantations—not to live there. Premier Philp
and the Courier say that the Queensland sugar-
industry can only exist by the continued whole-
sale slaughter of this race of weak and precarious
savages. If so, it is doomed in any case, for the
supply of islanders won’t hold out for ever at this
rate of destruction. And perhaps it is as well to
face the problem now, rather than wait till Queens-
land has more bones on its conscience. Queensland
in general has something of a conscience, whether
Philp and the Courier have any or not. And
Queensland in general is prepared to show that
the Anglo-Saxon hasn’t degenerated so pitiably
that he can only live by the wholesale butchery of
a feeble black race; that he is still a strong man
and able to work for his own living. The dismal
city pessimist, Philp, who insults this community
by the opinion that it is only fit to lie in the shade
and order a black man about, isn’t Queensland.
He isn’t Australia, either ; and he isn’t a worker
—only a dull and despondent excrescence in an
office.
♦
A Japanese Consul.
J. Langdon Parsons, of S. A., who was Minister
for the Northern Territory in jaunty Johnny
Bray’s cabinet, and afterwards Government Resi-
dent in the Territory, is accused by Sir Ernest
Satow, formerly British Minister in Japan, of
“ endeavoring to negotiate with Japanese capital-
ists the sale of lands situated on the banks of the
Victoria River, in the Northern Territory of S.A.,
and to induce them to send thither a large body of
Japanese settlers.” Now that the bringing in of
Asiatics is an unpopular proceeding, Parsons is
struggling indignantly to wipe this large brown
blot off his character, and says the statement is
Juite wrong. He further says that he went to
apan in 1898 on private business, and goes on :
I showed his Excellency Sir Ernest Satow two plans
that showed certain areas of freehold land in the
Northern Territory, which I was authorised by the pur-
chasers from the Crown to offer for sale, but neither plan
contained the Victoria River, nor was the Victoria River
mentioned by me to His Excellency. I have the honor
further to state that the total area of land I was em-
powered to offer was not large enough to carry what can
be properly designated “ a large body of Japanese
settlers,” and that my object was to seil the land, and
not to induce Japanese capitalists to send a large body of
settlers to the Northern Territory. The plans were also
shown by me to His Excellency the Vice-Minister of
Foreign Affairs at Tokio.
From Parsons’ explanation, therefore, it appears
that certain capitalists who had acquired a large
area of land for a song in the Northern Territory,
sent him to Japan to try to sell it at a profit. He
didn’t want to bring in Japanese settlers —only to
sell the land to Japanese, who, as he was perfectly
well aware, would be almost certain to send
Japanese settlers there; they were hardly likely
to buy the land for any other purpose. The
British Minister apparently made a perfectly un-
important mistake as to the name of the river on
which the land was situated. As to whether
the land Parsons was trying to sell to the Japs
would hold “ a large body of Japanese settlers”
or not, the Minister probably knew a great deal
better'than Parsons how many Japanese can
crowd on to each square mile. Parsons says wildly
that the British Minister’s statements are inac-
curate, and have “ caused much unnecessary
anxiety and excitement ”in Australia. Also that
the Minister more or less withdrew his charges
in a private letter to Parsons, which can’t
be produced because Parsons has lost it.
After reading Parsons’ explanation, however,.
it would appear that on every essential point
that Australia has any cause to be excited
about the British Minister spoke the solid truth.
The fact that Parsons (who is Japanese Consul
in Adelaide) was hawking a great Australian pro-
perty for sale in Japan only two years ago
shows that schemes for establishing Asiatic
settlements in this country have been alive till
very recently—probably are alive even yet. The
whole business is a lamentable commentary on
the policy of jobbing away the Territory in great
areas to syndicates whose sole idea appears to be
to sell out at a profit to any undesirable person
who will buy. The sooner the Federal Govern-
ment takes the Territory over, and smites these
syndicates with a graduated land-tax, which will
compel them to either put their land to some good
use, or else end in it being seized for unpaid taxes,
the better it will be for Australia.
A Tusk-Fulling’ Shambles.
The row between the dentists of Sydney and the
University Council as to who shall run the pro-
posed Dental Hospital is highly amusing to the
general public. The dentists object to the Uni-
versity controlling the institution because they
think the University people are not sufficiently
wide-awake, or not sufficiently interested, to pre-
vent the hospital being used by people who are
well able to pay for having their molars mended.
To avert this interference with private tooth-
interests the dentists desire to run the hospital
themselves. They want such a place, too —want
it badly. Dentistry is a rather lucrative profes-
sion, and the number of men who are taking it up is
increasing. Recent legislation has prevented any
man qualifying as a dentist by the simple expe-
dient of hanging out a shingle branded “Mr.
Pulltusky, Dental Surgeon,” and it became
necessary to provide other means. So a School of
Dentistry was proposed, and then a Dental Hos-
pital was talked about. The two big hospitals
declined to have a dental establishment on their
premises on the ground of want of space.
In the meantime a school has been started in a
small way somewhere in the city, but the pro-
fession will not be happy till it gets its tusk hos-
pital. The dentists are not going to pay for the
hospital—nothing is further from their thoughts.
The public is to do that, but it is proposed that
the institution, built and maintained with public
money, should be run in the interests of thedentists.
Only people who are unable to pay are to be
treated there—and only people who are unable to
pay are likely to go there under the proposed con-
ditions. It is not a hospital the dentists want —
it’s a place where their students can practise on
the back tooth of the indigent and learn their
profession at the cost of the public jaw and the
public purse. Any such institution run by the
dentists alone should be founded and maintained
by the dentists themselves. If the Government
is to endow the institution, then it must be run
like any other proper hospital, and Government
should have the say in its management to which
its subsidy entitles- it.
4
The Law and the Liquorer.
E.F. writes from Melbourne :
An arrogantly uninformed person named Percy Mallby
(was there ever a wise Percy?) wrote you (24/8/’01) in
contradiction of a “Plain English” article published a
month earlier under the above heading. The original
article argued reasonably enough that an addition of 2s.
per gallon to the excise duty on spirits is a serious thing
for the stomachs of men who buy drinks of whisky, &c.,
at hotel bars, inasmuch as the publican continues to
supply the same quantity as before — i.e., the bottle is
passed for the customer to help himself —and does not
discontinue to expect the same profit. The quality of
the spirit suffers because the size of the sixpen’orth is
not reduced. Percy babbled as follows :
“ The duty on spirits in Victoria is 12s. per proof gallon,
which is a very different thing to 12s. -per gallon. Very
little, if any, spirit is imported, in bottle, at anything like
proof strength. The strength of spirit in bottle is, on an
average, about 20 per cent, underproof. In charging
duty, allowance is made for the percentage underproof, so
the duty on spirit 20 u.p. will be 9s. 6d. per gallon—not
125., as stated. That is, on an average. At the same
rate, this amounts to Is. lOd. per bottle, not 2s. 4d. Also,
an increase of 2s. per proof gallon on the same average
will amount to 3£d. per bottle, which is certainly less
than 50 per cent, of the manufacturer’s price of gin. It
is doubtful whether a shilling or so per gallon one way or
the other will make any difference in the quality of the
liquor as supplied to the public.”
Percy’s yarn starts with a huge mis-statement. All
spirit at the Vic. Excise department (which is not the
N.S.W. department) is reckoned as proof, even though it
may happen to be a little below the standard. The
minimum duty is 12s. per gallon at present. Anything
o-p. is levied on accordingly. As to what Percy means
by saying “ at the same rate, this amounts to Is. lOd. per
bottle, not 2s. 4d.,” only Heaven and Percy know. An
increase of 2s. per gal. (not proof gal.) on “ square ” gin
(see original article) does amount to more than 50 per
cent, of the manufacturer’s price, seeing that the
“square” gin bottle contains a little more than a quart
and the cost price is considerably less than one shilling.
Percy substituted the word “ gin ” for square gin. Now
for some more of Percy :
“ The ordinary drinker is very fond of glibly gassing
of “ adulterated ” liquor, but let him ask himself how he
would go about it. It is not so easy as he thinks it is to
prepare fictitious liquor. Adulteration ... is a difficult
matter, and requires a chemical knowledge that few
hotel-keepers, or spirit-merchants, possess. Without
doubt, bad and poisonous liquor is poured down the
throat of the suffering public by the thousand gallons per
year, but it is not interfered with by the hotel-keeper,
except by the addition of water. The whole trouble lies
at the door of the distiller. He supplies the hotel-keeper
with any quantity of cheap bulk spirit that is absolute
poison, and so long as said hotel-keeper can get a good
profit on it, and there is no law against selling it, he
cheerfully does so. The spirit is cheaply distilled from
potatoes, &c., and then sent out raw as to-morrow’s
bread, and in an insufficiently-rectified state. Bung buys
this stuff at the instance of the merchant’s traveller, who,
without extra charge, puts him up to dodges by which he
can safely fire it into the public.”
Percy wants the ordinary drinker to ask himself how
he would go about the adulteration of liquor if he were
in the hotel business. I’m an ordinary drinker, and I’ll
ask myself. I would adulterate, under the merchant
traveller’s direction (as suggested by Percy) my ordinary
“bulk” whisky, the imported Scotch stuff, with some of
the “ bad and poisonous liquor,” which Percy admits to
be sold by “the thousand gallons per year.” Also, I
would open my bottles of imported Scotch whisky and
do a little adulterating there. In short, I would do what
was done in Melbourne by the ordinary respectable hotel-
keeper when the duty on spirits was raised some years
ago from a minimum duty of 12s. to 15s. per gallon.
Probably the Australian of next century will gladden
his heart with the wine of his country, and the brandy
thereof, and whisky will be only talked of as the spirit
that his forefathers took too much of. But, meanwhile,
whisky is a popular drink, and I want mine to be as good
as I can get it for 6d. a nobbier. An addition of 2s. or 3s.
per gallon to the excise duty must inevitably tend to
make the whisky not so good as we get it now, if hotel-
keepers are to continue the present system of passing the
bottle. The public, not the publicans, are the greatest
sufferers by a rise in the whisky tax, and all the babbling
of all the Percys who ever misrepresented a case will not
alter that solid fact.
♦
It cannot be too widely known that the so-called
“Queensland protest” against the abolition of
the importation of Kanakas is a protest by banks
and syndicates, by land-jobbers and mortgagees,
by the Philp Ministry and the Courier—which
are mere agents and mouthpieces of banks and
syndicates ; and by the Colonial Sugar Company—
which wears a white face in New South Wales
and a black one in Queensland and Fiji.
Nine-tenths of the Q. people thoroughly approve
of the abolition of Kanaka labor; they have
shown their approval by continuous agitation
against it, even in the sugar centres, and by elect-
ing to the Commonwealth Parliament representa-
tives pledged to bring the infamous traffic
to an end. Dr. Maxwell, who declares (fol-
lowing the employers who pay him £3OO
a year) that the stoppage of Kanaka labor
means the ruin of the Q. sugar industry, is
not worth considering. His opinion is worth no
more than that of ten thousand men who have
studied the question, or have been engaged in the
industry. Indeed, it is possibly worth less, for
Dr, Maxwell —expert though he be —brings to
consideration of the question preconceived ideas
gained in the West Indies, where there is nothing
but black and coolie labor. Luckily, the Common-
wealth Parliament is not in the least likely
to take notice of the bitter cry of the
outraged Q.N. Bank, which is prepared to
send Australian society to the devil rather than
risk a reduction of interest on its huge land specu-
lations. In any case, the tariff-plan foreshadowed
when The Bulletin went to press will settle the
dispute automatically. With a customs duty of
£5 per ton on imported sugar, and an
excise of some £3 per ton _on _ sugar
grown by colored labor only, it will no
longer be to the employer’s profit to keep his
Kanaka. The sooner he gets rid of him, the
better for himself. And the opening of free inter-
state markets to the Q. sugar-grower will give
him such an increased return that he will be able
to bear the increased cost of white labor, and will
still get more money for his cane. Let the
Queensland Gfovt., instead of raving against the
inevitable, set to work to assist the sugar-grower
by establishing central refineries (the natural
corollary to its central mills), and so break down
that monopoly of the Colonial Sugar Co. which is
the real obstacle in the way of profitable cane-
culture.
♦
The Age’s lamentation that Melbourne promises
soon to be the most backward, instead of the most
advanced, of all Australian cities in tramway
locomotion is a most solemn warning against
letting any company, syndicate, or private boodler
whatever have a lease of the means of street loco-
motion. Melbourne Tramway Cp. has alien on
the trams till 1916. The municipality can’t con-
vert them into an electric system because its
tenant, the co., is in possession. The co. can’t
convert them because they are not its property.
It won’t let the municipality convert because it
doesn’t see the use of being annoyed and disturbed
by the making of improvements from which, by
its agreement, it could only reap a few years’
benefit. Moreover, it recognises that the steady
blocking of all improvement is its best means of
getting an extension of its splendidly profitable
monopoly Whenever any part of its system
becomes antiquated and there is a demand for
reform, its query is, “How long an extension of
our lease will you grant if we make this
reform, or allow it to be made ? ” Cable traction
was the most up-to-date idea when Melbourne’s
tramway co. got its lease ; it will probably be as
ancient as the ox-waggon long before the lease ex-
pires. But Melbourne must, apparently, put up
with it till 1916, or pay the co. with an extension
of its lease to let it improve its own property.
Even the expansion of the system is blocked. The
municipalities want to build many small additions,
but the co.’s attitude is : “ We have the sole right
to work the existing lines. If we won’t work any
additions you may make then they can’t pay, for
it is impossible to profitably work half-a-dozen
separate lines of a mile or half-a-mile each if each
one of these has to have its separate power-house,
rolling-stock, and all appliances. And our terms
for working these additions, even though we will
almost certainly make a profit out of them, are the
same old squeeze—an extension of our lease.”
And if the extension is granted, every attempt at
further improvement or further addition will
probably be met by the demand for more exten-
sions of the lease, till the lease stretches right on
to the year 2000.
4
Dear Bulletin, —So the Colombian Aliens
Restriction Bill has been disallowed! What
chance has our bill of receiving royal
assent? We have our remedy if it does not.
Let our Premiers, if they are white Australians,
refuse to attend the Coronation —that will hurt
Bull’s self-esteem. Cut off the naval subsidy—
that will touch his pocket. Re-enact the ancient
law that no alien, save with Government consent,
may acquire, hold, or sell land or any interest
therein. We can let in the European, American,
—anyone, provided we consider him clean enough.
The loyal jellyfish may ask what Britain would
do in the event of such awful ingratitude on our
part. Britain would do nothing. The coronation
would go on just the same. Bull wears a con-
sidering-cap before speaking, and the utterances
at the coronation would be a guide for our further
action. The navy would stay here just as much
as before, because it is here, not so much to guard
Australia, qua Australia, as to protect a valuable
property in which Bull has a “vested interest.”
The purpose of the British Navy is to guard
British commerce, the ships that carry good Aus-
tralian gold to pay Bull the interest we owe him,
and lastly, the great Pacific coal base that is so
essential to supremacy at sea. Will the usurer
call up his money? Hardly. If Bull is so com-
mercial that, for the sake of the profit he makes
by trading with Japan, he will forcibly espouse
his oversea daughters to Wun Lung and be grand-
father to a missing link, then he is commercial
enougli to ignore the slight to the Royal Preroga-
tive for the sake of the 3| per cent, (and flotation
expenses) that lie makes by lending money to us.
“ Millions for defence, but not one cent for tri-
bute,” said an historic one-time British colonist ;
and if Britain demands that our tribute shall be
the surrender of our clean white man’s blood,
there is but one answer for an Australian to make :
One People, one Destiny, one Color. What does
Bull seek ? If another (and more successful)
Burke does not arrive in time, Bull will pro-
bably find it—whatever it may be—as he did in
America. —V iking.
From a cohentingenter’s letter to a Sydney
friend (writer comes of a well-known English
family, settled in N.S.W.):
From my experience here I am satisfied that Austra-
lians need never fear being routed out of their own
country. They call this a hard country to take—it isn’t
a patch on ours. lam certain that if Australia were ever
attacked I could make £4 a week at 2d. an enemy’s scalp.
The Boers must be beaten every time they meet us now,
for while we have numbers of guns that kill at 7 miles,
they have not too many rifles that they can depend on to
kill at 700yds., and this country is beautifully adapted
for the use of cannon.
It is a great shame the way property is treated. One
day I saw them bringing in about 2000 sheep and angora
goats, which they got in a heap and told off a lot of
niggers and soldiers to kill. These savages, instead of
going about it in an intelligent and speedy manner, got
sticks and stones and other primitive weapons of the
kind and started to bash into them. After some time a
lot of soldiers came down, and started cutting out the
animals’ tongues to eat. I saw one cut the tongue out of
a sheep that had been left for dead, and after tnat the
animal got up and ran into the mob again. About 5
o’clock the men went back again to their squads. At 8
half of the “dead flock” were standing up again, some
with horns smashed off, some with eyes gouged out,'
others with injured backs, many tongueless. About this
time I saw a lot of niggers, armed with sticks, going
down to do the job over again, and until morning the
air was filled with the sound of the beating of sticks and
the shrieks of maimed goats and sheep. I was on picket
that night, and every now and then a goat or a sheep,
crying piteously, with eyes knocked out and bleeding
from nose and ears, would rush, maddened with pain, up
among the horses. I despatched about half-a-dozen in
that condition during the night. I went and had
a look at them next morning just before leaving;
many of the poor brutes, maimed and bleeding, were still
standing, while others were lying on the ground too
much injured to rise.
“ Onward Christian Soldiers! ” We sing it every
Sunday that we have a chance for Divine service, and had
sung it about two days before this slaughter.
When these Christian soldiers come back to
Australia, the Liver Push, brutalised by its


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
K 2
r
Havt JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 85 Popy Prcrpo
This is a Co/mera we. can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
vnthout one.
Send for CataJogfue. Price £4.
375 6*orgs St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
OAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heav r y for
. hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
. “ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
slaughter-house gambols, will have to hide an
abashed head before the man who has been
accustomed to pelting and thumping the lives out
of sheep with stick and stones, and to farm-
burning and raiding.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Magistrate.”
Lyceum “A London Arab ”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Charity Ball.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Bijou “ Tom, Dick and Harry."
Theatre Royal “ Taken From Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
“ Faust ” —as Goethe tells the story—with
Gounod’s music twined around it, at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday night. Everyone knows
the tale of the philosopher, whose study and
research don’t appear to have brought him any-
thing in his old age but the consciousness that he
doesn’t know anything, and that his hair is white
and his legs tottering. Long time back philoso-
phers must have had regular nests of rats on the
brain. Elixirs of life, and efforts to transmute
kippered-herring tins, horseshoes and the like into
gold, occupied the time of many of them. They
pestered Heaven to aid them, and when Heaven
didn’t, wouldn’t, or couldn’t, they turned to the
Devil, and if he didn’t come to them they
generally went to him. Faust really got a
good run for his want of money. The jewels
he gave Margherita didn’t cost him anything.
His court - suit of white brocade, his jaunty
cap with the jewelled brim, and his elegant
and serviceable sword were the finest ready-
made articles ever supplied by any tradesman,
earthly or infernal. Faust, impersonated by Sig-
nor Dani, is “ discovered ” reading, by a very bad
light. He has the conventional skull at his elbow
(the German philosopher of to-day gets his inspir-
ation from a mug of lager), and diagrams on the
walls of his room suggest that he has been
researching perpetual motion. Gay songs are
heard without in the early dawn, and the music
adds to the despair of Faust, and Mefistofele
suddenly appears at his call.
•* » • •
Signor TraVaglini, as the gentleman whose
likeness appears as the trade-mark on potted-
ham, is a good-natured, humorous, business-like,
commercial-traveller type of devil. He
has the red suit slashed with black, the
two thin feathers in his cap, and the
lifted eye-brows, but this latest Italian
devil has turned his nose into a
bird’s beak. It is a significant
point, and pokes artistically into other
people’s business. Travaglini’s sing-
ing “Clear the way for the Calf of
Gold,” and his flirting duet with old
Marta are fine and fiendish. “ Your
husband is dead, but sends his bless-
ing ! ” that fixes poor old Mr. Marta’s
abode. And he gives her a daisy-—one
simple, white daisy. There is a
subtle relationship between the devil
and the daisy. Signor Dani, as
Faust, sloughs his old age and philo-
sopher’s clothes in sight of the audi-
ence, and the first use he makes of his
regained youth is to pursue a woman.
Now-a-days old men don’t need to re-
juvenate to do that. “Hail thou
dwelling, pure and holy! ” which Dauii
sings at Margherita’s door, and in
which the tenor uses his famous high
C. most lavishly, enraptured Satur-
day’s audience. It was a cruel, hungry
audience in the matter of encores—a
very shark. And so the opera was
prolonged till close upon 11.30.
♦ * * *
From the moment that Marg-
herita (Madame Sapio) is shown in a
vision to Faust, till the time that the
reception committee of angels await
her outside the pearly gates, she is the
ideal Margherita, the shy girl, the
passion-roused maiden, the suffering,
distraught woman. Her “ King of
Thule ” ballad and the Jewel Song are
sung and acted in such fashion that
the audience (that section with a lot
of imagination and “ear”) can see
and hear birds, and feel a glow as of a
hot sun. And in the despairing “O, Thou Who
on Thy Throne,” sung when Mefisto. won’t let her
enter the church, the soprano got the compliment
of some tears from a case-hardened Saturday night
d.c. It is so cruel of the “proper” women who,
as they come out of church, draw their skirts
around them and look “brazen hussy” at the
prostrate sinner. The overture, an old friend, is
treated splendidly by Signor Hazon’s orchestra,
and the rousing soldiers’ chorus, “ Unfurl the flag,
my brothers !” is so warmly met that, if the gallery
knew the words, it would certainly join in with
Valentin (Cattadori) and the rest of the con-
tingenters.
** # *
The consistently-humorous musical burglar
introduced to the Sydney Palace audience last
week a “child wonder” —Joyce Beryl, aged seven
years, who looks pretty and fiddles wonderfully—
for her age. But why should a theatre be con-
founded with a Kindergarten? The average
person has to endure quite enough infant pheno-
mena from the circle of his friends who are
parents. Mr. Henry Lee now shows a better lot
of impersonations. Phonograph records, dug up
from some ancient feudal ruins near Sheecawgo,
show that Shakespeare’s voice was not quite as
Mr. Lee has been representing it; so that item
has disappeared.
The “Magistrate,” probably Pinero’s
happiest effort at pure comedy, is to be staged for
a short season at Sydney Royal, beginning on
Saturday. The story of Poskett, the respectable
old “ beak ” who had a night out at the instiga-
tion of his disreputable step-son, and had such a
fearful head and such a shocking black eye in
the morning that he publicly sentenced his own
wife to two weeks’ hard labor without knowing
what he was doing, is built on a motive that is
pretty old now, though, when Pinero wrote it,
the idea was still reasonably young and fresh. All
manner of smaller men have arisen since then to
write the story of the respectable gentleman who
was beguiled out on one solitary burst, when he
was middled-age and had forgotten how to burst;
and to tell how he found the burst was dust and
ashes, and came back next morning with an
impossible explanation, and a hat that
looked as if it had been charged by a
Zulu army. But nobody told the story as Pinero
did. In the days when Dot Boucicault played
the part of the son who led step-father Brough
out on the razzle, and ran with him over half
London when the razzle broke down, and the
police broke in-, and the razzlers nearly broke
their necks getting out; and when Titheradge was
sentenced to 14 days and was washed in the gaol
bath; and when Mrs. Brough got her sentence
commuted with difficulty, and came home to ask
for an explanation, the “ Magistrate ” filled
Sydney with joy, and caused it to drink more
than was good for it in between the acts. Sydney
is older and less joyful now ; it has never quite
recovered from the days of ’93 ; but it will be glad
to see its “Magistrate” over again. Brough
hasn’t aged perceptibly since those glad old days,
and the “ Magistrate ”is mostly Brough. When
he dies the comedy had better be suppressed by
Act of Parliament. Any other Poskett would be
sacrilege.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum has often produced the
most astonishing melodrama on record, and this
week it does so again. It has great staying power
in this direction. “The London Arab,” now
shrieking through five acts, begins with a revolver
that is hidden under a tablecloth, and concludes
with the attempted- hanging of a small, short-
skirted child.. In between whiles, there are
about a dozen attempted assassinations to
till in time. The London Arab, in the first
act, is about to be arrested for stealing a turnip
from someone’s family estate, said turnip,
according to its leaves, being about three weeks
old. At this point, Temple Harrison strolls in
and remarks that his child would have been the
same age had it lived, but that something, which
he does not specify, must be fancy. Then he
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON (“The Fencing
Master.") To appear shortly with a new
American Operatic Co. at Sydney Criterion.
Photo, by the Sarony Studios, Auckland (M.L.).
melts away, and after the old gentleman with the
will is shot, the adventuress he had married turns
out; to be Temple Harrison’s wife. She is also
married to an accomplice, and the other accomplice
is hanging round to marry her after he has
finished off the first accomplice, which he will do
when thefirst accomplice has finished off some other
people. The adventuress confesses that her early
life was embittered by the fact that Temple
Harrison was too good a husband, and, also, that
she would not have lost their child if she could
have seen in his face any sign of sin, but even at
an early age he showed indications of turning out
a decent member of society, and that broke her
up.
• • * .
Accordingly, she takes a boat down the
Thames on a dark night, so that she can get
off it at a spot where a small boy, hiding
under what seems a tablecloth, overhears
her plots, and she also interests herself with
the above-mentioned execution of the other
small child. Meanwhile, the’ hero decides
not to be arrested for the murder of the old gentle-
man till he can prove his innocence, and it occurs
him that he can best prove it, somehow or
other, by going to Africa. Here he stands on an
empty veldt, and is very angry with the Boers,
though, so far, it is his own countrymen that have
got him into trouble. Later on, he is nearly shot
by some more of these same countrymen on in-
sufficient evidence, while none of Kruger’s
followers do him any injury, but he still con-
tinues being annoyed with the Boers. Mean-
while, the adventuress steals the heroine’s child
that stands between her and the estate, upon
which the heroine thinks this a good time to
rejoin her husband in Africa. She authorises
the London Arab to rescue the valuable
child from a den where it is being thrashed
about sixteen times every half-hour. When she
returns, the small,’ healthy infant is still standing
out against its half-hourly spankings, so all the
villains combine to hang it in front of a door
which they thoughtlessly neglect to lock ; con-
sequently the milkman is enabled to rush in and
rescue it in time. This strikes all the characters
as being a good occasion to go to a masked ball,
which finishes up with the murder of Temple
Harrison, whose excessive virtue once more preys
upon the mind of his wife.
■* * * •
The Arab is brightly played by Gladys
Hughes; and Helen Fergus, as the old hag who
retires into the next' room every minute or so to
thrash the smaller Hughes child with a large,
three-pronged strap, is a capital piece of acting.
Miss Fergus’s adjurations to the much-.spanked,
but still rather cheerful, infant to “ wait a bit,
dearey ; I’m coming to you, lovey,” are spoken
with the true senile tone. The grandmother of
the small infant, however, would have been
more convincing if she had managed to talk
and look as if she were more than five-and-
twenty ; it is rather unusual for a girl to be a grand-
mother at that age. Temple Harrison is also to
be congratulated for his rendering of the man
who annoyed his wife by being good, but his habit
of hanging on to the last letter of each word grows
wearisome. The gallery nowadays takes the
hero’s ravings against the Boers in a dull and
passive spirit. It has. forgotten all about the
“ Absent-Minded Beggar,” and seems to wonder
who the Boers were.
** * *
Sydney Empire has some new balladists,
and the tenderly sentimental effusions of one are
illustrated with pictures. Sweet bits of sentiment
are invaribly popular at any music hall with a
hard-jawed gallery. Seemingly, no softer-hearted
people live than the sixpenny or shilling patrons
of the variety entertainment.
** * *
Henry Hallam’s Opera Co., consisting of
Miss Josephine Stanton and 35 other American
artists, with the necessary orchestra and appurte-
nances, are to commence a season at Sydney
Criterion on 19th October. The co. has pervaded
Maoriland with much success, and arrives on this
side with high hopes and a number of plays that
are new to Australia. “Said Pasha,” described
as an “oriental operatic conceit,” is the first pro-
duction, and it will be followed at reasonable
intervals by the “Black Hussar,” the “Fencing
Master,” “Wang,” and the musical comedy of
“Dorcas.”
** * *
After a most successful tour of N.S.W.
and Vic. country towns, Fitzgerald’s Circus moves
to its new building in Melbourne to-day (Satur-
day).
#* * *
The return of Williamson’s Comic Opera
co. to Her Majesty’s, on Saturday night, was the
occasion for a great gathering—one of those occa-
sions when the Jews and the Gentiles sit down
together, and the air is heavy with expectation,
and the conductor of the orchestra is hailed as a
harbinger of joy when he taps his music-stand.
Probably, Melbourne expected too much of “ The
Casino Girl.” Coming after “Florodora, ” which
was a picturesque, farcical comedy, with a neat
little plot and numerous interesting characters in
it, “The Casino Girl ” seems a mere rush of
unrealities, and a succession of commonplace
songs. _ The songs, are mostly -supported
by eight sweet girls in long dresses,
and numerous other girls . and men in
pantomime raiment who nod their heads by way
of adding importance to the tune in the foreground,
but even the eight principal nodders grow rather
wearisome at their third time of nodding. “ The
Casino Girl ” makes a violent, muscular endeavour
to rival “ Florodora,” but doesn’t succeed in being
more than a passable two-act musical show, ex-
pensively staged and populated by J.C.W.’s all-
right Comic Opera co. Everybody will go to see
it, and nobody will deny that the entertainment
is rich in scenery and dresses, and nice girls.
Moreover, there are jokes perceptible amidst the
gorgeousness.
* * » *
None of the performers, except Carrie
Moore, perhaps, are likely to be remembered
hereafter for what they did in this instance. The
active and intelligent Miss Carrie, the swish of
whose skirts is too energetic and frequent, will be
remembered for her clever imitation of Irene
Franklin’s nasal voice. She hasn’t contrived to
adopt any other of the Yankee gal’s mannerisms,
and this is rather remarkable. Plump Irene had a
trick of walking towards the footlights with her
head turned the other way, and another trick of
catching up the heel of her right foot like an artful
innocent at a juvenile party. The imitation
certainly ought to include that turn of the head,
anyhow. Carrie Moore, in the name part,
amounts to a large percentage of the performance,
and she gets through it brightly ; nevertheless a
bigger lady, with more style and less swish, would
go a good deal further in critical estimation.
Which remark applies with double emphasis to
fragile Miss Maud Chetwynd. A heavy, maternal
part falls to Mrs. Br.yer ; and Miss Palotta, alas !
is a misplaced identity in the part of Mrs. B.’s
eldest daughter. George Lauri, as an American-
Turkish Pasha of many Beers, is a joke who
comes along on the back of a panto, camel, and
provides considerable humor ; whilst Hugh Ward
personates a wan, wandering individual named
Gaggs, and sings a slow, pessimistic ditty in about
eight verses, most of them being encores.
Kenningham appears in the clothes of a plain,
every-day-Percy, who fell in love with the
heroine through bandaging her knee; and
Wallace Brownlow is one of two absurd
conspirators, entitled Fromage and Potage.
It goes without saying that the dialogue of “The
Casino’ Girl” is not conspicuously smart, other-
wise the author would have given different names
to Fromage and Potage and Gaggs. But, inas-
much as the gaudy spectacle remains open to the
latest topical allusions, and is not expected to run
for three or four months, like “Florodora,” the
many things that might be something different
are of less immediate consequence than the things
that leave nothing to be desired.
** * *
“Taken from Life,” which is now happen-
ing for a few nights only at Melbourne Royal,
sowed its wild oats under Bland Holt’s manage-
ment in the years of long ago, when the hero was
Walter Howe instead of Walter Baker, and the
scenic fixings were less thorough than they are
this time. . A Bland Holt revival of a veteran
melo-drama is inevitably stronger in detail work
than the first production. “ Taken from Life ”
may have been set up to his liking’ in ’92, or there-
abouts, but the habit of beating his own record
has been growing on Bland since then, and John
Brunton is not the artist to break him off it.
Brunton performs great deeds on the big stage
of Melbourne Royal, but his achievements are
so usual that they pass without particular com-
ment. The drama that was favored with scenery
by Brunton on Saturday night is the work of the
late Henry Pettitt, which is to say it contains a
more liberal allowance of literary merit than the
five-act shockers of the modern Sutton Vane
school. All the same, it is a wild and rocky nar-
rative with a deceitful title. The most probable
feature of the proceedings is the “ honest poverty ”
of Walter Baker, who paints unsaleable pictures
for a living, and gets married on the strength of
his future celebrity. The celebrity gets inde-
finitely postponed by the machinations of Albert
Norman ; but when a certain Russian anarchist
has died of dynamite after confessing that
Baker ought not to be personally hanged,
and Norman is in the hands of the police
for embezzlement, or something, the drama holds
out a final hope that the hero will live to get hung
on the line at the Royal Academy. Several mem-
bers of the co. distinguish themselves in Pettitt’s
lurid fiction. Brown is an earnest anarchist, and
Baker suffers persecution with proper manly
feeling. Also Miss Ireland and Miss Ross and
the interior of a police court are persuasive circum-
stances, and Bland Holt gives an amusing low
comedy sketch of a bailiff, who takes possession of
liquid property in thejmme of the writ, and lives
an unsober career for all it is worth.
* * *fc *
“Tom, Dick and Harry,” the three red-
headed men whose mistaken identities get finally
sorted out in a lunatic asylum, are still shaking
their gory locks on the Bijou stage, and seem
likely to remain there for some time to come.
Mrs. Pacheco’s farce is foolish, or funny, or both,
and Melbourne goes to see it with the intention of
being amused in any case. Circumstances over
which the management has no control are favor-
able to “ Tom, Dick and Harry.” It provides
frivolity for the commercial mind in this weary
hour of Tariff and Budget and Factories Act dis-
cussion, and it is just as good as an attack of
delirium tremens for any despondent citizen who
has been drinking heavily. But the unceasing
giggle of the dress-circle girl is not so easily
accounted for. She begins to utter sounds of glee
the moment the curtain rises on ‘‘The Highland
Legacy,” and her exuberant happiness increases
in volume as the evening proceeds. The d.c.
giggler looks like a new development of female
art. Present scribe, whilst sitting in the row
behind several of her, one night last week, came
to the conclusion that she must be smiling athleti-
cally in the best interests of her fair young bust.
** * m
At the Princess’s, a somewhat deserted
revival of “ Trilby ” came to pass on Saturday
night. Sundry changes in the cast since the
play was last revived in Melbourne (at Her
Majesty’s) are not changes for the better,
nevertheless Miss Crane, Tyrone Power, Oily
Deering, and Mrs. G. B. Lewis would suffice
to make another success of ‘‘Trilby,” if the
subject were still alive. Apparently it is dead
for the present. A new comedy drama, “The
Charity Ball,” will happen at the Princess’s
next Saturday (D. V.).
* * #
The. refreshing young Sisters Williams,
and a new set for the First Part, made their
appearances at Rickards’ on Saturday. The four
sisters are genuine relatives, of an attractive
nature, and the programme derives much benefit
from their services, for it was getting rather run
down before they arrived. Next Saturday some-
thing else will probably transpire to further the
Opera House cause, which doesn’t need much
furthering when the horsey season is in full blast.
According to London Truth, a well-known
M.P., impressed with the danger of the “ trailing
skirt,” proposes next session to bring in a Bill
“ for the compulsory disinfection of the would-be
well dressed woman.”
Johann Most, the sworn foe to American
society and to wasiiing, confesses, in a personal
interview: “I have had three wives, and it was
abuse all the time from them.” Which condones
the most desperate anarchism, and suggests what
to do with the dangerous anarchist —marry him to
the virago.
Concerning the last moments of John
Reubens (Portuguese), hanged at Boggo-road
gaol, Brisbane, on 30th Sept., for the murder of
his paramour:
At half-past seven that morning a little group as-
sembled outside the gates of the gaol. Soon the gates
were unbolted, and they were admitted. There was not
long to wait. One heard a shuffle of feet, the clear voice
of a man who read, and then catne a little procession.
They mounted the stairs to reach the gallows. Heads
were uncovered as they reappeared again on the side of the
landing. In the hour of his death John Reubens was
getting more respect than had been shown him during
life. With pinioned arms he walked firmly and stood on
the drop.
He looked down, interested for a moment, at the group
below and bowed to them, then broke into prayer—a
wild, incoherent prayer ; the words one could not catch ;
the prayer of a man who was struggling to keep his reli-
giori above his terror. Khaki-clad warders were grouped
around him, and, uncanny in false beard and blue glasses,
the hangman fumbled with the rope.
“ I commit myself to God, who will deliver me from all
my sins,” came in a high-pitched key from the swarthy,
bearded, pinioned figure. He knelt and prayed, arid
the rapid rush of frenzied prayer drowned the voice of
the priest—and from somewhere outside a bell began to
toll. The hangman bent, and, with unsteady hands,
buckled a strap around the man’s legs. Faster came
the prayers from the chattering lips, as if the condemned
still had to make his peace with God in the five minutes
that were left him “ God, forgive me my sins ; God, for-
give me my sins 1 ”
The man was fighting, fighting desperately, to save his
soul. His faith was strong ; but death was near—so near
—and God ! His belief had taught that he was saved—
saved because he truly repented. Had not his priest told
him so? But death was so near. He prayed as if he
would force an answer from his God —force a forgiveness
by the mere burden of his prayer—by the reiteration of
his cry for mercy. Earth- Was passing away—but, stamped
on his reeling brain, was fear and a frenzied prayer for
the future. He wept, and asked that they would wipe
his eyes. In his last agony John Reubens was as the soul
of a little child, cried —and was not ashamed.
The hangman stepped forward, and put a white cap
over his head. The high, nervous voice broke off in the
rush of muttered prayer, and now only the shaking hands
bound in front showed the man’s mind. Just before the
cap was pulled down the dark eyes rolled round to take
one last look at the world—the world as shown by six
rows of cells and a handful of silent witnesses. Then the
cap was drawn tightly down, and the “ world was
blotted out.—C.R.J.


stocks Kept of *
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
BnU 214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
dr
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
ID* - Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. .
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed m different parts.of. the World, upon
application. *• E. LfcPLfloTKicK, Manager.
Financial Standabd, London, 23rd July, 1901:
“ For years past we have noted the gratifying reports of
the Colonial Mutual Life, and cannot otherwise than feel
the liveliest sense of admiration of the successful work of
the society.”*
* • * *
The Great Curse in these colonies is indigestion,
and the Great Cure for it is Zetz Spa Water taken with
meals. It is rightly called the “ Premier Natural Table
Water." *
* * * *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electno
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8J inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
• * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
About the best brand for sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* • * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and. metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McGreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * •
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.I.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of September to establish a
Home Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• * * •
. Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites: They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Yanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
v * * ■*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footseray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders ab
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists
• * * *
Cosmopolitan (W.A.) : Remarkable that while
all the other Westralian stocks have been up and down, in
some .cases to the extent of millions, within the last 12
months, the shares in this mine have been slowly but
surely rising. This time last year they were 21s., to-day
they are 35s., and the improvement has been gradual all
the time. Its output, with a dilapidated 30-head mill,
averages 1700ozs. a month. A new 60-head mill and
cyanide-plant is expected to start this month, and every-
thing is said to be ready for a monthly production of
about 5000oz. The co. has a very large area, and as it has
not been taken up for area only, but is mostly gold-bear-
ing, it is probable that one or two subsidiary co’s. will be
formed. Capital £400,000, with 360,000 shares issued, has
paid one small dividend of 6d., but is likely to settle down
as a steady payer next year.
• * * *
The Chillagoe line from Mareeba to Lappa is to
be worked this month with hired Government rolling-
stock. The co. will use its own locomotives, which is, in
view of other historical private railway co’s. in Australia,
something of a big concession.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges*
Hy. Harkv/ald,
178 William-street,
Mklbournb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Kajle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
Bd.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd. j 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross—/tS" Carriage Free to may
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8£ Cat
WOOLF &c 00.. 376 George-atreet (next GhP.O4, aYDKrETSr.
1
gd
The Wild Cat Column.
J. Ambrose : Don’t. There are many far surer
investments.
•»- * •
The 1 past year or half-year has been, on the
whole, the best time the Australian banks have had since
1893. It is difficult to put anything in a tabular form
which fairly shows the relative degrees of prosperity,
but the following list sets forth the amount of profit per
cent, per annum which each bank earned on its share-
holders’ funds "(capital and reserves) during the period
covered by its last balance-sheet; also the amount added
to each bank’s reserves during the same period. The
balance-sheets all cover a period of six months, unless
otherwise stated. Some explanatory notes follow
Interest per cent, per
annum Earned on Added
Shareholders’ to
Funds. Reserves.
Bank of New Zealand (1) .. £47 6 1 p.C. Nil-
National of N. Zealand (year) .. 16 10 6 „ £30,785
Bank of Australasia .. .. 12 3 7 „ 51,466
Commercial of Tasmania .. 11 1 2 ~ 2,554
Bank of Adelaide (year)... _ 83 9 „ 16,097-
Royal (Melbourne) .. .. 7163 ~ 2,738
West Australian Bank .. 7 6 8 „ 3,037
Union Bank .. .. ». 617 4 „ L 628
E. S. and A. Bank (year) ». 614 7 „ 24,979
Colonial (Melbourne) .. .. 65 0 „ 6,117
Bank of New South Wales .. 6 2 3 „ 153
National of Tasmania .. .. 512 11 ~ 1,061
Queensland National (2).. .. 5115 ~ 8,000
Commercial (Sydney) .. .. 6010 „ 1,228
Ballarat Banking Co 4 17 10 „ 766
Bank of North Queensland .. 4 7 6 „ 1,111
Commercial (Melbourne) (3) .. 4 0 6 „ 3,171
Royal (Queensland) .. .. 319 3 „ 3,601
Bank of Victoria .. .. 317 11 „ 6,061
National (Melbourne) .. .. 312 8 „ 2,917
City of Sydney .. M .. 33 7 „ 105
A.J.S. Bank (4) .. - .. 119 6 „ 24,412
London (year) (5) .. M .. 112 4 ~ 6,360
A. D. and M. Bank .. .. 0 5 4 „ 1,222
Land Mortgage Bank .. .. Loss
(1) In the case of the Bank of New Zealand the Govern-
ment’s temporary advance of £2,000,000, which bears
interest at 4 per cent., is treated as a fixed de-
posit. The £BO,OOO is deducted from profits, and the
balance represents £47 6s. Id. per cent, on private share-
holders’ funds. The profits were all written off to cover
losses under the old management.
(2) Queensland National Bank showed £12,000 profits
(on which this calculation is based) after writing off
£16,350.
(3) The Commercial Bank’s profits are the visible profits
of the bank only. The losses of the Assets Trust (if any)
should be deducted from this. Unfortunately, the
amount of these (if any) is a dead secret.
(4) Nearly £II,OJO of A.J.S. Bank’s addition to reserves
was profit made by repurchase of depreciated deposit
receipts.
(5) London Bank made £5360 after paying the fixed
dividend on preference shares. This amount was not
really added to reserves, as there are still arrears of
preference share dividend owing.
A most remarkable feature in this list of 26
banks is the comparatively low position occupied by the
institutions of the two leading States. The first thirteen
names only include one large N.S.W. bank and two small
Victorian ones. Of the twelve names at the tail-end of
the list three belong to New South Wales, and six (in-
cluding two land banks) are Victorian. This doesn’t
necessarily signify anything in particular, but it is a
somewhat remarkable circumstance all the same.
* * * *
Judge A. H. Simpson, sitting in Equity
(N.S.W.), came down crushingly on the Broken Hill
Municipal Council in its recent suits with the local mining
cos. As soon as the Laborites got control of a majority
of seats in the Council they put a pugnacious extremist,
Jabez Wright, in the chair, and the co.’s rates jumped up
thousands. The cos. went to the Equity Court —it took
over a year to get there—-and won, the Council being
ordered not only to refund the amount which had been
paid by the cos.' without prejudice, but to pay the cos.’
costs as well! As the total of this will be about £lO,OOO or
£12,000, and as all the Council’s possessions are mortgaged,
and as the milch cow which the Labor party reckoned on
cannot be bailed up, this probably means that a receiver
will have to be put in for a couple of years. But as
the aldermen have decided to appeal to the Privy
Council, the battle isn’t quite ended yet. Neither are
bills of costs.
• • • *
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co. (Mel-
bourne), is a concern which always seems to do reasonably
well for its shareholders. Up to 1893 it had £50,000 paid-
up capital and some £230,000 or £240,000 of reserves, but
in that year it capitalised £75,000 of the reserves, and
made its paid-up capital £125,000. This enabled it to call
its 40 per cent, dividend only 16 per cent.—which, per-
haps, looks better. This is the progress in recent years :
Share-
Dividends on holders’
Profits. £50,000 original Written capital &
capital. off. reserves.
1892 . £282,341
1893 .! £22,748 40 p.c. ■= £20,000 285,089
1894 16,230 40 „ „ 20,000 £22,972 258,347
1895 .. 9,304 27* „ „ 13,750 1,3341
£18,873 surplus of life branch added 1- 271,440
to reserves J
1896 .. 19,865 30 p.c. •= 16,000 10,654 266,661
1897 .. 11,850 30 „ „ 16,000 14,790 247,711
Loss.
1898 .. 14,974 15 „ „ 7,500 4391
£9,236 surplus of life branch added J- 284,034
to reserves J
Profits.
1899 .. 18,044 25 p.c. « 12,500 14,182 225,390
1900 14,779 25 „ „ 12,500 6,581 221,094
1901 .. 12,634 25 „ „ 12,500 997 220,231
These reserves are, of course,, irrespective of the life
assurance fund (£249,777), which does not belong to the
shareholders, but to the policy-holders. The results for
nine years are, therefore, as follows :
‘ Receipts. Expenditure.
Nine years profits of Nine years dividends
fire, marine and at ari average of
fidelity business £110,480 28* per cent. =>. £128,760
Six years surplus of
life business .. 28,109
Written off pro-
Loss 62,110 perties .. 71,949
£200,699 £200,699
If the Australian Alliance goes on at this gorgeous rate
its ultimate destination is an interesting matter to specu-
late upon. Having capitalised £75,000 of its profits, it now
professes to pay 10 per cent, on a capital of £125,000, but
the shareholders are really receiving the enormous rate
shown above. And, in order to keep it up in the bad
days, the surplus of the life department—an apparently
declining surplus, by the way—has been wholly applied,
for six years, to writing down losses. Also, the share- -
holders’ funds have been drawn upon to the extent of
£62,110. Even now it doesn’t appear at all certain that
all losses are provided for.
The life branch of the Australian Alliance Co.
shows these, results :
Total
Receipts. Outgoings. Assurance
Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1893 .. £28,356 £15,085 £38,569 £4,489 £290,077
1894 .. 26,005 12,440 25,819 4,078 298,625
1895.. 23,452 12,132 28,042 4,130 V 9«S 163
surplus £18,874 written off J ’
1896 .. 20,800 11,033 30,604 4,065 280,327
1897 .. 21,029 10,717 23,111 4,176 284,786
1898 .. 17,921 10,965 27,100 4.159\ 97317 s
surplus £9,235 written off / ’
1899 .. 16,957 10,794 24,044_ 3,731 273,154
1900 .. 14,900 9,448 33,568 3,761 260,173
1901 .. 14,340 10,416 31,238, 3,914 249,777
The most notable features hereabouts are that the
expenses have increased from £lO 6s. Bd. per cent, on
total income in 1893, to £l5 16s. 2d. per cent, in 1901.
This would be a reasonable rate for a co. which was doing
an active new business, but for one which does practical!}'
nothing, save sit and watch its pile, it is decidedly ex-
orbitant. Moreover, the interest returns are only equal
to £4 Is. 9d. per cent, on the average amount of the
assurance fund, which is low enough to suggest that some
further writing down would do the assets no harm. A
period of economy, both in working expenses and divi-
dends, is much needed to put the Australian Alliance on
to its old basis. It is probably the strongest of the
Australian fire companies, but it is by no means so strong
as it once was.
• * • •
Prospects of the Broken Hill Co-operative
Water 00., which claims the Yanco Glen reservoir site,
are a bit improved by the Equity Court’s knock-out of the
B.H. Municipal Council in recent mine-rating cases. The
Labor majority in the Council hoped to use this site
itself, relying upon a loan under the Country Towns
Water Supply Act, equal to five years’.rates ; but, as the
mines are now practically non-taxable, this scheme is im-
Sossible. And, as Govt, will not construct works, the
ouncil’s opposition to |the Co-operative co. has probably
ended. The co., however, has no funds ; and whether it
can get enough seems doubtful to all but the sanguine
promoters.
* • * *
The South British Fire and Marine Insurance
00. (Maoriland): —
n at tv -j j Written Total
Profits. Dividends. off Reser ves.
1893.. £31,538 10 per cent. =£6,463 £1586 £122,045
1894.. 37,092 10 „ „ 6,463 1588 151,086
1895.. 32,599 15 „ „ 9,694 600 173,391
1896.. 11,415 15 „ „ 9,694 , 355 . 174,757
1897.. 28,066 15 „ „ 9,694 454 192,675
1898.. 6,296 17* „ ~ 11,310 366 187,295
1899.. 28,343 17* „ ~ 11,310 783 203,545
1900.. 40,118 20 „ „ 12,926 . 631 230,106
1901.. 38,299 20 „ „ 12,926 .1323 254,156
The reserves consist of—reserve fund, £140,000 ; reinsur-
ance fund, £85,000 ; and undivided profit, £29,156. The.
payment of the dividend later this month will, how-
ever, reduce the reserves to £246,077. The South
British is the most solid of all the Australasian fire
companies, with the possible exception of the New Zealand'
Insurance 00. with reserves of £281,485. No Australian
office can approach these two in point of, strength. The
South British Co. has a paid-up capital ot £64,628, so the
shareholders’ funds total £318,784. The investments
yield nearly 5 per cent, all round, and look remarkably
solid ; the holding of State and municipal securities alone
is £93,645. Altogether, the South British is a prosperous
and well-managed company; the fact that it has more
than doubled its reserves since 1893 is in itself sufficiently
remarkable.
Whenever State fire insurance is suggested the
alleged “ insurance expert” always rises to declare the
impossibility of such a thing, because it would necessarily
be confinedto one State, and “ a wide diffusion of risks”
is required to make fire insurance either safe or possible.
The South British 00. had this delusion once, and it
nearly died of it, just as the Standard Co. of Maoriland,
and the Colonial Mutual of Victoria nearly died also, and as
the once great Pacific Co. perished altogether. In the
middle eighties the South British 00. was .a great concern,
with £129,256 of paid-up capital and over £lOO,OOO of
reserves. It diffused itself widely in Britain and America,
and lost most of the reserves and half the capital. It
dropped this widely-diffused business (which was too far
off for proper supervision) in time to save itself from insol-
vency, but with not much time to spare. Since then it
has done business in a much smaller radius and prospered
immensely, and, so far as is known, it never intends to
diffuse widely any more.
* * • •
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
shows a slight improvement, though its condition is still’
quite as bad as anybody could reasonably expect:
Loss on
Loss on Property Total Total
Business. Sales. Loss. Reserves.
(Interest on Deposits, 6 per cent.)
July, 1892 £63,276
„ 1893 £7,832 £4,137 £11,969 51,307
„ 1894 15,809 511 16,320 34,987
(Interest on Deposits reduced to 2* per cent.)
„ 1895 8,108 3,931 12,039 22,948
1896 7,440 1,906 9,346 13,602
„ 1897 6,946 741 7,687 5,915
£10,333 Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 16,248
„ 1898 6,910 397 7,307 8,941
” 1899 6,479 169 6,648 3,293
„ 1900 3,061 3,061 232
Deficit.
„ 1901 2,235 2,235 * 2,003
The business loss is certainly diminishing, but it is
lamentable that a concern situated as is the Victorian
Permanent Building Society should show any. loss. .It
has (on paper) £229,487 of its capital intact; its £234,943
of fixed deposits cost it merely 2* per cent, interest, and its
only other big liability is a bank overdraft of £55,379.
If its mortgages yielded even 2* per cent, gross on their
nominal amount it should be able to pay all interest and
expenses, and show a surplus. On present appear-
ances, and according to present values, not only is all the
capital lost, but a good part of the deposits as well. Of
course, if the value of property continues to improve,
there is no reason why the society should not he able to
pay 20s. in the £, and even recover a good part of its
capital. All depends on the continuance of the improve-
ment in property values.
This is how the Victorian Permanent Building
Society has progressed at paying off its liabilities co out-
side creditors:
Total Deposits and Mortgages.
July, 1897 £383,689 July, 1900 £313,858
„ 1898 338,966 „ 1901 301,177
„ 1899 322,551
The ponderous interest burden is being gradually, reduced,
and the mortgages are showing a rather better return
each year, but it appears likely to be a few years yet
before income shows even a small surplus over expen
ture. And if, when the present agreement expires,
depositors feel disinclined to agree to a continuance or
the 2* per cent, interest rate there are possibilities oi
serious trouble.
* • • *
Ballarat (Victoria) Gas Co. :
Net T° tal
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1899 £62.805
January, 1900 .. £4384 14 per cent. = £4725 62,524
July, 1900 .. 5731 14 „ „ 4725 63,530
January, 1901 .. 4821 14 „ „ 4725 63,626
July, 1901 .. 5355 14 „ ~ 4725 64,256
The Ballarat Gas 00. has £67,500 paid-up capital, so its
reserves are almost equal to its capital. Also, it has no
overdraft or debenture liability, and has over £10,501 o
investments outside its business. With these things, and
its regular 14 per cent dividend, it is about the most sona
gas concern in Australia.
* * * *
Sleath, excommunicated Labor M.P., sitting
for a far-west N.S.W. pastoral district, lately proposed,
and the House accepted, a motion that no renewals of
the Broken Hill mining leases should be effected until
the terms had beeu laid before Parliament. The present
leases have still from 7 to 10 years to run ; but the sooner
the question of renewals is dealt with the better, it the
co.’s get the idea that they are not to be granted re-
newals, it is not likely that they will go in for extensive
development work, however necessary it may be ; while,
if they are made to pay according to the success of their
recent operations, it will, of course, be an inducement to
them to go slow until terms are settled. In fact, it is
even now alleged, though most likely without reason,
that one or two idle mines would be worked if
they didn’t want to show how poor they are,
and how sinful it would be to put severe conditions
upon them in the new leases. One condition pretty
certain to be insisted on is that disputes with employee 8
shall be settled by the Arbitration Court. Sleath, wh
brings the matter forward, was the miner’s leader in 92
when the co.’s broke the agreement to arbitrate, which
action led up to the four-months’ strike.
Notwithstanding that close upon 1000 men have
been discharged from Broken Hill mines this year, and
that practically for the first time in the silver fields
history, Govt, relief works have been established, the
B.H. Prop, had to advertise lately for miners. The fact
is that, taking climate, unhealthiness of work, and cost of
living into account, Broken Hill average pay is not good
enough to hang about for; so when work slackened there
was a flight. Twelve months ago, there was not, it was
claimed, an empty house in Broken Hill; to-day Mahout a
sixth of the total are empty 1 The miners’ union has also
begun an inquiry into prices paid for contracts; and it
finds plenty of cases in which men have not averaged
half-a-crown a “shift.” Still, though this looks and
sounds very bad, the cos. which published such returns
show that on contract the miner averages well over the
standard 9s. ; but naturally the men who, striking a soft
patch, make 12s. or 15s. a shift, don’t talk much about it.
* * * *
Overflow, N.S.W. : Three weeks ago it was
given out that everything was ready for the smelter, and
then it was declared that the smelter had started and
everything was running splendidly. After that the first
matte had been tapped, and since then everything has
been ominously quiet. Under such circumstances it is
generally safe to bet one’s bottom dollar that something
has gone wrong—either the furnace has “sowed” up, or
something is running away in the slag, or the matte is
very low-grade. Anyhow, there is no boom in Overflows.
A good-looking mine which has suffered —if it is not still
suffering—from bad management.
* * * *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W.: The public anxiously
awaits the phenomenal clean-up predicted a few weeks
back ; meanwhile shares remain at 2s. “ The face looks
like a sovereign coated with gold,” said the new boss in a
recent glowing report. “ Looks like a sovereign ! ” but
what does it feel like—a sovereign or a gold-tip cigarette ?
* * * *
At least five N.S.W. dredge-proprietaries see
that their game is up, and are ready to sell out their
machinery for what it will fetch. Apropos, one co.
which was assured by experts that it could safely reckon
on 6gr. gold per yard all over Its property, lately put
through 11,000yds. for— two ounces.
* * » »
Great Fingall Consolidated: Within the last
few months these shares have moved from £6 to £l4, and
meanwhile two ss. divs. have been distributed. Sydney
E. News said of them that if it had only been a year or
two ago, when Lake Views went from £2O to £2B, Fingalls
would have gone from £4O to £5O. The same old
game—never leaving well alone. Immediately after the
publication of this par they went back 155., and at time
of writing are selling in London at £l3 ss. There is also
some newspaper confusion as to the average value of the
reef lately struck in No. 7 level. S.M. Herald says of it
that the first 4ft. averaged 18dwts., the next 6ft. 3ozs.
9dwts., and the next 3ft. 9dwts. ; and then gives the
average of the lift. 6in. as Soz. 9dwts. per ton.
Newspaper sub-editors in passing mining news
never stop to calculate. Nb explanation has followed,
so the public who take any interest in this
mine are left to wonder whether the average is
loz. 9dwts. or 3oz. 9dwts. The market, however,
leans to the latter conclusion. The reef in the level
above has a much greater thickness, the average being
about 17ft. and the value fully 2oz. In one of the levels
of this mine the reef is 60ft thick, and whatever its
value, the whole of it is being sent to the mill; the aver-
age of each month’s production is over l*oz. As the
market valuation of the Fingall in three weeks increased
over half a million, the natural inference is that the reef
in the lower level is as good, if not better, than above it,
that the shares will see £l5, that they are a fair invest-
ment at that price, and would probably go to £2O in any-
thing like that W.A. stock boom which the newspapers of
Australia seem fond of anticipating. To-day this mine
has a lower market valuation than the Perseverance,
which has infinitely less ore reserves, and probably makes
less profit with double the gold production of the Fin-
fall. The Fingall will, for a certainty, double its pro-
uction as soon as the new mill is ready.
* * * *
Lake View South and Extended: Two months
ago it was proposed in London to amalgamate these
mines. They have the same chairman, who strongly
advocated the scheme at each meeting. The shareholders
objected—one crowd because they had a mine, and the
other because they had a big plant and a magnificent
heap of tailings.; hence the •amalgamation scheme has
been dropped and reconstruction of each co. determined
on. At one time the L.V. South had what was thought a
magnificent prospect because of its continuity to the
Lake View mines. Every preparation was made in the
way of milling plant for a mine, but after the expenditure
of over £lOO,OOO in prospecting, next to nothing has
been found. For several years the plant has been
employed in crushing ore from other people’s mines,
thousands of tons of rich alluvial from Kanowna
and other places. By this means it has accumulated a
large heap of tailings, which can be cyanided at a fair
profit. What a fine thing to boast of—the tailings from
other mines containing the gold which the battery should
have saved, and which morally belongs to other people !
The L.V. Extended joins it on the south, and more pro-
specting has been done than is warranted by its position.
It also has a crushing mill, for which it has no earthly
use. To put up more money for the development of each
mine means the throwing of good gold after bad, but that
is the way of the mining world.
* * * »
Merton’s Reward, W.A.: Of this mine, it was
stated in the press last week that it had been sold in Perth
for £lOO,OOO cash, and £lOO,OOO fully-paid shares in a co.
with £500,000 capital. Two days later came the contra-
diction—that, as far as Merton, the sole owner of the
mine, was aware, it had not been sold, and that there
was reason to believe it could not have been without his
knowledge. The newsman must have had in his mind s
eve the good old days in Westralia, when it was not
necessary g to have the owner’s consent before selling his
mine. Alas! things have changed, untal to-day it
would probably be found much harder to sell Merton s
mine with all its gold than it wassome years ago t to sell
a Westralian mine having none. The richest and maddest
thing concerning the London sale of a W estralia
the writer ever heard of was the case of a man who,
having sold a worthless block for £5OOO cash, was so
elated at getting the money that he was niduced toput it
into a scheme the prospectus of which readmagmfoent.V.
He subsequently found that he had put the ±-5000 DacK
into his own mine under, of course, another more g -
geous name, and had only got a 20th share in it.
went down for the lot. The W.A. correspondents seem
to be writhing in a state of anxiety as to how much gold
Merton got at his last clean-up. One report says
another9ooooz., and one has gone as far as 12,0000 z. Any-
how, there is not the slightest doubt that it was the niggesu
clean-up ever made by an individual W.A. mine-owner,
and that some thousands of ounces must have been got
from the copper plates alone, particularly if M ] ert .° a
steamed them. They were known to be so covered witn
amalgam that mining men travelled hundreds of miles
to see them. Merton has closed down the mill, and is on
his road to Victoria and N.S.W. before taking a trip to
Europe. Meanwhile, he is sinking a main shaft, ana
otherwise getting the mine ready for the resumption or
milling, and generally working on a bigger scale, early
next year. „
» a * *
(Continued on page 27.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
—» —George Street, SYDNEY.
SHIRT TAILORS
mercers hosiers
and GLOVERS
ity - SHIRTS &.
Cut and Made by our EXPERT.
FIT GUARANTEED. FRIGES MODERATE.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
COLLARS
r
o
The New
FSeld Glass
For the Races, Ac.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying l 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only address in iV.S. IV.,
299 Ceorge-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, °
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
V)
U I
LJ
Q£
Ft
VD
LU
s:
o
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
In these new appointments of State
Goyernors, the States should insist on some of the
■ n P nvi R £ es they enjoyed when they were
officially termed colonies. For instance, if a
Governor of a few years ago applied for an exten-
sion of ms term, however small, he did so directly
xo the Imperial authorities, wholly overlooking
the local Government. And he did it without
any consultation with the local Govt. Twenty
years ago, if a Governor so applied, lie was bound
by the regulations to apply to the local Govt., and
the local Govt, applied on his behalf to the
Imperial Govt. The “colonies” allowed the
right to slip from them, and it is now lost. In the
appointment of State Governors this and other
old privileges should be re-claimed. If the new men
come without some re-arrangement they will
insist upon the privileges of their predecessors.
* * * *
Unless the Opposition in N.S.W. State
Assembly does something drastic with leader
-Lee, he will commit it to a depth and breadth of
lory Imperialism which will asphyxiate it as a
party. On the question of electing the State
Governor by the people, he lately said
II the election was left in the hands of the people, it
would give rise to a great deal of contention and bitter
feeling. In his opinion, therefore, it would be safer for
all concerned to have an absolutely independent appoint-
ment, and that appointment should be vested in the
Imperial Government.
Docs not that apply equally to the election of
Ms.ij.A. ? And if, because of fear of contention
CATECHISM,
DOT: “Angela have harps, haven’t they, ma?” MAMA: “ Yes, dear.”
DOT : “And cats go to Heaven when they die, eh?” MAMA : “ Gracious no, child!”
DOT : “ Then how do the angels mend their harps?”
and bitter feeling, the appointment of Governor is
to be handed over to the Imperial Govt., why
should not the old nominee Council of 50 years
ago be reinstated ?
• * • *
If the Federal Ministry sends Premier
art ? n *° re P resent Australia at Tummy’s corona-
tion he had better be provided with ample means
to remember the occasion, and do the thing
properly.” Australia, in short, had better
wave its hand definitely before he starts.
•Last time Barton went to London as a dele-
gate he had to wire for more money to bring
.urn safely home again. And that was only;a
business visit. This next time he will have to
hvo up to the dignity of seeing a stout, bald-
neaded gentleman clothed in wondrous splendor
by a crowd of hereditary flunkeys. It seems even
possible that if there is no Hereditary Ely.
I 1 tapper to His Majesty, our own Barton will be
appointed to hold the handkerchief whilst E R
goes through his tedious ceremony.
* * * •
Ihe little crowd which wants to fix the
federal capital at Canoblas—regardless of the
fact that Js .S.W.’s Eederal Capital Commissioner
recommended Monaro as the best site—still grinds
its axe furiously. The latest idea is to get that
great meteorological advertiser, Wragge, to come
down and report that Canoblas is the best possible
site. Wragge isn’t supposed to know anything
special as to the value of land, the engineering
difficulties or facilities in the matter of water-
conservation or railway communication, the com-
mercial advantages or disadvantages of the
position,_ the cost of establishing direct railway
communication with the various capitals, the
amount of public land available in the vicinity—
m fact, it is difficult to see what he can do except
look dreamily at a barometer and make remarks
about the average rainfall, and even his
rainfall information will be obtained from
Russell s published reports. But his name, as that
of a man who keeps himself before the public by
firing cannon at the clouds, may count for some-
thl “gL And > unless the Bombala and Armidale
and Yass people wake up and counterbalance this
move by getting reports on their towns from the
boss .Salvation Army man, the Italian Opera Co.,
the cohentingenter who won the V.C., George
Rigriold (as Othello), and other equally valuable
authorities, they are liable to find themselves left.
• * • »
What with the O’Sullivan’s scheme for
widening a scrap of George-st. (Sydney) at the
railway end, and another scrap at Circular Quay
end, and the proposed partial reconstruction of
the resumed area along l)arling Harbor, and the
proposed subway at Circular Quay, and the scheme
tor making half-a dozen new streets or diverting
half-a-dozen old ones at Redfern, a whole lot of
money is being spent, oris proposed to be spent, in a
small, scrappy way on the reconstruction of Sydney.
But all this expense and patching makes no differ-
ence as regards the big trouble—that the whole
plan of Sydney looks as if it had been laid out by
a devil, who was very drunk, applauding with the
inked end of his tail on a large sheet of paper.
Hie whole metropolitan area requires to be re-
sumed and a com P r ehensive plan laid out for
the gradual, but complete, reconstruction of the
entire place. With a much bigger E. W. O’Sulli-
van to devise the plan, and a George Turner to
manage the financial part of the business, it would
be possible to make a new Sydney, and even to
make the work of building that new Svdney a
profitable undertaking. If N.S.W. could only get
measured for a new O’Sullivan—a larger O’Sulli-
van, with more ballast and less yell!
* * * *
If it be true, as reported, that Csolgosz,
the murderer of M‘Kinley, was put to torture
to secure a confession of accomplices, the
act disgraces America. At best, Csolgosz is mad ;
at worst, he is a wild beast to be slain ruthlessly
for the protection of the society he attacks. And
SWEET HOME.
SHE : “ And yet people say there's no place like home."
HE : “ Yes, that's why we married men are so seldom there."
the: wild-beast’s antagonism to society is palliated
it he is treated cruelly: even a tiger-hunter is
merciful to the extent of killing quickly. Besides
torture is foolish : what credit can he given to the
words of a man on the rack ? It is doubly foolish •
tor it converts a criminal into a martyr and
brings him sympathisers and followers. For the
sake of America’s credit as a civilised nation, one
hopes that the circumstantially-given report will
prove baseless.
* » * •
Every jury called upon to investigate a
husband-shooting, wife-shooting, or paramour-
potting case should be given Schopenhauer’s
essay on Love to digest in retirement. The mad-
ness arising from sex-passion (for which he gives
an ingenious mystical reason) is perhaps the
strongest and most enduring of all mental obses-
smns. For instance: Some years ago a man
called at a N.S.W. Government department and
demanded his wife’s address, which lie imagined
was on record there He explained quite simply
‘I m going to kill her; she’s off with another
man. Refused the information, he used force in
an attempt to get it, and went to gaol for three
months for assault. On his release he applied
again with no better success, and went away
declaring lie would search Australia for the
woman. Three years later he found her and her
paramour in Brisbane. Without any flurry he
called at the house, shot her dead, and walked
acioss the road to the police station. Sentence of
death was afterwards commuted to life imprison-
ment.
* * • *
All that they could say for Tomlinson,
charged with sticking up the White Cliffs mail-
coach and shooting one of the passengers, was that
nobody could identify him, and that he was not
regarded as the sort of person to do a job like that.
Apart, though, from one or two other scraps of
evidence quite unimportant in themselves, the
discovery of over £lOOO worth of loot in his
tin clothes-trunk was quite enough to turn the
gaol-key on him for 10 years. And even then the
charge of shooting was not pursued. His only
witnesses were the girl he was going to marry in a
i week and her sister ; but he left them too early
that evening to do his case much good.
* * * *
.1 he old lag spirit seems to be gradually
working out of the N.S.W. judicial system. A
few years ago the Henty bank-robbers would
inevitably have been tried on a capital charge
—wounding with intent—and cheerfully hanged.
Now 12 years’ hard for each satisfies a sobered
law. In the case of Tomlinson, the White Cliffs
coach-robber, who also, it would seem, wounded a
man before securing his plunder, ten years is the
penalty. In both cases the lives of the accused
appear to have been forfeit to the law as it
stands ; but in neither instance did the law claim
its pound of flesh.
* *• * •
The return of accidents on Sydney’s tram-
ways, promised to Parliament in August, is taking
a long time to prepare. Judging by the appal-
lingly consistent number of new cases per week,
the return, when it does come, will be rather in
the nature of a progress report. And the lines
down Castlereagh. and Pitt-streets are nearing
completion. But “one can’t make omelettes
without breaking eggs.”
* * * *
N.S.W. Tramway Employees’ Union,
formed in Nov. last, has now a members’ roll of
over 1500, exclusive of the Newcastle branch.
The men talk of issuing an ultimatum to the
Railway Commissioners for an eight hours’ working
day, but another attempt is to be made to secure
the benefit by pacific methods. The Commis-
sioners should make haste to grant a concession
against which no valid argument can be advanced.
* * » *
To give the Sydney electric tramway
drivers an eight-hour day is a necessary act of
humanity, to say nothing about precaution.
Consider their work ! One hand on the controller,
the other on the air-brake. One foot to stand on,
the other constantly strained to work the alarm-
gong. The driver must keep a keen look-out
ahead and watch the air-dial. .Must; be always
ready to start or stop, slow-down, ring the gong,
down breaks, cut off the current, or reverse the
motor. And all this while constantly fearing
accident in crowded thoroughfares, with traffic
around, a car ahead, and another behind. Where
is there a more arduous task—one where every
physical and mental faculty is more constantly
strained ?
* * * *
What gluttons they are for the “darnce ”
out back ! At the Broken Hill Circuit Court two
young people were charged with capital offences.
One, it was alleged, went off from a Sunday
evening hop to stick up a mail coach ; the other
(it was also alleged) after choking her three-
weeks-old baby and hiding it under a raised
wood-and-iron house, met her “ boy ” at the
corner, and went off to a dance with him.
* * * *
Be Cardinal Moran’s recent statement
that some N.S.W. public school buildings are dis-
graceful shanties, Sydney D.T. reports Dr. Dill
Macky as saying “ that he had travelled all over
N.S.W., and had never come across any such
buildings, and that he had found that there were
no such places connected with the public school
service of N.S.W. unless they were buildings put
up in some out-of-the-way district by the people
themselves, and where there was not a sufficiently
large population to warrant a school-house being
built.” Apropos, here are two letters received
by The Bulletin. “ Bob Ridley ” writes :
In this district (Junee) we do not consider ourselves by
any means “ out-of-the-way,” yet we have half-a-dozen
school-houses that are a disgrace to the Department, and
a menace to health. Imagine 30 to 40 children crowded
into a 24 x 12 weatherboard, iron-roofed structure, badly
ventilated, and without even a verandah to mitigate the
sweltering summer heat. One of the schools in question,
u-ij sure > ls ventilated, hut to such an extent that the
children have to seek shelter under the floor when a
shower of rain comes on. I’m not exaggerating in the
least, and I am willing to furnish the Rev. Dill with full
particulars.
Another correspondent:—
Dear Bulletin,—The compulsory clause of N.S.W.
Education Act applies only to people living within two
miles of a State school. Consequent!}', there are, within
my knowledge, several cases in which children are being
brought up without even a knowledge of the alphabet
because their ignorant and slave-driving parents reside a
little over the statutory distance from the school. Should
not the provision he altered so that the law could reach
®uch parents? Another reproach to the over-economic
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department lies in the nature
or many of the school buildings. Some of these are hardly
fit for stables, and in summer are cruelly close and stifling,
the windows and door being on one side of the building,
so that no current of air can flow through the room.
Many of them are built of slu,bs, with hark roofs, and
have not even a water-tank. I have frequently seen
children tramping to school in hot summer weather
carrying their own drinking-water in a bucket or a water-
bag. My statements can he easily substantiated.- W.C..
THE COURTLY LANGUAGE OF THE
RING.
M'MURPHY: “I gotcher beat, “ Turkey”—I
gotcher beat! ”
TURKEY : “Pooph! Oi’ll putt me hook down yer
t’roat and pull yez insoide out.” (Not ver-
batim, but expurgated for print.)
“G.M.” to the Bulletin :
“■J-M-’s" par. (28/9/’01). The officer commanding
the Australian camp referred to bv me was Col. Plumer.
I cannot agree with J. M, ” that men of irregular corps ;
are allowed more liberty by their officers than are Aus-
tralians. Was in Pretoria when Plunier’s column was
camped alongside the general hospital. The Australians
were then so discontented and mutinous that Lord Kit-
chener had to address them before they would a "Tee to -
go on the march. Saw, one day, riding through the •
lines, an officer of theirs whom they affectionately wel-
comed with cries of “Flash Jack!” When the same
crowd was moving out of Pretoria, saw the men leave-
their ranks in twos and threes and ride up town in a free-
and independent manner, not rejoining the column till it;
was some miles out, horses covered with sweat and dust.
On the other hand, know of a man 1 elonging to an irregu-
lar corps being sentenced to 10 years’ penal servitude for
swearing at a corporal. Also, in mv own corps, a man
was given five years for being asleep at his post, and
another six months for “ cheeking ” an officer.
• * * *
A returned officer of the Fifth Victorian
Contingent, one of whom seems to have been
court-martialled and sentenced to deatli (com-
muted to 10 years by Kitchener) says of them :
Certainly, they were a hard lot, not very parti-
cular of other people’s property, but cowards or
curs, certainly not. It has been said they were a
lot of robbers, and even stole from one another’s
kits. But what of that? It was the case with
every contingent that left Victoria.” By-the-way,
that mutiny-sentence was pronounced July 11th.
Was the cable-liar asleep, or has the censor been
getting in some of his artistic work ?


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
hut absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. it is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS -LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
V >
■ Lm i
TheWhiskyof The Wise
fg
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Harper’s
Always Pure and Fresh.
Sold in 71b. Bags.
“STAR”
Oatmeal
AUSTRALIA’S
TONIC
BEVERAGE
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
At the annual meeting of Sydney Baptist
Union, Mr. J. A. Packer made the statement that
“ministers were shockingly underpaid, not many
of tiiem getting £4 a week or over, whilst
the majority were fortunate if they got
£2 or £3.” But what do they want
with even £2 or £3 ?
A patent, medico, who lectures
in Sydney Domain every Sunday, much
to the amusement of youngsters,
reckons he has a cure for consumption.
This is it: Take a piece of blotting-
paper and swallow it as far down as
possible. After a time you will cough
it up again, when it will be covered
with the germs of the disease. Then swallow
another piece, and continue doing so until
you are completely cured. It is a good, safe
proscription—for the medico. When the patient
dies, lie can always say that deceased didn’t eat
enough blotting-paper.
N • * *
Grenville (Vic.) shire council carried an
interesting resolution, the other day. “ That this
council adjourn for one hour out of respect to the
memory of the late Cr. Thomas Andrews, and
through sympathy with Cr. Douglas, and also in
sympathy with the people of the United States
in great loss sustained through the assassination
of their late President M'Kinley.” The adjourn-
ment was presumably limited to one hour because
the councillors didn’t require a longer period for
negotiating their three whiskies—lst the spirituous
tribute of respect to the memory of their deceased
colleague; 2nd, the draught of condolence with
Cr. Douglas; 3rd, the “ little one in” to express the
feelings of local authority towards the United
States. The arrangement permitted of five
minutes for each whisky, and intervals of fifteen
minutes in between. Drinks to be taken in
profound silence.
LOST HIS WAY.
“A departure to a better land, 'where we should find
mreelves in tip-top society, where there was better legis-
lation, better weather, better means of locomotion,
where, instead of moving about on noisy, heavy electric-
trams, we should have our own pure white wings.’”—
Commandant BOOTLL.
NEWLY-ARRIVED SALVATIONIST (mopping brow):
“ The wings are disappointing, the legislation
and society are shockin' and the weather is
as hot as ” (Suddenly realising situation.)
“ Great snakes! that must be where I’ve
come to! ”
'One member in M.L. Parliament lately
asked whether a free-pass over the railways would
be granted to a man and his wife because they had
18 children. The smiling Ward declined, and
alluded to the smallness of the family—one M.L.
family of 28, including five sets of twins, had
come officially under his notice. Is it a symptom
of womanhood suffrage that Australasia is just
now so much concerned about the baby ?
LOOKING FOR WORK.
BRIDGET (to Pat, unemployed)' “An’ phwat
moight ye be doin’ rading the Boible instead
of looking for wurrk?”
PAT : “ Bedad, an’ I’m just lookin’ at Job. The
Boible’s the only place where ye can find
wan these toimes.”
There are complaints from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) of the neglect of shipping-inspectors in
allowing the overloading of colliers. For many a
long year at Newcastle worm-eaten old tubs,
laden down to the gunwales, have sneaked out of
port in the dark to fetch Sydney— or Hell, as luck
had it—before daylight, and, by partially dis-
charging ere the world was awake, avoid disclosure
of the overloading. The Bulletin hoped that
the system had been knocked on the head.
W hen a laborer was recently killed by a
fall of earth in a Melbourne sewerage shaft the
hat had to be passed round'for the widow
, and eight orphans, partly because
that State has no Workmen’s Com-
pensation Law, and partly because
the Board of Works has no legal
righ t to vote compensation, even
if it felt that way inclined, and
however ready it may be to
break the law and spend public
money on grovelling to a
prince it wouldn’t spare a
copper for a mere starving
woman. Now, Fatman God-
frey is inviting the House
of Landlords to enact that
“ on the death or resigna-
tion of any officer, clerk,
mechanic, or laborer, or cm
the cessation or resignation
of the office or employment,
the Board may cause to
be paid to the official or
servant, or his relatives,
any gratuity whicli it may
think fit.” This bogus
yhilanthropy calls for sup-
pression. What is needed
is an Act providing that,
when any man is killed or
injured in the Board’s em-
ployment, he shall positively
receive compensation on a fixed
scale. Godfrey’s shady proposition means that
the Board may, if it pleases, refuse to give a
copper to the eight small orphans of a slaughtered
workman, and may vote Chairman FitzGibbon
£20,000 of the ratepayers’ money when he resigns,
and ceases to send ridiculous cablegrams of woe
to the children of the defunct crowned heads of
Europe.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— We hear a lot about
prevention of consumption, but not enough about
cure. How few, for instance, are aware that,
according to Dr. Walther, of Nordrach (Germany)
sanatorium (an eminent authority) innumerable
consumpti ves are slain by exercise— more especially
with the frequently-prescribed dumb-bells. I
wish I had known as much four years ago, when I
first began to battle with the disease.— J.L.
* • * *
The proposal to establish a home for
consumptives near Katoomba, in the N.S.W.
Blue Mountains, does not commend itself to
Sydneyites in need of a Saturday-to-Monday’s
blow in summer. Rightly or wrongly, it is held
by many Picton people that there has been a
marked increase in the number of local cases of
pulmonary trouble since the establishment of
Thirlmere Consumptive Home. But, in any case,
in the wide scope of the Blue Mountains, there
are innumerable places where consumptives might
be placed without being a menace to the healthy.
* * * *
Printed that, in Victoria, t’other day,
a widow’s corpse was refused Christian burial
because she had suicided. The lady, too, had
been an active Anglican church member. The
undertaker performed the funeral ceremony.
m m * •
The person who buys a return ticket
cheaply from a scalper sometimes saves money by
it, and at other times he doesn’t. Recently a
Mr. and Mrs. (say) Brown went from Sydney to
Melbourne by steamer, and at Melbourne they
sold the return halves of their tickets. Probably
they had been so sick on the way down that Mr.
Brown resolved to wheel Mrs. Brown back per
barrow—but that is a mere detail. The tickets
were sold separately to a man and a woman who
had never seen each other - in their lives before,
and they travelled back per same steamer. Recog-
nising by the tickets that they were husband and
wife the steward put them in the same cabin, and
it was only the shrieks of the woman when she
found that a strange man was to share the premises
that aroused suspicion. In the end both parties
were fined something considerable. This episode
lends anew horror to the cheap return ticket.
Some years ago, a man who bought a doctor’s
return ticket, and necessarily travelled under his
name, had to remain drunk for four days to avoid
being called upon to attend a confinement-case on
board. Still, he pulled through. If the bogus
Mr. Brown had had sense enough to get so drunk
that his alleged temporary wife would have been
justified in refusing to have him in the cabin with
her, he might have pulled through also, but, fail-
ing to recognise the psychological moment for
getting drunk, he fell in instead.
* • • *
Melb. University Council seems to have
gone to sleep over other' things besides its bank-
book. Said that the science branch has cost
£30,000 in laboratory accommodation, with £6OOO
per annum in salaries, and the educational return
for this outlay is 20 science-graduates in 13 years,
not one of whom has attained the rank of doctor
of science.
Victorian
police are hope-
lessly non-plussed
over the present
crime-boom. In
every recent case,
except the tram
sticking-up, they
have reported
that they prac-
tically know ex-
actly who the
marauders are,
but, for more or
less occult rea-
sons, can’t bring
them to book. A
well-known des-
perado, arrested
at Carlton, and
given two years,
was said to be
mixed up in vari-
ous cowardly gar-
roting episodes,
but all the police
could pot him for
was insulting be-
havior, or some-
thing of that
kind. The Haw-
thorn tram - car
robbers are
classed as new-
chums in crime,
and the “tecs.”
confess that there
is little chance of
getting them.
Also, the theatre-
door loungers
who bulk largely
in the alleged
detective force
made little efiort
to find out what
had become of
the escapees,
Sparks and
O’Connor, con-
tenting them-
selves with wait-
ing until some
furiously jealous
or drinky woman
should give the
vent uresom e
couple away. At
present any
criminal who re-
moves from Vic. to an adjacent State richly
deserves to be captured for his foolishness.
* • * *
The latest issue of the Australian Brewer’s
Journal has some interesting reading on the
“ tied ’’-hotel question. Its general tenor is that
the brewer is a loser by the “ tied ’’-hotel system ;
that he carries it on through pure philanthropy
and a desire to help the publican, and only looks
for his reward Hereafter, being content to suffer
the retail beer-dealer’s contumely on earth in the
knowledge that there is a better world beyond the
grave; and that all the evidence against him
must be false, for one has only to look at a brewer
to see that he is the sort of man who couldn’t
possibly do the things charged against him. As
a dignified way of getting out of a tight place this,
attitude has something to recommend it. In fact,
it appears to be about the only attitude available.
Furtber, concerning that Baby Question :
“ A Father in Israel ” complains ot the initial cost of ft
baby. But “cost” is a term to be considered relatively
to income. “ Middle-class ” is vague. I am a £l5O-t0£250-a-year
£ 250-a-year father, and my costs run to about £lO. Ido
noG grudge the doctor’s share, but the nurse is generally
a pest and a punishment in the house. The less said
about her the better. Old women, unable or unwilling to
do anything else, “go out ” nursing. Trusting to the
usual disorganised state of the household at the time ot
their visits, they feel that they can dodge more work
than at anv other known occupation. But it is after-
wards that the doctor’s deficiency obtrudes itself. He
studies all about bringing children into the world, but
how many of him study infantile disorders r
I speak from sorrowful experience gained in various parts
of this State (Vic.). Out of 6 well and truly born, only 3
have reached further than infancy. The medicoes have
done their best! Let the medical fraternity show its
patriotism by learning how to keep the children when
they do come. A man, seeing his crop of wheat, or
potatoes, fail year after year, grows discouraged. And so
throughout!
“ Hix ” writes “re cost of ‘arriving’
infants —my case ! ” :
Dear Bulletin.— Had a nurse just out from Women a
Hospital (Melb.). Told me she had been putting them
through at the rate of 20 to 30 per week for the past
three months. Charged £2 2s. per week and taught my
wife (erstwhile a shopgirl) enough housekeeping, cookery,
and sewing in one month to last until No. 2 appears.
Gave me some wrinkles, too —had to part with her for
fear of a row in the house. Doctor came every day for a
fortnight, but did little but talk to that nurse in the
passage—mostly medical jargon. Doctor, £2 2s. Baby-
clothes all presents, and enough for six. Nothing in
this to keep down the birth-rate.
* * * *
The Bulletin has before it a copy of the
prospectus of a military-volunteer corps, called
“ The Rangers,” which would have been formed
ip Sydney 16 years ago bad its original suggester
(now a much-gilded Field-Marshal or something)
not “jibbed” at the plainness of the proposed
uniform, and the fact that officers were to be
differentiated only by a black worsted badge.
“Good heaven!” said the gorgeous person in
Suestion, “how could I ever show myself at
-overnment House in a rig like that ? ” It was
the first time in Australia that anyone proposed
to give soldiers a slouch hat and bandoliers, and
the regular authorities have since adopted every
item of the uniform.
* » • •
Maoriland Govt, now seeks to pro
hibit the sale of “preventives,” at present im
ported by the cwt. The order of a medical prac-
titioner only will secure them. Penalties for
illegal sale, £2O first; £SO, second ; and from three
to 12 months (minimum three) for third offence.
“ CAPRICORNERED ”: A sketch setting forth Parisian influences on the
work of George Lambert.
Once more the nice, innocent little girl !
At Northam, W.A., a girl, aged 13, recently ac-
cused a well-known resident of the usual “out-
rage,” but admitted in the witness-box that the
charge was false. Accused was thereupon dis-
charged, and the girl went the usual way of such
innocents, without so much as a caution from the
Bench.
* * * *
If there is to be legislation against bar-
maids, why not also against chambermaids—
especially at coffee palaces ? The girl who waits
on the gluttonous total abstainer—he is almost
always a huge feeder—runs quite as many risks as
she who serves the whisky-sodden with drinks.
* * * *
Two social items. Mendelssohn Pickles
advertised his silver wedding in Sydney D.T.,
t’other day. And a recent N.S.W. baby was
registered Kruger Kitchener Victor Waugh.
His prospects may not be as bright
As his who humps the sordid hod,
But he must fly with luggage light—
The Parson ot the Period.
A lean, lithe, wiry preacher—brown
With much exposure, is the best
To chivvy Satan up and down,
And never give him time to rest.
He will keep lean if he be wise,
And he will preach and he will pray,
And fix his eyes on Paradise,
And live on half a meal a day.
How bitter is the parsons’ lot!
They do not mind, these slaves of dross,
The old age pension Peter got—
Head-downward hung upon a cross.
To wrestle with the man of sin,
And grapple with the child of crime,
Give me, for choice, the parson thin—
He is the winner every time.
CREEVR ROE.


d
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. ,
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin .
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made,
our own factory only, from
These are manufactured in
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The out, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
vmknown but at Mark Foy’s.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand
CHAMPACNE
AS SUPPLIED TO
‘ MOST EUROPEAN COURTS
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &c., &o.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
Pursy Chirnside, M.L.A., advertised in
the Melb. dailies recently for a station-manager.
“ Personal interviews and political letters will dis-
qualify,” said the advt. Evidently Pursy has
little faith in the man who brings splendid testi-
monials from members of Parliament.
Complexion, hair, nails, feet.—Guest’s
hygienic toilet treatments are patronised by the
entire vice-royalty of Australasia and endorsed by
the medical profession. They include face and
scalp massage, manicure, pedicure, medicated
shampoo. Visitors from the old country say that
in no part of the world are these treatments
carried out with such luxury and perfection as at
Guest’s Salons, 229 Bourke-street, also Block
Arcade, Collins-street, and Menzies Hotel, Mel-
bourne. *
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, Oofcober 8,1901.
My Dear Arxni,—
There is a tremendous demand this month for
strawberries and ladders. Society is working off
. its obligations largely and cheaply by means of
garden-parties. Hence the strawberry boom. All
over the city and suburbs ladders are reared
against public buildings and balcony railings, and
the smell of paint overpowers the tonic perfume
; of masses of native rose in the flower-sellers’
baskets. It is the most invigorating antiseptic
i, of all the Australian flower-scents. There’s a
j save-your-soul-alive pungency about it, and—
-1 thank Flora—the chemists haven’t yet got an
“extractof native.rose.”
; - Two garden-parties this week at Admiralty
House. The invitation-cards looked a bit strange
!• :a bald spot where R.S. V.P. used to grow.
' Invitees were puzzled, but “ answered ” to be on
. the safe side and in case it was the printer’s
’ fault. Now we learn (in the under-current)—and it
- is refreshing information—that the omission was
: intentional. The Admiral will be glad to see his
( 500 odd guests, but his private secretaries have
, something more important to do than opening
five hundred odd envelopes to read the perfectly
. immaterial item that the writer will attend the
i party. Sensible Admiral 1
. As well as loitering in gardens by invitation
and painting house-fronts, there’s a considerable
amount of engaging and marrying going on.
Those two returned gallant and handsome war-
. riors, the Antills—both majors—are to be
f* married shortly. Miss Christian and Miss Wills-
Allen are the prospective brides. Talking of
matrimony, a girl friend writes me from another
f State that she has just gone to live in a newly-
f married street, and so has grown to feel very
spinsterish and lonely. At nine every morning she
sees loving couples at the various gates saying
; good-byes as if they were never to meet on earth
again. “One Benedick kisses his hand to his
Beatrice as long as he remains in sight, and when
he turns the corner she goes dejectedly inside,
and, I feel sure, ‘hugs his other coat hang-
ing in' the hall. In the public building, where
I have my studio there is an assortment of young
men with symptoms that point to the occupation
of any vacant houses in that street. One symptom
is the incessant, use of the telephone, to" inquire
how Araininta is struggling along since* he rang
her up three-quarters of an hour before. They
borrow my hand-mirror and clothes-brush just
before the luncheon hour strikes and anxiously
renovate themselves before going forth to meet
Araminta and pack her with cakes at some* handy
tea-room. One Romeo came in yesterday with a
bleeding scratch on his chin—which, he explained,
had been caused by a brooch. Then with no more
warrant than that scratch I congratulated him and
asked ‘When is it to be?’ And quite simply he
replied, ‘ Next Spring ! ’ ”
To aid the funds of a worthy charity—the Civil
Ambulance Brigade—a host of children gathered
in many disguises last week at the Town Hall.
A glance over the throng and the graves of memory
yielded up their dead. Down through the cen-
turies clanked Richard Coeur de Lion capturing
on his way a Butterfly and a Juliet, scowling at
Lord Nelson, and finally dancing with a Pillar-
box. The baby Cupid—barefooted, with six
inches of cloudy skirt, a quiverful of arrows, and
a pair of seagull’s wings—was too young and
sleepy to fire a shaft into the heart of the
Swagman on behalf of the Belle of New York.
Uncle Tom stuck to little Eva until Federated
Australia lured him away, when a Chinese
Mandarin took his place. A small policeman
consistently “ran in” an Old Apple-woman the
whole evening. And a dear little fellow of about
four, with his fair curls sticking through the roof
of his tattered cap, an apology for shoes on his
unsocked feet, and clothed in the best imitation
of rags one ever saw, was selling Bulletins.
But he looked, as to rags and broom, more like
Dickens’ Joe of “Tom’s All Alone,” and seetaed
to take the fancy of a Nursery Rhyme of about
30 inches high, with blue saucer eyes and a tangle
of brown hair. 'There was an adorable little
damsel of 18 months who toddled about in powder
and patches with a white satin dress opening over
a maize petticoat. She looked a tiny miniature
of Nance O’Neil in the “School for Scandal.”
And the judges unanimously awarded her a prize
as Lady Teazle. But when her “character” was
called upon to take a prize, a tall girl in a side-
ways hat stepped up and raked in it, for the
toddler proved to be Sixteenth Century.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson, Mr. Harry Leston, and
Dr. A. Burne acted as judges, and allotted the
prizes. Admiral and Lady Beaumont went
amongst the many-colored crowd, and seemed to
e jxj°y themselves. Ex-Mayoress Harris (one of
the presidents), and Mrs. F. A. Bennett (one of
the hon. secs.), Mrs. John Hay, Mrs. Sinolair
Gillies, and other workers for the charity were
present. . .
Good old Town Hall! It covers a multitude of
chanties. True, it gets rent'for the same. For
* hree weeks it’s not a Town Hall but an
1 old Dutch street of shops, humming like -a hive
with business, the proceeds of which will be
devoted to the Destitute Boys’Home at West-
mead. The vestibule is crowded with merchan-
dise, buggies, pianolas, stoves, etc., and at the
L Wer i. le boys are plying the trades
they have learned at the Home : boot-making, for •
instance. Cardinal Moran, accompanied'by Mrs.
bee, who is president of the Ladies’ committee,
opened the Fair on Saturday afternoon. ’ The
smallest, goodest boy, no doubt, presented a rosy.
posy to Mrs. See, whose black and heliotrope
dressing looked well near the sideground of the
Cardinal’s crimson. A splendid choir of boys’
voices was under the conductorship of Herr H.
Alpen. The sellers are in costumes of various
times and climes, and they’ll need to sell a lot, for
their rent will come to nearly £5OO for the three
weeks.
Lord Beauchamp has been engaged and dis-
engaged by Reuter, all within 24 hours. ' The
match that didn’t come off is a good one—for
Lord Beauchamp. Neither of the Rosebery girls
has any looks to boast of, but they are both clever,
good hostesses, and will have tons of money!
When Lord Rosebery and his kindly, jolly Lady
Hannah were out here, some .years ago, their
children were very young, and did not accompany
their parents, but every day. their ‘ mother
cabled a message to them, and daily got news
of them wired to her. As for Lord Beauchamp,
for the short time he reigned over us, he
showed such abnormal discretion in his choice
—or, rather, his avoidance—of women’s society,
that silly or romantic stories grew like fungi
round his name. One of the tales was, that he
was privately engaged to the Duke of Connaught’s
daughter; another, that he cherished a grand
passion for a beautiful housemaid, who was being
educated with a view to her becoming his wife.
They were injustices— to the duke’s daughter and
the housemaid. Now, here’s another injustice to
Beauchamp. But Reuter’s fib got 24 hours’
start of the truth, and you may take hold pf the
wings of the morning, and fly round tlie world
till you’re dead, but you won’t catch up with that
nb Unless, of course, Sibyl and Willie agree to
make it fact.
The Philosopher, the Devil and the Damsel, at
Her Majesty’s, for the first time this season, on
Saturday night. They call it “ Faust.” Madame
Sapio, in a blue, pleated chiffon, gold [girdle, two
long plaits, a prayer-book, and a not-yet-out ex-
pression of face, looked like a stained-glass-
window saint. Her singing matched her looking,
and in the famous ‘‘Jewel Sqng” her .acting was
-well, the kohinoors and giant emeralds (made in
Hades) Weren’t brighter. I wonder if all the per-
sons who grow incoherent with admiration over
i? 0 “ ex Y el ” really feel enthusiasm, or are
they pulling their own heart-strings ? Take away
the acting, and . By the way, Madame
Sapio, who is really a devout Presbyterian (and
was formerly, .as Clementine de: Vere, the bright
particular soprano of a New York Presbyterian
fane), sang, the other Sunday, at a big R.C.
church, and since then her hearers have been
hugging her, in spirit, as a co-religionist.
Signor Dani—it is to be hoped he won’t get any
fatter, for the young lover in Grand Opera musn’t
have a face like a currant bun. When Dani
landed in Melbourne he was a slight, stripling
tenor. Now he’s got an obvious fasade, and
everyone is afraid the high C will grow corpulent
also and falter in its soaring. In fact, all the
principals of the co. are rounding out any angles
they had on arrival. Signor Travaglini, as Mefisto,
looks like a pirate, and puts a fine “bail-up”
earnestness into his acting. Wben the army-
corps crushes him with the sign of the cross on its
sword-hilts you strain your eyes to see what sort
of a guard his own weapon has. A coiled, gold
serpent, with projected head, open jaws, and
forked tongue. His trick of pointing with the
index and little fingers of both hands (the other
fingers being tightly clenched) when he is jeering
would provoke a breach of the peace in the Golden
City itself. ' , :
Miss Clare Walford gave a piano recital at
Paling’s on Saturday, under the direction of
Signor de Beaupuis, and assisted by Miss Daisy
Thornes. Miss Walford, who is very young, gave
a brilliant rendering of Schumann’s Concerto in
A minor, Beethoven’s Waldstein Sonata op. 53,
and Liszt’s Spanish Rhapsodie. She had an
enthusiastic audience, and was warmly congratu-
lated. Mrs. Walford provided afternoon tea.
The projected Maternity Home at Adelaide
received a great send off from the ball arranged in
its aid last Thursday (Oct. 3rd). Lord Richard
Nevill stage-managed the whole affair, and suc-
ceeded in getting together 21 “special” sets of
lancers. As they contained 16 dancers each, all
of whom had to pay for their tickets, and as other
hundreds crowded to look at them, the success
of the affair was assured. Lady Clarke came
over from Melbourne to assist Lady Tenny-
son in judging, and the competition was vbry
keen. The way in which Lord Richard and three
other military experts got the 350 dancers and
juvenile heralds on and off the floor, and into
their proper stations, was a marvel of hasty drill-
ing. Some heartburning was caused by the fact:
that all the ‘ smart ” sets were passed over by the
judges in favor of an elaborately-costilmed display
from a much-advertising draper’s'.
Mrs. Ada Whiting, the miniature-painter, of
Melbourne, has been on a visit to her brother,
Mr. Rodney Cherry, of Sydney. Admirers of.
Mrs. Whiting’s exquisite miniature work are,
trying to induce her to settle here. A portrait on
ivory of little -Mabel Brassey, and one of Lady'
Hopetoun, were exhibited a season or so ago at a
Royal Academy show in London. , And some
dainty specimens have been shown ,at the local
Society of Artists’ exhibitions. Mrs.. Whiting’s
studio" in Melbourne is in Collins-street.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Artist P. Hansen (whosecopies from Rubens,
painted at Munich some years ago, are among the
most interesting pictures in Melbourne) is sbpwipg
two portraits which will presently be sent along
to Bendigo Exhibition gallery. One is a half-
length of Chief Justice Madden, in his habit as he
lives and ‘beams. The cherubic, bald-headed
Waxellency has never before been put on canvas,
strange to say. -‘John’ is a thing of beauty, in
the prettiest of frames. He looks just as he
appears on any public occasion when he bares his
shining head to public admiration. The tightly-
buttoned frock-coat, the light mauve tie, the roses
and green leaves in the buttonhole are character-
istic embellishments. His Wax., with an inner
edging of gilt to set him off, is—lovely. Needless
to say, his gracious spouse is delighted with this
first personification of festive Maddenhood in
oils.
“ The other portrait is a three-quarter length of
Mr. Cohn, ex-Mayor of Bendigo—a fresh-com-
plexioned identity with a good deal of white hair
and beard, taking his pose easily in a big arm-
chair. In this case the artist has laid himself out
for bright effects. Red chair-back, vivid blue-
covered book on the table beside the sitter, and a
couple of baubles pinned to the left breast of the
coat—a life-like picture which ought to put the
subject on good terms with himself. The care-
fully painted decorations are a war-medal and the
Danish - order jof K.D. (Knight of Dannebrog).
Mr. Cohn shed his gunpowder for Denmark
against Prussia and Austria in the war of long ago,
and the K. D. was conferred on him by the good old
King last time he went to Copenhagen. So, in
the natural course of national pride, the ex-Mayor
engaged his compatriot, Mr. Hansen, to paint him
and his decorations, now that the feast of Bendigo
is at hand.
“Capt. Yallange and Col. Campbell are men-
tioned as candidates for the soon-to-be-vacant
Chief-Cornrnissionership of Police, but knowing
ones scratch these Madden proteges off the list.
Waxcellency’s prestige and popularity are not
what they were. There was a time when ‘Him-
self’ seemed to read his title clear to the State
Governorship, while brother-in-law Bingham
(backed up by a charming wife and Brassey influ-
ence) was generally regarded as military Com-
mandant to be. Had these eggs hatched, it
would have fitted in beautifully at the present
stage for son-in-law Vallajige to succeed the
venerable and courtly Chomley as chief of Vic-
torian Police.
“ 1 hose who should know, regard this pricking
of Madden bubbles as the work of one woman—a
forceful political dame, antagonised by the chilly
condescension of the Lieut.-Governor’s uplifted
domestic circle. Had these ladies stroked Parlia-
mentary Marms the right way, Pa, Uncle and co.
might have been gladder men to-day. Ambitious
officials should coach their kinswomen in the in-
valuable art of conciliating Federal frumpdom.
There’s our own Mrs. Malaprop, for instance,
summed up by supercilious simpletons as merely a
convenient peg for funny yarns. Blunderer or
not, she’s an important factor in affairs of State,
for she’s a fierce foe and not even a fond friend ;
so testify estranged cronies.
“Successful rising barrister Schutt is just en-
gaged to be married. Papa Schutt is librarian of
the Supreme Court Library, and if his son only
gives half the consistent affection to his future
wife as Dad to his library, the bride-elect is an
unusually lucky woman.
“ Another local Ancient, with his heart-strings
twined round a hobby, got a hard knock lately.
Mr. What’s-his-name, who is related to a Supreme
Court Judge, to a Professor at Law, and other
legal artd learned identities, has, for many a day,
set his affections on the University, of whose staff
he is a member, and in whose precincts he spends
his life— ‘in an underground cave,’ says’Varsity
tradition, which means, I suppose, a basement
room. T’other day, when this-hermit heard of the
pecuniary losses of his heart’s' darling, he was so
overcome that he had to be taken ‘ home ’ in a
cab. Concentrate your affections on a woman or
a hobby, and there is always chance of disaster.
The wise man doesn’t put all his eggs in one
basket.
‘ ‘ Patrons and patronesses of a Diocesan Festival
are not the'sort to lay the odds, or indulge in any
form of moneyed speculation of the kind, so in
weighing the ehances as to whether the Countess
would stick to her promise and attend their
‘ little meeting ’ or not the good folks merely tried
the Marguerite trick, plucking petals as a test—
‘ She comes—she’ does not come.’ All were seated
at long, narrow tables, the black coats fluttered
here.and there among the particular ewes of the
flock j Mayoress Gillott, unhopeful, stood with
interlaced hands on the platform, when there was
a stampede, a fuss, a flutter, a rustle, and the
Countess had come ! She mounted the platform,
nodded unsmilingly at the ‘quality,’ yielded
to Her Worship’s grasp of welcome, and settled
herself at the table beside the dear, old, innocent
Bishop.
“ Two 1 young men, with corresponding eye-
panes, sentinelled Her Ex.—one, the younger
brother, Hon. E. DeMoleyns, of sugar-cane indus-
try. Since last in Melbourne, this youth has
browned a bit, Bananaland fashion, and put on
a stone or- two, so he looks less like a walking-
stick than of yore. To see the frigid Countess
pouring out tea, was to witness her in a new
capacity.; Now, a woman of grace finds great
scope,for pretty play at the tea-table, but Her Ex.
has no coquetries to waste on such things, and
she set about the work of filling cups with an air
of serious duty in her head-bend.
“In the evening a bumper diocesan house
watched for the re-arrival of the principal lady.
Her -Ex. had got home in the interval, and
changed her toilette. The second equipment was
a grey, the eternal grey frock with hurdles of
white lace stretching over each panel-join, and a
big fluffy vivid pink ruff, which bore some affinity
to the pink toque, splashed with black osprey,
atop her black thatch. She sat next the Mayoress,
certainly next, but far, far away. There were
mountains and oceans and icebergs between. That
good lady looked cheery, considering things. She
sported black and a white chiffon ruff.
“ The most conspicuous person in the balcony
was a Judge’s daughter, who has recently taken
to a pince-nez. This she held to her shapely nose
and took survey of the clerical and holy throng in
the most supercilious and truly ‘ English ’ style.
Near her languished a long, limp lady, who helps
the dowager to regulate society. Captain Cor-
bet nnjoyeda-particularly bad time. A pro-
gramme of prayers and other items had been put
into his hand, and he bore a truly miserable
appearance as he stood (the honor thrust on him)
among the sky-pilots of advanced piety, most of
them being deans at the very least. Only once
did the gay captain prick up his ears, and that
was when a reverend pastor from Gippsland gave
a genuinely humorous story of the first horse he
rode on his rounds through the bush.
“ Most of the Naicest went to the Werribee for
the Pursey Ohirnside garden-party on Saturday,
so Flemington race-meeting was rather a tame
and dowdy affair, despite the presence of their
Exes, and six lank, lean followers in floggers and
top hats. There was so little staring and so much
time and space to spare that the wan-faced
Governor and her substantial ladyship took a
turn up and down the terrace, and then did a
turn of t.he lawn, and seemed to have much to
say to each other in the unusual circumstance of
being alone in a crowd. Her Ex. was a little
dressier than usual—a bluey-grey frock, flounced
at the skirt-edge, and having a tricky trimming
on sleeves and corsage of black velvet strappings,
with gold buttons to finish off. Add a white boa
and a black toque with pink choux, and you have
the turn-out.
“Mrs. Ernest Raleigh resurrected her slender
form and fair face from a long oblivion, and
showed up at the races, on Saturday, in a dainty,
navy-blue outfit, with one of the new tabbed
jackets, and a large Tuscan hat strewn with
luscious roses. Two smart frockers were the
daughters of the great little Surgeon Fitzgerald.
Outside of this circle the most effective figure was
Mrs. Fred. M'Evoy, who showed her theatrical
taste in a trailing blue costume, plenty of good
lace about the Eton coat, and a large, fetching,
Tuscan hat covered with flowers and black velvet
bow.
“Edith Crane arid Tyrone Power, host and
-hostess, so to ■ speak, of the function, were
the most impressive pair on view, the stately
Edith wearing black voile over rose silk
and rose-wreathed hat, while her husband,
fine lump of a lad, sported coat, hair and hat,
long and black all thiee. Everyone admires ‘the
Power’ in most of his stage-robes, but, off the
boards, one can’t appreciate a top-piece, coiffured
so exactly on the lines of the mask of tragedy, or
of ‘John the Baptist’s head on a charger,’ as
recently depicted by a French artist. The his-
trionic knight of the lank, black locks is at heart
(people say) a broth of a ‘ white-headed boy,’
Wifie and he are most united, house-hunting in
couples, and habitually pitching their tent & deux
in a secluded suburban villa, rather than an un-
homelike city hotel.
“ At the matinee, Mrs. John Sandes, nawking
round sweets and photos., had black lace hat-
strings and lilac voile gown, her neck and there-
abouts being arrayed according to prevalent
methods in cream transparency, strings of beads,
and lilliput touches of baby velvet. This hand-
some stage aspirant, who was generally supposed
to have joined the Bijou co., is now credited
with having failed to come to terms with Hawtrey.
Her slim sister, Edith Berry, tall and nice-looking,
with fine eyes, looked summery in pale blue.
Miss Wilson Barrett seemed less subdued than
usual, thanks to a posy of crimson carnations and
handsome lace applique on her ivory-satin coat-
re vers. The Lieut.-Governess and her two
daughters, both the latter wearing big, black,
befeathered hats, shed no brightness on their sur-
roundings till ‘Tom, Dick and Harry’ came to
hand, when the belle of the group cheered up and
gave observers a peep-show of dimples and pearly
teeth.
“The mention of teeth suggests indirectly the
crisp, humorous matinee dance of little Irene
Dillon, daughter of a dead-and-gone dentist, still
remembered by his dental achievements, the
prettiest, most convincing, artificial biters known
hereabouts. Parental capacity, I guess, is gener-
ally handed down in one form or another.
Carlyle’s stone mason Dad built such staunch
little cottages that his son’s heart swelled with
filial pride whenever he came across the ‘ wee bib
places.’
“Blonde, buxom, thick-tongued Daisy Bel-
more, who cheers up Barrett productions, and
who yearns to play ‘ Rosalind ’ and ‘Lady
Teazle,’ gave a recitation unaffectedly, as did
Alice Crawford, though her selection inclined
more to the lugubrious. Much talking and
mouthing evidently develops the jaw. Miss
Crawford’s lower-face begins to assume the
familiar actress outline. Before long, her nose,
like Nellie Stewart’s, will seem short by com-
parison with her chin.
“ Friday (Oct. 4), when Barrett’s flock left
quietly for Adelaide, Lillah M‘Carthy looked at-
tractive in a good-bye get-up of grey, her loose
little coatee, smartened with ivory-satin and lace-
applique, and her big, grey hat, all chiffon, to
match. _ When the Barrett arrived in Australia,
this trip, he said he had tidings of great joy to
tell us, embodied in ‘ Man and his Makers.’. Mel-
bourne heard the message very calmly. Maybe,
the City of Churches will prove itself soil more
suitable to a mission.”
Yours affectionately,
AKKNEHI.


QitiZ@ns’[ifeAssurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES 11ST FORCE EXCEED 210,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Streets,
Sydney.
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK and WHITE.
"Lightest Wines in Australia
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Presently the cable will announce that
Ed ward is going to assume the extra title of King
of the Jews.
There is talk of training a Sydney youth,
Kenneth Solomon, to the Jewish ministry; he
would be the first Australian Rabbi.
B. R. Wise and father, the late Justice
Wise, are the only instances in N.S.W. of father
and son practising as Attorney-General.
“Kissy” Ware, C.M.G., will not run again
for Adelaide mayoralty. Mr. Cohen, ex-M.P.,
and Aid. C. Wells, will contest for the honor of
succeeding him.
John See is the fourteenth N.S.W.
Premier. Forster and Farnell died untitled, and
Reid and See are still in a plain condition. The
other 10 pulled off titles.
Miss Rose Scott converted Lyne, and
Lyne converted See to woman suffrage. She also
converted Parkes, half-converted Reid, but igno-
miniously failed to touch the heart of Dibbs.
The news of M‘Kinley’s death was headed
by a M.L. editor, who knows his Bible well, “The
silver cord is loosed.” It looked like a graceless
allusion to the dead man’s views on the currency.
M‘Kinley was a man of peace, with a
genius for caution. Roosevelt is an amateur
swashbuckler, with a genius for self-advertise-
ment. Listen, aud you will soon hear the Eagle
scream.
Lord Hopetoun is really in danger of
taking himself rather too seriously in his position
of Governor-General. He has no duties except
social ones, which he cannot best attend to by
neglecting them.
The successor to Bishop Goe will bring
Melbourne into line with Sydney in regard to
Bishops. Sydney has had four—Broughton, Bar-
ker, Barry, and Smith; Melbourne: Perry, Moore-
house, Goe, and .
Julian Salomons is, since the death of G.
B. Barton, senior of the N.S.W. Bar. Barton
was called in 1859, two years before Salomons,
but never had much taste for practice. Edmund
Barton was called twelve years later than his
brother.
Should N.S.W. Police Inspector-General
Fosbery retire, the man who, according to all
accounts, is most likely to get the refusal of his
post is Surgeon-Colonel “ Billy ” Williams, who
nas so distinguished himself as a medical military
organiser.
“ Sandgroper ” : S. H. Parker, K.C.,
newly-appointed Judge of the Westralian
Supreme Court, deserves his position.
Native of the State, he got his early
education at Perth Grammar School,
and graduated at London Univer-
sity. An English barrister, he
held the first position at the
W. A. 3ar. When the
measure for the Respon-
sible Government of
W.A. went before the
House of Lords Com-
m ittee, Parker was
elected to represent the
State in London. Asked
by a member of the
committee “ How many
acres are there in West
Australia ? ” Parker re-
plied : “ The area of
West Australia eom-
prises 975,920 square miles,”
and the questioner collapsed. When Parker
returned to Perth, he was banqueted and
made much of, and it was generally understood
then that he would be the first W. A. Premier.
But John Forrest and Governor Robinson were
interested in lands in the West, and Forrest
received the prize. Ever since,
there has been no love lost
between Bigjohn and Parker,
and, but for the latter’s lack
of ambition, he would, long
ere this, have taken several
“ falls ” out of Forrest.
Q. Governor Lammg-
ton’s successor, despite the
Q. Ministry’s attempt to
bluff it off, will get £5OO per
annum less than that tired
baron. One reason given by
Premier Philp against an Aus-
tr.dian-bred Governor was that
ho would be “too amenable to
local influences a nasty slap for
A cting-Governor Sam Griffith. Also,
don’t the Judges have to decide ques-
-1 ons at every sittings much more delicate than
i e figurehead will ever be asked to adjudicate
u pon ? And even the imported Governor begins
to have relatives in Australia—nigger-driving
relatives who run sugar plantations and breathe
information into the ear of the figurehead.
A leading Sydney barrister, in his address
to the jury during a recent court case, several
times repeated that defendant attacked plaintiff
“without the slightest prevarication!” And he
looked surprised every time the Court laughed.
G. R. Dibbs will be 67 on Saturday
(Oct. 12); Guy Boothby 34 on Sunday; Judge
Williams (Vic.), 58 ; and Editor Bonython, M.P.,
53 on Tuesday; James R. Fairfax, of S.M.
Herald, 67 on Thursday ; and President Wrixon
(Vic.) 62 on Friday of next week.
Supreme Court Judges in N.S.W. com-
plain of being sweated, and the O’Sullivan looks
forward to receiving a deputation, introduced by
M‘Gowan, but wearing horse-hair, and asking for
a minute that eight hours shall be a legal day’s
work on Government judicial jobt.
David Syme is about to publish another
book on the lines of his previous works. This
new book will endeavor to prove that agnostic
doctrines against the immortality of the soul are
strictly unscientific. Gloomy Dawvid is deter-
mined not to part with his spiritual being.
The late Tom Garrett still holds the record
for the shortest N.S.W. electioneering speech.
At Campbelltown he got up and said “ Ladies and
‘shentleman,’ I’m going in and I don’t give a
d n for anyone ! ” And he went in, too.
Maoriland Chief-Justice Stout has never
quite made up his mind either to go into politics
or stay outside. He is only 57, and carries his
years more easily than Seddon, so he may have
another political innings yet, if the Imperial
poison soaks too deeply into the bones of Ward.
The eccentric and litigious Rev. James
Clarke, erstwhile of Sydney, has turned up in
London, with his long hair and little round hat,
after touring Palestine on foot. While in Sydney
and suburbs he didn’t feel well unless he tramped
20 miles a day; he declared that he never felt
tired in his life.
Rumored in Adelaide that millionaires
Barr-Smith and T. H. Angas, both of whom are
over 70, are to be decorated on the King’s birth-
day ; also, that mining magnate G. Brookman,
M.L.C., is to get a bauble in recognition of his
recent £15,000 donation to the building fund of
the School of Mines.
Labor member Page, at a meeting in
Western Q. : “lam, gentleman, an Imperialist.
I served in the Royal Artillery, and I fought at
Majuba Hill.” Interjection—“ You mean you ran
away from Majuba Hill!” Page :“I did ; but I
am certain my worthy friend would not even have
run. He would have been too paralysed with
fear!”
The Senate Labor Party’s satirical demand
to be addressed by mock military and naval titles
—such as Buccaneer M‘Gregor, Privateer Higgs,
Fusilier De Largie, and Bombardier Stewart —
was aimed at Jawbone Neild. It should about
settle the Federal Hansard’s silly practice of
quoting him as “ Senator Lieutenant-Colonel
Neild.”
“ Hawk ” : Re Larry Petrie (B. 22/6/’01).
Your correspondent errs. Petrie’s arm was
crushed in very early youth, and, when I knew
him, he had not had it amputated. This was just
after he had begun “Queen’s Statue lecturing.”
He was on my uncle’s station for some time,
but got hoofed-out for trying to blackmail for
dummying.
How many company-directors are in the
present See (N.S.W.) Government ? Not as many
as in the preceding, admittedly. But it is worth
noting that, in forming their Administrations,
Gladstone and Rosebery stipulated that those
taking office should resign during their term of
office from any directorships held by them. It is,
unfortunately, true that Salisbury resembles some
Australian Premiers.
SUDDEN
DEATH.
COMMON PERSON:
“ They say if you tread on a
worm that worm will turn;
but if he treads on him he
won’t turn, I’ll bet.”
Time was when Trenwith, the present
Vic. Minister of Railways, would address a work-
ing-men’s club re his services to the Labor party
and wind up with the pathetic question, “What,
have politics done for me ? ” On one occasion'a
voice from the crowd cried in reply, “ Look at
your bingy, Treuny ! ” If the protuberant ex-
tribune were to put the same query to-day the
meeting would rise as one man and yell—“ Look
at your portfolio ! ” Everything comes to the
bingied politician.
SWAPPING HORSES .
Recipe for apparent
eternal youth, apropos of a
striking Melbourne case.
Firstly, be born red-haired.
Cultivate a long beard, and _ ,
when it shows symptoms of greying, dye it red.
Go on dyeing it red. No one will ever suspect
you of so revolting a crime.
President John Lackey, of N.S.W Leg.
Council, entered on his 72nd year last week. He
was returned to the Assembly 42 years ago for
Parramatta, and subsequently represented Central
Cumberland until 1885, when he was transferred
to the nominee Chamber. He has been in feeble
health for many months ; and there are already
hungry eyes on his billet.
Kingston has stuck so closely to his
Federal duties that he has not once visited Ade-
laide since the Federal Parliament opened. He
did not even honor with his presence the recep-
tion of the Duke of York. Indeed, Adelaide was
the only city of the group which managed to
entertain the Prince unhelped by any member of
the Commonwealth Cabinet.
John Greeley Jenkins is the third succes-
sive S. A. Premier who does not smoke or drink.
C. C. Kingston and Holder avoided wine and the
weed. On the other hand, ex-Premier Downer
liked his wine, and was never considered fully-
dressed unless he was wearing a cigar. Jenkins
confesses to having swallowed 57,000 cups of tea
since his residence in Australia.
Vic. Police Chief Commissioner Chomley
retires almost immediately—or would, if he did
not add to his resignation that he wished to retire
on compensation. The snows of three score years
and ten sit on Mr. Chomley’s head, and close on half-
a-century of service entitles the Chief Commis-
sioner to over £4OOO retiring compensation. It
does not read much, but State Treasurer Peacock
thinks it means a lot.
All-round-popular and weighty “ Dick ”
O’Connor, who, they said, was not going to sacri-
fice his Sydney Bar practice to Federal politics,
finds it more and more necessary to do so. He
was to have led for the Broken Hill municipal
council in its big Equity suit with the mining
co.’s, but had to return the brief —at an hour so
late, too, that there was much tumult in the
camp; for when they sought another senior they
found that retainers for the other side had fallen
thick as autumn-leaves.
S’Langdon Bonython, of S. A. 'Tiser, is an
ambitious little man, but his efforts in the House
of Reps, are hindered by his inability, through
nervousness, to string half-a-dozen sentences
together when on his legs. He produces a good
speech, however, which reads like a leading
article, and rattles it off boldly enough, in direct
violation of Parliamentary procedure. When he
tried the reading trick on the first time he was
promptly repressed by Speaker Holder, but an
understanding has evidently been come to between
the two Crow-eaters.
The late Dr. E. W. Way, who was just 10
Jears younger than his brother, the S.A. Chief-
ustice, is the only medico prominently connected
with the historical Adelaide Hospital dispute who
came out of it with complete credit—although
Kingston, because of the Doctor’s gynaecological
speciality, once did, in a vitriolic moment, allude
to him as “a medical Jack the Ripper.” The
doctor was a skilful, honorable, and generous
man, and, despite his large practice, never de-
clined to visit a poor patient, even although he
knew no fee would result.
President Roosevelt is the youngest man
who has ever occupied his present position. He
will not be 43 until the middle of October, and
every previous President, save three, had reached 50
years when installed. Franklin Pierce (1853) was
49; Grant (18G9) was 47, and Grover Cleveland
(1885) was 48. Washington was 57 when first
chosen, and this was also the age of Andrew John-
son, Gen. Grant, while Jefferson, Madison, Mon-
roe and Quincy Adams—who succeeded each other
between 1801 and 1825—were all 58 at the starting
of their Presidential careers.
Adelaide University professors have not,
as a rule, lasted long. Of the little staff of four,
with which regular work was begun just over '2O
years ago, three are already dead—Classics Kelly,
Literature Fletcher, and now Science Tate.
Mathematics Lamb, the least popular of the lot,
went back to a better-paid post at Manchester.
Tate was the oldest, and he wasn’t an old man.
His methods and manners were peculiar; but
most of his students, even though they would not
obey him, had a sincere admiration and affection
, , ~,
for him - He was m geology ; but, by the
way, his deep knowledge of the science didn t help
him at all in bis mining specs., in which he was a
colls j s tent loser.
ft* week the Geod Templar., had a spree
(jubilee festival) m Sydney, and cold water and
the alphabet had a night out On the platform
were a number of persons the boss of whom had,
as a tail, the letters G.C. T. I hen came the
R.W.G.T. ; and in order the G.C., R.N.D.D.,.
GE s d.R.W.G.T., P.G.S., G.0.T., G.S.,
p.G- C.T,, P.G.S.J.T., P.G.1.J.T., P.G.T.,
q. >T> q., p.G.T.C., and G.S. J.T., with Banana
j easep an( j Jonel Fegan, M’sL.A. as tailers-up.
Appar ently B, F, H, K, Q, U, V, X, Y and Z
were a bsent, or are not Good Templars.
. Testimonial (italic, are Th* Br-uWs)
n ” lltary PMe “ *
Gumsucker Imperial Snortbloods,
September 3rd, lDdl.
Mr .
I rode on one of the trooper’s saddles manufactured by
you for the Snortbloods throughout the campaign in
South Africa until I was shot doton, and in my opinion
those saddles were a credit to you and also to the State i n
which they were manufactured.—Yours,
0. O’Doolioan, Lt. 001.
Commanding Gumsucker Snortbloods.
Which distinctly reads like one for the saddler
and three or four for the valorous O’Dooligan.
A Melbourne Age anecdote of Paterson,
mem ber for Gehenna and suburbs in the House of
Representatives :
In an eloquent s u e nce he related that he had recently
gone home and found something at his back gate that
fairly staggered him. It was “ naething mair nor less
than a Chinyman’s veg-etable cairt.” It was owned by a
Chinese, the hon. member continued, and driven by a
Chinese. Mr. Paterson confessed to a righteous indigna-
tion. “ Why,” he said to one of his household — “ why is
this ? Ah wull lose mah election. Ah wull go doon
unwept, unhonored, and unsung, instead of speaking in
the halls of Parliament ! ’’ Members awaited with interest
the continuation of the story while Mr. Paterson examined
hig papers . They tit W( jrd for word> with ]ong inter .
vals between. “ The reply Ah got,” said the hon. mem-
her, “was this:—‘lt’s a’ verra weel for you to talk. The
toon is sax miles awa’, and unless we ha’ a Chinyman’s
veg-etables ye wull ha’ na soup.’” “We changed the
Chinyman for a Jairmun,” resumed the hon. member,
after another pause ; “ and then we fund oot — what dae
ye think ? Why, the Jairmun bought his vegetables frae
the Chinyman ! ”
The two ineffectual prosecutions of Vera
Hayes (after the second jury disagreed the Crown
gave the matter up disgustedly as a bad job) on a
charge of attempting to blackmail Richard Adol-
phus Sholl, Westralian State Postmaster-General,
left things a little more unaccountable than they
were at first. Some time ago, a good many
hundred pounds disappeared from the postal
department at Perth, and it was officially decided
that the hand of some person unknown had
reached into the safe and taken the cash out.
There was a good deal of excitement, and many
dark suspicions were entertained in public-houses
over the matter. The hunt for the money was
said to be very slow and perfunctory, but that
wa s probably the natural perfunctoriness of the
country. Some time afterwards, Henry Sholl,
the P.M.G.’s son, and also connected with the
department, died. And, soon after, a woman,
J ho waa said to have called on Sholl, senior,
demanding money as the price of her silence
about a b Dark Deed, was arrested by the
Hoe _ one the at her fcria l was that
* he demanded mOl J y in consideration of not
telli the world whe ' e the cash that disappeared
out of Perth post office had gone to. Another
was that she w F as just a betrayed and repentant
womWl who ought to have been married to the
late Henry Sholl, but wasn’t, and who desired to
seo the olc j man D ’ n perso nal matters, and had been
grievously misunderstood by an excited old Post-
master. Also, it was confusedly alleged that
Henry Sholl wasn’t dead at all, though why he
should pretend to be was none too clear. At all
events, a large crowd grew enthusiastic, for no
very well-defined reason, over the accused,
and gave her an ovation when the case broke
down. In fact, that night she could have
borrowed a half-crown from almost any human
being in Perth outside the Six Families. What
the enthusiasm was all about nobody really knows,
Perhaps an utter weariness of the name of Sholl
had as much to do with it as anything else.


DAVID STORER Sc SONS’ iw Three bed and blub
Registered
Trade
Mark.
IOOOiIVI
L
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL«
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and BTOREKEEPERB.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
To Contruujtors. In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as marly as possible. Thus
mam. interest-inn nhaevnnn* •in. ■ ,
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
mi , .
me luck or children! At Woollar
(N.S.W.) recently, an 18-months-old infant fell
down an old well 37ft. deep. At the bottom were
a little water and mud, and on top was a wind-
lass, with rope attached. A brother aged 14 got
on the'rope, and his 16-year-old sister was lower-
•„ , • , , was lower
ng mm to rescue the little one, when the rotten
rope snapped, and he fell 30ft. He was stunned
for a few minutes, and on coming to found him-
self lying on his back in the water and mud,
uHi-b fL O , .... , ~ . . * ’
witn the infant sitting beside him quite uncon-
cerned, and trying to catch the tadpoles in the
water. The girl brought assistance, and the pair
were raised to ti'g surface practically undamaged.
* '' * * .
“Tot” : Between Taroom and Sprmgsure
(Q.) recently met a man pushing a bike, loaded
with swags and treacle-tins, and a cage with a
parrot. A woman was trudging behind, water-
bag in hand, and over shoulder a bag with two
pups in it. Making to Clermont, distant 300
miles, having then done nearly 200 from S. and
W. line. Track very dry, and one 50-mile spell
between stations. What hearts some people have !
* • * .
A woman, with a swag up, recently passed
through Walgett, N.S.W. Said she had walked
from Adelaide, and was going to tramp it to Mel-
bourne, 700 miles ! K 1
’* , t
J?
Hollow incident, up Quirindi way, many years
ago, when a single armed man held up the coach.
Here paralysis must also have set in, for a lad
Indchaffi Ve cl 1 o P seH 18 w>L e, ?L ly ' S’®! 3 Wat ° h
r, h “i °i° a sed - th rob nl' had a , sevei : e
taXtd’tSdSdihStaS:
to its tragic end.
Photo. of bullock’s head with ingrowing horn. The beast was originally
one of a working team, the property of some Maories, but escaped about 12 years
back, and joined the wild cattle in some M.L. ranges. The left
horn penetrates 4½ in. into the head , through a hole 2¼ in. in diameter. The
other horn had also pierced the skin, causing an indentation in the skull.
The animal was found by a party of surveyors in such poor condition that it
could hardly move; and a friendly bullet put an end to its misery. The head
is in the possession of Mr. A. K. Blundell, stock inspector, Wanganui.
Photo, by C. P. Wood, Wanganui (M.L.)
“ Barb ” : Crows, eaglehawks, and dingoes
are blamed as the worst lamb-killers, but I would
five the palm to the “goanna.” This lambing I
ave noticed lambs, freshly killed, with paunch
torn out, though eyes and tongue were intact.
Now, crows always make sure of the latter deli-
cacies ; dingoes are locally unknown, and eagle-
hawks are scarce, so I could not understand this
until one day I saw a large “ goanna” (yellow and
black) creep up to a lamb sleeping alongside its
mother, catch it bv the back, and make off with
it. Then I took a hand and killed the marauder
just as he was climbing a sloping tree. Opened
him and found a thick milky substance from lamb
paunch. Killed many after that, and always
found in them parts of lamb’s stomach. Another
day I saw a ewe defending her lamb from one of
these hitherto unsuspected destroyers.
* * * « ,
“E.S.S.’’": There was for long about
Tibooburra a crow with the whole upper mandible
missing. Often watched it vainly trying to pick
meat off a bone. How the bird managed to live
was a puzzle. In same locality was a legless
crow—the legs having been probably left in a
rabbit-trap. Its antics when feeding were pitiable,
and it could only rise with great difficulty. Some-
times, when startled, it would try to perch on a
limb, only to tumble off with an astonished
squawk. The other crows wouldn’t associate.with
it, and all manner of small birds tormented it.
“ Gully ” : At Wood's Point (Victoria) in
the early 60’s, there was no barber, and Cockney
Joe used to give anyone a shave gratis on Sunday
morning. It was a dry summer, and as Joe’s
hut was on a spur there was no water handy.
Steve Wilkins drops in with “ Please, Joe, attend
to my bristles ” —sits down, and sees Joe spitting
on the soap. “ What the devil do you do a thing
like that for ? ” inquired Steve, indignantly.
“Because,” said Joe, who was a real, refined
gentleman at heart, “I never like to spit on a
man's face 1 ”
When the Cairns-Herberton line was being
built a lot of navvies were drinking in a pub.
after pay-day. A loafer was cadging for liquor,
and, on being refused by a half-drunken navvy,
threatened to kill himself. He placed a detonator-
cap in his mouth and lighted the fuse; but the
navvy quite cabnly waited for the explosion.
Seeing it was no use the deadbeat threw the cap
and fuse away, whereupon the navvy set upon
him and hammered him well for “makin’ a dashed
fool of a man like that! ”
• * * •
“ D. 8.” : Re eaters of ointment and the
like. Saw an old fellow at Ballarat break an egg
into a tumbler and add equal parts of turpentine,
castor oil and beer. Then he put in a packet of
Epsom salts, which, after considerable agitation,
he failed to dissolve; whereupon he “ rescued ”
the salts with a spoon and swallowed that dose
first and the contents of the tumbler immediately
afterwards. He didn’t die !
• • * *
S. the Wrinkler to “R. 8.”: (B. 13/7/'01) :
“ Where is the packer-dude who carries a cook?”
Whips of ’em. Alf. Smith, of Penrith, always
carried, or caused to be carried, a cook. Mr.
Brumby, of Wagga, carried me as a cook at 30s. a
week, and I once met the jockey who won (when
he wasn’t meant to) Geelong Gold Cup, acting as
Sorensen’s pack-horse drover’s cook. And hun-
dreds of them, even unto this day.
* * * •
“Snell”: In the fork of a tall gum at
Cardigan, near Ballarat, at a height of about 50ft.
from the ground, was wedged a great hunk of blue
metal weighing probably 3cwt. The explanation of
the oldest inhabitant, faithfully aocepted, was
that the tree had pushed the rook up with it in its
growth. Believed the story myself till I was 13,
and then a fresh intellect came along, pointed out
old quarries in the vicinity, and suggested the
Eossibility of the rock having been hoisted by a
last.
• • • •
“Piccola ” : I know of a case in which a
sow that lost her piglings is suckling a two-
months-old calf. The calf, finding itself deprived of
the natural maternal supply, had prospected for
a substitute, with results satisfactory to both
parties.
I A f |
“ Huia ” :
Not long ago, I
was staying at a
little Maoriland
town wherein
etiquette was re-
markably free-
and-easy. Invi-
tation cards for
public dances
would include
the servant’s
name as well as
that of the mis-
tress. At an
amateur concert
in aid of the
local 0. of E., a
domestic from
one of the pubs,
was down on the
programme for a
song ; but when
the young
woman— elabor-
ately dressed
and gloriously
self - oonfident —
tuned up, her
effort was so
ludicrously
wretched that
the par s o n’s
wife, ascending
the platform,
seized the girl
by the arm and
firmly led her
off—the aspiring
damsel being too
astonished to
resist. The
pianist at afore-
said functions was the milkman, and his
performance was of the one-fingered kind.
Afterwards he sold his business to the
leading family, and the sons of the latter—who
assumed a delightfully haughty aspect towards
their customers—would sally forth at daybreak
with the milk-cart, after having been up all night
at a ball dancing with the “ toniest ” girls the dis-
tnct could produce.
• * * *
Editor Bulletin. —“ Gnome’s ” statement
" » occurring daily about 1 p.m. in the
White Rock Mine is simply a lie ! Also the shaft
is only 180 ft. deep, and from this level there is a
drive of 170 ft., at the end of which is a lode for-
mation 12ft. wide, showing very rich ore. This is
the only drive in White Rock Mine, and evidently
(xnome writes intentionally to disparage my
property which is second to nothing in N.S.
Wales. The W.R. co. tried hard to beat me, but
they had only Buckley’s show.—Dan Cbeed.
* • ♦ *
During the last seven years Victorian
shires alone have paid for the scalps of 135,000
foxes, and there nave besides been destroyed
thousands, the scalps of which have not been
brought in. The official report further states
that the present rate of killing does not even keep
the animal in check.
* ♦ * i
“ Waratah,” re disgraceful public-school
premises :
The school-building at Leigh Greek, northern S.A., is a
tumble-down iron shanty, 23x12, without verandah,
washing-shed or playground.: Broken windows, through
which the inevitable red-dust storm adds yet another
layer of filth to the 46 caked and perspiring youngsters :
thermometer 126° in the shade (130° in the school). As '
many as half-a-dozen of the unfortunate kids have been
known to faint from the heat in a single afternoon. If
there is money to be spent on Dukes, surely a little could
be spared to build a decent covering for these suffering
children, especially as parents have either to be fined or
send their offspring to this infamous shed to be crammed
with alleged learning, whiist their bodies are in Hades
and their brains sizzling with the heat.
WASN'T QUITE READY.
“ Stay where ye are, Billy, till Oi get a holt
of ’im.”
At the head of Port Hacking River
(N.S.W.) thousands of flying foxes have taken
possession of about |-mile of thickly-timbered
country. The trees are entirely stripped of
leaves, which lie on the ground 18m. deep, inter-
mingled with the hideously malodorous droppings
of the creatures. The bats hang around the trees
in long strings, and make a noise like the squealing
of pigs.
* • * *
He was 82 and she was over 70, and they
made Maryborough (Q.) the other day, after an
unconsidered trek of 200 miles. They were
“looking for likely country,” in a dray with sap-
ling shafts. Their cattle consisted of three horses
and six goats, and, besides, they possessed three
poodles. They are still trekking.
* * • *
“Bob R.” : Be par. (B., 28/9/’01) about
“shedding of clothes.” A man in the “alto-
gether ” was found a few days ago in a paddock
near Junee, sitting over a fire. Said that his
clothes felt “creepy,” and he burnt them. The
police had to borrow a chaff-bag from a neigh-
bouring cocky in which to convey this philo-
sopher to the lock-up. It took afterwards a
couple of hours to “ cadge ” a shirt and trousers in
which to present the accused at court, where he
got 14 days for having no visible means of—
dressing.
• • * *
“ H.R.M.” (Mambare River, New Guinea)
to The Bulletin : —“ There has just turned up a
memento of the G reen massacre on the Mambare
five years ago, when J. Green (gold-warden) and
about 30 native police were killed by the natives.
Green’s revolver remained in the possession
of the natives, and a few weeks ago it was
used by one of the Gira men in a tribal fight with
the Waria people. It has now been handed in to
the authorities in almost as good order as when it
was taken from poor Green.
• * * *
“ Chemicus ” : To “ Yril ” (B. 28/9/'01).
The cure of a strychine-poisoned dog with tincture
of iodine is explainable by the fact that when
iodine (or iodide of potassium) is added to a solu-
tion of strychnine there is immediately precipi-
tated iodide of strychnine, which, under ordinary
circumstances, is practically insoluble and therefore
passes off before absorption takes place. I don’t
think, however, it would do to place much
reliance on iodine as an antidote in the case of a
human being—the recognised agents being
tobacco, morphia, belladonna, chloral, etc.
* * * *
“Esmi” : .Re luck (B. 6/7/’01). A certain
sporting bank-teller was in the clutches of Ikey
Mo, and, being threatened with exposure unless
he settled up, he ‘ ‘ borrowed ” the money from
the bank’s cash. Trying to get it back, he
borrowed some more to buy a likely
hurdler and do a “plunge” on him.
And three times, when carrying the
teller’s cash, the horse—while leading—
fell at the last fence. Then, when the
defaulter had been arrested, tried and
gaoled, Fate, the humorist, let the horse
win by a street at first time of asking !
Heaven’s punishment—or the devil’s
luok ; according to point of view.
“ Bob R.” : Be the “coarsening”
of merino wool (B. 21/9/’01). There has
been much ink-slinging by a small and
noisy coterie of “fine” wool-buyers
about the alleged “decadence” of
Australian wool through the intro-
duction of “ strong ”-woolled sheep—
prices per lb. being quoted in sup-
port. This is misleading; value of "•*
wool per sheep is the proper guide for the wool-
grower. Also, “strong ” wool is fashionable now
because it gives a much bigger money-return per
sheep than “fine,” though it may not bring
so muoh per lb. ; and in a hot climate it is
not nearly so liable to become “mushy” or
“ wasty ” as “ fine.” Competition and
droughts have rendered the squatters so lost
to lofty ideals as to go for the “ plunder,”
instead of desiring to have their names
perpetuated as the growers of a certain
variety of wool.
“ Barb” : “W.S.T.” (8., 21/9/’01) talks
through his neck about up-to-date sheep-dogs
working like gymnasts. A show worker never
does anything like that. He invariably works
wide —one of the chief points in a thoroughbred.
; Dogs are sometimes worked in that style when
sheep. are closely packed in pens leading into
catching-pens, the dog running along the backs of
’ the sheep, and coming back per floor through
them. Also, are barbs and kelpies “collies”?
•Real collies are useless in hot climates. Have
seen them tried, but always in vain. The smooth-
haired dogs are the only dogs for outback Walers.
“ Alpar ” : Not
generally known that
the Australian hedge-
hog, in going down a
steep hill, makes itself
into a ball and rolls.
First one I saw at the
game was on the
western side of Lake
George, and I thought
it had met with an
accident. Chased it
200 yards, and it un-
rolled itself in the
water and smiled at
my dog. Once —on
Clyde-road, between
Nelligen and Braid-
wood—the wheels of a wag-
gon, with four tons up, passed over one. The
creature just poked its head out, and proceeded
on its way as if nothing out of the common had
happened. They take a lot of killing. [Next !
—Ed. B.]
• • • «
In Bourke district there is a yell for more
rain to save the grass and herbage, the result of
the recent fall. When will the city dailies, and
their country correspondents, learn that a 2 or 3
inch fall, instead of justifying the cry that “the
drought has broken,” generally does more harm
than good ? The recent champagne-guzzle in the
town of Awful Boozers was certainly premature.
• • * •
A pair of Tasmanian swans, taken to Eng-
land, at first kept to their old breeding habits,
laying eggs on January 1, in the middle of the
English winter. Subsequently they learned some-
thing of the new climate, but still it did not
destroy hereditary instinct, and they bred in
January and in the English summer.
* » * +
“Scutum”: “ Jaynol” (B. 21/9/’oi) is
surely making a “ bloomer” when he refers to the
bell-bird as a “little drab object.” Unless I’m
color-blind, the bell-bird has green back and
yellow breast, with bright-yellow legs and beak.
“The mysterious notes that come from various
quarters ” are easily accounted for by the fact that
the birds congregate in large numbers and are
continually on the move while feeding. In the
big gums you can’t help seeing them. It is hard
to sight them in a dense growth of gum saplings,
for the same reason that you can’t see any other
bird of the same size.
• * * *
Banjo Paterson, in S.M. Hebald :
Buffalo-shooters (Northern Territory) camp alongside
the blacks and get their help to skin buffaloes and pack
hides. . . . One of the best-known shooters is said to
have pretty well joined the blacks. One of the other
shooters said : “If you go out to where he’s camped it’s
ten to one that all you’ll see of him is the soles of his feet
flapping about on top of the water as he dives in the
lagoon for water-lily roots. He lives on buffalo meat and
damper ; and when his saddle wore out he came to
Darwin to get a kit of saddler’s tools and what he called
an outfit of luxuries—and what do you think he brought
back ? A seven-pound tin of preserved potatoes and one
bradawl ! ”
* * * *
“ Wal ” : Would like to know if it is true
that no Australian blackfellow ever kills a dog.
The aborigine, we know, is very fond of his dog,
and is quick to avenge any injury to it. I once
followed a blackfellow’s dog — which had been kill-
ing sheep —to the
camp and shot it;
whereupon I only
escaped slaughter
myself through
having two revol-
vers and a double-
barrelled gun.
GEORGE MISERY, ESQ. : “ Strange a gentleman
can't walk down street without being insulted
by blackguards! ”
“ H.P.8.” : To “Alpar” (B. 8/6/’01).
To get rid of fleas, water the ground with brine,
which makes the dust lumpy when the water is
evaporated. One good dressing with brine will
serve for years if the place is not continually
trodden on.


Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. lnvited.
Clients wUI find our Art Goods are most inexpensive.
Patterns forwarded on application.
THE BEST NATURAL. APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
Foe LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
1 Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity , n
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Labels
“ E. F. ” :
New Norcia
(W. A.) is by far
the most success-
ful aboriginal
mission - station
in Australia, but
it must be borne
in mind that the
present genera-
tion of natives
who reside on
the station have
been brought up
there from in-
fancy. They are
not wild myalls
just run-in from
the spinifex
c o u n t r y.
Amongst the
many valuable
pictures in the
mission chapel is
a black “Ma-
donna and
Child,” painted
in Spain long
ago especially
for the mission,
and found “very
conducive to the
conversion of
the aborigines ”
Be this as it
may, the idea is
based on good,
sound, common
sense, and it was
a n ingenious
mind that con-
ceived the no-
t i o n. New
Norcia also
boasts of its own
miracle. Many
years ago, when
the land around
was still unclear-
ed, a bush-fire
threatened the
destruction of
the buildings,
and all efforts to
stay the progress
of the flnme3
were vain. The
fire was within
200 yards of the
place when a
priest ran into
the chapel and
brought out the
picture of the “ Madonna and Child ” .and placed
it in the pathway of the fire, affirming that it
would not even be soorched. The somewhat con-
ventional change of wind thereupon suddenly
took place, and the houses were saved. Bishop
Salvado, the founder, knew what he was about
when he selected the site, for a practical bush
friend of mine told me that the finest tract of
Imd he had seen in W. A. was New Norcia. The
Trappists founded it under Salvado ; they were
assisted by six Benedictine brothers and 60 lay.
brothers. Besides rearing cattle and sheep and
silkworms, they grow grain, grapes and olives,
and make very fair wine. Visitors there are
treated with traditional Spanish hospitality.
“ Canip ” : Re
immersion in
water for snake-
bite. I have
heard of several
similar cures, and
have also been
told by aboriginals
that cutting the
punctures and im-
mersing in run-
ning water is a
good cure. Have
also been told by
a coastal squatter
that the swim-
ming of bitten
animals in salt
water invariably
effects a cure,
probably through
the action of
chloride of so-
dium (salt), it
being established
that the chlorides
are all more or
less efficacious in
case of Australian
snake-bites.
Great is “ our local correspondent ” !
From a N.S.W. oountry paper :
A very interesting game of marbles was played in the
presence of a large concourse of people on Saturday last
between and .
And then (with the S’African struggle still to draw
upon) a solid column of that blessed game of
marbles 1
Alarming advt. from London Times :
ANTED, a gentleman, fond of sport, to join
’ ' medical man in carrying on an inebriate home.
An exhibition in acetylene gas-heating
stoves took place at Messrs. Brandt Bros.’ ware-
house, 236 Pitt-street, on Wednesday last; half-
gallon water was boiled in five minutes, which
was a very satisfactory result. Their generators
for house-lighting are O.K.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm’has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
REFLECTION.
Photo, by Richards and Co., Ballarat, Vic'oria. Lent by courtesy of
“THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTOGRAPHIC REVIEW.’
Thus “Dram”: “0.W.P.” (B. 21/9/’oi,
is not quite .right. “Not generally known tlia
Stanthorpe (Q.) sent 14 men to the Crimea.” It
was to Bannockburn, not Crimea, and none cam <
back. The contingent was escorted to the railway-
station by a piano’a on a motor-car.
Russia is trying to open up an Englisl
market for Russian beef, and to increase her
exports to England of eggs, butter, and dairy
produce. Russian beef has hitherto been disliked
abroad on account of its dark color and lack of fat.
For about six months of the year the home market
is shut to the Russian producer by the numerous
religious fasts, during which people may not eat
flesh or dairy produce.
THE REDFERN (SYDNEY) ALLEGED-POISONING CASE.
CARL KUHNELL. MISS FLORENCE ELLEN SMITH
Photo, by the Half-Crown Studios, Otebe, Sydney.
Florence Ellen Smith, a young shop em-
ployee, of Sydney, was to have been married to
Oarl Kuhnell (23), bookseller’s assistant, on
Sept. 25 last, when an accusation of poisoning
dramatically broke off the wedding arrangements.
According to the allegations of the young lady,
Kuhnell, on the plea that she was looking thin
and pale, gave her, on Aug. 20, some medicine in
a bottle, and, on taking the mixture, she nearly
died. Nothing much was said then, and on Aug.
30 the girl received another bottle from her
affianced lover, and a fortnight later still another,
and on the Friday before the.wedding yet one more.
She put all these aside. Strong suspicions do not
seem to have been aroused until after the arrival
of bottle No. 4 ; then an extraordinary series of
incidents closed with the arrest of Carl Kuhnell,
who, after a police-court investigation, was com-
mitted for trial, asserting his innocence and
reserving his defence. In spite of the incident of
Aug. 20, the evidence stated, the wedding
arrangements were proceeded with, and a fashion-
able trousseau had been ordered.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.S.R.. : A bold assertion, no proof provided,
that some unimportant person served “ two or three
years ”in gaol. The B. is absolutely charmed with your
happy, irresponsible vagueness... .Spiro : Daring, but
hardly original. W. Shakespeare explained, a while ago,
why the babies of long-married folks sometimes don’t
come up to illegitimate standard. And he could put
things plainly', which The B. dare not do, until it has
been dead 300 .years.... Yarra (Melb.) : If the law were
wise it would take no notice of silly blasphemies—not, at
any rate, until other forms of stupidity are punished in
the courts... .Alien : There are hundreds and thousands
of such plain, squalid facts, and people like Flaubert and
Balzac make forbidden literature of them. Your “ story ”
is just the hard, brutal, naked, unwashed fact... .Tot :
Thanks ; Australia is studded all over with bogus Bulle-
tin writers. The man you met was a fraud. The writer
he personated is a Victorian, and is not a whisky-shark.
Write, in the case you mention, to “ c/o Bulletin.”....
Hawk : But it isn't an acknowledged fact. Such cases
are not very uncommon, even amongst white women.. ..
Sub. : Man with unfenced land can’t legally impound,
unless the man with the fenced land has deliberately
turned his stock on to former’s selection.... A.J.L. : The
sinking of the Austral in Sydney' Harbor happened in
18S2, exactly 100 years after the famous sinking of the
Ro.yal George at Spithead, in precisely the same
manner Eller: You say, “There are now in the
Commonwealth 71 persons who have accepted titles
from the English Government.” What do you
mean by titles ? Baronetcies and knighthoods only'?.. ..
Harry 0. : You have an aboriginal notion of verse....
J.B. : Old-fashioned —which wouldn’t matter were they
interesting... .E.M.P. : Bret Harte did it ever so much
better in “ Her Letter.”.... A.E. : Good and interesting.
Will print it, though you must admit it is close on
“Magda” and “ Evelyn Innes.”... .Wurrym : Consider-
ing your article on the advantages of not having popula-
tion. .. .K.E. : But who supposes that politics pay, except
a member gets in with syndicating land, or mining, or
other swindles, or mounts into the Ministry' and lives like
a mouse? Half the members of the present N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly are there through kow-towing to and bribing
with subscriptions friendly societies, football clubs,
cricket clubs, rifle clubs, and every society' or
organisation which carries a block vote. Anyhow, unless
they paid toll to such they' would not be elected....
Rouseabout: There is a great British statistician —a
staunch Freetrader —named Mulhall, and, on page 100 of
his “ Industries and Wealth of Nations,” he says of Great
Britain : “ Nearly 80 per cent, of the total wealth is held
by 1£ per cent, of the adult population.”. He adds that,
according to the probate returns of five years to end of
1893, 478 adults died in Britain leaving £63,800,000 and
341,080 adults died leaving NOTHING. Of course there
is a great and shameless aggregation of wealth in the
hands of United States millionaires, but it is nothing to
the state of things in England, where London is practi-
cally owned by six men. As to the hours worked by
American artisans, they are the same as the British
hours. But the average earnings in the U.S. are
644 per inhabitant against £36 in Britain (same book,
page 391). And it costs the American (men, women
and infants averaged) £7 10s. a year for food against
the Britisher’s £9 14s. (same book, page 385),..,
Ek. : “Quits” hesitates between a lyric dialogue and a
comic poem, and is 105 t... .R.M.S. (Q.): Yes, glad to
print and pay for anything concise and interesting on the
subject.... J.W.G. : Even the instinct of fair play won't
induce us to print rubbish.. .. A.H. : Anyhow, the Orange
Free State allotted a third of its tiny income towards
public education, and the prize for the best system of
public instruction was awarded, at recent Paris Exhibi-
tion, to the Education Department of the Transvaal,
which sort of balances that well-worn yarn about old
Kruger’s heterodox ideas as to the flatness of the earth
Rud. : Suicide musings begin to pall on The 8., even in
its goriest moments... .F. Stone: All unavailable....
Raupo : Bonnetted Reform (M.L.): What good would
it do to print a description of such squalid sins? Car-
rington: “Blime,” “ blanky,” &c., don’t make a story
witho’ut some support... .J.C.H. : Looks too like an
American inspiration.... A.S.G. : Not much hope or pro-
mise in it... .Burroons :“A Mixed Marriage” is very
thin wine with 75 per cent, water added ; the lie com-
petition is flat. A good lie must be graced with some
ingenuity... .Viv. : You’re too easily' pleased ; take more
pains... .Shaw N. : Guess it will d 0... .Inquirer : Haven’t
seen any “impartial historians of Transvaal war” yet.
Conan Doyle’s is possibly' the best statement easily
attainable ; discount the British bias. Hobson’s books
you must order from London H.S. : Commonplace.
....J.O. : Don’t care to risk a theological wrangle....
Eko: Will print “ Fate.”... .I.J.L. : Will reprint some
day.... A.G. W. : Not bright... .Tinram : Far too bald.
R.O. : All feeble Dublin : Print it there... .Ruby :
Go up into a high mountain, bey ond reach of the post,
and practice for a few years.... P. M. : Verse stiff and flat.
. ...Phrangue (from Yambulla, N.S.W. South Coast)
asks for information about the indigenous “ native
bread.”.... J.G.D. : You never quite get there... .Daniel
K. : Not bad; wants a little more style and force
Haidee : Obviously worth local print 0n1y... .W. (Bom-
bala): Little beside unattractive alliteration.. ~ Bar-
barian : “Spring” too merely descriptive; wants a
dash of emotion Annam :’ Shorter, brighter!....
S.T.S.: If M'Laren has picked up an All-England Eleven,
the chances are that the young and comparatively un-
known members will be found just about as useful as the
men he couldn’t get....Jacy: On that assurance, we’ll
print “ Scene.” J.O.S. :“ A Contrast ”is very bald and
clumsy, and is probably an identifiable libel. But it is
very prettily typed, and contrasts effectively with other
W.P.B. matter 0.M.8. : “Gentle writer,” there is no
hope in The Bulletin for one who “ sojourns to the
metropolis,” “ yields to a barber’s exhortation,” and puts
up at a pub. “ which his ancestors long favored with
their patronage.” H.V.O. : Can’t identify your “ skit.”
What was it about?... .Alpha : Hideously long-winded.
Should have gone in one-eighth of the space.... Rebel:
“ M. A. P.” (standing for “Mainly About People ”) is the
name of a London society paper, run by T. P. O’Connor.
—R. Thomp.: Not up to the mark. Yes; the other
fellow did send it along as his, and then squealed when
we slated it Thir : All right; but your yarn had a
strong family resemblance to the perennial snake per-
jury J.T. : Gross blunder on the paper’s part. Alfred’s
death preceded E. the Confessor’s by 165 years
Gilaomai : Bit of a paralyser, certainly', but we couldn’t
use in such a ramblesome form A. Shiels : No time to
decipher W.H.B. : “Insulting behaviour” would
have filled the bill all right in Sydney... .X.Y.Z. : It
may be true enough, but it looks too like a
cheap invention Lyn : But the flying fox is
a bat, not a bird F.H. : Duly scoffed at
A.M.O. : It isn’t that the world is so wicked ; the world
is very innocent. With less confidence and more horse-
sense a people could do away with half its police and
magistrates Gumleaf : As literature, terribly primi-
tive. Also, the same claim has been worked on so very
often... .W.L. : Don’t remember “ Punchun.” Max
Wolfore :It will just about do Cautious (M.L.): The
office in question is perfectly sound. (2) Send stamped
addressed envelope, and we will recommend you to a
really reliable man.... Scutum :We charitably assure you
that the paper isn’t in its right senses—if it ever had
any M.O. : That idea was awarded an old age pension
last month, and doesn’t need to work any more... .Inezam :
You are right ; it is “ the same old story.” Try and get out
of the “ Traitress ! hissed Reginald De Oourcy, striding
towards them,” groove... .Jacy : Well-meant 0n1y....
Ahan : All rather feeble.... Jekyll: Thinking over....
Alone: “Star” not up G.H. ; “Shearing-time” not
up as it stands.... J.A.H. (Vic.) : Bulletin would not take
the responsibility of encouraging you in your “habit’’:
rhyme good enough for local consumption, but it won’t
stand export... .C.H.F. : Worst to-day, so far... . Algard :
Subject exhausted. Will inquire.... Rowland : Consider-
ing Gadfly: Ditto Lilian - Don’t care for seasick
metre D.P.F. : Yours is a weakling G.M.B. : Thin,
monotonous trickle! Arthur S. : Flat V.H.G. :
Not well turned ; hardly worth turning.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.A.B. : Sorry neither legends nor drawing suitable.
....H.J.R. : Excellent work, but legend hopelessly
laborious P.R.'C. : Will serve as suggestion... .C.W.T. :
Drawing hopeless and talk impossible..... Miardo :Do
send us something of apparently-Australian origin. No
use submitting things which may have come (for all we
know) via Snap-Shots, Thief-Shots, or Robber-Shots
H.M.L. : Joke too watery ... Unavailable : Jack a Clubs,
A.R.8., R. Radford, Eric W., H.R., Benison, H.W.
(Perth), S. Synoh, T. Le 8., W.C. (B.), Roland N., E.
Smith, W.T.G., P.H.L. (K.), W. Swain, A.J.H., F.A.L.8.,
A.T. .
Speight, Eddy, Smith, Matheson —all
four of the imported Railway
have gone, now that poor Speight has died in the
West. Matheson has the fat billet that, no doubt,
would have been Speight’s had he not crossed the
seas ; and Smith, the South Australian, has left
the railways altogether—he is London secretary
and manager of the Sulphide Corporation, the
big silver-mining concern of which his engineering
friend, ex-Gov. Kintore, is chairman. Both of
Mr. Speight’s Commissioner-colleagues are dead,
too—Agg, soon after the crash came ; Ford (who
also became a mining co. secretary), a year or so
ago.
THE LATE RICHARD SPEIGHT, M.L.A.
(W.A.), formerly of the Vie, Railways; his
last portrait.
Photo, by Greenham and Evans, Perth.
According to recent statistics, the produc-
tion of beer in England has in the last half-
century more than doubled, while the consumption
per head has increased by one-third. Alas for
Cold Tea !
The Dunlop Tyre Co. has introduced to
Australia the Kelly-Springfield vehicle tyre, the
best tyre of its class produced by scientific
machinery, after costly experiments, in the United
States. The comfort and merits of the tyre are
admitted by everybody on first sight, and the
Dunlop company should do tremendous business
with it. The tyre is simple, durable, and noise-
less, and makes vehicle-riding one of the pleasures
of the century.*
Evolution works in all things, and Man, if
we are to believe what we are told, was evolved
from protoplasm. Countless ages of time must have
been necessary to evolve man, the finished pro-
duct, from protoplasm, the raw material; but
many things evolve quickly. The evolution, for
instance, of the modern perambulator and go-cart
from the crude, old-time pram, has not been slow,
and perfection has just about been reached. You
may get every form and style of pram, and go-cart
—strong, sound, beautifully-finished “ creations ”
—at prices ranging from 18s. 6d. to 60s. or more,
at M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth -
st., Melbourne.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd. report for week ended Oct. sth, that the inquiry for
marsupial skins is still rather limited, and occasionally
lower prices had to be accepted to effect clearances,
especially with wallabies. Although the supply of ’possum
is failing, it still more than equals the demand, and
values have further declined. An exceptionally large
catalogue of sheepskins was effectively cleared on Thurs-
day in a fair market. Rough crossbreds are a shade
easier, without any actual decline. Tallow slid down 10s.
per ton, although London reports 10s. rise. Reason
given, an expected rise in freights. A large catalogue of
ides was cleared at satisfactory prices, with an occa-
sional advance of Jd. per lb. The London wool sales last
week disclosed a weakening tendency, medium and
faulty merinos and the coarser qualities of crossbreds
being quoted 5 per cent. lower. The local season (opened
Monday, 7th) was to last three days, and the co. was to
offer about 1000 bales, including several parcels of scoured
wool from Queensland, and some good lines of greasy
new clip. A brisk attendance of buyers, including Mel-
bourne representatives, was looked forward to.


The Royal Commission on the Shops and Fac- 1
tones Act met again to-day at the State Parlia-
ment Honse. Robt. K. Jackson, clothing manu-
facturer, said lie did not think that any woman
-mold cut out a pint of clothes
P REMIX'S
OFFICE.
Tv lor <r <\. \\
Worr^^n
C^vt-T^ever?
j 'err? ]pK©|9erly , le^
VAWen?
WANTED
MEMBERS
cf rue.
FEDERAL
Government
To attend
Thit
KINGS
CORO N ATI Ojjjfg
6ARTo^M
'“When he passed the late Major
Kddy’s place at Malvern he always
raised his hat to the two little boys, the
children of tjhe man who said, ‘Boys, the
iWilts are in trouble, and we must get'
them out.’ The State Premier, at the
unveiling on Saturday at Bear-month of
fm obelisk to the late Sergeant Vaughan,
f eztocK' — *T^O5 e Children
f>ossil?ly i^e
Oj' oye. vj\jo died Jjor- 'itje fty j?ire.
I'll K\ise wy
ot) "llje °ff C^ce • (
porfT all.
SPEAK j
L AT A
L ONCE
The Premier gave notice of the measure undSr
c'.ich old-age pensions will be placed on a perm a
cent basis. He also afforded members a some-
what involved explanation of the position. The
pensions, for want of the permanent Bill, had
lapsed, biit the Government intended to carry
them on for the time being on the 10b. a week
looting. As far B 9 tho future was concerned, the
w overt!ment was atiU rigid in its determination
toC down the pension to a 7a. maximum-.'-
le^cocK'- HeKe /
/j jyoay' "JVicryd\
/ drttfK n; €rr y /
"jo- vqorvoW you die I
IS 'to SV/ yO«K l /
will be Kedoeed^^^'
&^rio»7
I 1 h7£7'^ r 7
MfeV+* 1
V $e ro
\ "s€.
' \ d u'fy
\ hjysclf-
\C
J r D°°<.
Senator Higgs expressed surprise at the argn
raente used by Senator Dobeon, who appeared to
regard white men as decidedly inferior to blaob-
follows. The tenor of Senator Neild’s remarks,
too, was favorable to the blackfellows, and bo
would much like to know why that gentleman*
had so changed his views regarding the colored'
?aces since having written a poem a few years ago*
in which spoke of them in very unoomplimen*
tary terms.
btc^Ni^
'To f»MO HIK? /
_ °“ T
"V/4K
MELBOURNIANA.


_ THE MAOKILANDER’S toaSt. ■■
kia ora pro nobis {good luckfior us).
Seddon, replying to a- member who asserted that “ women do not) value the
franchise “ Sir the hon. member, though old enough, does not understand
women On the West Coast I know of one female who forded a river three times
—and once had to swim it—in order to record,her vote for ‘ Dick of Kumara.’ ”
Also, what’s the matter with a second-
hand annexe in charge of a Ghief-Secre-
tary for Old .Clo' 1
Some information was given in
the Assembly last night by the
State Premier with reference to
the proposed establishment of a
Government clothing factory.
«■ an English Opinion 1 Amongst other
things told me was something with reference
to the new colonial contingents, whioh we have,
not heard officially over here. As far as the early
contributions of troops from Australia, h_e SfiKJ.
you could not find finer or more suitably meu:
but, just as at home, now that the first flush of
enthusiasm is off, the first lot are back with tales
of red tape and unfair treatment, and none but .
the scum of the place will go. The last lot srtfry
are very degenerate speoimens ; it seems, as in tne
ease of the last Yeomanry, they have recruited
practically anybody wno would offer his valuele®
self. This seems a terrible pity and a most short-
sighted policy, as Lord Kitchener has been forced
to return with very few thanks a large number of
these last Yeoman as quietly and unostentatiously
as possible, as they oould neither ride nor shoot
nor adapt themselves to the Bo§r method of
fighting. A friend °f Pti ne ’ w b° 10011 a ““'J
mission last Marob, wpgto me from the front to- .
cently to say that he had never seen such material ]
as they had to work upon, and that many of the
officers were as bad as the men for inoompetenoe;
and now I ani sorry to hear that this is also the
case with the cplonials. It is a terribly short-
sighted and expensive policy; and then we have
the face to complain that the war drags on. One
Boer is worth a bushel of suoh stuff, and does not,
cost a tithe of what it does; hence half our trouble
in laying them by the heels. Possibly this
unsatisfaptoriness accounts for the War
desire to ro-onlist members of the old Yeomanry
upon favorable terms. "’—Age corespondent. *
Contingenter : “ Please, sir, I’ve come Co sacrifice myself for the old
fl ag on the altar,” etc., etc.
J Bull (snapping his fingers): *• You be »off!"
a pardonable Mistake.
Puzzle : Find the difference.
<f/k
t 1 m
• S 5V\
1 X
Bk /I
a
Minister of Customs • “ Yes ; as Premier'S? !Now South Wales you did.”
Mfi. Reid : “ The hon. gentleman was again taking refuge in ancient history.
'\What a melancholy spectacle it was for the Minister to keep clinging round*
not him (Mr. Reid), but the man he was four years ago. (Loud laughter.) He
gave the Minister and his colleagues credit for keeping their pledges to Mr.
Chamberlain as to the methods of prohibition to be adopted. The proposal of
the hen, member for Indi would be inadequate.”
AND THE GOOSE-
-7 STEP.
The Minister for Works gave the
> “ horny-handed sons of toil ” some advice
about the management of their feet in
the Eight-Hours’ Procession. He said
there was always.one fault—the men did
not pay proper attention to marching ;
they did not keep in step or march.
to the music Let them all march like r
military men on Monday.
CAETOONLETS.


Government Notices.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 27th September, 1901.
ATTENTION is directed to Government
Gazette notice inviting TENDERS for
the performance of a large number of MATT,
SERVICES. Tenders, which must be addressed
to the Deputy Postmaster-General, Sydney, and
endorsed “ Tender for Conveyance of Mails,” will
be received at this office up to noon on the 2Sth
proximo.
J. DALGARNO,
cp2l Deputy Postmaster-General.
f
IT TALKS!
IT SINGS!!
IT PLAYS!!!
» WOHDERFUI OFFER !!
150 PHONOGRAPHS^
at a GUINEA each.
The Great Depot for
CHISM'S 6EHIIIE PBOiIOSRIPHS
THE NEW MODELS HAVE JUST ARRIVED.
The “New Gem,” with Recorder
and Reproducer £2 10s. complete
The “Standard, with Recorder
and Reproducer £4 10s. complete
The “ Home,” with Recorder and
Reproducer £6 10s. complete
o
Also in stock—
Edison's Concert Grand Machines,
With Polyphone Attachments for same.
o
EdiSoi) aod Colombia Records.
No house should be without one. Life is never dull if you have a Phonograph.
We offer a Phonograph, exactly as illustrated, and guarantee it, for Is.
Records for it are 2s. each, or 21 S. by the dozen; you can either select
them yourself from our list of thousands, or leave the choice to us and we will
send you some really good ones. We have Comic Songs, Sentimental Songs,
Trios, Quartettes, Banjo, Trombone, Cornet, Violin Solos, &c., and Band Selec-
tions by the best bands. All One Price—2s- each; 21s. dozen.
NOT A TOY, but a ... .
First-class Little Instrument
that plays any instrument splendidly, talks like a
member of Parliament, and sings beautifully. It is
simple to use and only needs winding-up. Nothing can
be more amusing and entertaining than a Phonograph.
Please send your Order at once, as the number we have
is so limited. We have the largest stock of all classes
of Phonographs and Records in Australia, and shall
be glad to send a Catalogue to anyone wishing it.
mm
OSBORN & JERDAN,
OPTICIANS
ELECTRICIANS, &c.,
PHONOGRAPH DEPOT: 393 George Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
To an outsider, the Sydney master bakers seem
to have a good thing on as a result of the agreement
lately fixed with their employees. The concessions to the
men are to be compensated for by a rise in the price of
bread. A baker, whose trade is 1000 loaves daily, would
probably employ four men, to whom the money-value of
the recent concessions may be set down as approximating
10s. per week each man. As the rise in bread is to be
from 2d. to 2Jd. the position is like this
Extra selling-price of 6000 loaves .. ..£l2 10 0
Extra labor-cost .. .. .. 2 0 0
Extra profit to baker .. .. .. £io 10 0
* * * *
Trading coupons are having a fierce fight for
life on the Westralian goldfields. Two rival coupon-men
had the bad luck to strike Kalgoorlie simultaneously j
and the wild way in which they tore for one another’s
hair gave the trades-union people, whipped up by Wallace
Nelson, time to organise solid resistance to both. Nine-
tenths of the leading traders have given pledges not to
touch the tickets, and at latest the coupon-men were
looking out on a cold world.
Tilings turned out rather otherwise at Broken
Hill, where the trades-unionists let the system get a
footing- partly, perhaps, because it was verv cleverly
engineered by a past president of a branch of the Miners’
Association. When the dozen leading shopkeepers who
had stood out were forced to do something, they formed
a co. to run a depdt of their own and burst up the other
fellow, with the intention of then shutting up themselves.
But they find the business far too profitable to think
of closing the doors now in any case.
• • * •
“Fridel”: The recent Loel will case (Melb.)
shows that pawnbroking is not the game it’s cracked up
to be. Deceased had, perhaps, the best stand in Mel-
bourne, and when he died his estate was worth £l5OO at
a high estimate. The big Melb. Mont de Piete pays only
7 p.c., divs., so where do the big profits come in ? What
business man would be satisfied with an annual profit of
7 p.c. ? The average business man turns over his stock
four or five times, sometimes even fifty times, a year, and
makes big profits. One example: A grocer buys 1121 b. of
tea at, say, 9d. per lb., and retails it at Is. 3d.—an aver-
age profit. It’s a poor business that will not get rid of
that amount in one week. The cost is 845., the sales are
140 s 565. Find what interest that is per annum
on vendor’s outlay. Nearly 2500 p.c. ! ! Still, no one
calls the grocer a usurer or a blood-suck _>r. The pawn-
broker, by lending out 845., could, by the Vic. Act,
charge for 12 months 645., or about 80 per cent, per an.
The grocer and draper make over 1000 per cent, profit per
annum, and the pawnbroker makes 80 per cent, per
annum, or rather that is the maximum allowed by law.
What i« the answer to this ?
* * * *
One reason why the average Vic. butter-factory
pays high divs. You frequently see advts. in the Melb.
dailies asking for “ competent, experienced manager for
big factory ; salary, £2 a week.” The shares of these
factories are largely held by the farmers who use them.
In the N.E. district the factories are almost wholly under
their control.
• * * *
The heavy and continuous dropping of wool
values is giving Maoriland pastoralists much anxiety.
Besides, the meat market doesn’t look any too promising.
A little more of this sort of thing, and the present high
value of M.L. land can’t be maintained. On top of all is
the news that Siberia is going in largely for dairying, and
that ere long Russian butter may have a big say. A fall
in wool and meat and a slump in butter—the combination
is ominous.
* • • •
JSd, B. —Re Law and Liquorers (8., 24/8/’01).
“ Percy Mallby ” is a prime example of “the man who
doesn’t know.” First—The duty on imported spirits in Vic.
toria is 12s, per gal,,and there is no rebate for under-proof
spirit—this being designed for the benefit of local bottlers,
bottle-makers, case-makers, etc., and is a fair protective
tariff. Mr. Mallby says 4d. per nobbier would provide
ample profit for the hotelkeeper. An average price
wholesale for whisky per case is 455., or 3s. 9d. per bottle.
It takes a clever barman to squeeze out 13 drinks per
bottle, winch, at 4d. would cut out 4s. 4d. As the general
drinker expects soda-water—bottled, not syphon, and a
fresh bottle at that—there is an opportunity for Percy
to come into the business as a philanthropist.
Mr. M. says the liquor-seller is generally profoundly
ignorant on the subject of spirits. That’s so—he doesn’t
understand his business. Dr. GressweU, who looks after
the health of this community, doesn’t understand his
Ar^iK 6B3-^ 110 understands his business but Percj'
.Mallby. If this gentleman will communicate with me,
and hand in his credentials, there is no doubt that I shall
be able to arrange for a college, attended by anxious
liquor-sellers, who will be prepared to sit at P.M.’s feet as
principal, and learn how to make a profit out of liquor at
3s. 9d. per bottle, selling: nobblers at 4d. per time. As a
matter of fact, the licensed victualler of to-day must
know his business to conserve it. The general public
knows good brands and sees that it gets them ; and, on
his side, Dr. Gresswell—the supreme local authority as to
what is and what is not healthy liquor—knows his busi-
ness, and has. many capable and energetic officers con-
stantly travelling to see that the public is cared for in
this direction. In no place in the world to-day, I assert,
does the public get such satisfactory service generally as
in the hotels of the State of Victoria.—Rob. H. Lemon,
Secretary Vic. L.V. Assn.
* * * •
The evil of tied houses is just as rampant in
Maoriland as in Australia. In Auckland, for instance, it
is reckoned that only one house is not in the clutches of
one or other of the big breweries. The Liquors Act of ’95
was supposed to have stopped the evil. But the brewers
and lawyers soon drove a lorry-and-four through it.
I'.very man, as he went into a tied pub., had to sign a
mortgage or lease with interest, or rent at a very high
rate, reducible to the ordinary rate as long as he bought
beer from the brewer finding the house. In the alter-
native, every man on going in had to give the brewer an
order for 1000 barrels. The question of the validity of
such a mortgage was lately tried before Stout, 0.J., who
held that, though it was an evasion of the law, the words
of the statute didn’t cover it, and accordingly he refused
relief. Govt, hasn’t taken any action since this judgment,
probably because Seddon is hatching some wide-reaching
liquor measure.
• • * •
A Sydney brewer’s man boasts of having
supplied to 16 local tied pubs, cash-registers which he
alone has power to examine. A tie and a cash-register *
There will be a lock on the swill-tub next.
* * * *
A score of Newcastle (N.S.W.) publicans re-
cently decided to abolish the counter-lunch, and agreed
that if the other publicans didn’t follow suit, the brewers
should be asked to put the screw on the “ tied ” houses
to make them fall into line.
* » * *
“ See-Lee ” : Meagher, M.L. A., has shown con-
siderable interest of late in the N.S.W. liquor question.
He might contribute, some further startling revelations on
the subject by getting a return prepared showing the
amount of liquor imported into the Clarence, Tweed and
Richmond Rivers districts. He could then divide the
amount by the number of licensed vendors in those dis-
tricts. The information should be easy to obtain from
the manifest of the steamers trading to those ports, and
the returns of local brewers. I fancy the result would
prove that the profits which could be made on the
liquors shown in the return would not give a living to
half the hotels, many of which rely for their profits on the
illicit distiller. Will Meagher think this matter out, and
expose the wholesale robbery to which the Customs is
being subjected in his own and the adjoining electorates,
to say nothing of the impudent manner in which the
consumer is being poisoned ?
* * * C|*
“Eller”: I know a suburban “soft-drinks”
manufacturer who, only a few years ago, was as poor
as a tied publican, but who is now worth at least £5OOO
Explanation : He makes “ white spirit,” which goes out
of the factory, in lemonade bottles, as lemonade.
* * * *
The old game of “ringing the changes” is being
revived in more than one big Australian citv. Modus :
A well-dressed man enters a pub, has a drink, and gives
a half-sov. in payment. Then, after receiving the 9s. 6d.
change, he discovers an odd sixpence in his pocket, says
he needn’t have changed half-sov. at all, and has it re-
turned, putting down 10s. silver in exchange. But be-
fore this can be removed from the counter he adds the
half-sov. to it, saying, “Perhaps you’d better give me a
pound. It’ll be easier carried.” As the idea is not too
easy to grasp on the moment, it may be pointed out that,
in handing over the pound, the vendor is giving value for
his own 10s. (which he has not taken up) as well as for the
swindler’s half-sov.
• • • *
One of the most profitable- businesses in Mel-
bourne is time-payment tailoring, combined, in some
cases, with money-lending. High prices are charged for
clothes of the cheapest shoddy, and a well-managed
purely co-operative concern, which could easily give
working men good clothes at an enormous reduction on
the prices charged on the time-payment system, should
well repay its members.
* * * *
It is alleged that an Australian paper which
occasionally publishes an accountant’s certificate as
to its circulation, lately received a letter from
another accountant which broke up the holy calm
of the office. The writer said that he didn’t know what
fee the present man got, but he was willing to cake 25
per cent, less than it, whatever it was, and also to certify
to a much bigger circulation.
* * * *
“X. 0.”: Don’t talk too much about boy-and-
girl-labor asked for by Brisbane employers. Sydney em-
ployers ( vide “wanted” column of S.M. Herald) in one
day, out of a total of about 480 advts., had 160 asking for
boys, youths, girls, improvers, or apprentices.
* • • *
Dear Bulletin.— Weird are the workings of the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board. If you have on your
premises a standpipe (to which a hose can be fitted) the
Board makes you have a meter, for use of which it charges
10s. per annum ; and if your house is assessed at, say, 655.
a year, and you use only 40s. worth of water, as per
meter, the Board nevertheless demands the full 655. ;
whereas if your meter debits you with 655., you’ve got to
part up 10s. over your assessment. Surely the assessment
principle should cut both ways.—Ston.
• * • •
“ Itan ” : Some very fine Fiji bananaß have been
seen in Sydney lateiy. Asked a Clarence River farmer
why the people there did not compete for this trade.
Said he, in reply : “Not long ago I sent 13 bunches of the
lady-finger variety to Sydney. These bananas were at the
time being retailed in the shops at 6d. per dozen. I got
news, after waiting a monch for a reply, stating that they
did not realise the freight.” What is the matter with an
inquiry into the ways and methods of Sussex-street ?
» * • *
“Itan” : The State Government of N.S.W. has
been more than once charged with “ sweating.” Take,
for instance, recent sleeper-cutting contracts in Grafton
district. The rates accepted are 2s. 6Jd. per sleeper
delivered at Grafton, and 2s. OJd. 12 miles from Grafton.
Working 10 hours daily, experienced men can only cut
(say) five. The Crown charge for royalty is 3d., cartage
costs 9d., and if the contractor makes a profit of 3d. each,
the cutter will get 9Jd. per sleeper, equal to a wage of
3s. ll£d. per day. What, then, becomes of The O’Sulli-
van’s minimum wage ? No contract should be accepted
by Govt, which will not yield a living wage.
* * * *
“Waddy”toTHE Bulletin about gold-steal-
ing. Re the much-needed registration of gold-buyers, it
will be rather difficult to draft an Act which would be
effective for the prevention of gold-stealing. The banks
(which are now gold-buyers) may unwittingly be receivers
of ‘stolen property, and any gold-thief who wishes to be
absolutely safe can go with his plunder to the Mint where
no questions are asked that anyone of the least ingenuity
cannot answer with ease. It is well-known to all mine-
managers that in specimen-mines (silver or gold) the
stealings are very great.
In Broken Hill, in the early days, pieces of chloride-of-
silver (60 to 70 per cent, silver) were to be found in every
hotel-bar—bought in almost every case for a pint of beer.
Everyone knew these must have been “ taken,” and as
chloride-of-silver was produced in quantity by but a very
few mines, those from which these pieces could have
come were easily told off. The miners did not consider
this specimen-robbery as at all a serious matter, and it
was in this way that so many private collections of speci-
mens were obtained.
It is the same in our gold-mines. How many mining
men have frequently had shown to them specimens of
W.A. telluride containing ounces of gold ? In Gympie
(Q.) this stealing is a regular trade, but through the
stupid regulations of the Mint, which accepts gold from
rival States at a less treatment-rate, for a long time
hundreds of ounces of stolen gold were sold in Sydney
both to the Mint and to banks.
A remedy is difficult to discover, but, in the case of
mints and banks, intending sellers should be made name
the company and lease-number concerned, reference to
the owners of the lease being then made before buying
the gold. This plan, however, would not be much of a
check on, say, some classes of manufacturing jewellers.
Even with copper there is much thievery—principally
when in transit in the ingot-form. The Great Oobar
Syndicate, for instance, is steadily losing copper for
which the commissioners compensate it. Transit-
thievery, indeed, is rampant in Australia ; parcels of
metal and bags of ore are being continually missed from
railway stations and wharves.
* • • •
During the debate on the Customs Bill, in both
Reps, and Senate, the Preetrade section, which com-
prises the class that generally howls loudest for lawnorder,
seemed to direct its energies to knocking out all provi-
sions against fraud. The poor smuggler was its especial
concern, and there was not a clause aiming at the preven-
tion of Customs-swindling which was not subjected to
some frivolous amendment, that would, if carried, have
left the law powerless to get at the criminals. The Mel-
bourne representatives were possibly the worst offenders
in this way, so many big local importing-houses have been
fined at some time or other for “ having ” the revenue by
false invoices or other forms of forgery.
“ Esmi ” : lie would-be suicides. How’s this
for ingratitude ?—A friend of mine who had become
drink-derelict was talking suicide to me. Told me he
had tried drowning, but had to swim out, and that he
could not face poison, so I suggested satirically that he
knew where to find my gun, and was welcome to the use
of it. He gave me a reproachful look and left. A few
days later I was waited on by an irate elderly female and
a chillingly sarcastic young one—his mother and sister.
They presented me a pawn - ticket for my valuable
(Greener) gun, which “ poor dear Willie ” had asked
them to bring to me. They also told me what they
thought of me. lam not likely to forget it 1
* * * •
The latest suburban swindle. A man calls at
the tuck-pointed villa when piano-thumping is going on,
and raptures over the harmonies. Then he asks to in-
spect the piano and declares that a hair-curler or a
clothes-peg must have got into the action. May he see ?
After disembowelling the machine, he offers to put ft
together again for half-a-sov.
* • • *
A big system of life-insurance frauds was
recently brought to light in Paris. The swindlers used
to watch the English papers, and when the obituary
notice of any rich man appeared, they wrote in the name
of some bogus insurance office, stating that a big policy
held by deceased in that office lapsed unless a back
premium was paid at once. The relatives usually sent
the premium.


READINC FOR A LIFETIME.
20 Handsome Volumes 20
COMPRISING THE
GREAT LITERATURE OF ALL TIMES.
A NOTE OF WARNING-.
THE mind requires food as well as the body, and, when deprived of proper or sufficient nourishment, exhibits symptoms similar to those attending upon starvation of
the body. The hunger for that intellectual stimulus which is derived from communion with other minds, is one of the symptoms of lack of intellectual nour-
ishment. But the remedy is easily found, and it is the fault of the patient if he does not apply it. The owner of “The Library of Famous Literature”
has always at hand a store of intellectual food which will enable him to keep the wolf from the door for all time. Within the Twenty Volumes of this great
work, he will find the best thought of the greatest men of all times and all countries. Through the medium of excellent translations he is able to read the
Greek, the Latin, and the modern writers in foreign languages, with as much ease as his daily papers. For the moment, the oomplete Twenty Volumes, con-
taining this inexhaustible store of the best reading, may be obtained for a first payment of Ten Shillings ; but only for the moment, for the demand in New South
Wales has been so great that the copies reserved for this State will soon be exhausted, and the offer must then be withdrawn.
THE ENTIRE WORK IS IN ENGLISH.
20
BEAUTIFUL
VOLUMES—
yWm pm &m.x
SS3Ea2f9B
mm
\ ’M:
fl v- at .%rtsh, T.4H- ;
tmy-z
7a <•
tjtl :
V.*
.• a «'T<aE *
SfCrt
lOS.
FIRST . . .
PAYMCNT.
THE LIBRARY OF FAMOUS bJ D , MOHA bd gab^
OLD WYNKYN DE WORDE, AND NOW.
FOUR HUNDRED YEARS AGO Wynkyn de Words opened the first London bookseller’s shop
“in Flete-strete, at the Sygne of the Sonne agaynst the Condyth.” The Conduit ran where
Shoe-lane runs now, and where his signboard of the Sun creaked in the wind the presses of the
Standakd now rumble by day and by night. De Worde’s assortment of books must have been spare
indeed—probably less than half a hundred, all told, and the book-buyer who purchased the modest
assortment had, at that time, a complete English library. He could await further demands upon his
purse with the assurance that it would not cost him very much money to keep up with the times.
From De Worde’s day until the Restoration, the average output of books in England was at the
rate of only about seventy-five new books a year; and as late as 1680 only about a hundred new books
—excluding pamphlets and maps—were annually produced. In 1898 this number had risen to nearly
8000. Nor does even this appalling figure represent all the possibilities of spending time and spending
money in buying and reading books. Germany, France, and Italy as well produce each year a yet
larger store —Germany alone, three times as much. And translators are always busy in the service of
English readers who do not translate for themselves. A man might as well hope to drink the seven
seas at a draught as to absorb the flood of books, old and new, which have accumulated, and continue
more and more rapidly to accumulate.
How shall the busy, occupied man, still anxious to fight off the narrowing effect of his business
pre-occupations, and to make the best of his time, meet the perplexing situation ?
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT disengaged evenings and an occasional blank day in the country, he
may, perhaps, devote to books some four or five hours a week, all the year round. If books did
not cost money and call for shelf-room, he would easily have a thousand in his house, for the sake of
being able to pick up any one of them for ten minutes’ reading. But books and shelf-room do cost
money and, subject to so many calls on his pocket-book, he is more likely to content himself with a
modest collection of, perhaps, one or two hundred volumes.
Of these a certain number are chosen by routine. Every householder possesses a Shakespeare
and a certain run of other books, as inevitably as he possesses a door-mat. What are the
others to be ?
The kind of books that most intelligent people want is those that provide a change of air. And
no veto are by no means the only books that serve this purpose. In a dozen pages of truth, stranger
than fiction, the reader will be oarned away by a spirited narrative of fighting by sea or land, of
exploration, mountaineering, or ballooning. Half an hour with Spencer, Rousseau, Heine, or Froudo
will take his mind into a new olimata But there are so many of these spiritual olimates—almost
every famous writer creates an atmosphere of which he alone possesses the secret—that the reader
cannot range at will unless his library offers an almost universal field. There is the dilemma, and
*° ** 60 makm not merely five, to obviate it, unless some
20 ROYAL OCTAVO VOLUMES, 10,000 PAGES, 500 ILLUSTRATIONS
A Limited Number of Copies at Half-Price. Easy Terms of Payment.
Tbe Complete Work s*i)t ijow Gpoi) PayiwQt of 10s
DELIVERY IN SYDNEY.^-^^
FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
- tst szrssjzr
PRICES AND TERMS WILL BE SENT, TOGETHER WITH A 100-PAGE PROSPECTUS *™* TO “' AS VO
The Volumes may be Examined & Orders booked atthe following' Addresses:
Sydney: Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, 123 Pitt-st.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd. 338 George-st.
Newcastle : Messrs. W. H. Sproull & Co., Booksellers.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
West Maitland : Messrs. Compton and Pankhurst,
Booksellers, High-st.
Bathurst : Messrs. J. R. &A. Jones, Booksellers.
Coulburn : Mr. H. T. Downes, Bookseller.
Grafton : Mr. G. C. Syer, Bookseller.
Lismore : Messrs. Syer & Co., Booksellers.
Special Arrangements for
Distribution.
In order to insure prompt delivery, the Pub-
lishers of the Library of Famous Literature ”
have made arrangements with Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch for distribution of the work in New
South Wales. All inquiries should be sent
direct to Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney (P.O. Box 1612) where sample
volumes of the various bindings may be
examined.
Application Form for Prospectus.
(TO BE CUT OUT AND POSTED).
To Messrs . Gordon & Gotch,
Pitt-streetf Sydney (p.o. Box ms)
This Form can be
■enfc in an Unsealed
Envelope for Id.
S.B. 2.
L&-I
Signed ..
Address ,


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
>We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses. —Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
f\TW\r£
'•■/vvrwvvn/v'
GrO TO TTTiT.T.-
« IGOLANI> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), *
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
HATS
% HATS • - ■i -
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastfe & Sons,
Queen Stiieet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SAL'S
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the Oity or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms,
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
0
CWIijMS
JtALtBOR
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emollent, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
Skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan. Sunburn, Fedness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings produces
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Keck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has baen known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland's Kaiydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
high-grade
farm
I
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
i
George-strcct West, By<fney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Nearly 20 years ago N.S.W. Assembly, by
4- to 26, carried a resolution abolishing public
st'iool fees; and yet the political disgrace still
cm jut inues.
Why not apply the educational test of the
Aliens Immigration Act to the Victorian House
of Landlords, for the benefit of members who can
neither read nor write ?
Government holidays are paid for in
N.S. W. in respect of men clerically employed, but
not in respect of men manually employed. That
is the general rule. A Parliamentary debate upon
the equity of this should be interesting.
N.S.W. Single-tax fragments, trying to
solder themselves into a new association t’other
day, almost all bent the knee to George Reid.
They were grateful to him for using them as tools
when the George enthusiasm was at its height,
and—well, that is all.
N.S.W. Premier See does not object
violently to women acting as jurors or magistrates,
“if the\’ wish to take up those duties.” But
there is a suspicion in some quarters that John See
A LULL.-JUST BEFORE THE TARIFF BATTLE.
Is the more ready to promise women everything
because he has no serious intention of giving
them anything.
David Syme’s friend M‘Eacharn had the
issurance to get upon his brief legs in reply to
Reid’s demand, in the. Representatives, for one
member who would deny that the majority of
Australians favored absolute exclusion of colored
races. M'Eacharn swears he represents Mel-
bourne City—and like enougli he believes it.
“We do not claim, and never have
«l;iimed, the right to interfere in the internal
afi.iirs of the Transvaal. The rights of our action
under the Convention are limited to the offering
jf friendly counsel, in the rejection of which, if it
is not accepted, we must be quite willing to
acquiesce.”— Joseph Chamberlain, in the House
of Commons, May 8, 1896
William Forster moved, in N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly, in 1860, that the salary of the Governor-
General (that time the title of N.S.W. Governor)
should be fixed at an inclusive £5OOO a year. He
carried his motion by 21 to 15, but the Council
negatived it. He also carried a motion that
Ministers’ salaries should be equalised at £l5OO.
This, too, the Council rejected.
There are breakers ahead of the Seddon
Ministry. The Govt, party, since the Opposition
abandoned organised resistance, shows dangerous
signs of disruption. Outside of Seddon and
Ward the team is a very sorry one, and the
House knows it. The question now worrying
Seddon is how can he attend the Coronation crawl
next year without losing his political ascendancy.
Queensland has decided to pay its little
State Governor £4500 a year, Premier Philp
assuring the country that “by getting a man of
some importance from the old country the State
i < greatly the gainer.” That is the invariable argu-
ment, yet how wet Philp and his fellow-worms
would be if a tap were allowed to run on them
until they explained exactly what the country did
t ain by having a man like (say) Brassey falling off
iu it ?
The robustly cheeky gentleman who
consuls for Japan in these parts desires to have
the Immigration Restriction Bill amended so that
everybody who can write 50 words of Japanese
may claim admittance into Australia. In fact, he
proposes to make it an Asiatic Acceleration Bill.
Either the Japanese gentleman has a beautiful
sense of humor, or he has hired a really mirthful
person to run his end of the controversy.
Freetrade papers speak against the pro-
vision in the Postal Bill that mail steamers sub-
sidised by Australia must employ none but white
labor; because the proviso touches the interests
of the Calico idol, Foreign-trade. But the stipu-
lation is reasonable : if Australia has to find part
of the wages-fund of steamers, she has the right
to make conditions as to employment. Those
companies which do not like the bargain need not
take the subsidies.
An opinion on the S’African concentra-
tion-camps :
.. . inhuman, oppressive, and unrighteous. Never
before has anything approaching to such wholesale and
reckless destruction or abduction of families been enacted
by a British array.
This is from a pro-Boer disloyalist ? No—from
British Field-Marshal Sir Neville Chamberlain.
Tasmania’s new Electoral Bill proposes to
purify the rolls by the simple process of striking
off, after each election, the name of every man
who didn’t vote. If he isn’t dead or gone away
he can call round and put himself on again when
he has a few minutes to spare. No better device
than this has been invented up to date, and Tas-
mania wants something of the kind badly. At
Lyell, for example, the whole male population
numbers 4653, and, presumably, a good few of
these have never taken the trouble to get on the
roll—yet there are 5894 alleged men on the roll.
In fact, the whole cemetery is still on it, and
Eretty nearly every man who has passed through
yell since there was any Lyell.
Although the S.A. Premier and Labor-
leader Price both represent the same district in
the Assembly, the chasm between the Ministry
and the Trades Hall party gradually widens, while
the official organ of the Labor party never misses
an opportunity of attacking the Govt, both indi-
vidually and collectively. The Tories, however,
decline to help in turning Jenkins out merely to
gratify a grudge of laborist Price, and both sides
are now trying to get together a majority inde-
pendent of the nine Labor members.
What helps to demoralise Sydney City
Council is that the high officers cat-fight among
themseilves, and in the carrying out of their feuds,
organise parties among the aldermen. It is the
Jones v. Robinson issue, or the Smith v. Brown
trouble which takes the place of the fiscal question
in Town Hall debates, and the votes of Alderman
are objects of eager intrigues among officials.
Almost every councillor has his. favorites and his
dislikes; and the Council is rapidly drifting to
the position of a Sublime Porte run by its harem
(of widows) and its janissaries.
Premier Leake in reply to a request for a
railway to connect the coalfields with Kalgoorlie:
The House is unwilling to commit the country to a new
loan We will have to get rid of existing loan
authorisations and public works before thinking of new
railways.
Ye gods ! can’t this country do anything without a
loan ? Westralia has the only really paying rail-
way system in Australasia. In the six years to
June, 1900, its lines yielded £623,090 clear profit.
And yet it is so fixed that it can’t afford to build
railways—even railways that pay like this.
Queensland buys immigrants on a large
scale by paying their passages with loan-funds,
and covers Europe with hired gas-bags, who, for a
salary, deceive the simple peasant and tell him
that he can get 60s. or 80s. a week in the land of
the cheap Kanaka. Some of the most interesting
literature in the Queensland papers consists of the
valedictory curse of the stranger who has found
all these glories resolve themselves into a pre-
carious job at 255. a week and find his own food.
AS IT MAY BE: A FORECAST.
The time is coming when the States of Europe
will have to run the Queensland immigration man
out of their territories along with the anarchist,
the leper, and the caterpillar.
The attempt to oust the Lewis Ministry in
Tasmania because its policy doesn’t include the
immediate granting of free education failed badly,
the Government mustering 25 votes against 11.
The attempt deserved to fail. If Propsting had
moved that education should be made free, and
that the Opposition pledged itself to support the
new taxation necessary to make up the loss and
prevent any further disaster to the Treasury, it
would have been different. But you can’t throw
a pint-pot down a Hobart street after dark
without hitting someone who is willing, just like
Propsting, to earn a little cheap popularity by
voting for the abolition of some tax or other, and
who proposes to let the results take care of them-
selves, just as Propsting does.
In the lobbies of the Federal House they
say that Barton will go to England as represen-
tative of the Australian nation at the Coronation
of King Edward VII., and come home with a
baronetcy, to resign the Premiership for the posi-
tion of Chief Justice. Almost every Federal
Minister claims the right of succession, including
Lyne, who thinks his chance really good. Lyne
is a man of small cunnings, the most plausible of
managers, the most artful of Gerrymandered. In
N„S..W. he made Slattery’s reputation as an
underground-engineer; for it is part of Lyne’s
policy not to appear politic. In Federal politics,
-however, he does not shine as in the affairs of a
State. The sphere is too wide; personal influ-
ences are necessarily less potent, and there ate too
many newspapers to work.
Premier Philp (Queensland) says that he :
Doesn’t see how the Federal Government can legislate
for the despatch of Kanakas back to the Islands. If they
are engaged by the planters for a certain term their
renewal of engagement would be a State matter.
But, as the Federal Constitution expressly em-
powers the Parliament of Australia to do all
legislation relating to alien races and to immigra-
tion and emigration, the Federal Government
will go peacefully on sending Philp’s Kanaka back
to the Islands. The big wheel will go round with
a fly named Philp on it, howling and protesting,at
the top of his voice, and stating that the wheel
must leave off revolving immediately. And,
finally, after a few revolutions, the fly will get off
disgustedly, and relieve his feelings by floating
the usual big loan in the background.
Tasmania has a measure on hand dealing
with the resumption of land for Closer Settlement,
and it was proposed by 13 unusually wise
men to authorise compulsory purchase at
10 per cent, above the value assessed
for taxation. It was a logical idea ; if a
man pays tax on the fair value of his
land, then he couldn’t object to the
Government buying it at 10 per cent,
over the fair value; and the only man
who could lose would be the one who
systematically swindled the State on his
taxes. But the Tory party rose in great
anger and said that land, in almost every
instance, was assessed at more than its
value. Asa man whose land was worth
£IOOO, and was assessed at £I2OO, would
be able under the Compulsory clause, to
sell out to the State at £1320, one might
have expected that the Tories would
rush open-mouthed for the Compulsory
sale clause. But they had so little
faith in the alleged over-valuation of
their properties that the 13 wise men
went down very badly.
One of the returned cohentingen-
ter’s worst grievances is- that he has,
in many cases, been struck off the
electoral roll while away house-burning in
S’Africa, and can’t get on again till he qualifies
by a fresh term of residence. The M.L.A.
takes little interest in the woes of a man who
has no vote.
Premier Seddon begins to retrace his
steps; he is now on the back-track towards a
title. Last year the Maoriland Government
induced Parliament to pass the Workers’ Compen-
sation for Accidents law—a common-sense and
humane Act, but no better than the English one,
except in the fact that the M.L, State furnishes a
cheap and ample scheme of accident-insurance,
whereby the employer may protect himself
against loss. But the farmers want to be
exempt, and their Farmers’ Union is already a
power in the land. So Seddon has promised to
amend the Act, and leave farmers’ employees un-
protected. And, as the Labor organisations must
fight Seddon in the matter, the split between him
and the men who made him is approaching.
Victoria is getting
back to the worst
evils of political
interference with
its railways.
Nominally rail-
way employee#
are appointed by
merit only, and
as the result of
examination. But the
man who is physically
and mentally un-
fit can be put on
as a casual hand
by political in-
fluence ; he can
remain on as a
casual hand for
years; and he can even sneak out of
the casual and on to the permanent ser-
vice. The result is that practically everybody
is now appointed as a “casual” through poli-
tical influence. Since 1895 the permanent staff
(the men appointed by reason of their fitness)
has decreased by 476, while the casuals (the unfit)
have increased by 1972. About one may in every
four is “casual” now.
There was a wild wrangle in M.Ij. House
of Reps, when a subsidy of £260 to the Australian
Review op Reviews, Parson Fitchett’s Bits
paper, was reached on the Estimates. One number
contained a laudatory article on Seddon’s country,
written to order, and 10,000 copies were circulated
at the country’s expense. Some malignantly
ironical members hotly denounced the paper as
pro-Boer, and accused Seddon of disloyalty. This
was a better way of getting at Seddon than point*
ing out the utter dishonesty of spending the
State’s money on such ineffective puffery. The
Premier got peevish and petulant under the lash,
and explained the yes-no system by which the
R. op R. is snips and pro-Boerism in England, and
snips and Jingoism in Australia. The vote went
through with hardly a word as to the inherent-
scandalousness of the transaction.
Those politicians who expected that the-
States would have a great orgy with the money
received from the Commonwealth for postal, tele-
graph, and other properties handed over am
still writing to the papers about the alleged
“fraud” that is being perpetrated. And, appa-
rently, they really believe that there is a fraud
somewhere. When the people, as inhabitants of
the States, sell to themselves, as the inhabitants of
the Commonwealth, ten millions worth of property,
the fair thing, according to the philosophy of Jaw-
bone Neild and B. Smith, is that they should
borrow ten millions in England to pay themselves.
Otherwise they are picking their own pockets, and
taking their own property from themselves for
their own use under false pretences, and if they
don’t rise up and resent this attack made by
themselves on their own liberties, there is no-
knowing what they may do to themselves next.
Recent lamentation from tho financial
column of Sydney Telegraph :
Recently, however, the industrial difficulties in Or-
many have caused something of ascare amongst the French-
financial houses, and the result has been that they have-
transferred some considerable amounts to London.
They have been buying British Exchequer bonds.
Treasury bills, Consols, arid even municipal securi-
ties ; and thus they find an outlet for their money
which appears to be denied them in their own country, in-
spite of all the “protection” which the French Govern-
ment has sought to give them.
When Britain invests its surplus funds abroad it»
proves that Freetrade has made the country rich.
When France invests its riches abroad, bower er„
and Britain begins to owe money to its Pro-
A DOUBTFUL COMPLIMENT.
THE HOSTESS HOOLIGAN (suavely): “Shure Oi
loiked yer ixcillint sermon , y’riv’rince, but ye-
shud shpake loudher, for its shtone deaf O[?]
am since th’ inflooenzy, and can’t hear a
blessed wurrud .”
tectionist neighbor across the Channel, that only
proves that, owing to the curse of Protection, the-
French can’t find good investments in their own.
country. The Telegraph’s financial coluimi is &
strange- animal and the Beast of Revelations,
wasn’t a patch on it.


ALWAYS
CHEAPEST
.. jROJB * * • j
Pianos i 1 v
Organs,
Violins
Cornets
Accordeons
Flutes |
Concertinas
Clarionets
Mouth Organs
Piccolos
Mandolines
Tambourines
Autoharps
Guitars, Banjos
Zithers, Drums
T
7
*# ■
9
I ill
■
im
IMMENSE STOCK
LOWEST PRICES
Immense Stock of Music.
New Publioations by almost every mall.
W. H.
PALI Si GO.
Limited, SYDNEY,
Are SOLE AGENTS for Pianos:
LIPP, tbe CeQOiiK Lipp
aijd SobO, BRINSMEAP,
STEINWAy, Ucb«l aijd
Lecbkiter, Carl Eck«,
JOIIOS dors apd
Kallnjapo, tbe VICTOR,
apd tbe BELLING.
And every kind of Brass or other instrument
for Band and Orchestras, and Musical
Instruments and Fittings ©f every
description ....
AVOIP
INFERIOR
COOPS.
EVERY NEW PIANO sold by W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED, not
only has special metal frame, but contains various modern improvements
in construction for extreme climates. It is in consequence of these improve-
ments that the pianos sold by Paling & Co. give such unequalled satisfaction.
MUSIC
CATALO GUE
(117 Pages)
Sent Post Free.
A SLUGGISH LIVER
IS A LIVING DEATH.
VITADATIO
WILL CURE YOU. J
VITADATIO
has cured another sufferer who had been a martyr to
constipation and liver complaint for 20 years. i
Mj. Bath’s experience may be repeated in your case. :
Mr. W. H. Bath, who has been a member and office-
bearer of Wesley Church during the last 20 years, and
whose addrlss is 102 Lygon-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
writes as follows :—“I suffered during the last 20 years
from the effects of liver complaint and constipation. I
tried almost everything that was advertised to cure my
complaint, and at times consulted doctors. The medicines
all failed to cure me, and the doctors’ treatment did me
verjfliftle good. I began to despair, but my wife, hearing
frorft a relative about the wonderful curative properties of
VITADATIO, how it cured many people in New Zealand,
Urged'me lo try it. I had been laid up for some time
from the effects of a bad turn eight months ago. My
wife called upon the agent, Mr. Palmer, and he persuaded
her to take a bottle. It acted like a charm ; I was able
to return to my work before I had finished it. I con-
tinued using it, taking five more bottles, and I am
thankful to say I have quite regained my long-lost health.
I will be pleased to answer any enquiries. Thanking yop
for your medicine, and wishing you success. —I remain;,
yours faithfully. '■ W. H. BATH. ;
For further particulars, ' .
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney j
' Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest’ Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
0 PO.STAGEO
□onei'ennvEl
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS,’etc., 1
in the Southern hemisphere.
SMYTH & NICOLLE, H Hunter-st., Sydney^
j
7
CYCLING
is nrore enjoyable
and cfcr a
when
JDunjlqpTVres
DunlqpTVres
are ridden.
They ride easier,
wear longer, and
are more reliable
than any other make
of tyres.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12
months.
Beware of Imitations.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LTD.,
i 150 Clarence Street. SYDNEY
ud at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth/ Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z. '
George Reid has bought a Buckeye (vapor-
bath) Cabinet to reduce his weight.
Sydney D.T. was last week hoaxed by a
telephone message into publishing a circumstan-
tial account of the death of a prominent citizen,
which will be a caution against taking news from
casual sources through the telephone. You haven’t
even got the safeguard of seeing the face of the
man who hatches the lie.
Dry-Dog Retd broke out last Monday in both the
Sydney morning papers with these statements
about the educational test for the exclusion of
undesirable immigrants :
It is astounding that a Government responsible, to an
Australian Parliament should make themselves the mere
mouthpiece for the expression of Imperial views on this
vital matter. ... As long as Mr. Barton and his Minis-
ters remain in office we cannot expect any resolute policy
on this subject; that is'to say, any straightforward
policy. Although Ministers intend their Bill to exclude
colored-races, and not' Europeans, ’under the Bill, as it is
expressed now, it is in the power of any Customs officer
to put any European language he likes to any immigrant,
white or colored ; that is to say, as far as the Bill
goes, a Customs officer may demand from a French immi-
grant a knowledge of Russian, from a German a know-
ledge of Spanish, from a Scandinavian a knowledge of
Turkish, and from a Dane a knowledge of Italian. The
measure as it stands is a degrading piece of hypocrisy,'
and will make a bad impression abroad.
If the educational test is a. degrading piece of
hypocrisy then Reid, as the man who first intro-
duced it in Australia, must be a degraded hypo-
crite. You can’t have a degrading hypocrisy
without a degraded hypocrite at the back of it.
- ' ' |
Two Wragge telegrams :
TRIAL OF THE STIGER-VORTEX GUN. >
Brisbane, Saturday."— A novel-experiment was made in
the Botanic Gardens this morning, when several trials bf
the Stiger-vortex gun were- made, under ‘the direction of
Mr. 0. Wragge, Government Meteorologist. The experi-
ment proved without result, so far as raip-producing was
concerned, though Mr. Wragge expressed himself well
pleased with the results obtained, as he states it would
require at least two.guns-to cause the.necessary waves in
the air to bring rain. The experiments will be continued
on Rjonday.
Brisbane, Wednesday.—Mr. Clement Wragge conducted
further trials vyith .the Stiger-vortex guns to-day, and
was highly successful. A small cloud overhead was fired
at, and, after three shots, it was completely shattered, and
melted in air. This completes the experiments in Bris-
bane. Mr. Wragge leaves for Macka.v on Friday, and Will
proceed thence to Mount Morgan, where he will have nine
guns, with which he anticipates great success.
First time, it appears, Wragge was well-pleased
despite his failure, and he decided that if he fired
two guns he would certainly bring down rain'.
Second time he fired two guns, and instead .ojf
bringing down rain he destroyed the cloud aimed
at, and dissipated the only bit of shade there-
abouts—or else it dissipated on its own account as
clouds do every dav Then he claimed to be
highly successful, and departed up North to.fire
nine guns, with which he anticipates great
Whether it is great success at rain-making, or at
scattering the only cloud that seems likely to
supply rain, doesn’t appear. If Wragge has. dis-
covered anything "he seems to have found a
way of destroying any hope of rain that a terribly
dry land has left to it. '
A motion to establish Old Age Pensions in
Westralia was blocked by the Government on
the ground that the matter is now a Federal
one. .So it certainly is. “Invalid and Old Age
Pensions” were specifically handed over to the
Commonwealth by the terms of the Constitution,
along with unlimited powers of taxation to raise
the money to pay them with. No State can be
reasonably expected to do anything in the way of
establishing Old Age Pensions, seeing that the
Commonwealth has taken charge of the work, and
the two States where they are already established
have every right to demand that the matter be
taken off their hands just as soon as the Federal
Parliament has time to attend to it. To lay in
such a capable dog and then bark ourselves is
absurd.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
aaiJffnoosia
snia
3xr.s,-w.
IDont depiete D.»l« |.(Jo.,[tl
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7^.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
* '—Til 15^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millrr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350.000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUTERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
B Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Hew Zealand Insurance (Jo
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
TV TrOstccs, €*€c<itorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ■■ ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Roval Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
ITB9OO
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhab. ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
TIIE "
United Australian mutual fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND '
at FOUR per cent., in suras of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY. '
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 12, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Oct 15, 5 p.m.
Leu ra, Saturday, Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLA 1100
POUT PlltlE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Early
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABKRG
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 12.12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, October 15, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Out. 12,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat,, Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEUALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o' Gowrie, from
weekly. Passengers
booked through.
Townsville
and Carjro
Lowest. Current Fares arid Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner Oeorge and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrib & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
CaUiiw at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leaVe
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to Sail on or about 19th OCTOBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
th roughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS TV ATTcjtt? AT.t a
(juddart, parker & (Jo’s (Jine
—TO—
M HIiHOII l( N K, lIOPAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTHALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.KTD
LIME
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at' current 'rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHIJjP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent.. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. „. 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. ~ 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., Presidem*;.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uthkr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania,. India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg- and the; United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests monqy on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and'Conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
“Bodge” Standard
Blood Split Pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock .
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <SUTHRIP6€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-*®
3XT- ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DRESDEN, 4527 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 14th NOVEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner Henderson, BYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
r
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“FAUST.”
/'I'J.RAND SELECTION from Gounod’s popular Opera
arranged for Pianoforte by Warwick Williams.
Published at 4s.
Also,
The celebrated WALTZ and stirring SOLDIERS’CHORUS
MARCH from the same Opera.
Of all Music Sellers.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
PHOTO
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortmenl s. >
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. ;
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
T)EAE SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E> PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
October 11.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, October 22.
BRISBANE
HACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
October 11.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Go.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOVVN MAIL LlNE— Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Porta.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bria
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY ±nd MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Rassetif/er A ceomniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
lor Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street., Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Porta
P AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Leaving two (lays earlier on account of Melbourne-Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B lOsTo £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
_63_Pitt : street ; gjjPejHtendent in^Auslujalia^
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais/
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
NTNILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN,
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Easter i
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unite 1
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO.’LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
|‘|lmraith,fj)‘Eacharn&D9.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
TALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
JOOLGAEDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL JfO It TNIG HTL Y between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
geTnts.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE Now Ready.
/’rice (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
commonwealth


A Bose of Regret:
Verses by .Tames Hebblethwaite ; being
No. 11. of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or- stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
gd
Phoseerine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Pliosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia.
H. S. H. theHereclitary Princess otßeiningen
BMMBUi
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Rouinania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I. H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
w
m
V
A
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting:
New Life
and
Energ:y
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/H, 2/9 and 4/6,
D®“ The 2/9 size contains nearly -four times the 1/1$ size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H,
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLPORT & CO., SYDNEY.
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
‘ WSf>PKOSP«AT(KE
» FAUERESJ
-asm
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mailin'* Pood Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, En*.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It takes time for the new-comer to
understand the Sydney Cricket-ground system. He
decides to join the “ Association,” and pays £2 2s. en-
trance-fee and £2 2s. subscription. To his surprise he
then finds this payment only gives him one right, that of
entry to the ground and pavilions (not the playing area)
at certain times. Of the ordinary rights of a club-mem-
ber he has none. He has no vote in the management of
the ground. He is not consulted in the appointment of
those who manage or mismanage it. The governing
body is a committee of trustees appointed by Govt, for
life, and the precise power Govt, has over the trustees is
not accurately known. Even the trustees’ powers over the
ground are subjects of frequent dispute. By its money-
power the Cricket Ground management is the controlling
body in N.S.VV. cricket. It never consults the great
body of members. It raises and lowers the subscription
at pleasure, and if a member doesn’t like it he can just
“ clear.” Taking advantage of the coming of the Mac-
laren team the entrance-fee has been suddenly jumped to
£3 35., which seems a mean way of trying to raise a few
pounds which the ground really does not want. Contrast
this with the position of the really powerful Melbourne
C.C. Recently the M.C.C. committee proposed an altera-
tion in the ground's accommodation which, rightly or
wronglyq some of the members objected to. Result,
a special general meeting and rejection of the proposal.
• • * *
South Melbourne miniature giant pug. Jack
M'Gowan owed his entrance to the ring to an advt. for a
“ boy to box,” inserted by a local sporting pressman who
was preparing colored bantam Pluto for a fight. A lanky
lad turned up and said he had come about the advt.
“ But you’re too big,” said the advertiser —“ I wanted a
boy about 9st.” The lad grinned. “It ain’t me,” he
said, indicating a baby-faced little fellow of l(i at his side,
“My friend here is the boxer.” The scribe turned with
surprise to the younger lad. “What! that little boy ?”
he said. “ Yes, ’e’s all right,” asserted the taller youth,
and Pluto was brought in to put ’em on. In five minutes
there was a hot rally, in which Pluto landed the childish-
looking boxer such a hard smack that the pressman in-
tervened with, “ How dare you hit that poor little boy
like that ? ” The darkey grunted : “ 1100 ! poo’ little boy !
poo’ little boy ! ” he cried, indignantly, pointing to a
swelling eye.” “ Yo’ poo’ little boy very near knocked my
’ead orf.” His showing against a man of Pluto’s calibre
on this occasion impelled the youthful M‘Gowan to take
to the ring, and since his entrance he has fought pro-
bably as many fights as any other three Australian pugs.
• • * *
The Sydney “shops” are killing their own
goose by the way in which they run the tote. The old
game was to put a number on any unselected nag, but
now they simply collar the dividend, and put on the card
“ not selected.” Even if only two horses are placed by
the judge they don’t pay 60 per cent, and 40 percent.,
but only 50 per cent, and 30 per cent., keeping the 20 per
cent, for the third horse for themselves.
* * *
“Punt”: Questionable which is the greater
evil—Mo on the course or Mo in town. Former has his
crop of stiff ’uns “ in the bag,” while latter is often “ given
something” by trainers and owners and “lays it” as
long as the guileless punter comes. And he comes per-
sistently.till the “ thing,” which is usually a top-notcher
and a strong public fancy, is scratched at the last moment
—or runs dead. Bookie pays ex.’s as a rule and gives his
fellow-rascal a substantial percentage of the spoil or a
previously-agreed-upon sum.
* * « •
“ Jab ” : The bruiser of to-day is widely different
from that of a decade back. He won’t toil an hour
after he puts his hands up in a ring once, whether a duffer
or otherwise. He “ picks up a bit ” hanging round one or
other of the halls —seconding, boxing introductory bouts
for “ showers ” (which are so often sought nowadays that
they don’t yield more than a few “deeners” a time), or
“ ear-biting.” In the old days pugs went to “ graft ”
between fights. Peter Jackson, Bob Fitzsimmons, Steve
O’Donnell, Billy M‘Carthy, Dan Hickey, Paddy Slavin,
Joe Goddard, Jack Vallentine, Billy Smith, and many
others were of the sort who looked for work, and always
found it.
• * * *
“ Old Timer ”: Told that ex-top-notch bruiser
of the world, Bob Fitzsimmons, cooked supper for him-
self and friends an hour or two before his match with
Australian Bill M‘Carthy—the freckle-fisted fighter’s first
engagement on ’Murkan soil. After settling Mac and
getting the big end of the purse, Fitz bought a new rig-
out, borrowed a watch and chain, and hired a friend's
plug hat to get a swell picture taken for Australia.
Writer doesn’t vouch for the accuracy of this, but it
reads like Bob, who went away from Sydney by the
Yankee mail-boat Zealandia with all his goods and chattels
enveloped in a red cotton ’kerchief.
* * * *
A tale of Peter Jackson. Two big lads were
having a willing “go” on St. Kilda Beach one Sunday
morning, some years back. A benevolent old gentleman
tried to stop the mill, but a big black man passing by also
interfered : “ Excuse me, sir. Let them have it out.
They’ll be better friends after. I’ll see fair.” And he did.
The two lads, now grown up, have for long been partners
in business.
* * * *
The turf in England is, to some considerable
extent, a means of wrecking the fortunes of wealthy
drones, “ blue-blooded ” and otherwise, but unfortunately
it does nothing towards bursting up the big estates. The
property merely passes from one noble lord to another
noble lord by purchase, or to a parvenu plutocrat who
will become a noble lord presently. Still, the turf has a
levelling tendency. A titled “ plunger ” probably leaves
a few sons to earn their living as best they can, and the
sons of these recruits from the classes pass into common
circulation among the masses. At the present time,
there are several landless British earls who have, seem-
ingly,. no chance of catching an heiress apiece, or push-
ing their way out of the ruck by their brain power.
The Earl of Yarmouth and the Earl of Rosslyn
are both of them trying their noble hands at anything
that turns up. The latter, like Yarmouth, was an actor
for a time. Then he aspired to be an agent for chemical
manure, and now he is on the stage again—when he can
get an engagement. And all on account of the previous
Earl of Rosslyn having been a “ plucky sportsman.”
Present scribe remembers the time when portraits of the
handsome late Earl were published in sporting maga-
zines with enthusiastic notices of his prowess. He was
“ doing in ” the family 7 estate. He was making it easv for
his friends to arrive at fields of usefulness. The Turf is a
place where tired lords throw money away that their
great-grandsons may diligently seek it.
♦ * * *
A well-known Australian racer can’t stand any-
thing touching his chest, so when his party “ ain’t look-
ing ” the neddy always wears a breastplate braced tight.
Then whip and spur won’t urge him beyond the ordinary
hand-gallop, and the punter throws a seven.
• • * «
According to Ashton’s “ History of Gambling
in England,” the racehorse Donovan won during his
career over £55,000 in stakes—a record ! The greatest
amount won in one year by one person, in stakes alone,
was £73,858, by the Duke of Portland, in ’B9.
“X. 0.” has ideas about religious sweating:
The recurrent accusations of sweating brought against
the Salvarmy would leave people under the belief that
the Blood-and-Fire hierarchy is the only one that sweats
its apostles and adherents. Wrong!' Another great
religious body is subject to a very scientific form of
sweating, which falls heavily on its clerics. The said
body is that over which Cardinal Moran presides, and the
sweating comes about in this wise : Many of the churches
of this faith are under heavy mortgages, which it is the
duty of the priests placed in charge to liquidate. Now,
some of these gentlemen have a talent for organisation in
the way of raffles, bazaars, tea-fights, picnics, socials,
collections, &c. They are insatiable cadgers of cash or
kind, and drill and organise their flocks into batteries
and half-batteries of coin-fetchers. After several years of
hard work in a parish to which he was sent when it was
in a finaneially-broke condition—after going in shabby
clothes and studying thrift—one would naturally expect
that when the days of solvency and full and plenty came
along the general who won the battle would be allowed to
sit back with a brace of curates, and take it easy for
the rest of his days. No fear. Having built up a
reputation as an organiser and financier and builder, and
placed the parish church and other strictly business or
property concerns on a sound footing, he gets orders to
shift to some other parish which has an overdraft and
mortgage, or is in arrears with its interest and contribu-
tions to headquarters. Or, mayhap, it is a parish with no
church or churches at all that he goes to, and he has to
start the same old struggle all over again. Into his shoes
in the parish which he has left steps a successor. The
successor is generally more cultured, more spiritual, and
more concerned with the hereafter than the cash-box. So
the sweating' falls on the broad shoulders of the
grafter ” priest. I knew one who put several parishes
in order and was shifted as fast as he accomplished the
real hard work. In the time of Dr. Vaughan—a book-
W^PTthin^ s were Afferent. A Rev. Father could then
settle down in a parish and build it up around him, and
feel assured of a r.pe, easy, and well-provided old age.
But Dr. Moram like Carlyle’s Monk Sansom, keeps his eye
“ e I ? utter y an( *. ce llar, takes tally of tichirigs, and sees
the books are kept in order and that the parish funds are
well spent, and do not go for nest-eggs for the gatherers
and then- friends. I guess the Booths have only copied
the R.O. methods. All religions do cop}’ the True Church.
The man from Ladysmith took his pipe
from his mouth and reflected for two whole
minutes. “There-was lots of things to remember,
but I don’t think, somehow, as how I’ll forget
Long Toni, of ‘ Bulwan,’ and Old Mortality, of
Sniper’s Kopje, as long as I live. Them two
blokes between ’em did more towards capturin’
Ladysmith than the disaster at Nicholson’s Nek,
or anything else ; they got on our nerves so. Old
Mortality started one morning about nine o’clock
by flicking out the brains of the young chap along-
side me, with his beastly Martini-Henry rifle. I
gets a battery-glass nex’ morning, and watched
that there kopje. About 8 o’clock I sees him jog-
ging along towards it on a grey moke. A Kaffir
run behind him carryin’ his tueker-bag, Bible, and
bandolier. The old bloke carried bis gun hisself.
And he was quite an old bloke, too, with a beard
what ’ud make old Dan’l O’Connor die right out
with envy—-a fair bute. Then he disappeared
behind the kopje, an’ about 15 minutes after—
whiff! a cloud of black powder smoke, and a
corporal lurches for’ard, dead. We blazed away at
the kopje in volleys, but it made no cliff. Every
now ’n’gen that little ring of white smoke ’ud puff
out, an’ a bullet ’ud plank right in among us. For
four days he bagged about five killed and wounded
every day, and word was sent to the artillery,
and the twelve-pounder quick-firer came up and
rained shells on the kopje for a while. .1 ust as
the gun was limbering up ter get out, whiff comes
a bullet and down goes a gunner. It made us
fair mad. All the crack shots of the town came
round and tried their hands, but Old Mortality
had the best of the game right through, an’ our
outpost became mighty unhealthy Then Long
Tom was mounted on ‘ Bulwan,’ and we’d no guns
what could answer him, and for seven days we
lay there in what the newspaper blokes called
sullen silence. Away down at Esteourt, or some-
where, they said Clery was corning with 7000 troops
to clear Joubert back into the Free State, but the
trains was only gettin’ through occasionally, and
the chaps was beginning to wonder if there was
goin’ ter be a reg’lar siege—a reg’lar siege with
Old Mortality on his kopje wasn’t any sort o’
picnic, I can tell you. But one morning, as we
was coming down to guard, we passed four long,
grey guns what ’ud come iri the night before.
Says the sergeant, ‘ They’ll put the kibosh on Old
Mortality, boys ! ’ At 8 o’clock sharp Long Tom
and Old Mortality opened fire together, and next
moment the bloomin’ sky cracked. Them four
big guns all went off tergether, and a reg’lar hail
of shots ripped through the crowd of Boers on the
escarpment of ‘ Bulwan ’ watching their shell fall
into the Market Square. Only one fell on Sniper’s
Kopje, but it was enough. Old Mortality never
fired again. We heard afterwards from some
Boer prisoners that they only found his Bible an’
his boots, so the lyddite must ha’ lighted right
on ter him.”
“ Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
The Bulletin’s latest publication—
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack—contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
An Important Literary Work.
Residents of New South Wales now have an
opportunity to secure the “ Library of Famous
Literature,” which has recently met with such
success through the enterprise of the Standard,
in London. This work, which is in 20 volumes,
was compiled under the editorial direction of Dr.
Richard Garnett, C. 8., whose 50 years’ connection
with the British Museum —20 of which as Keeper
of Printed Books—entitled him to undertake such
a work, by reason of the broad learning which he
is well known to possess.
It would be quite possible to make a collection
of exquisite literary productions, which would,
however, but afford an inadequate and quite mis-
leading conception of the distinctive spirit of a
literature. An excellent selection might also be
confined to the literature of a single country. But
the projectors of the “Library of Famous
Literature” have broken through these limita-
tions. They have not been content with merely
reproducing pieces whose classic merit has won
for them a place in every anthology. Without
excluding these, or derogating in any way from a
high standard of merit, they have sought to
illustrate the characteristic expression of the
literary spirit in all ages and in all countries. In
a word, the “ Library of Famous Literature ” is
one of the most remarkable contemporary ex-
amples of the cosmopolitan spirit which is
beginning to pervade the civilised world;
rendering, without prejudice to individuality or
nationality, all countries, in a sense, but provinces
of one common country.
The success of this work in England last year
caused the publishers to arrange for the reserva-
tion of a certain portion of the edition for
distribution in Australia. These are now
available for those who apply promptly. Both
the low prices and easy terms of payment should
recommend the work to those who value good
books.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
Bishop “ Jack ” Stretch, Revs. Carr-
Smith and S. S. Tovey, all three jolly pood
parsons, descended on Sydney Domain, Eight
Hours Eve, and talked democratic Anglicanism to
the Sunday-afternoon-crowd. It is the few salt
men of that type who keep the English Church
from utter decay.
A N.S. W. policeman thus broke it gently
to his superseded girl :
Before you get this I may be an inert mass of clay. .
1 implore you not to think of me, but to put your trust m
higher hands. Look for comfort to our dear Saviour,
not to a weak and erring man. . . I cannot tell you how
I feel just now. I have sinned deeply in deceiving you
as I have done. I would have told you before, but,
believe me or not, I was afraid to give 3’ou pain. . . Now,
ni,v soul tells me that it would be deeper sin to marry
you, knowing as I do that in exchange for your love I
could only give you an empty sham. . . I pray to God
to forgive me for the deep wrong I have done you.
Then a Sydney Judge •post-mortemed the marriage
promise that had failed. The lady “ looked for
comfort ” in damages—and got them.
_ Albert Osgood, alias Dort, who now calls
himself a French-Swiss—which, judging from his
accent, he probably is—-has been convicted, at
Melbourne, of forgery. Dort is one of those men
whose inherent crookedness makes it more
pleasure to get £1 by arduous swindling than £5
by less laborious honesty. He victimised Sydney
a few months ago (he was then an alleged Hun-
garian), his speciality being newspapers and
which propositions he- worked by
sluicing. Tears were ever ready to his eyes ; and,
on the strength of a “starving wife and family,”
he got loans, gifts, payments in advance for
worthless copy, and jobs as advertising canvasser,
collecting cash in advance on contracts, and
putting it in his pockets. There is hardly a
newspaper office in Sydney which he has not
watered with his tears, and his victims include
Jews, Scotchmen, and women. Dort never made
a scoop, because bis crime-impulses always came
at the goading of want, and were glutted with
small gains. Having been in a N.S. W. gaol he
“exposed” its “horrors” in a Sunday paper —a
step which showed an utter absence of the far-
seeing spirit that makes the great criminal.
Lucky for him, he goes to a Victorian gaol now.
The Echuca Miracle. 1
In the town of Echuca a case has recently
occurred which is the talk of the town and district.
People marvel and cannot believe what their eyes
have seen. Mr. Michael O’Brien is a respected
citizen, and well known in the community, and
the public can vouch for his remarkable restora-
tion to health and happiness. He relates his
experience, sufferings and cure : “ I have been a
great sufferer during
the last three years,
and have tried most
patent medicines
which are being
advertised ; also
three doctors of this
town and two in
Melbourne, and re-
ceived but little
benefit from any of
the same. I was in
a very bad state,
and had lost all hope
of rjcovery, when,
luckily for me, a
small book was left
at my house, and
f
this (upon reading the cases that had been cured
by your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills), at once
put new hope in my heart, and *1 at once
purchased a bottle from Mr.: Cunningham,' the
local chemist, and upon using this bottle of your
pills, 1 found they had made a great improve-
ment in my health ; so I again purchased in all
eight bottles, and am now in the best of health,
which I owe to your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. My case was one of severe indigestion,
being informed by the doctor to that effect.
You may publish this as you think fit, as it may
be the means of helping those who may
suffer from a similar complaint; and being
well known in this town, I am sure there are
numbers of my friends who will confirm
all I have stated in this letter.” Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,’
blotches, ,and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is Ud per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
lOR the person who is not -a millionaire, there is
JL’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
WW. GREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting for Sport
■ and War.” All Riflemen should read this Book.
Price 1/2 posted.
W. W. Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches' at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s.
Sporting Martinis' to take 44 Winchester Cartridges.
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &c.
Greener’s Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the hands of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
with one of these rifles at 700 yards ; 98 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made bv Mr. Jordan, Capt.
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400,
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell.
Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas always in Stock.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Ch.as. "W. ißnolic: < and,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
THC CRIMSON STREAK ■ The New Model 59
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Is a machine in which only the finest material is embodied,
simple in Construction and Adjustment.
Branches in Every State.
It is Past, Rig-id, and each Working Part is
GOOLD , BICYCLE COY,,
64 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
■V.A.T.C., which resumes operations at' Caul-
fle’d this Saturday, still flourishes. During the past year
1 37,000 ; £25,620 ‘was paid away in stakes,
and £3oiB in improvements. Assets exceed liabilities by
£12,828. J
• * • •
The October curtain-raiser meet at Flemington
gave a few inklings of what may happen at Caulfield
wiihin the next 10 days. Grasspan went down in the
October Stakes, and, in the light of the fact that the
Randwick hero has been pulling up lame after his track-
gallops, punters are bound to feel afraid that he was
beaten on his present merits. Anyway, Haymaker gave
the crack a “ donkey-licking ” in the 10-furlongs race last
Saturday. Another interesting event, over the same
course, was the Stand Handicap, which brought Ampier,
Marama and Seaport to the fore. Ampier, Massinissa and
Seaport are this scribe’s fancies for Caulfield Cup at time
of writing, but Toorak Handicap next Saturday’ (12th)
will probably put one or other or all of them to a 'further
public test—if any race of less than Cup importance can
be called a test nowadays.
* * * •
Grasspan’s defeat in the October Stakes (Kubn
up) was the biggest facer for punters, so far, this
season. Mo. raked in a huge haul at twos “on,"
but Haymaker (7 to 1 against) settled the big
gun easily at the rjght end. Previously backers had
Grasspan top of the market for Caulfield Cup with eights,
the best price going. Field behind embraced cracks
George Frederick, Paul Pry, Royalty and Elderslie.
Haymaker is a clinking 1 good colt, by The Cardinal from
Harvest. At 2yrs. he ran third in Maribyrnong Plate,
Gwyn Nursery and Second Nursery. Recently he got
away with V.R.O. Three and Four-year-old Handicap, and
followed Hymettus and Royalty home in Menzie Stakes.
Though entered for Caulfield Cup, he was withdrawn.
« * * *
T[aymaker, too, is in the Toorak Handicap, and
should this smart son of The Cardinal be started for the
£5OO stake he will probably take first place in the betting,
especially if Grasspan .should happen to win either the
Caulfield Stakes or the Guineas earlier in the day. One
doesn t know what horses will carry silk (and money) in
the Stakes, Guineas, or Toorak Handicap. Also, the rela-
tive merits, at the weights, of Sequence, from Sydney,
and the fastest Victorians, are a mystery yet to be cleared
I*o* P reaen t scribe’s wav of thinking, Sequence, with
10.4 on his back, has only a moderate chance in Toorak
Handicap, and this idea applies to other N,S:W. horses.
The local candidates look more promising at present.
Ampier, Haymaker, Massinissa, Marama, and one out of
Heywood’s stable—possibly Praesidium—should include
the winner of the mile race next Saturday.
• * * ' *
Seaport is more likely to cut a prominent figure
in the Caulfield Cup. He is a handy little horse with
plenty of stamina, and the longer course and the extra
turns will suit him better than the Toorak mile. Sea-
port, Ampier and Massinissa have been galloping toge-
ther on the track; Tfyey • represent three different in-
, terests as regards trainers and nominal owners, but
seemingly there is a bond of sympathy between the in-
terests, and punters had better think of the trio in that
way.
* * » *
Tom Payten, seemingly, will have the honor of
saddling a warm first favorite for the Debutant Stakes in
either Brakpan or Great Scot. There are no flies on
Payten’s two-year-olds, and he has them very forward in
condition. But there are others. Oak wood, for instance,
is whispered as a very smart one, and if Oakwood from
Teddy Power’s stable, is seriously backed on Saturday,
this scribe’s eighteenpence will take its chance with the
rest of the money.
* *
Great Scot won V.R..C. Maribyrong Trial
Stakes Saturday. Out of a big field he started red-hot,
and won from barrier-rise to finish. He was bred in
N.S.W. by Lochiel from Scotch Mary. Payten secured
him as a yearling for 200 guineas.
» * * *
With reasonable luck, trainer Scobie should
, rake in sundry, tajents this season. Thirteen of his
; prads are being got ready at Flemington, including
Hautvillers, Miltiades, Dreamland, The Bride, and the
two-year-olds, Free States (Bill of Portland—Martingale),
Rienzi(Carlyon—Brown Alice), Positive (Positano-Bangle),
Eleanor (Haut Brion—Trieste), and Golden Tresses (Hin-
doo—Aureoline). Free States, Rienzi, and Eleanor are
among the acceptances for the Debutant Stakes at Caul-
field to-day (Saturday).
» * • *
Scratching of Malster for all engagements is
only in keeping with the usual thing at this period of the
year. .Public invested largely on him during the past few
days ; but that’s nothing. Mo. would have to go back to
selling ; fish, the bottle-oh ! biz, or leave the country but for
such happenings—an experience too fearful to contem-
plate United States will also be an absentee, and La
Carabine has gone out of Caulfield Cup. Big as this
set-back is, Hautvillers, Miltiades, the two fossils (Dream-
land and Paul Pry), and his troop of * youngsters will
probably keep Scobie’s end up again this year.
* * * ‘ *
Mo’s liberality ! A few pounds are dribbled on
to Malster for Caulfield Cup, and Mo sprints the price
from 33 to 14 to 1. This, with 10 other well-backed
horses in the race. Ikey has an acute attack of Scobie on
the chest.
• • • •
Now lots of money have gone on Hymettus for
Caulfield Cup, rumors are afloat he will be a non-
starter —but no reasons are given. Recent heavy’ backing
of his stable-ehum, George Frederick, is probably the
cause ; but there’s no fine in that, for they’re owned
differently. Looks as if George Frederick, fit, must have
a good chance, as he was deemed unlucky not to have
accounted for Clean Sweep, in the Coongy Handicap, last
year. At 4yrs., Hymettus closed on a 11-mile handicap
at Flemington, with 8.6—61b5. less than his Caulfield Cup
load. Both at their best, writer wouldn’t dwell a moment
in picking one to carry his coin. Hymettus has scored
many fine wins on Caulfield course, also he is a
brilliant, gritty nag who’ll stay every yard. This on what
we know of the two. G.F. won nothing last year, but
may have shown his party something out of theway this
season.
* » * *
Redmond—winner of Warwick Farm Handicap
Saturday—is a half-brother (by Autonomy) to Hautvillers,
thick-set, round-bodied, and more taking to the eye than
the majority of Autonomy’s get. Previously a big- disap-
pointment, his latest performance introduces him as a
stayer who may do something better when wanted.
• » * •
Ancient jock, F. Martineer, who won A. J.O.
Handicap on Clove over a quarter-of-a-century back,
tackled the game again on Jim Josper, in Juvenile Stakes -
at Warwick Farm, Saturday; and, shooting away like a
bullet, led into the straight, finishing third.
• * * *
First two-year-old race in N.S.W. this season
was at Warwick Farm on Saturday when the Beauchamp- *
Bonnette filly Bonnibel (bred in Windsor district) got
home as she liked. Thirteen lined-up, including Fighting
Charlie (a gelding by Splendor from Burlee) who started
a hot pot. Point Piper (Projeetile-Hirondelle) and Good
Speed (Medallion-Ta Ta) were also heavily backed. Two-
year-old races in other States were won by colts.
First of imported Dalmeny’s get to score in the
metropolis was Miss. Rosebery, winner of Moorefield
(Sydney) three-year-old Handicap, Monday. Miss R. is
a well-grown, taking-looking filly worth watching for
further events.
* • * •
The progress of crack trotter Huon Junr. at
Dubbo (N.S.-Wr) last week : 'Covering the half in 1.12 J he
accumulated pace, and finishing the final furlong at a
2.14 3-5 gait, got through in 2.20 J-, travelling faster near
the end than at any other period of the test. If he hadn’t
headed his pace-maker (30sec. start) too soon the figures
would have been better. The world’s champion trotting
stallion Cresceus, on 26th July last, at Cleveland (U.S.A.)
covered the mile in 2.2 J, wiping out the previous best by
Asec.
• * » •
A Maitland (N.S.W.) horse-owner is getting
even with Tatts. Club, Newcastle, in an original way.
The club fined him £lO for late scratching, and he is now.
withholding nominations till he has saved that amount.
He has already missed two nominations, which would
have cost him £6 apiece. Probably the vindictive sport
has found that it pays him not to nominate at all, and
saves good money with great indignation.
* * * •
Tom Watson, starting his first steeplechase in
Sydney, to the late jockey Rheese : “ Do” you know the
course, Rheese?” Rheese (scornfully) :“Do I know the
course! Why, every blanky fence owes me u broken
limb ! ” Rheese used to say his luck was so bad that if
he threw a bank-note in the air it would come down a
bit of brown paper.
* * * ..s.
Once prominent steed Cyclops came to a peculiar
end t’other day. He had been turned out at Araluen in
prime fix, and some time after was found dead with his
legs pinned firmly under the roots of a tree. Presumably
he got fast there while rolling, and died of starvation.
He had descended to buggy and hack duty lately.
• • * *
Hautvillers’ dam Narara, at the sale of Mr. G.
Proudfoot’s stud, became the property of the late Mr.
Richard Craven, who sent her to Haut'Brion. After Mr.
Craven’s death, Mr. Sam' Hordern’s then right-hand man,
Mick Power (since dead), bought her for the sake of the
Haut Brion foal she carried, and made a clipping bargain.
The foal was Hautvillers, who fetched three times the
money paid for his dam. - Last sale saw a brother to
Hautvillers knocked down for 340 gs. Thus Narara’s two
colts to Haut Brion brought 770 gs.
• * • •
Dear Bulletin.—You refer (28/9/’01) to the
Adelaide sly-totes. There is nothing “ sly” about them.
They are in the most prominent places in the town, and
do business with almost anybody. The police about once
a year make a raid upon them, but beyond taking away
a few books and then obligingly returning them, they, in
most cases, do nothing, and even if they do take action,
they generally lose their case. There are several Ikeys
here making thousands per annum out of their respective
totes, and by quite other methods than out of commis-
sion.—Place-Tote.
• • * *
At Helena Vale (W.A.) meeting, Saturday,
Sept. 21, Joe Trenoweth scooped the programme of five
events. The wins were fairly good ones, and Trenoweth
Arode with a barely-mended jaw, the result of -a horse
'' Coming down on him a fortnight before. There should
be a great career before a jockey who injures his own
jaw in a race.
* • • •
Trotting steadily progresses in M.L. Christ-
church Metropolitan Club offers £lBOO for a three-days’
meet. There are three high-class handicaps ; two of £iso
and one of £ll5, three miles, and a £75 purse is hung up
for the nag that can do a mile in 2.18
* * * *
In last issue The Bulletin quoted some remarks
from London Referee as to the difficulty of detecting
cronk jockeyship in what is known as the Tod Sloan style.
Last week came the news that Lester Reiff, one of the
trickiest of riders “ on the neck,” has been warned off all
the English courses. Seemingly, the Yankee mannikin
accomplished something very notable at Manchester, a
startling “reversal of form” probably. As for the
suspicion that he deliberately pulled the St. Leger
favorite—an “ odds-on ” chance—at Doncaster last month,
it is impossible to say whether it was a well-grounded’
suspicion until the story of the .race and its “ market ”
surroundings has come to hand.
* * * •
After a long recess, Jim Gaffney appeared
again in the ring of the Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) on
Saturday night. Opposite stalked man-mauling Mat
Mitchie, of Broken Hill. Mitchie was terrific. He
charged, bull-like, right through Gaffney’s rib-benders,
jabs, and swings, and spread the poor Sydney man over
the floor with thuds that made the audience hold its.
lower weskit sympathetically. But Gaffney came up
again, and dealt out stoush. bravely and generously.
Suddenly, half-way through the third three-minutes, out
of the whirling melee came a sledge-hammer-like right
swing. Gaffney stopped it, and was instantly spread-
eagled. Here the police made peace, and were heartily
cursed accordingly. Mitchie was declared winner. Even
in better condition Gaffnej' could hardly have won, but
he might have lasted longer. Retouched by Foley, Gaff-
ney could make several of the 11.4 division take it lying
down. 6
*’• • *
Ike Stewart, of the tribe of Ham, will bump
and be bumped by ’Murkan middle-weight Jim Scanlon
at the Golden Gate A.C. (Syd.), next Saturday. Alleged
champion, “Snowy” Sturgeon, who’d ridicule the mere
mention of a scrap with negro Ike, wouldn’t meet the
Yank at any price, neither would Dawson, or Thompson
the elder, though both were understood to be thirsting-
for his gore. Tut Ryan Is. hankering, but Scanlon will!
not attack the heavy-weights till compelled by sheer want
of fight to do so. Scanlon’s impending ’ battle with
M'Coll (of Armidale) at Newcastle (N.S.W.) is causing
much betting, mainly because Sturgeon declares M'Colll
“the best fighter in the. country an opinion formed
after a private “go.”; Scanlon looks well, stands nearly
6ft., is long-reached, comparatively light but lengthy-
legged, with full shoulder* and chest development. Has!
a rather handsome face, with square, determined jaws,
and is absolutely devoid of skite or swagger.
* * * •
The world-wide scarcity of heavyweight bruisers;
is mysterious. Australia’s best and only front-rankers
are champion Doherty, Felix, and Tut Ryan, none of
whom would have lived a day 15 years ago. England
hasn’t one fit to fight Yankee middleweight O’Brien, and
barring Bob Fitzsimmons, Jeffries, Sharkey, Ruhlin and
Jim Corbett, who have all been fighting for years, even
Amtirika doesn’t Own anything above 11.4 worth mention-
ing, and apparently has no young ones in sight. The
amateur boxing premierships promoted by N S.W
Amateur Sports Club have produced six “bantams,”
seven feathers, five lights, and six middles. Only one
heavy entered. .The heavyweight is passing awav.
*' i • * »
First round' of-Sydney cricket grade competi-
tions ended on Saturday last,, with some surprises
Waverley against North Sydney had nine wickets to tot
up 128 and win. Sid. and Charley Gregory, the not-outs
of the previous week, knocked up 58 and 37 each, but the
rest went down like the grass that perisheth and North
Sydney won with 34 to the good. A week before,
Leichhardt-Balmain compiled 122, and Sydney had lost
two fpr 22... The other nine only notched 95 with one run
out. Abo. Marsh, for Sydney, bowled grandly, seven
wickets falling to him for 19, while Fenton took three for
12. Central Cumberland-Glebe was the only unfinished
game. Pye (Central Cumberland) made 157 (one behind
Trumper’s 158, the highest for the round). Paddington
closed its innings against Redfern and won comfortably.
Vic. Trumper, for Paddington, bagged six wickets for 37 ;
a very promising performance.
* * • *
Some results of second round (Monday), of
Sydney first grade cricket: M. A. Noble (Paddington)
showed fine bowling form against Sydney, getting 6 for
41. Vic. Truinper, atop of his 158 in previous round,
notched 96 (not out) in this one, and, together with F. Gow,
hit up 120 in an hour. Brothers Sid and Charlie Gregory
(Waverley) served up some leather-chasing for Redfern,
scoring 123 and 150 respectively. For Central Cumber-
land, against Burwood, Wilson got 5 wickets for 12, and
Wickham 2 for nil.
* * * •
A promising boy-cricketer is the 14-year-old
bat, H. Cranney, of Central Cumberland (Sydney), who
joined L. W. Pye and assisted to pile up 142 for fourth
wicket—Cranney’s share was the 42. At school cricket
last year he is said to have got through two centuries.
Another youthful prodigy is Church of England Grammar
School boy, Hickson, who made 95 of North Sydney’s
triumph over Waverley on Saturday last.
* * * *
Skipper M'Laren, of the coming English team,
prepares the way for himself and mates. Interviewed by
a ’Ome ha’penny paper just before starting he is reported
thusly :—“ Australian cricketing reporters, for the most
part, seemed to delight in writing everything blackguardly
about their visitors when the latter were manifestly doing
their best. Some members of the side (the skipper him-
self obtained far the best collection of scurrilous articles)
were generally busy on Sunday with their scissors and
scraps. Mr. M’Laren further stigmatises the Australian
reporter as, in three cases out of four, a very big nuisance.”
His chief reason for saying this appears to be the fact
the reporters were generally to be found in the dressing-
room of the Australians after a big match, and that the
English players were left out in the cold.
* * » *
English sporting papers comment stupidly on
the difference between the £3OO fee paid to English pro.
cricketers for the Australian tour and the £7OO, or more,
which an Australian Elevener gets for his share of the
profits on the English tour. But when the work of the
two travelling teams comes to be fairly compared, and
the gate-money circumstances are taken into account, it
is found that the English pro. visiting this country gets
all that he earns, in comparison with the harder-worked
Australian abroad. His percentage of the gross profits is
larger, though he never is required to battle hard for six
days right off the reel, as often happens to an Australian
Eleven in two successive matches—say a “test” and a
“ county.”
* » * •
A benefit lately given to .T. T. Brown, the
famous Yorkshire bat, realised £4OOO. In an interview,
Brown says that the Sydney and Old Trafford grounds are
the best he has played on, and that the former is easily
first in keeping in order throughout a protracted game.
* • * •
Inter-State tennis tourney ended on Sydney
Cricket Ground, Saturday. Singles championships again
went to Victorian I)r. Kearney from Rice (N.S.W.) Play
was the closest and most exciting seen for years, Rice
making no mistakes and scoring hair-raising shots from
all positions. At the finish the Victorian’s accurate
placing on the side lines proved too much for the Corn-
stalk premier, and he went under in the last two sets.
Struggle extended over two hours, severely testing the
endurance and skill of both men. Doubles supremacy
went to Kearney and Brookes, who settled the holders
(Curtis and Dewhurst) somewhat handily. Brookes’ game
was dashing ; he drove in deadly style, and served and
slashed like the master he is. Curtis and Dewhurst
didn’t reach expectations, though they did well on
occasions.
* * * *
“Punt”: Often marvelled at absence of re-
cords for place or drop-kicks in Australasian football.
Recent N.S.W. Great Public School Sports saw Dent and
Hickson tie with a place kick of 69yds. Ift. 9in., which is
the best ever chronicled on this patch or at ’Ome, if
recognised record-books may be relied upon. Informa-
tion in this par. is something to go against in future.
* * • »
Electoral football in Brisbane for the season
resulted in Norths just beating Souths for premiership.
The final game was terribly rough, one man’s leg being
broken, and numerous minor injuries inflicted. S. A.
Spragg (late of N.S.W.) played for Norths, and was an
easy first for champion. The bitterness between these
two clubs made most of their games skull-dragging
exhibitions instead of toeball.
* • * *
First inter-State professional bike supremacy of
the season was decided at Sydney Eight-Hour sports on
Monday, over five miles. Lewis (Vic.) led into the last
quarter, but M.L. man Sutherland tackled him and got
away. Here Megson (N.S.W.) came whizzing past and
won on the post by a wheel. M‘Donald (S.A.) was third.
Time, 12.14 2-5.
, * » * »
, Arthur Smythe (probably the heaviest bikist
a-wheel), on Saturday last, reduced his own previous
“best” Australasian amateur unpaced half-mile record
from 63 l-ssec. to 60 4-ssec. Professionals, Mutton and
M‘Donald, had previously done it in 62 2-ssec. and
60 3-ssec. respectively, but Smythe’s friends cheerfully
declare that when Smythe gets used to the lower gear
(105) he’ll do it in 60sec. ' His machine was a new Massey-
Harris, geared to 105, and weighing 22£lbs.
* * • * *
Roberts-Weiss match (latter receiving 5500 in
in 21,000) has been dragging along in Sydney before
indifferent “gates” since Wednesday last week.
Monday night’s scores were—Weiss, 11,961 ; Roberts,
8181. Roberts compiled-1830 to Weiss’ 674 that evening,
but was then 569 behind on averages:
* * . * ( *•
A novelty in the form of a handcuffing contest
will be an item at forthcoming Ballarat sports. It is pro-
posed to invite all the “tugs” of the district, many of
whom boast that no bobby living can put the darbies on
them, to enter the sports arena, where each competing
constable is to try and handcuff a given “ tug” within
•smin. A tussle like this for good prizes, skin and hair
being certain to fly, will draw like 16 bullocks going
downhill.
■ * * ■
The municipal election candidates at Prahran
(Melb.) provided sport for the crowd some weeks ago.
There were five of them, and on one occasion, after they
had expounded their various “ policies ” to a local town
hall audience, the chairman invited the multitude to send
along questions that he might read them aloud and elicit
satisfactory answers from the gentlemen on the platform.
The chairman was as good as his word. One of the aspir-
ing five was a butcher of the pony-racing persuasion, and
the first question ran, “ Will Mr. Brisket kindly state
whether his pony, So-and-so, was a fair goer the last time
:it ran, and if not, why not?” Thereat the gathering of
ratepayers roared hilariously, and the chairman cried
“Order!” “Order!” cried a voice from the balcony.
41 What order? Mine’s a beer ! ”
* * * •
M‘lntosh is the latest Australian pigeon-mur-
derer to uphold this country’s discredit at the despicable
game. At the Belgian Prix Croy, worth 10,000 francs,
56 shooters started, but only six survived the 12th round.
At 28iyds. MTntosh grassed 23 out of 24 set free, and
won the first prize, 6000 francs and a gold medal. Second
man had 22 kills, and third 18. A gold medal for pigeon-
shooting ought to be just about equivalent to a farm-
burning testimonial.


IN ANTICIPATION
Of the coming' duties we have been,
importing very largely during the past
few months, and, as we deal direct with
the manufacturers in all the principal
cities of the world, and pay SPOT
CASH, our friends and the public
generally will find a saving of AT
LEAST 25 PEE. CENT, by making
their purchases from us.
T6E MDEiffl lilT JEUIEEEES9 CO.
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Diamond Star Brooch and Hairpin,
£35.
Be Careftil wbeQ yoG BGy a Bicycle
See that you are not cajoled into buying any but
Massey - ttar r is l&t eyele
Then you will own the finest machine built and your cycle riding- will be a pleasure.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand.
sgd
IA#E don’t claim that Globe Teas are the
ONLY good Teas in this country, but
WE DO CLAIM that they are ABSO-
LUTELY THE BEST at their respect-
ive prices, and we want you to test our
statement. Your money returned if you’re
not satisfied. . . . . .
♦SSIS&j*,
Fine Tea
1/- a pound.
Choice Tea
1/3 a pound.
GLOBE TEAS.
The
Best
in
Australia
1/9 a pound
eib'j
121 b y
2iTbJ
Parcels.
ik-Vi
uz
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON
Tea Merchants,
284 George Street, Sydney.
Wm
£
mSm
me
*
ALL KlNDS—Australian, New Zealand, English and
American are on Sale at our City Depot,
135 KING STREET
(near PITT STREET.)
Price varies from THREEPENCE per lb,, ready cleaned.
Parcels delivered in City and Suburbs or sent Hard-
Frozen to all parts of the State.
BEND FOR PRICE LIST. -K—K-
I N.S.W. Fresh food & lee CO. Ltd. Sydney
Edward John Eyre, who, sixty-one years
ago, faced the horrors of Australian desert
exploration, is still alive and well, and by the
request of the Royal Society of N.S.W. he has
forwarded to Sydney his photograph, showing a
fine-looking old man in his 87th year.
“ Snowy ” : Was surprised, the other day,
while having a dip in Cavill’s Domain baths
(Sydney), to find a bathing-companion in the form
of a large turtle. Was just going to acquaint the
bath-keeper with the fact when a wiry-looking
old gentleman walked up and asked if I would
care for a ride on the beast. I consented ; and
the ride was all right, as-far as it went, which was
about 20 yards, for over that she would not budge.
On emerging, I was told I might now fancy myself,
as the turtle was the renowned De Rougemont’s,
and the wiry man De Rougemont himself. It
appears that the turtle was sent to Cavill’s for
De R. to give a, show before some friends. Rep-
tile’s weight said- to be 2cwt.
U.S.A. citizens are petitioning that the
corpse of M'Kinley’s murderer should be thrown
into the sea, and not allowed to contaminate
American soil. There is a numerous class of
Yankee who likes to pose as poetic, and to
imagine he’s imaginative, while all the time there
is the trail of the canning factory over his high-
flown sentimentalism. Eancy people, who pride
themselves -on being ahead of the Chinese in
civilisation, deliberately carting back to-America
for burial —hundreds at a time —the decomposed
bodies of the thousands of soldiers sacrificed in
carrying out the Philippine burglary !
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
“ Donnybrook ” writes from Westralia on
a matter of more than provincial interest:—
Recent inspection of land boilers has done much good.
Ancient death-traps have been condemned, and working
pressures in some cases reduced. But there is still the
element of danger in the personal factor. Ignorant men
remain in charge of engines. I suggest that the law
should provide, as in the case of marine engines, that the
man in charge must have a certificate in proof of com-
petency. The safest of boilers is unsafe with an ignorant
man.
True enough,; and N.S.W. has, despite the legis-
lative promises of two decades, both the ignorant
man and the unsafe, uninspected boiler.
The biggest bike road-race ever held in
Australasia is to be Warrnambool to Melbourne,
165 miles, on 12th Oct. The finest road-riders of
the Commonwealth will meet in this event, and
the promotors, the Dunlop Tyre Co., have spared
no expense towards making it a grand success,
paying even the ex’s, of the inter-State represen-
tatives. The visiting scratch-contingent com-
prises—A. Ralston, of M.L. ; and A. Jewell,
Ossey Prowse and W. C. Best, of W. A. Victoria
is represented by A. C. Forbes, F. Beauchamp,
A. A. Middleton, a trio that will give the visiting
cracks all their work to shake off. Tasmania’s
rep., T. H. Scarborough, will start with the
10-minute division, Which comprises some fine
road-scorchers. Altogether, some 65 riders' are
expected to start, the limit men leaving Warr-
nambool at 5 a.m. The roads are all right, so that
given fine weather, a merry pace will be cut out
over the Western district plains, and it will need
unselfish pacing on the part of back-markers to-
make up the hour start which they have to give
away. The competitors are beiug fed throughout
the race by the Dunlop Tyre Company. The
finish, which will no doubt draw a tremendous
crowd to the Melbourne Haymarket, is expected
to take plAce between 3 and 4 p.m. The previous
winners are—A. Calder, ’95 ; J. Carpenter, ’96 ;
W. C. Jackson, ’97 ; and W. Collins, ’9B; since
when this event has been allowed to lapse. Some
pressmen intend to follow the race in motor cars.*
Baby
• .
Wants
** * *
WE SUPPLY IN
SILVER and , GOLD.
—No time to supply the
others.
Solid Silver Spoon, 7s. each.
Silver Spoons, with Nursery Rhymes, 7s. each; Silver Cans, with old rhymes in raised work 37s fid
Silver Maps, 325. ; Electro-plated Mugs, 18s. Kjnife,Fork'tfnd gpoon, in case, 275. 6d. Silver Dumb'-beli
Rattles, Baby Diamond Rings, and every line posable for presents to his Babyship. AU at London Prices.
little pig • * 'A
Plain Figures.
London Prices.
Strictly Cash.
pAIRIfAX «3c ROBERTS ——_
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, »23 -HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Honest Wear
In Every Pair.
■
Our Boots oan be
EXCHANGED If not
correct, as we wish
DIBTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Tb«
Callagbai)
Boot
This Boob is
PHOTOGRAPHED
from STOCK.
Fine French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, 22/6 ; post paid, 23/6
» „ Lack, „ „ „ 21/-; „ 22/-
All sizes and fittings.
Have you ordered
a 'pair yet ?
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney
Treasurer Waddell, of N.S.W., states that he
intends introducing an improved system of public
accountancy. Reid said the same thing, and his improve-
ment consisted in not charging-himself with the unpaid
accounts at the end of the year, charging back a lot of
his road expenditure to Dibbs’ accounts, and only debit-
ing the year with six months’ interest on portion of the
public debt. Lyne also decided to introduce an improved
system ; he was going to put all the small deficits, sus-
pense accounts, unpaid bills, and so on into the one big
deficit, and then start paying it oil at the rate of £4IW,UUO
a year instead of the former alleged £150,000. He closed
up one or two accounts and added them to file deficit,
and then he passed an Act for paying an extra
£260,000 a year off the said deficit—and nfcver paid
it. Also, he and See devised the f(iea of resuming
a large part of Sydney and Immediately treating
the proceeds of the property as revenue, even though—
the property not being yet paid-for—these rents really
belonged to the owners. And now See’s Government has
also got ideas aoout reforming the public accounts. So
far every reform has proved to be only another delusion,
and the reformed accounts have been worse than their
unreformed predecessors.
With a view to something like a real- reform,
The Bulletin desires to offer these suggestions
(1) Put all the deficits—the two suspense accounts, Die
two superannuation funds, the half-ye.tr s interest ..iat
is always carried forward, and all the rest —into one . /
deficit, Lven if the deficit is £b,< 1)0,bOU, let us knu»
where we are. And let Treasury Bills, bearing interest
at 3 per cent., be issued for the full amount, and let the
interest on the full amount be a permanent cnarge on
the revenue till the deficit is paid off.
(2) Increase the income-tax to (say) 9d. in the £, and
set it aside by Act of Parliament for the purpose of paying
off the deficit. Let the proceeds go into the hands of
trustees (say the Treasurer, Auditor-General, and leader
of the Opposition) for that purpose, and not appear in the
revenue at all. As the Treasury Bills issued against the
deficit are bought up.out of this fund, the interest on
the bills purchased will make the redemption luud in-
crease rapidly, and the whole burden should be shifted
in about 15 years.
(3) Also, let any moneys derived from the sale of the
Martin Place or Centennial Park properties be credited to
the deficit.
(4) Increase the land-tax sufficieritly to make good the
loss to the revenue incurred by the transference of the
income-tax to the credit of the deficit.
(5) Pass an Act making it illegal to charge any but
directly reproductive works to loan funds, and specify
these works. Let all roads, bridges, dredging, repairs,
ammunition, guns, and all unproductive buildings (gaols,
court-houses, lock-ups, museums, Schools, &c.) be charged
to land revenue.
(6) Have two budgets—one dealing with the cost of
governing the country, running the various public ser-
vices, and keeping existing works" in repair ; the other
dealing with the construction of rfew works. Into this
latter the general revenue must pay sufficient to cover
the cos of new unproductive works, while sufficient loan
funds can be paid in to cover the cost of new
productive works —until the country recovers its
senses sufficiently to give Up loans altogether.
This will do away with the nefarious state of things
under which a snide politician may pose as an economist
by spending £209,000 a year more on the general govern-
ment of the country than his predecessor did, and
charging £500,000 more of the expenditure on un-
productive works to loans.
(7) Let it be enacted that henceforth any profits realised
on new public works, over and above working expenses
and interest, shall go to reduce the debt on those works.
(8) Let it also be enacted that when the State has sold
land, and used the proceeds as revenue, and now wishes
to repurchase these lands for closer settlement or any
other purpose, the repurchase money shall not be wholly-
paid out <sf,loans, but the revenue shall disgorge the
original price of the land as a contribution towards the
repurchase.
(9) Place the Trust Funds in the hands of Trustees, and
wholly out of the Treasurer’s reach.
There are other financial reforms that are urgently
required in N.S.W., but these are a few to go on with.
Hannan’s Eureka (W.A.), “ despairing of doing
anything with their Kalgoorlie property, have turned
their attention to Coolgardie, where they have secured
an option over a lease for £7OO cash and 15,000 shares in
a co. paid up to 155., four-fifths of all gold won during
the option to belong to the co. in any case, and if the
option is exercised it takes the lot.” How things must
have changed in Coolgardie? For a Hannans co. to throw
up the sponge in that camp for the purpose of mining at
Coolgardie is certainly unique. It would be a wise pro-
ceednnHf 30 or 4) other cos., desperately working abso-
lute duffers in the H in nan’s district, were also to abandon
the business, and hand whatever money they have over
to charities, or, if too greedy for that, to speculate it in
Tattersall’s sweeps.
Editor Bulletin.— statement (B. 28/9/ , 01)
that the Silverton tram-line has a route as level as a
billiard-board. The writer has evidently never been
right over the line, which, from the foot of Thackeringa
Range to Broken Hill, has a ruling grade of 1 in 80—not
much billiard-board about that! Again, the tram-line
has a mileage of a little over 30 ; the Chillagoe railway-
line has over 100. Chillagoe has plenty of fuel-timber ;
the tram-line not a stick. And what has the Chillagoe to
do with the Government portion of that line from
Mareeba to Cairns? The Chillagoe line is heavier, and
carries more powerful engines—therefore it can work
traffic over steep grades cheaper than the Government
with ligiiter permanent-way and lighter engines. Also,
as regards the mines, if your correspondent had ever seen
them he would know that they are developing well, the
Munganabeingfurtherdeveloped than others of the group.
“ Mainshaf’s 55 account of the development at the Chilla-
_'ie mines is correct, and I agree with him that money has
been spent in sinking shafts in places where they ought
not to have been—at present, anyhow. However, Chilla-
goe will survive all those mistakes. —-Fishplate.
* • » *
Einasleigh Copper (N.Q.) : A start made "with
the smelter, and, as usual, trouble followed. The men
struck for higher Wages, and shareholders expected a
higher matte. There appears, however, no doubt that it
is a permanently-producing copper-mine having what
would seem to be an ideal smelting ore, averaging about
10 per cent, copper with a little siher and gold, over 30
per cent, iron, about 25 per cent, sulphur, and the same
In silica, the balance alumina ; and if more iron is wanted
there is a big iron-stone body where it can be got. Good
lime some 20 miles away, but it should not be needed.
Air July established beyond doubt that the right thing
for the co. to do is to await the building of a railway
from Chillagoe, and probably Bull shareholders will agree
to this policy as soon as they are satisfied that the ore
can be smelted, and that it is good enough to work at a
profit. Sooner or later that fact will be proved. A big
mine with a railway ; a non-paying one without.
• • * *
“ Canip ” : Despite sanguine Q. press reports re
Callide Coal and Railway Co., Gladstone, Q., speculators
are advised to hasten slowly. As matters now stand, the
co. has a good coal show and some 50 miles of a trial rail-
way survey to work on. Said survey has stiff grades and
a tunnel three-quarters of a mile long. Presuming that
the co. is going to build a 3ft. 6in. line, the said tunnel
alone , if country is favorable, will cost about £45,000.
Add to this the balance of the line at £3OOO per mile (a
moderate estimate, considering all things), the primary
cost of the line alone, if it is to carry heavy traffic, will
not fall far short of £250,000. Then wharfage, cranes,
rolling-stock, etc., must be provided ; so that an initial
outlay of £300,000 will not be unreasonable to provide
for, and that means a stiff annual interest bill. Also
there are maintenance of road, wear-and-tear of rolling-
stock, salaries, etc. Length of proposed line, 60
odd miles. Probable completion of permanent survey
(not started yet), say, July, 1902 ; absolute con-
struction of line to carry coal .seaward, say early' in .1904.
'Present seaboard rivals of co., Ipswich and Burrum ;
inland, Clermont and barling Downs ; probable rivals,
Port Clinton, Broadsound, and the anthracite beds about
the railway at Dawson River, O.Q.
• * » *
The English-owned Yelta, in Moonta copper
district of S.A., for a year past idle, is to be re-opened
and provided with a smelting plant. Manager Cowling,
w’ho has been away consulting J. Bull, comes back with
the report that there is a very sanguine feeling over there
with regard to the copper-market.


The Joiliest Book of the Year
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
By Steele Ruid.”
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
0
aferi
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
n
m
m
%
> 1
M
m
mm
TM
m
rv
-
' 16
r i /
hr:
m
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ • KOKO ’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
Princess HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts
to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
||l cleanly of ail hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
old people like it
111 lor its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire newgrowth when that isposßible.
MIUDLK-iGKn PEOPLE UKE IT,
111 because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUXG LADIES LIKE IT
ill as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it in what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
||, because It keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
•|l position desired.
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
111 because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
I fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
'll is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
ƒg
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Dd., 14, Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
> CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on ejfery bottle.
df
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S} Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Circular-Pointed Pens.
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
draion to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
gd
mmi
&
of flexibility and Foints.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENCLAND.
THE KTEW
EDISON TAtKINC MACHINES.
fg
The Bijou Phonograph.'
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 108.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
208. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5£
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
REEVES & CO , ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
USE_— a
SPOOISEB’S
mm
SPOONERS
4
V
*
rsn.
UTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED WO5«
mm
;*i‘r r.r;:;,v:
null
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAIfc.
Elack Cream,
l''or Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) Cd. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle) , is.
Also Manufacturers of
nrivalled EMBROCATION,
L quid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
-larness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Fold by all Storekeepers,
J!oot Sion*, Saddlers, etc.
dr
Estd.
mo.
CONCERTINAS
.and/EOLAS
Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEA TSTONE & Co.
(Original
Inventors &
Patentee^),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W. f England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price List’.
The Eucrasy Company’s gook
. . ON . .
DRUNKENNESS.
The Eucrasy Company, of Sydney, extracts from whose
hook on the disease of drunkenness have been published
by this paper from time to time, have lately issued the
third edition of their pamphlet, explaining the action of
Eucrasy, and pointing out their method of curing those
addicted to the liquor habit
The Eucrasy cure is one of the oldest, having been
before the public since 1882, at which time sanatoriums
were in successful operation in many cities in America,
and the succees of their remedy is shown by hundreds of
grateful patients all over the world.
A well-known merchant, residing at Newcastle, says ;
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
qualities of Eucrasy. I felt even after .the first dose a
different person, and may say now that lam cured. The
craving has entirely gone, and I can with full confidence
recommend it to anyone, no matter what hold the liquor
habit may have of them.
“Thanking you sincerely for your kindness, I am,
yours faithfully, "
Any reader of The Bulletin can obtain this book free
by addressing THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
NOW READY.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COM MON WEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
I
A
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
F3EXEIB (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“ Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
mention this paper when writing.)
NOSIVMSHaQ
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
SH«Q
//fit
The Neglected Aborigine.
Ernest Eaveno, who knows as muoh as most
authorities about the above person, writes as
follows
Two independent and quite dissimilar causes seem now
to be working’ together to force Australia into at last,
after more than a century of passive injustice, doing in
some way its duty to the few remaining aborigines. One
is the prospect "of the Northern Territory becoming a
Federal property, and the other is the growing feeling of
shame aroused by the treatment of the blacks in Wes-
tralia. When it acquires the Northern Territory, the
Commonwealth Government will be compelled to legis-
late in some sort for the aborigines there ; and the in-
creasing publicity given to the black Westralian slave
system must certainly bring enough outside pressure to
bear upon that State to compel a change, or some pre-
tence of a change, for the better.
When we entered upon Federation, the aborigines were
excluded from any participation in such blessings as
might possibly flow therefrom. If possible, this state of
things should be amended, and now would be the time to
do it. The system adopted by all the States (there were
differences of detail, but it was practically the same
system all the time) has been to pass laws regulating the
intercourse between the whites and the blacks, and then
—save for a hysterical outburst or so- to allow these
regulations to become practically a dead letter. One
instance of rational, or irrational, legislation with regard
to the blacks occurred in Queensland during the regime
of the native police of that State. Some talk having been
aroused about this force, the order went forth from head-
quarters that henceforth only blank cartridge should be
issued to the troopers ! Of course, this put the authori-
ties on safe ground ; if blacks were shot, they could say,
at any rate, that, according to the tenor of their orders, it
could not be with Government bullets.
• « * »
But, dot to go back to old history, nor to the hypocrisy
that has always governed our dealings with the Australian
blacks, is there no practical scheme which could be
enforced, even now at the eleventh hour, for the benefit
of the residue of the Myall or semi-Mvall tribes? The
principle of establishing reserves for the blacks where
they could live in their primitive state, without interfer-
ence, has never been tried in this country. By reserves,
the ordinary mission-stations are not meant, but large
areas of country where permanent water and game could
be found, and where the aborigines could live in their
old style as respectable savages instead of as station and
township loafers. We have plenty of country adapted
for the purpose—country which it would not pay to stock,
and if rough and scrubby, the blacks would be of actual
service by preventing the cattle from forming wi.d mobs
in it as they do at present. The intercourse between the
blacks and whites should be strictly confined to the
proper officials, and the punishment of unauthorised
persons found on the reserves should be heavy. No white
man should be allowed there except on business, and by
official authority ; and no blackfellow should be per-
mitted to come on white territory excepting on the same
terms. This would put an end to that prolific source of
trouble and strife, the abduction of the black women, and
prevent the growth of a half-caste population, an in-
creasing curse in Australia. It would be a matter of
some trouble to initiate such a system, but the early
difficulties could be overcome by tact and firmness, and
after a few years the blacks would appreciate the life, and
the young generation which had grown up without being
debauched by association with the whites, would ask for
nothing better. But it is a stern fact that the missionary
must be as absolutely prohibited as the rest of the
general public. Success could only be attained by allow-
ing, and in fact encouraging, the blacks to follow their
primal life as far as is compatible with good order and
peace.
• * • *
As regards the necessary space there is enough
of what is known from a pastoral point of view a?
“ unavailable country ”to accommodate the natives. It
will be urged that the game on these reserves would be
driven to take to the good country to escape the blacks,
bub if this did happen then at certain times battues
could be inaugurated and the blacks invited to aid in the
work of destruction. At first a strong and expensive
force would be needed to teach the blacks to keep within
their boundaries, and also to see that unscrupulous whites
did not interfere with them. But the blackfellow is not
quite such a fool as is commonly supposed, and it would
not take him long to learn his lesson ; then the force
could be reduced. By having a standing reward for
white outlaws or malefactors who sought refuge in the
reserves, the capture of such by the blacks could be
assured.
The system of reserves could be applied in Queensland,
the Northern Territory, and Westralia. Another thing—
there is no reason why the cocoa-nut should not grow in
some at least of the tropical portions of Australia ; and
the blacks could learn to plant these in suitable places.
Superintendence would be necessary, else the chances are
that they would eat the nut instead of planting it. The
cocoa-nut would probably not grow well on the Gulf of
Carpentaria, where there is such an extent of mangrove
foreshore, but in Arnheim’s Land and on some of the
coastal islands, and in the northern coast of Westralia,
there is no reason why its introduction should not be
attended with success and the natives taught to regard
the trees as tribal property, as the Pacific Islanders do.
In adapting such a comprehensive scheme to Australia,
the one main idea should always be kept in view. The
only way to benefit the blackfellow is t/' keep him an in-
dustrious savage, working hard for his living by making
and using his own hunting im lements. Any endeavour
to make him a degenerate copy of a white man is bound to
end in failure. The details of such a scheme are too full
to enter into in the space of an article, but if an intelli-
gent attempt were made to carry out a reserve system the
Australians of 50 years hence would have one blot partially
wiped off their history, and a big blot, too.
A Melbourne George Reid was damaged
t’other day through the breaking of a windlass
Now had it been a windmill or a windbag the
“ same old George ” must have been the victim.
A great deal of what was said as to the
unwholesomeness of Dreyfus’ prison must have
been mere flam. Gomez, who attempted the life
of Napoleon 111, has been released, in good
health, after 43 years on Devil Island.


t t
SLEEP ON!
For while you sleep those 30
drops of SEIGEL’S SYRUP
are cleansing and invigorating
your system. You will rise “ like
a giant refreshed.”
“ Having used
for 12months,” says Mrs. J. Johnson-,
168, Lydiard Street, Soldier’s Hill,
Ballarat, Victoria, “I can testify to
its good qualities. Formerly I
suffered greatly from indigestion
and general debility, but now —
i h u ks to this excellent medi-
cine—l am in better health
than I have known for
years. - May 16th, 1900.”
Federal
Suits
Busin
ness
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
* Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
gd
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfree
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40/=
Great Value! Our Famous f^eady-Made
Federal Sac Suit
1 n Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3 O/JL
to 7, Special Tailor "
made,fitted with Italian
Cioth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
ordering give this number, No. 0123 .
JUJaft # to*
TTlclboiirnc
best house for
Iflusic.PiamViolins and
all Iflusfcal sundries
Collins JSh.
't'
d>
Wc
v.’s
iP
OLD
RNS
SUNBXJ
fing
</?
CHA
>1
'V
&iC
h-5
p «>eto
RS ,
Missing Friends.
MR. FREDERICK CONSTANTINE HOPE
CHARLESWORTH. Information re-
quired concerning the whereabouts of him and
his children (if any) for their advantage. Last
heard of at Parramatta in 1887. Refer to
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Agents for CULL & BRETT, Solicitors,
Staffordshire, England.
ikin' 1 -
v
Purely Australian. True to
Our National Dife.
" THE
Commonwealth
Annual
Price Is. ;
Postage (Magazine
rate) 2d. extra.
1. An Australian
Literary and Artis-
tic Annual on a scale
not previously at-
tempted in Austra-
lasia.
2. Perfection has
been aimed at. The
Birth of the Com-
monwealth forms a
fitting starting-point
for a publication
which, in a Literary
and Artistic Sense,
claims to represent
the culture of Aus-
tralasia.
3. The cover is a
work of art, being a
reproduction in two colors of a Plaster Model represent-
ing The United States of Australasia, moulded by Mr.
White, one of our leading sculptors.
The contents are varied and equal to anything yet re-
produced in Australasia.
The whole printed for the N.S.W. Bookstall Co. by the
Art Printers, John Sands, Sydney.
J. A. Barry,
Walter Jeffery,
Walter S. Harper,
E. S. Sorenson,
Will Ogilvie,
J. H. M. Abbott,
“ Steele Rudd,”
Frank Wilkinson,
Rodbric Quinn,
Frank Donohue,
A. H. Adams,
A. G. Stephens,
J.LeGay Brereton
Edward Dyson,
Winifred Scott
(“ Magpie ”)
Albert Dorrington,
Essex Evans,
L. R. Macleod,
Sydney Hoben,
Louise Mack,
R. Coombes,
CONTRIBUTORS.
Ulus. Story, “ Made in France.”
Illus. Story, “ Why Watson Became
a Beachcomber.”
Illus. Story, “ Julie’s Lover.”
Illus. Sketch, “ A Backblock’s Sports-
Illus. Poem,
Illus. Story,
Illus. Story,
Illus. Sketch,
Illus. Poem,
Article,
Illus Poem,
Article,
Sketch,
Story,
Illus. Sketch,
“ Bells Along Mac-
quarie.”
“ The Church Militant.”
“ On Sandy’s Selection.”
“ Australia in South
Africa.”
“On Sydney Harbor.”
“The Future of the
Commonwealth.”
“New Zealand to the
Commonwealth.”
“Australian Literature."
“On the Wa'laby.”
“ Ginger and Geordie.”
“ The Old Creek Road.”
Illus. Story, “ Blacks and Whites.”
Poem, “ The Commonwealth.”
Story, “ On a Thin Crust.”
Article, “ Music.”
Illus. Poem, “ The Sleeper.”
Article, “ Australian Sport.”
&c., &c.
IN
ARTISTS WHOSE WORK IS REPRESENTED
“ THE COMMONWEALTH ANNUAL.”
Lister Lister. Fred. Leist. Frank P. Mahoxy.
Tom Roberts. S. Yalda. H. Wollaston.
Norman Lindsay. George Taylor. G. Lambert.
A. COLLINGRIDGE. J. WOLINSKI. &C., &C.
Contains pictures depicting life in the Great Interior,
and also reproductions of Our National Art Gallery Gems.
A feature of the publication is a copyright song written
expressly for “ The Annual ” by Sydney F. Hoben (late of
the Royal Conservatorium of Music, Leipsic), “ Bells
Along Macquarie,” words by Will Ogilvie ; a tuneful
melody bound to become popular.
PRICE , Is. ;
Postage (Magazine rates), 2d. extra, Victoria, New
Zealand, South Australia, Western Australia, and
Tasmania. Queensland, postage 4d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
Sole Proprietor : A. C. ROWLANDSON,
861 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And all Branches.
Juvenile Clothing.
■iff;
m
You cannot buy better
made Clothing than . ,
Jfordern
brothers
(PITT Street)
Famous
Federal
Brand.
Prices to suit all classes of
buyers. Our Special Summer
Suits for Boys (Norfolk or Sailor),
at 12<6, the best value you can
possibly procure. Ready Ma'de
or Made to Measure
1216.
Wednesday Afternoon is the
Fashionable Shopping Afternoon.
Special Displays and Induce-
ments to Buyers on Wednesday
Afternoons.
Open till 6 o’clock.
Hordern Brothers, Federal Clothiers,
203. 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT Street, Sydney.
fimu
HAIR. TONIC
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO BE OBTAINED AT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND CHEMISTS.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
5-stone Half-Hoop
DIAMOND RING,
Price, £5 and upwards.
5-stone Diamond and
Sapphire Ring.
Price, £3 tOs. and
upwards.
5-stone Australian Opal
Ring, 22/6.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
15-ct. BROOCH, with Opal or
Turquoise,
Price - - - IT/6.
Three doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for our 80-pac/ed ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril —the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request—a postcard will do.
Medicator, with Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME catarrh CURE CO.,
220-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Medicator,
f
Uo
VS
K 7
4
C-&
Vrv-
rfi*
\Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin-
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointmenc, send for one of Stephenson’s
• ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
• Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
Jstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
j CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
iDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
S LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
■ Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
• brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands,
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0.
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attaihments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications should be addrtersed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
That Which Isn’t Is.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A kindness is a weakness,
So a weakness is a strength;
And noble patience is decried
As laziness at length.
Base Stubbornness shall oft usurp
What Firmness claims as his—
For everything that is is not,
And that which isn’t is.
A lot is but a little,
And a little is a lot—
For everything that isn’t is,
And that which is is not.
How frankness aids concealment,
And how blushes cover vice !
If you contemplate a nasty thing
You ’re sure to find it nice !
You will see that grace is clumsiness
And clumsiness is grace,
If you burrow into Nature,
Far below her mocking face.
’Tis vice that makes the character,
’Tis virtue makes the blot —
For everything that isn’t is,
And that which is is not.
We elevate whom we despise,
We love those that we bate;
Your friends shall slay your character
Your foes shall make you great.
Each fleeting smile within it
Has a misery that’s long ;
The jaundiced eye sees wrong in right,
The clear eye right in wrong.
There’s but one mighty certainty
On which to calculate —
The day before to-morrow
Is the one that’s up to date.
Though isn’t isn’t isn’t,
And is is always is—
Everything that is is not,
And that which isn’t is.
N.B.W.
JAMS S. RYAN.
The Cunarder Saxonia recently left Liver-
pool for Boston, U.S., with 2260 passengers on
board—the record number for one vessel.
Japan is sending Buddhist missionaries to
America and England. In the latter country, that
necessary hall-mark of a respectable religion, the
conversion of a nobleman (the Earl of Mex-
borough), is said to have been secured. A future
Mikado may yet put in a claim for the cession of
Houndsditch and Whitechapel to Japan as punish-
ment for outrages on missionaries.


YX7 ANTED, Cood Foreman for Copper Smelting WorkSi
v ' accustomed to reverberatory furnaces. Apply Sec.,
North Mount Lyell Copper 00., Equitable Building, Melb.
The permanent trustee co. of new south
WALES, Limited.
The Fourteenth ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of
the Members will be held in the Chamber of Commerce,
the Exchange, on FRIDAY, 18th OCTOBER, 1901, at
Noon.
' Business:
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th Sep-
tember, 1901.
To elect One Director in place of W. 0. Goddard,
Esq., who retires (under clause 77 of the Articles
of Association), and who offers himself for re-
election.
To elect Two Auditors in lieu of W. Clarke and
Fredk. Phillips, Esqs., who retire, but are eligible
for and seek re-election.
To consider any other business, of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Sydney, 4th October, 1901.
American Nanhtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one 16ft. —Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
' 143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
TNFORMATION WANTED regarding the
whereabouts of “ Martin Blue” or “Blau”
last heard from in 1890 at Brisbane.
CHAS SCHOEN,
524 East 88th Street, ,
NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
amusements.
T TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Ma. Harry Rickards.
THE CRACCS, the 7Most Marvellous Acrobats in the World.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s own Comedian.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE.
LITTLE GULLIVER.
NEVA CARR GLYNN.
DORA TAYLOR.
ERNEST SULLIVAN.
JOHN COLEMAN.
IDA MAY.
JESSIE WILLIAMS.
HOWARD CHAMBERS.
AMERICAN BIOSCOPE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
2nd WEEK of the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY,
Preceded by “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI -MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.,
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risley Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dancer.
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
Ajnd Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY, EVENING,
TAKEN FROM LIFE,
A Powerful Narrative of Love, Passion and
Adventure.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, LAST NIGHT of
trilb y.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, “THE CHARITY BALL"
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. . Treas., Mr. E.. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S OPERA 00.,
In the Brightest of all Musical Comedies,
THE CASINO GIRL.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
FER BRAYAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
oi the blood,and ena-
bling t he constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.'
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.'
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'Mtftai all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
ROT.D BY CHEMISTS AI.l THE WOHMJ OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
EP
i
gd
||othing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Hplds the Commonwealth’s Record
•1 *' ..FOR..
STYLE, FIT & FINISH:
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. CL Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutria.
LAST WEEKS of the
„ GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, FAUST.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11 (for the last time), UN BALLO
IN MASCHERA.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 12, Gounod’s FAUST.
Dress Circle, and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE BIG NEW PROGRAMME
by the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
HAS MADS AN IMMENSE HIT.
tS" REMEMBER 111 r
. EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m
No. Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s. <
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
Empire theatre, Sydney
Castlereagh-street, Next Fire Station. ,
‘ FULLER’S EMPIRE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY at the MATINEE,
In Addition to the Vaudeville Entertainment,
Mr. W. J. Coulter's Dramatic Combination,
In the Sensational Bush Drama in one Act,
RANSOM.
Headed by Miss DORA MOSTYN, supported by a
- - - Powerful Co. - fSF" AN-EVENT.
Prices—2s., Is., 6d. Children Half-price except 6d. seats.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST TWO WEEKS of
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Sweet and. Twenty,
A Comedy in Three Acts, by Basil Hood.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 12, THE MAGISTRATE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-St. Prices as Usual.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
• WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
In the Stirring, Sensational, Interesting Surrey - Drama,
in 6 Acts,
A LON DO IV ARAB.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
QR ITER lON /THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director : Mr. HENRY HALLAM.
A MUSICAL SENSATION.
ADVENT TO AUSTRALIA of the
JOSEPHINE STANTON
AMERICAN
Comic Opera * Burlesque Coy.
Saturday, October 19th.
First Appearance in Australia of the
CHARMING AMERICAN PRIMA DONNA,
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON,
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON,
Supported by a COMPLETE COMPANY OF THE
LEADING AMERICAN ARTISTES.
Initial Performance—
CRITERION THEATRE, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19th.
FULL PARTICULARS SHORTLY.
A. Middleton, Business Manager.
WORD’S FAIR,
Exhibition Building, .
MELBOURNE.
OPENING DAY »
SATURDAY, OCT. 12, 1901.
TO BE CONTINUED FOR 4 WEEKS.
GRAND PROGRAMME OP
AMUSEMENTS.
. :£lOOO
To be Given for CYCLING; ATHLETICS
and TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &c.
!
ALSO :
i ART UNION,
VALUE: -
£lOOO IN PRIZES.
! ' TICKETS 18.,
i .' ’
Admit to Fair and Give Chancb iff Art Union.
T. J. O’CONNOR, , Hon. See.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne
At Poverty Point.
When Edward Russell, the costume reciter, voyaging out
from Australia, heard of The Bulletin’s libel-action in
the case of the lady who objected to having her naked
soul referred to, the bright eye of the interpreter of the
“Light of Asia ” was clouded o’er with sorrow. “If I
had only thought about it,” he remarked, “ I could have
advertised myself just like that lady, and perhaps got
damages as well, against a certain newspaper which once
remarked that it had seen my entire costume for one of
my recitations wrapped round the sore toe of a ballet-girl
next morning.”.
There is an anachronism in Bland Holt’s “ Riding to
Win,” placed in Melbourne. One scene represents old
Brander’s ferry on the Yarra, and the next the Alexandra
avenue on the very sfime spot, and to construct which
Brander’s ferry, as it originally existed, was swept away.
In “ Alfred of Engle-land,” the glorification of Barrett
reaches sublime heights when the leading lady is com-
pelled to kneel before the mighty actor-author and kiss
his royal foot. Fortunately, there is no grass growing
between the toes.
The other Saturday night performance at Melbourne
Princess’s was under the patronage of the local Savage
Club, and Tyrone Power, who seems to be a very' young
and enthusiastic manager, spept some £5O or more on a
special souvenir programme. As an advt. for the show,
said programme was of no avail, for “ Nadjezda ” only
ran two nights afterwards, but as an artistic produc-
tion it was a lesson in souvenirs. The front cover,
designed by Alf. Vincent, showed a capital full-length
sketch of Power in his belltopper and frock-coat sur-
rounded by little bacchanalian savages, and the printing
was worthy of the picture.
“H.G.” pardonably enthuses:—What a model of
womanly beauty is Edith Orane! Trilby she is in form
as well as name. Her full loveliness of contour was never
revealed previous to her appearance in “ Nadjezda.” In
the first act she wears a very low bodice, still more
abbreviated by her passionate tearing-aside of her outer
dress in her frenzied demand to be killed by her husband.
She dies on the stage with grace and beauty in every
action, and, finally falling across the man’s body, her head
towards the audience, all the curves of her wonderful neck
and shoulders and bosom are visible. Yet there is not
a suspicion of the sensual about the revelation.
• Another very previous announcement from an English
paper: “ Miss Carrie Moore has married Mr. Ernest
Tyson. The announcement of her betrothal was made at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, after the performance of ‘ Floro-
dora,’ being received with much applause. Afterwards
Mr. Tyson gave a supper to the members of the ‘ Floro-
dora ’ company, presenting his fiancee thereat with some
beautiful diamonds. Mr. Tyson had been more or less
‘ stage struck ’ for many years. His ambition, some years
ago, was to manage a company ; now he concludes that to
manage an artist is enough.”'
Harry Atkinson (Fitts), the “ Auscralian Orpheus,”
whose imitations of musical instruments have been a
popular turn at the English ’alls for the past 10 years, is
looming larger than ever of late. It will be interesting to
see how Albert Whelan can score against the old-estab-
lished Atkinson. Whelan is a wonderful adept at
mimicking instrumental sounds, also his range of
imitations is far greater than Atkinson’s ; but the latter
has any amount of confidence and music-hall manner,
whereas Whelan, after years of Australian success, lacks
the capacity to take the stage and show off his talent to
the best advantage. If he fails —but he can hardly fail—
it will be for want of “ stummiek ” and deportment.
George Clutsam, who, it is cabled, has taken first prize
at Chappell’s musical competition, is a native of Dunedin,
M.L. He comes of a musical family ; his grandfather,
Mr. Kelly, was a well-known double-bass player, and his
mother a clever pianist. His first engagement of any
importance was with ventriloquist Millis, with whom he
travelled as pianist. He afterwards toured M.L., as a
soloist and accompanist, with Madame Pauline Rita'and
her husband—John Ratcliffe, flautist. Ratcliffe predicted
an excellent career for young Clutsam, who was also very
clever at sleight-of-hand. , ...... ,
Stated in the U.S. press thau Wilson Barrett has, alter
laboring in that direction for eight years, succeeded in
paying all his debts—some 300,000 dol. He paid large
and small accounts piecemeal until his obligations had
been discharged to the last penny.
Remarkable that Melbourne should this year have seen
the first production on any English-speaking stage of
two handsomely-mounted plays, both of them being pro-
duced at the same house (Her Majesty’s) by visiting
managers. Ibsen’s “ Lady Inger,” which M‘Kee Rankin
set up for Nance O’Neil, was a new play in its translated
form, and not less of a bold experiment than Barrett’s
“ The Christian King ” —which, needless to say, is origi-
nal only in parts.
Wilson Barrett dearly loves to play the pedagogue. At
a recent festive gathering of Melb. politicians, the actor-
manager took the bad boys to task for the want of
dignity, importance, and responsibility they displayed.
“ You are the makers of a great nation, and I would not
be true to myself or sincere to you,” said Wilson the
Great, “ if I did not point out the lack of appreciation' 6f
the great historic parts you play in this nation-making.”
And so he went on, enforcing pedantic periods with the
arm-wavings of a pulpiteer. Politicians know something
of that sort of game themselves, and were merely amused.
But one got home on the buckram monarch when he'
declared, in laboring Scotch accents, that Mr. Barrett’s
plays' had such a sacred reputation that he never felt
pious enough to attend one. Then the “ makers of the
nation ” cheered to the echo.
An adaptation of “ Vanity Fair,” lately produced in
London, doesn’t seem to have met with much success.
The great scene between Becky and Lord Steyne, with,
Rawdon Crawley intervening, was greeted with laughter
by the suburban audience, and this seems to have made
the critics wild. The at 1 list who got most praise was that
good actress, our old friend, Kate Bishop, as Miss Craw-
ley. One critic said of her : “ The Miss Crawley of Miss
Kate Bishop carried everything before her in the first act
—from her entrance, calling for Becky Sharp, to her final
hysterics on hearing of her favorite’s marriage to Raw-
don.” The Lord Steyne was Wigney Percival, out here
with Wilson Barrett’s last co., the sombre young man who ■
played the seducer in “ The Manxman,” and made him-
self up to look like Li Hung Chang in “ Claudian."
An amazing dialogue, entitled “ A Coolness Screened,”
came to pass at Melbourne Princess’s last week for the
first, and probably the last, time “on any stage.” Awful
things are perpetrated for charity’s sake at matinees.
This was a very awful thing which emanated from the
brain of a local genius. The lady character was Miss
Ruby Ray-, in Japanese costume, whilst the well-meaning
author of the outrage took the stage falteringly, disguised
as a Pierrot. The plot consisted in them being divided
by a screen—the stage representing a corner at a fancy-
dress ball—what time they uttered feeble soliloquies to
the effect that all was over between them. After ten
minutes or so of this sinful foolishness, the screen fell
over between them, and the loving pair were reconciled. ■
The humor of the talented author’s brief exhibition of
himself lay in the murmurs of scorn from the amphi-
theatre. He was even exhorted, more in pity than in
anger, to “ Go away and get work.”
“ Melb.”: How could a man of Barrett’s experience
make such a mistake as to fetch out tons of scenery for
such a wretched piece as “ Quo Vadis ? ” Out of the novel
he had extracted a good drama, the “ Sign of the Gross.”
Then because somebody else made another good one, he
must needs hash again, with inevitable failure. The
Marcus Superbus character he hands over, in this case, to
his gloomy young man, Basil Gill. For himself he writes
up Petronius, a sort of languid Marc Antony. The drama
is very slow at the commencement, interesting in the
middle portion, and tediously weak in the last act.
Died in Melbourne, Georgia Hodson (Mrs. William:
Saurin Lyster), aged about 70, the white-haired lady who,
only a few months back, was a regular attendant at the
operatic shows of her nephew, George Musgrove. .Her
sister, Henrietta Hodson, is the wife of Labouchere,
M.P. Georgia, at her best, was not really qualified for
the leading contralto of grand opera, which devolved on
her through marrying Lyster, and a deal of nonsense is-
written about the brilliancy of her bygone performances.
She never could have held her own in such companies as
those of Musgrove and Williamspn .nowadays. Lucy
Escott, also a fine actress, wap.quite faded as a vocalist,
though she acceptably took the whole round of serious
and comic opera, under Lyster’s management. Squires
always had to bring in his falsetto. Fred Lyster was no
singer at all. Nevertheless, the oft-quoted W.S., of
course, deserves infinite credit for his pluck and high
ideal. The artists he brought to Australia, from America,
40 years ago were : Escott, Rosalie Durand, Georgia Hod-
son, Ada King, Squires, F. Lyster, and Trevor. Farquhar-
son joined them in Melbourne, having come from .Eng-,
land with the "party composed of Mr. and Mrs. W. Hoskins
(Julia Harland), Sherwin, and Linley Norman, as con-
ductor These had opened at the Olympic, Coppin’s
Iron Pot, with ‘Maritana,” first time in Melbourne
Lyster s opened at the Royal with “Lucia di Lammer-
moor. After a season or two Wharton joined them, from
London, and Amies Beaumont went on the operatic
.™ en came the memorable month’s run
?t k- i, tf ug u en o ts, ” in whifch Georgia Hodson was
Urbain, the Page. She was extremely valuable to Lyster
m .“i B , business, correcting the impulsive generositv that
might have led him to ruin, like such men as G. V.
Brooke and Charles Dillon. Meanwhile, she looked after'
her nephew, George Musgrove. Lyster became very ill
just as he was about to take the co. to M.L. Kitts was
his idea of a substitute, but Mrs. Lyster persuaded him to
send the ‘boy” instead. The tour was, at all events,
engineered with ability, and put the level-headed George
Musgrove on the road to London.
R eCOrd . runs (at Perth Theatre Royal) in Westralia :
The Geisha,” 10 nights ; “ Florodora,” 10 nights.
. The latest- Maoriland Salvarmy money-making concern
is the Maiden Melodist Combination,” a theatrical
show, more or less, which performs every day, including '
Sundays. What is Booth’s big cadging concern going: to
stop at ? & &
Writes a Bulletin correspondent: The
recent Jolimont (Melb.), railway-collision recalls a
little incident which did not end seriously. (Many
such are known to railway men.) It was during
the York visit, and on the evening of the day of
the trip to Ballarat. The gorgeous train was
almost due back in Melb., and a Bendigo train
(perhaps as a protest because George and May
didn’t go there), was in the way of it. Several
other country trains were leaving about the same
time, and the engines for the various lines were
coming up from the North Melb. loco, sheds.
“And somebody blundered.” The Whittlesea
engine was backed-down on to the Bendigo train.
Then the proper Bendigo engine came on top of
it. The Royal train was almost due. No time
to rectify the error. So off went the train—
Whittlesea and all. Meanwhile, the Whittlesea
people were hauled home by the first super-
annuated engine that could be got hold of
quickly.
The Co-operative Coupon co. seems to
have a genuine grievance against the Victorian
Government, as the Bill to wipe it out was rushed
through its second reading in the Assembly on a
surprise-party plan, in spite of a distinct pledge
given that the co. would be given due notice, and
opportunity of putting its side of the case before
Parliament. _ There may be much, or little, to be
said on the co’s. side ; but it is certainly not fair
play to kill it by ambush.
Writes “ S.R.” :
Editor Bulletin,— You say (28/9/’01) it is “ nonsense to
say that electrical. engineers never, hesitate to. charge
their conductors to the full extent of their theoretical
capacity.” Then you quote the fire-underwriters’limit
for an 18-guage wire, but forget to say whether an iron or
copper wire is meant, though the latter has more than
5 times the conducting power of the former—will safely
carry more than 5 times the current. Get rid of techni-
cal terms like “amperes,” which the public don’t under-
stand, and call them “ units of current.” Then, accord-
ing to your authority, it would require 42 times
your safe current to melt ■ your 18-guage wire
(material unspecified); but the danger-point is far
short of the melting-point. As soon as the wire becomes
red-hot it is potentially dangerous if there is any com-
bustible substance in contact with it, and the consequent
oxidation Of its surface has permanently lessened its con-
ducting power. You fail to state why “ the Sydney
power-house engines and dynamos could not have been
used for'charging batteries while the switchboard was'
useless.” What had the switchboard to do with it?'
Also, when,"and where, has it? been “proved” that the
use of storage batteries is “most expensive and unsatis-
factory ” ? They are in constant use all over the
world for driving vehicles and all kinds of machinery.
[Re foregoing : —l. The Are underwriters’ rules refer,
of course, to copper-wire, since none other is used for
electric-lighting and power-work. 2. Technical terms
cannot be avoided. To call an ampSre "a “unit” is as
stupid as to'offer beef for said by the pint. 3. Dynamos
are inoperative when a switchboard is destroyed, because
they are then uncontrollable and unprotected ; and
cannot, therefore, be run. 4. That the battery-propelled
tram system is the most expensive known, both in capi-
tal-outlay and running-cost, can be shown by hundreds
of published results, vide, for instance, the details of Bir-
mingham’s experience when horse, steam, trolley and
battery-traction were alL,in use at the same time.
Dabblers in, electricity, however, must be expected to
make these mistakes concerning a science, competence in
which requires such a long and assiduous training.—
Electricai) Engineer.]
Queensland Premier Philp has the front to
declare that the. anti-Black-Labor contingent
which 'Queensland elected by such sweeping
majorities to the Federal Parliament does not
represent Queensland’s real sentiments, and asksj
If, as has been asserted, public opinion in Queensland
is in favor of abolition of colored labor, how is it that the
alleged overwhelming majority of electors have not
themselves succeeded in bringing about a repeal of Acts
under Which the kanaka traffic is carried on ?
By way of a personal explanation, perhaps it was
because a shamefully unprincipled gang of ruffians
in office devised so many ways of falsifying the
vote, of' disfranchising their opponents, of re-
warding supporters at the public expense and of
‘punishiiig opponents, that the great anti-Black-
Labor-majority was never heard until now. The
disgraceful doings in this direction of the party to
which Philp belongs have added a new
word, “bulcocking,” to the English language,
and a hew disgrace to Australian political
history. But it was one thing to do these
political frauds when there was only the
Philp party’s servile majority in the Brisbane
Parliament with .whom an appeal could be lodged,
and quite another to have the democratic candi-
date who was “bulcocked” out of his election -
appealing to the Federal Parliament and there
exposing the dirty processes of Continuous Govern-
ment politics. The Federal election was the first
for many years that was run on decently honest
principles. “ Bulcocking,” for once, was not
practised to any noticeable extent. And the
• utter defeat of the Black Labor gang, which
always gets a majority in State politics, only goes
to show that the Continuous Government lives
and has its billet by the “bulcocking” process.


A. SAUNDERS
Leading Art Jeweller & Silversmith,
.Showrooms :
815 George St., Sydney
%
/
N
A.SAUNDERS
BIS .817 CEQRGES 1 "
SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
Strobe, Reliable LEVERS—‘‘THE CIIAL-
LRNGE,'’ 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER, .ill
Rlack o i Nickel; 20s —perfect tiniekeepeh The
LONDON LEVER, hew f-plate model, 258 ; in
SOlid Silver; £2 2s ; ill Double-case; £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham levers; £3 10s, £4, £5, £o, £7,
£B. Gold Watches, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 103,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you
the utmost satisfaction-,, ‘‘otherwise Ike will
exchange watch for you.” Send fbr iilhstrated
nook Of particulars, post free.
B
Solid Cold CHAIN (Single dr Double), £2l 'i\
£3, £3 109, £4, £4 XOs, £5.
15c, Solid Cold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, Ids, 12s Cd, 15s. 20.5.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
CP
oc. Gold Heart Amethyst BroOcll, 79 Cu;
17 Pure Double Cut Diamonds, extra stron- , 15c.
Gold Brooch, £l2 10s ; with Ruby or Sapphire
Centre, £lO 10s.
m
15c. Gold 2-Bar and Pearl Turquoise Set Scroll
Brooch, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget*’
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s Cd ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Gold Heart and Key with Ivy Brooch with
Diamond, 20s ; 15c. Gold, 35s ; 18c., £2 ss.
Solid Gold, “ Mizpah,” “ Good Luck,” with
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
o
15c. Gold, 2 Bamboo Bar and Pearl Set Scroll
Brooch, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s. Very neat.
BPI
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Federal Brooch, with Pretty Enamelled
Flag and Gold Spray, 22s Cd ;
With Good Wishes, 15s Cd
SHI
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name or Motto
Free. Six different patterns, similar.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Heart Opals and 10 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to
match, 355. Very Pretty and Eifective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Name Bracelet, Gold Bands, Any Name, 253 ; 15c. Gold, £3 $
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
Gold Diamond and Ruby Bracelet, £2 16s. Very Eretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
GiJld Baniboo Bracelets, 18s 6d ; wider, 21s, 80S, 353, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Designs; Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and Red Stoiie;
Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold; £2 53.
Gold Bracelet, 8 Opals, 24 Pearis, £2 15s. Brooch to match, 353.
Very Pretty.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise Pin, Ladies’ or Gent.’s, 20s.
Newest Style.
m
IC>
sssaa
3y»
w
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Scroll Chain and 801 l Brooch, 15s.
La tesh Style
A. SAUNDERS.
l£>c. Solid Gold Spray Brooch, Diamonds and
Rubies, £l2 10s ; All Diamonds, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
r
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15c., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon Brooch, £2
10s. London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Brooch, Tur-
quoise and Pearl Centre, 20s.
Newest Style.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Diamond and 2 Bed
Stones, 25s
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name Brooch, 7s Gd ;
With Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)
Gold Forget-me-not Chain and Heart Brooch
lla Gd ; with Amethvst, 12s 6d.
A. SAuWOEttS.
Registered fin'd d Wish BroOch, 13s Gd,
15Ci Gold, 255. Silver, 4s Gd.
iM
k. SAUNDERS.
&few Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red 0 1
Blue Stones, 12S Gd.
Re
A. SAUNDERS.
gistered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Anv'oysC
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold* <£2.
jj£>s 'A*
o-il
8-Bar and Garnet Brooch, 15s, larger size, 21s
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and
Full size, 10s ; small, 8s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 16s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
ora
Gold 2-Bar Brooch Scroll* Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s ; smaller,
6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heait I.ockefc
7s (Id. 10s. 12s 6d.
Three Sizes.
Heart CHARM,
with Amethyst
and Pearls,
8s 6d.
e
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
Gold Heart and Dumbbell LINKS,
12s 6d ; 15c., 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
15c. Solid Gold Opal LINK, with
Initial, £2 10s. Extra Strong.
GENT.’S RING.
Solid Gold Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2 ; 18c., £2los
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
lSc. Solid Gold
MAI'Q'TIS RING, Dia-
moi ds and Rubies, Sap-
phire and Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10S, £l5, £2O.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
strong and Heavy, 1 or 3
Diamonds, £2, £2 10s, £3,
.14, £5;
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond RUSG,
£3, £4, £5.
15c. Solid Gold RING,
Red Stone and 2 Dia-
monds, 25s ; similar, 20s.
I!»
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ;
18c. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 265, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, t'2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
2®35
Gold ‘*Good Luck ” Brooch, 10s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 21s.
LMO
u THEE WHEN
MXZrk
Gold “ Mixnah ” Brooch, 2 Ivy Leaves,
Heart and Bow, 12s Od ; Silver. 4s fid.
GOLD CHARM, i'.tuii, Hope, and
Charity, 7s Od ; 15c. Gold, 15s.
'mms
psa
A. SAUNDERS.
Bar Rais' d Flowers, 5s 6d ; Larger,
6s 6d ; Largest size, 7s Od.
These are indeed very pretty.
Our Stock of Ladies’ Engagement mngs is tHe
Largest and Best Value
p- send for lllustra.-fed Book an
Newest Solid Silver 1
FEDERAL MEDAL, 2s,
15c. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Heart Brooch,
£2 2s. The Latest Style.
GOLD SHIELD LINKS,
21s ; 150. Gold, £'2.
Smaller Shield, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d,
Out own Registered
Design,
m
18c. Gold, 8 Sap-
phires or RiibieS and
4 Diamonds, £8;
£3 10s, £4, £5.
The latest 18c. Solid
Onld Single Stone
Ring, £2, £2 _los, £3.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
K<p n is a
18c. Solid Gold, 3
Opals, 4 Diamonds,£s
Smaller Diamonds,
£2los, £3, £3 10s, £4
MIZPAH
GOLD
CHARM,
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Cold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c.
Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 180. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
18c. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Diamonds, i'B 10s.
Smaller, £5, £O, £7
£7 10s to £3O.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
150., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Any Name Free.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl Bing-, P2s6d.
Very Cheap.
Gold Cat CHARM,
with Pearl, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s •
15c. Gold. 32s Cd ; Silver
& Gold, 10s ; all Silver, 5s
CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
Or Send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, POST FREE ANYWHEKE.
gd
LEADING ART JEWELLER
815 & 817 George St.
Nearly Oppo-
site Railway
Station,
Sydney.


The Asylumed Poor.
The Bulletin is constantly receiving piteous
letters from the inmates of benevolent and old-age
asylums with regard to the utter dreariness of
their lives. Their food is of the plainest and
cheapest, there are no comforts, and the old men
have neither tobacco nor reading-matter. The
women are as badly-off, being absolutely without
any of the little comforts that decently-placed
people in the outer world consider indispensable
to the old age of their womenkind. And the
things that are requisite and necessary for the
relatives of each of us are necessary for those poor
old women in the dreary asylums. None of us
know where we will end, and certainly some who
read this are doomed to spend their last days in
some of these houses of living death. We all
read papers, and most of us novels, and the lack
of reading and smoking matter is about the worst
feature of asylum life. So, when you have read
your paper or your novel, if it is bright and
cheery, tie a string round it and address it to
some of the benevolent or old age asylums, or
hospitals, in whatever State you live in. Here
are the addresses of some of the institutions where
tobacco and reading matter will always be accept-
able :
New South Wales. —Old Men’s Home, and Cancer Hos-
pital, Liverpool ; Infirm and Destitute Asylum, George-
st., Parramatta; Old Age Asylum, Macquarie-st,
Parramatta ; Aged Women’s Asylum, Newington ; Bene-
volent Asylum, Parramatta ; The Lazarette, Little Bay.
Victoria. —Austin Hospital for Incurables, Heidelberg,
Melbourne ; Benevolent Asylum, North Melbourne ;
Carlton Kefuge, 31 Keppel-st., Carlton ; Convalescent
Home (Men’s), Cheltenham, Vic. ; Convalescent Home
(Women’s), Cheltenham, Vic.
Queensland.— Benevolent Asylum, Dunwich ; Benevo-
lent Asylum, Toowoomba; Benevolent Asylum, Rock-
hampton.
South Australia. —Poor Asylum, North Terrace,
Adelaide ; Female Refuge, Norwood; Incurable Home,
Fullerton, S.A.
Westralia. —Pensioners’ Barracks, West Perth ; Poor
House, Perth.
Tasmania.— Benevolent Asylum, Hobart; Benevolent
Institution. I,nn”C"ston.
Argus advt., 20/8/’Ol :
'XXT ANTED, a CLERK for a solicitor’s office, for 2
' ’ weeks, from 23rd inst. ; must be matriculated ;
salary 10s. ; references indispensable. X., The
Exchange, Collins-st.
An ingenious employer, giving evidence
before Yic. Factories Commission, calmly
suggested that the operations of the Wages
Boards should be suspended during strikes.
Which would mean that any employer who chose
to force on a strike by harassing his men would
be at once entitled to take on outsiders at half-
wages !
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“0.0. ” : Went to N.S.W. Upper House
the night the Woman Suffrage Bill was thrown
out, and noticed a great sadness among the ladies
at the back. The sadness was not forthe Bill, which
is not lost, but only gone before—a few months
before. It was for our cruel system of legislation
which drags so many harmless, inoffensive and
aged gentlemen from their comfortable homes on
damp nights to worry their muddled brains over
matters which most of them look too sleepy to
understand. There was a strong opinion among
the gentler sex that the whole Upper House would
be much more in its element at home with its feet
in hot water, and there wasn't one of those
forgiving ladies who wouldn’t gladly have put it
there. Some of those gentlemen, who maintained
that women shouldn’t have power because they
wouldn’t use it, hadn’t used theirs for months;
one old man hadn’t been in the House for three
years. But the want of logic in the sexes is pretty
equal all round after all. I went outside and saw
a lady, tired as the oldest legislator there, waiting
patiently for another lady to see her home, as she
was afraid to go alone. She called herself an
advanced woman, too, and yet she was too scared
to advance down the street by herself.
f
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as It exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and tiir Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac's Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 tllus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor., Is 6d.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
Tub Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6a.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal' Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue -poet free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
TUB I’AMOXTS RBBIBDY for
ure.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AN Y CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this lpedicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. SiifT rers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, expgrienee delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
ho ling in allaying irritation.in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption In;
i.erc r been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
Mid a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO (OLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
'IDE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARUI..D OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearn-. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private .perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ——• —,
of T onflon, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has b,een a perfect God send to a martyr to
colds a d bronchial asthma. I T c]o not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you Choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ 1 heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, —.”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing* that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I inimediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, arid it has quite cured me. Dr. — : is very
much, interested in it. He. came yesterday, and carried
Off tiie empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large-way here.”
The names arc withheld from publri.uion, but will he
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
li j,l KV ED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and t, e cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged lo get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
mL ice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I'feel I
am adifferent man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vouderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Heayne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapid!\ successful under circumstances w hieh
indoubteiily prove j tB distinct healing power. Signed by
;he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-streetj, Geelong, and
ifty nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
m I user! your Brouehitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
9
“Tour Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD. Trinkev. via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
*' My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that y.our Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R.' BASSETT, Strath Creek, vim Broad ford,
Victoria.”
©
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,\\ith great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOI IN RAHILLY, Glenmaggio, Victoria.”
©
“I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
©
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. T-he diffi-
culty of breathing'has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bi gegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
9
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
®
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly. C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
©
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
9
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
6. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
9
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervhodv—S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of inv brief trial.—JOHN o’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, uio’lnverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yana, Melbourne.”
9
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
9
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for ail the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
9
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got frqjn you was magical in its effects.— WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scibntikic Australian Office,
“ 109 Queen:«reet, Melbourne.
“Upar Mr. Hearne, —The eilent workers are frequenllj
the.most ’effective, and if there'is anybody in -Vietorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
■ M n for.and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti'
Core, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was sc
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
rlearne’s .most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people ever
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS,' ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMTSTS.
“69 Queen.-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Ilearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose out
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had givep if to a child
of his with most remarkable -result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists/'
Cured in Ten Davs.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had cpmpletely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gbblong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books struck with
the steady and rap,id increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
■ " AW,CI? ° T Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s Bd. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locallv.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food r* -
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutrition*,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
oyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENQER’S FOOD is soldjn Tint by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Mebical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


A TORPID LIVER
With Kidney Sympathy.
ACHES & AGONIES CONQUERED.
The Case of Mr. W. DAVIES
(By OUR REPORTER.)
One of the greatest pleasures to be en-
„ toyed is to be able to look back upon some
little act of charity we have performed—
some self-sacrificing effort which/, has made
happy the home of a less fortunate creature
ihan ourselves. Unhappy mortals are-those
who will not help along the road of life
some of the people they meet, especially
when it happens that great assistance can
be rendered with but little inconvenience
being incurred. A case in point is provided
by. Mr. Walter Davies, of No. 9 Chancery
Lane, Adelaide, wherein he said :
“ A few years ago I suffered severely from
a weakness brought on through an affection
of the kidneys. The doctor whom I en-
gaged said I had a great weakness of the
bladder, and that I wanted complete rest
and a thorough overhauling I always felt
languid, and never had any energy or am
bition to do anything. Every day I was
troubled with intense headaches, that were
most distressing, making me annoyed and
ill-tempered with everything and every-
body. I had no idea before this what head-
aches were really like; but I hope I shall
never have them again ; for my forehead
felt as if held fast by a band which was
squeezing my temples together. Much in
convenience was caused to me through hav-
ing excruciating pains in the small of my
back,, v which caught me with a sudden jerk
every now and again in a'manner that made
me writhe and gnash my teeth in sheer des-
peration. With the physic I was taking I
hoped that the attack would only prove to
•be a temporary one; but my expectations
went, very wide of the mark, for I continued
to get worse. In the pit of my stomach the
' pains were as-violent as if I had a revolving
saw at work in my inside, and I was fre
quently bent double with cramping pains in
the same p ace Shortly after taking my
light repasts I swelled out with'wind, which
produced a tenderness which was quite un-
bearable. Even my clothes hurt me, and
:io matter what I did 1 could get no ease
until 1 started belching, and when all the
gas was emitted I usually Commenced to
retch. The retching was kept up for such a
length of time, and caused s,uch a great
strain on my weakened system, that 1 was
afraid it would do me'some permanent in-
ternal injury. I could hardly get my breath
for the painful feeling of compression in my
chest, and it would not have surprised my
frit mis in the least if I had choked, as they
often saw me gaspiug like one in the throes
of death, and shook their heads with dis-
may. At the extreme end of my neck, close
to the shoulders, there was a very tantalis-
ing sensation. It was not a pain exactly,
but a worrying sort of pricking feeling'that
sometimes nearly drove me to distraction;
because whatever position I got into I could
not remain in comfort for two minutes.
Ihe loss of sleep was a great affliction to
me, for my biain seemed to get so worn out
that 1 was not able to think of anything,
my memory being almost entirely gone,
’ And then my eyes had a heavy, swollen
feeling in them, which prevented me from
opening them properly, and I could always
3ee dark coloured specks dancing in every
direction.”
“ Did you try anything to make you
deep ? ”
‘‘The doctor said the medicine he was
giving me would do good in every way; but
it did not. I had to take food against my
"ill; because my appetite died clean away,
and as spon as I had eaten anything I threw
it up again. My tongue and mouth were
both in a bad state, the taste being so un-
pleasant as to make me continually feel sick.
I do not think there was a bone in my body
which escaped aching pains, more or less
severe, particularly across the loins, where
they nearly made me unable to move. I could
hardly drag my feet along I felt that weary
andxweak, ’and as my agonies became more
unbearable as each week went by, I got
thoroughly discontented with the treat-
ment I was receiving ; so I went to the hos-
pital, where several doctors had a go at me
during' months I remained an
out-natient,”
“Where were you living then, Mr.
Davies ? ”
“In Castlereagh-sfcreefc, Sydney. But I
was more like dying than living; for I had
completely gone to pieces. My nerves were
all out of tune, as was shown by the exces-
sive fits of trembling which came on, and
my face was so white arid thin that when
my eyes were closed people used to say I
looked like a, dead man. A feeling of hope-
less dejection took possession of me because
all treatment had been useless. I had
stacks of bottles I had emptied, and it was
only when another had been added to the
pile that I felt a slight improvement.
“ What had that particular bottle
contained ? ”
“ Clements Tonic. And as I gained so
much relief from the first lot -you may be
sure I soon had some more in the house;
and I would sooner go barefooted than be
without a bottle of Clements Tonic in case
of emergency. Before I had been taking
that medicine many days the vomiting evil
was at an end. I was-capable of taking a
fairly large meal in peace, for I had no re-
currence of that drowsy feeling after eating,
and the eatables I had taken did not turn,
as before, to wind. From being despondent
and miserable I became hearty and cheer-
ful, no longer looking at the approach of
night with feelings of dread, as I was sure
of sleeping well now that I had some
Clements Tonic by me; arid it was exclu-
sively owing to the use of that medicine
that my kidney affections became less and
less troublesome until they finally disap-
peared, A regular action of all my internal
functions set in, the benefits derived being
that my head was freed from pain, and I
felt on good terms with the world at large.
My disordered nervous system was
thoroughly repaired by Clements Tonic, and
at the table I was always asking for more.
The pains in my shoulders and back, as
well as the heavy burden in my chest, were
thrown aside by the' curing process con-
ducted by Clements Tonic, and my whole
system, fronThead to heel, was strengthened
and toned by the same medicine. I had’
but one coarse to pursue in order to com-
pletely recover my health, and that was to
drink Clements Tonic till there was nothing
remaining of my disorders. -vThis I did, and
when my aches and agonies were conquered
I had nothing to thank but Clements
medicine which restored me to
perfect health even when I had relinquished
hope of being cured. I was made stronger
and heavier than ever I was, and for the
past three years I have been as sound as a
bell.”
“And I believe you give Clements Tonic
the credit for your being so'well ? ”
“ Most emphatically ; for it was the oqly
medicine to cure me, and if I can help other
sufferers by letting them have the benefit of
my experience you may publish what I have
said in any manner you wish.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Waltsr DArtSi. of No 9 Chancery-lane, Ado*
•side, in the State of South Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and
conseou+ively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true and fai'hful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also contains
my full permission to publish in any manner my
statements —which I five voluntarily, and without
receiving; any payment; apd I make this solemn decla-
ration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of an act made and
passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late Majesty
King William the Fourth, intituled "an act to repeal
an act of this present Session of Parliament, in-
tituled "an act for the more effectual abolition of
oaths and affirmations taken made in various
departments of the State, and to substitute declara-
tions in lieu thereof, a‘nd for the more entire supres-
»ion of voluntary and extra judicial oaths and
affidavits, and to make other provisions for the aboil*
tion of unnecessary oaths. .
Declared and subscribed at Adelaide, in the State
of South this first day of June, one thou-
sand nine hundred and one, before me,
DEO. A. BOOKER, J.P.
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO
O# - .r. .. ____
In Three Strengths i MILO, MEDIUM, FULL,
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
1?
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“Aft OATH "
The Healthiest Tobacco !
Name of Dearest-Agent post free on application to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors: La C asa de la Habana & “ Ardath ” Faci ory
Manufac Brers of Tobacco, 62, Leadenhall ftree?, London, England
———— --
Business Announcements.
6bod Tailoring.
SUMMER.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds ,
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AN EFFICIENT
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2| by 2£ inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block , %8h Collins Sireet t Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
taper
Medical.
* NOTICE «
I o sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and atl pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. ' Is sojd by all Chemists
in the Australian Colo,hies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. ,
SOLD in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poiijgdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Dhemists in the Australian Colonies. <
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION.
This suc-
— cessful
, _ — and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, 'Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
•iSJT ts > 8' 0U t'> rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
I'* 0, 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s 9d
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiierapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a. forcrcry.
O' RKCORO'S
ESSENCe-of p fc.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and. Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 36s Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope..
Agents fm- Australasia -9mm & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wkplesule>4gmt* for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Cp„ Ltd., o’ConnellBt., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, G.P.O. ' y
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUARTS* 0.
PKOPIUETAKY UMiTl.n,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Stalion).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to se'ect from.
sr
Our Suit to order at 425. Is
marvellous value; mad - from
a’l wool Tweeds Vicunas, or last
color Sergos: it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class, f n atonal £.{ To
measure, capital Trousers \ery
good patterns f2s. o<l.
Dress Suits to measure. £> #
Cleric • 1 Suits, to measure &.»*
R ding Breeches. 255.
Biding Habits. Ac,
, We supply ready made. '' T on*s
I capital Tweed Suits sj|s. & •> *,s.
f Fain, us Ballarat Ser e Suits,
Indigo dye,55.98.
All-wool, fawn*, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits, 3«» s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, I |d.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Xeste 19s (id.
Men's Crass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s tfd. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10 s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s fid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers 3s. 9d., 4s 9d.. ss. fid.
Travelling Trunks, Ba s and
Rugs in groat variety
Men's White Shii ts, colored
front and cuffs. 555. 9<l.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. tfd.
White Mat e Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. fid. *
8o t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors
Hard Hats 4 J . fid. Caps
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.Od,
Neckties, all shapes and.colors,
White Shirts to measure. Gents' splendid Ilalmdral Hoots,
6». 9d., 9s. (;<l.
We like to write letters; so d.on’t be afraid to asl; for anv
information. Our book, "The Philosophy of I rcss " and
patterns of all kinds and self-mer'sureinpnt forms poster lire
Write for thorn.
aouT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with, confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and "recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjrout &>. Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements mav be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD, 'it is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC 1 INSTITUTE,-. VICTORIA CHAMBERS
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
■na
DEAF
BY USING Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful llesults obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
gd
IEAf
fg
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head JS'oises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
"to the ear* as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
ddress— A. M. F" ST. 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par -
ticulars, Jhc.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORDE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m
&
a
i#!!
mm
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 257-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMHRS,
'me
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can-be given SECJJETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU IE Si GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment Without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for pasted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
IVI.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea 'and Sailor Verse.”
The Way® of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY.


WHEAT, PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT -A.S SELLING- BROKERS.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR, SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (J) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be... "... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb i 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing'. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation to the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Cliaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS POR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hautliaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. B. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: “I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguisfied itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
y
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature s Chief Restorers, Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Susperisor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are g'u a. Vein teed to be the most : Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
» ■ ■■ ■ ■ »■> 'OQc» f-
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
* Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all ccntracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SCirgical IpStittite—
IN AN AGE
which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, PhUosophy,
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in ’ The p reem an
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of l^ei^P re code of ethics which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise supenor to the false code h *
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon specif '' Svdn ev -
tin lie to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
'•Sfc
(•n
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assure .
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION —ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST I REE) ON APPLICATIO .
<ASP€CmLITI€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
HEALTH
Kmprr *
- / r - ' " I
'' * ■
»H ELECTftO- M EQic AL
• -
!|-« i:S|
y|g
1
;:V ,V :
® i I **B%%s g “
■ 1
mm: : '~WW
ii t'Siil ’ ■ i_ ‘ :■ '
im
" i
'a /.. (?
*r X.u,sst„.J Cir.
I
ijiVis /'<,; ?« v^ilwwn^
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life arid expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting; Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT.
-If you live out of town and cannot visit, us, this need not- deprive
. you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in- the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as-
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves:
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have-
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although'
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled:
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
EREE FROM OBSERVATION.
a Elizabeth $ Batl)6rStSts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & Wi.” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising- as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the institute- >
•


"Beethoven on the /Eolian
Kreutcer Sonata, Op. 47; Ada-
gio Sostenuto, Adante con
Variazioni, Presto
Moonlight Sonata, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Egmont Overture
Leonore Overture. No. 3
Namensfeier Overture
Prome.heus Overture
Die VVeihe des Hausas Over-
ture
Konig Stephan Overture
Konig Stephan Triumphal
March
Fidelio, Abscheulicher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermarsch
Turkish March from Ruins of
Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
Hallelujah Chorus from Mount
of Olives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37;
Allegro con brio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op. 58 ;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42 ; Allegro,
Minuet, Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet, Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con brio
Serenade, Op. 25 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 41 ; Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1 ; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 3 ; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique);
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 2, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata. Op. 26; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, x and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op 31, No. 3 ; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 81 ; Les Adieux,
I’ Absence, Le Retour
Symphony No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Cana-
bile, Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro Vivace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro con brio, Lar-
ghatto, Scherzo, Allegro
Molto
paU)HE STATEMENT that the Aiolian will
Rfcft play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the reader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the yEolian we present herewith
partial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are Tncluded in the
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabridged. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible for any
one to play them on the HLolian correctly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
m
tM •'/ - >'-■
■' ?'* KSI i Is
wmm
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents /or A ustralasia
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The ALolian is sold at no other Address
in Sydney.
Paris exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest fimtb
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
vicr
REG (
Bp
Appointment
to
Dfene \
u
Ber majestp the Queen a »a b.r.b. cbe prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive
A “Miss-Fire.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why wasn’t I told ? ” she stormed.
Geoffrey wiped his brow wearily.
“My dear woman, for the sixth time I ask,
what difference would It have made ? ”
I—l—might have prevented it,” she said, with
a terrifying break in her voice.
He laughed brutally.
“Oh you—you ! but I’ll pay you back. You
shall see that you can’t play with a woman of my
sort for nothing—l ought to have been told
directly. Instead, you fling me off, without even
telling me that you are to be married. When did it
happen ? ” she demanded.
“ Nearly six months ago,” he answered moodily.
“ Well, present me to her—l’d like to see what
she’s like.”
“ Would you?” His eyes blazed, though he
laughed scornfully.
“ liTes, I would,” she flashed back—“ and, what’s
more, I will”
His face was livid as he took, up his hat. She
barred the way by flinging herself with her back
to the door.
“I will, do you hear !”—her voice was low with
intensity. “You’ve shown me the way to pay
you back, you cur, and I’ll do it. too. I’ll go and
see your saint; you can’t think of us in the same
room together, can you?” she sneered breath-
lessly. “I’ll shake hands with her, perhaps kiss
her—and play the lady, and then —then —then I’ll
tell her——”
He took a step towards her.
“If you dare !.”
“ Dare ! ” She laughed now. “ Dare ! I am
surprised you should say that to me. I am con-
vinced, Geoff., that you know me well enough to
feel sure that I’ll dare.” x V She was exultant now.
Would he beseech—ah,’ if he would !
He was undecided. He could not beg her not
to go, as a favor ; she was too angry to be merci-
ful, and he had no right to exppct mercy. Still,
for Ruth’s sake, he must make an effort. “What
good do you expect to get from your visit to my
wife ? ” He spoke as calmly as he eould.
“None, but the satisfaction of putting a nail in
your coffin.” She laughed with a curious little
hard laugh, that he knew of old ; but in those
days it had amused him, for its application was
not,for him. He took an impatient step"towards
the door. Further argument, he could see, would
be useless.
She was calm now, and moved from the door,
and, without further words from either, he left the
room. She heard the sound of his footsteps echo-
ing through the hall. The door slammed, and she
knew then that he had gone—for ever.
He was a man who had lived as other men—no
worse,, no better, perhaps. He had been spoilt
more than the average man—for he was good to
look upon—but, as he walked moodily towards his
house, he felt that he had been unfairly, treated
by the woman he had left. He knew he had been
“good ”to her, as she had often said ; she, until
now, had been fair to him, and it had been under-
stood that both were free. He had used his freedom
and the penalty was that Ruth, his innocent
girl-wife, would suffer. He ground his teeth to
think of his inability to do anything. He might
take. Ruth out of town—but that would only delay
the inevitable. He knew that Tressie Wooton
would carry out her threat at some time ; some
diabolical chance had shown her the way to hurt
him most, and she had realised her power and
made him feel the futility of his interference.
He decided there was nothing to be done but
trust to chance. He would write to Tressie
that night and work on any remnant of what is
called “ better feeling ” which she might retain.
• * • *
“What name?” said the maid, as she opened
the drawing-room door.
“Mrs. Wooton; here’s my card.” Tressie
looked round the room; now she was there she
felt almost afraid ; but why should she, she asked
herself, angrily. It was rather a shabby trick to
play; but Was it half as shabby as the trick he had
played her in clearing-out so quietly and getting
married, without a single word ? She admitted to
herself, with a laugh, that, had he said a word of
his project to her, she would speedily have taken
measures to prevent it, but that didn’t alter his
conduct from her point of view. She had said
she would pay him back, and she was there to do
it.
“She’s pretty, and looks as innocent as he
said, ” she thought, as Ruth entered.
Ruth had a curious slow, swinging walk—she
was a beautiful fair creature, and inspired one
with the feeling of coldness and purity as a statue
might. She was, as even Tressie admitted to her-
self, charmingly dressed, but, as Tressie con-
temptuously added, “one of those flat figures.”
Certainly her girlish immaturity contrasted
curiously with TVessie’s magnificently generous
proportions.
“She must be fully twenty-seven or eight,”
thought Tressie. “It seems almost a pity—”
“ Mrs. Teare ? ” Tressie took a step forward.
“ Yes, ” answered Ruth, slowly; “ Mrs. Wooton,
I think ; won’t you sit down?” and Ruth herself
sank into a low chair.
“Mrs. TeaTe, I am an old friend of your
husband’s, so I have given myself the pleasure of
calling on you.” , Tressie thought she would like
to play with her victim a little—and she had not
quite made up her mind how things should unfold.
“Yes,” said Ruth, vaguely.
“You mat Geoffrey in England, did you not ? ”
“Yes.”
“You m«st allow me still to call him Geoffrey.
I am afraid I cannot get out of the habit at once,
and I have known him so well.*
Ruth did not answer, but rose leisurely, and
rang for tea.
“She’s an iceberg,” thought Tressie, “and
doesn’t know enough to feel hurt.”
“Of course you married in England ? ” Tressie
wanted to know if the very deed had been per-
formed under her nose.
“Yes, we met shortly after Mr. Teare’s arrival
—and were married a month before we left.”
“So pleased,” murmured Tressie. “We all
thought here that it was time Geoffrey” (Ruth
almost winced, Tressie noticed) “settled-down.
Indeed, when he was leaving for England we
said—”
“I uncteistood him to say he left at almost a
day’s ijptice,” said Ruth stiffly.
“ O, but I knew,” lied Tressie complacently.
Ruth looked out of the window, whjle Tressie
thought her an unsophisticated creature, and
wondered what could have attracted a man like
Geoff.
“Of course, you have not got your own people
here ?”
“No,” assented Ruth.
You look so young, and, if you’ll pardon me
saying so, inexperienced, Mrs. Teare; and, after all,
men are—” Tressie paused.
“Yes,"’ said Ruth i.". Lerrogatively.
“ Well,” said the other, rather at a loss, “ well,
men are not quite the same to an innocent girl;
even a husband I suppose is— 1 ' Tressie laughed
a little confusedly. Ruth’s serious, oold eyes were
somewhat discomposing.
Mrs. Wooton—excuse me, I haven’t heard my
husband mention your name —is Mr. Wooton
alive ?”
Tressie flushed slightly. “No, he is not, Mrs.
Teare, he has been dead many years; your hus-
band never knew him. Your husband was ex-
clusively my friend,” with a slight emphasis, “ but
I suppose he has told you.” She watched Ruth
for some sign, but the girl was like marble. “ You
do not look as if you had been steeped in the
world s wickedness very much, Mrs. Teare,” she
said, almost contemptuously. “If at any time
Geoff, falls short—”
" I think you must know that to be impossible,
Mrs. Wooton.” Ruth flushed at the impertin-
ence.
“Of course, she thinks him a god. I had a
mind to spare her, but she shall know,” Tressie
thought.
Ruth had been looking vaguely out of the win-
dow again. She almost startled Tressie by the
swiftness with which she turned, as if she had
suddenly made up her mind. She leaned forward
with her elbows resting on her knees, her chin on
her hands, and her eyes looking fairly into the
other woman’s for the first time.
“ Mrs. Wooton, I think you have something
you want to tell me have you not? Why
not . tell me ? ” —persuasively. Then, almost
passionately: “ No, don’t; let me tell you what
it is. What you would like to say is that my hus-
band was your—your —friend before I married
him. Very well, what of it ? Would to God that
he had not been ! You think me a country-bred
saint and you think I expected that I had married
a s.r, .it. You are wronj? twice; lam wiser, for I
know there are no suph beings. I know men are
men —had he known we were to meet as we did, I
dare say he could have, and would have, kept him-
self for me alone. But we cannot see into the
future; I suppose he was lonely, and never
thought of marriage. You are pretty, and, I
suppose, amused him ; he would’ see no harm if
you were willing. Who am I that I should expect
a man to go through fifteen years of tempted
life, just for a vision that he has not even dreamed
of ? Again, I say, would to God he had ! lam
what is called pure. Would I have been had I
lived as near temptation as he ? Who can say ?
My dear Mrs. Wooton ” —it was Ruth who was
contemptuous now—“you mistake if you think
you oame to tell me something I had not dreamed
possible, though I would gladly have been left to
think him better than other men.”
The passion had left Ruth, and she spoke in the
low, even tones she had used first, except for a
touch of weariness and distrust—“ And now you’ll
let me give yon a'cup of tea—sugar and cream ?”
And she turned to thenable of cups.
Tressie leaned bapk and almost gasped. And
this was the woman she had taken to be too inno-
cent and cold to feel! Why, she really seemed to
know the world under that marble mask, and
who could have suspected ?
“Tell me,” said Tressie, as she helplessly took
the cup from Ruth, “ how long did you suspect ?”
“I think,” said the girl, slowly, “from the
moment you entered the room, but,” with a little
laugh, “ that could hardly be ; I just felt it; I
don’t quite know when.” The spasm of passion
had quite passed, and Ruth lazily sank bask into
her chair again.
Tressie rose.
“Good-bye, Mrs. Teare,” she said, and then,
laughing confusedly, “lam almost sorry I came—
“ Why,” said Ruth, “you would not have felt
so had you enlightened me yourself. That is why
you came, is it not ? And now, because you find
the thought not quite a new one to me, you feel
sorry. I feel sorry that there are such women as
you, and yet I cannot blame you, because—who
knows really what one is oneself ? ”
“Anyhow,” retorted Tressie, “I told Geoff. I
would.”
Ruth reddened at the repetition of her hus-
band’s name.
“And now, is that all? Then good-bye, Miss
—Mrs. Wooton,” and Ruth rang the bell.
“I think I’ve hammered the nail in pretty
hard,” mused Tressie on her homeward way.
Which showed she had not calculated on having
a consistent woman to deal with.
* * • *
Geoffrey ran up the steps two at a time, and, as
was his hahit, turned into the drawing-room first
to see if Ruth was at home. She was sitting over
the fire, staring into the flames. He came up and
bent over her before she noticed him.
“ Good evening, dear.” He kissed her and sat
down. He hardly dared to come in each evening,
for fear of finding that Tressie had carried out her
threat.
“ Been out, little woman ? "
“ No, Geoffrey.”
“ Had visitors ? ”
“Yes.”
“ Anyone I knew ? ”
“Yes.” Ruth rose and walked to the piano,
where she stood handling the music. “
a Mrs. Wooton has been here. No—don’t speak
yet. She told me”—slowly—“well, you know
what she had to tell.”
“ Ruth ! ” the cry from the man was full of
pain. “Ruth, what cam I say? I knew when I
married you that it 'was almost a sacrilege. I
wasn’t fit, but I loved you—my dearest.”
“Geoffrey—l just want to tell you this. I
knew these things were, in spite of the hedges
placed around me. I could hardly dare to hope
that you oould be so different. I wish you had,
dear. I only wish you had been.”
“My little girl,” he said, brokenly, “would
that I had known that there was such a one as
you in the world. I was unhappy and lonely
when I came out here, almost a boy.”
“ Don’t—don’t, Geoff.”—she put her hand up as
if to ward off a blow.
“Let us forget.” She came over to him where
he was standing abjectly by the fire, not daring to
touch her, and put her hands on his arm.
“ There is only one thing you can do—make us
forget. And now ’’—here she daintily dusted her
fingers with her handkerchief, as if to wipe away
something unpleasant—“it is time to dress, if we
are going out to dinner.”
She moved away just in time to elude his arms,
which ached to hold her. He watched her slow
swinging step take her through the doorway, and
a.s the portiere fell together after her, he dropped
into a chair. “My God, what brutes men are !
She’s an angel and a saint.”
But she wasn’t. Not by a whole jugful.
P.R.


A SPRING TONIC
V ■
■>
s
IT is well to remember that at this season of all others the human system
needs to be toned up and put in thorough condition to withstand the
change of the season.
BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS are the very best medicine that can
be taken for this purpose, as they cleanse and regulate the Liver, an organ to
which may be traced nearly all the minor ailments so many people suffer from.
If the Liver is not in thorough working order, the blood is impure, the circula-
tion sluggish, the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed, and the complexion
sallow. The consequence is that there is a lack of energy, and the sufferer
becomes a victim of that worn-out feeling. To be out of sorts in the Spring is
most trying, as many people know. If you are feeling “run down ” and with-
out energy for work, take BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS, and they will
put you in a condition that will withstand the changeable Spring weather.
BLOOD IMPARITIES!
And how the Liver
Governs the Same.
Disease of every character originates in an abnormal condition of the blood, and unless
speedily checked the whole system is soon convulsed in its grasp. The existence of impure
or bad blood in the system is shown by the presence of boils, pimples, blotches, sores, eruptions,
rashes, tetter, &c. In their more ad vanced stages those complaints are known asm leers, tumors,
abscesses, scrofula and cancerous affections. In order to eradicate the causes of which the above
are the effects, it is absolutely necessary that the blood should be oleansed of all impurities.
The Liver is the organ which controls the proper circulation of the blood, and under its agency
not only the blood itself but other organs of the body are governed. Bile Beans for Biliousness
act directly and in an efficient manner upon the Liver, thus becoming the agent by which pure
and healthy blood is circulated through the system. Bile Beans have been proved to be the
safest, speediest and most effective remedy for such ailments as mentioned above, and they have
cured the severest forms of bad blood, from the common pimple to the worst scrofulous sore.
They are purely vegetable, so that the user of them, while certain of benefit, need have no fear
of any harm resulting to him through the presence of any deleterious substances in their compo-
sition, which, unfortunately, are only too frequently found in many other so-called blood
purifiers. ___
SOLD EVERYWHERE AT 13id. PER BOX.
I
£
d
412 GEORGE 57 SYDtTTr
No. F27B7.—New Twin Heart and Arrow
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 8s 6d.
Brooch, 9c.
, 11s 6d.
No. Fs93.—Fine Pearl New Moo.n and Spray
Brooch, 15c. Gold, £5.
No. F4299.—15c. Gold Bird and Leaf
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. F269l.—Strong Bar Brooch, New Design,
9c. Gold, 13s 6(L
No. F4Bsl.—Fino Pearl nd sc. Gold
No. EB739.—Fine Dia .
mond and 18c.
King.fi 108.
Magnificent Diamond
and Opal Cluster Ring,
&17 10s.
No. F4540—15c. Gold
and Pearl Pendant,
£2 10s.
No. EB6oo.—Pair of 9e,
Gold Tie Clips, 6s 6d.
Heavy Mal.e, 10a 6d.
No. F2254.—15c. Gold Brooch, Ruby
Centre, £ 1 10s.
No. F3ss3.— New Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12s 6cL
JifPa.
No. F 4546. —Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
No. Es629.—New Bar and Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Scroll Brooch, 15c. Gold,
£1 15s.
Shamrock Brooch, £llss.
Illustrated Catalogue
Free to all.
Sorrow Go Down With the Sun!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a man is chivvied from east to west,
And heckled and harried the livelong day,
When the evening comes it should bring him rest —
Sorrow go down with the sun, I say I
In the street, in the mart, when high is the sun
We fight for our lives and we cheat and lie ;
But let it be over when day is done—
Sorrow go down with the sun, say 11
Cease, 0 singers, the Labour hymn,
For hard enough is our weary way;
Give us some peace when the light grows dim—
Sorrow go down with the sun, I say !
I have made my bed, and my way I keep,
As I shall keep it until I die ;
When the Night comes with her chalice of sleep—
Sorrow go down with the sun, say I!
N.s.w.
Y.J.D.
A Sydney “Rocks” Raffle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s my opinion that at times all men are mad.
Just listen to this, and tell me directly what you
think of it ? It was my first escapade ; and, if I
can help it, my last.
We boarded on “ the Rocks.” We were—well,
it doesn’t matter now what; but we were studying
hard at the time. Had our finances allowed, we
might have put up at a better establishment in a
cleaner quarter, but we were what you would call
battlers at the time.
In Cumberland-street we were accommodated
for comparatively little, and our landlady was as
good-hearted and motherly a woman as ever lived
anywhere. The particular house had been a
pub.—The Bee-Hive—and it was, subsequently,
The Bull and Mouth.
I remember it was somewhere near a flight of
stone steps with a name I’ve forgotten. The
locality, I notice, has been resumed by Govern-
ment ; and no doubt the place—which was a bit
of a rookery then—has been wiped out. It was
n'ot a fashionable part of the city—our letters were
addressed to the G.P O.—but we were very com-
fortable.
We worked hard, and about our only recreation
was sitting, one in each front window, listening to
the übiquitous hurdy-gurdy, and watching the
playful goats capering on the other side of the
street. Also, we wasted some hours passing the
time o’ daw, or night—we were not proud then—
to a dozen or so beery women, nailing from
Gloucester-street—Johnny Warders, they called
’em.
One old lady—with a name like Reilly—was
particularly friendly, and often hung-up for a
chat. We found her very interesting, and rather
encouraged her, as she could tell the history of
the neighbourhood from almost the first settle-
ment. That sort of thing enchanted my mate,
who contemplated writing a book on Australian
early days. The old girl was a “Red Rover”
herself, but we didn’t then know/ the real signifi-
cance of the term ; and concluded that she was a
cut above her associates —rather a superior sort of
person, in fact.
Encouraged by our friendliness, the Red Rover
invited us to take a hand in a raffle—raffling was
legal then —which she was trying to “ bring off.”
The prizes were an antimacassar, a patchwork
quilt, and a pair of- young roosters —beauties they
were. She explained that the antimacassar was
for the highest thrower, the quilt for the second,
and the fowls for the lowest.
The old girl seemed to have her heart set on
the raffle ; and, as we didn’t wish to offend her —
our landlady said it wouldn’t be wise to get her
tongue down on one—we agreed and promised to
be there.
The event was fixed for the 10th of June, and
on the night of that.day, a ragged and hatless boy
called up for us, and offered to phot us “to the
raffle.” Under his guidance we arrived at a hovel
down a dirty cwl de sac off Gloucester-street. Inside,
at a shaky pine table, with a tallow candle gutter-
ing and spluttering on it, sat Mrs. Reilly, all
smiles and rolls of fat. She had the antimacassar
and quilt a work of art over her ample
shoulders, and the roosters, which squawked
dismally from time to time, were hung-up to the
leg of the only chair. Everything portable about
the establishment was hurig-up, except the candle,
which rested in an old boot, and leant languidly
against a side of it. The prizes were all there;
so that the business looked bona-fide enough.
The lady, for a start, informed the company that
the raffle hadn’t quite “filled.” She had only 37
members, and wanted 40. My mate —who under-
stood raffling—proposed a way out of the difficulty,
and was duly thanked. We got up three three-
penny sweeps, which were won by a Chinaman.
Then business commenced. Each member, be-
fore throwing, planked his money before the IJed
Rover, who handed him the box and “ bones.” A
cross-eyed man led off, and didn’t do any good.
Then he got back by the door, and scowled. He
was a vicious-looking rascal, and never took his
eyes off the silver. As the pile accumulated, his
eyes fairly jumped, and he kept edging his way
up to the table.
After a while a couple of slatternly girls—
young ladies, Mrs. R. called ’em —threw, but they
were neither high nor low. They were “out of
it.” They moved over towards my mate and me,
and asked if we would see ’em home. The Red
Rover nodded to us to signify that it was all right,
but we couldn’t quite see it. We didn’t know
them, and felt rather shocked at the proposal.
They were hatless, and had evidently not far to
go. My mate —who hadn’t been long in the
country—suggested that,, if they didn’t know the
way, they’d better ask a policeman. With that
they called us a pair of sawneys, and cursed
vehemently. The cross-eyed man wanted to make
out we had insulted the ladies, and talked fight.
After we had been called to order by the chair
the throwing was resumed.
I have never been able to think just what
possessed me to do it—perhaps it was that the
candle, which I began to feel sorry for, looked
like wanting te go out—but I took a cap from ‘
small boy’s head, and, unobserved I thought, shot
it at the thing, which was upset and went out.
Then there was a rush and a scramble for the
money ! We escaped scatheless, and watched the
fun from our back window in Cumberland-street.
It lasted for an hour, and was fast an,d furious.
The language was nearly pure. In the morning
we noticed that the mansion was a wreck, and
realised what arrant asses we had been.
After breakfast, I was walking in Lower
George-street, when the cross-eved man all
smiles, accosted me. “ Yer did that nate last
night, and I was the only soul as saw it,” said he,
“ but yer didn’t snavel any of the gonce.” He
asked me to drink with him, but I excused my-
self. I hadn’t time.
In the evening, the Red Rover met us on the
steps, and apologised. She was “ very sorry she
had axed a pair of gintlemen to come among such
a pack of thaves and scoundrels.” “Was yis
hur-rt?” “By Hivens ! ” said she, “if I only
had the skunk as put the light out, I’d ribbon
him! Niver mind,” she continued, “we’ll
have it arl over again ; and I’ll throw for yis, and
notify yis of the result.”
Up to date we have not been notified.
YARRUM.
Glory!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The column moved snail-like along the dusty
road. The rattling of the artillery, the lowing
and bleating of the commandeered cattle and
sheep, and the .screaming of small children on
their way to concentration-camps, combined to
make an uproar not easily forgotten.
The Cape-“ boys ” chattered like monkeys, and
ceased their cackle only to bring their long whips
down upon the raw backs of the jaded bullocks.
Occasionally an exhausted ox sinks down with a
moan, and a bullet from the conductor’s revolver
ends the animal’s misery. Its blood makes minia-
ture rivers and lakes in amongst the dust that has
been kicked into hills and dales by preceding
hoofs.
“ Can fetch ’em with one shot every time, now,”
laughs the conductor. “ Used to take six ! ”
* • * •
An infantryman has fallen back from his com-
pany, and as he hobbles along the pain he suffers
is reflected in his face.
“Keep up, there ! ” yells the color-sergeant.
“My feet are sore, sir !” complains the laggard.
“Then why don’t you keep ’em washed, you
dirty cow !” is the retort.
An officer rides along.
“ Can’t you keep better fours than that V he in-
quires peevishly and ungrammatically, although
he is a Cambridge man.
“Left!” “Left!” “Left, right, left!” ejacu-
lates the sergeant until the officer is out of hearing.
“ May I fall out and get a drink ?” asks a thirsty
one. (The water-bottles have been long since
emptied.)
“No, you can’t. You must be a bloomin’
tank !” snaps the sergeant illogically.
On ahead, the crack of the Scouts’ rifles can be
heard intermittently, with an occasional “klip-
klop ” from a Mauser. But these latter are few ;
the Boer’s ammunition is precious. He can’t af-
ford to leave thousands of cartridges in every
camp.
• * * •
At last the camp is reached. Accoutrements
are flung off, swollen feet are bathed, and those
who are not told off for “ fatigues ” try to sleep.
The orderly-sergeant walks through the lines,
warning men for duty.
“Guard to-night, Jones ! ”
“Why, hang 'it, I was on last night,” says
Jones. But the 0.9. does not deign to reply.
* * * *
The mounted men are coming in from the out-
posts.
“ An’ I was jus’ goin’ up the ’ill when I spots a
grunter, an’ I into ’im and turns ’im a turkey,
third pop. But there was nothin’ in ’is pockets
but some bloomin’ mealy. Did you ’ear about
that bloke scoopin’ five thousan’ quid the other
day ? A ’andful o’ mealy! There’s a good
school on to-night, too! ” (Goes away, still
growling.)
m * * m
“ Come on ; heads a fiver. Now, then, Bill, get
in on the grouter.”
“Not me,” says Bill; “ I couldn’t win a blessed
argument.”
* • * •
“Got a bit of paper, Jack? I want to write
home to-night. We should reach Klerksdorp
to-morrow or next day, and I want to have it
ready.”
I still have his unfinished letter. It was
addressed to “ Mary ” with various endearing
adjectives. “I will be home ip a few months
now, I hope,” he wrote, and there were some
bright plans for the future. But he went
“home ” sooner than he expected. He did not
have a blanket to be buried in, so mine was used.
“ Blamed rot, digging a hole as deep as that in
this sort of ground. Look at mv hands,” said
one of the fatigue-party who dug the grave.
H.S.T.
A little paper, published in thp interests
of the military and naval caste of Australia,
states:—
Australia is not strong enough in cash, men, experi-
ence, nor in talented legislation to build and direct a
navy of its own, which must, without doubt, be under
the Grown, and not under Labor-driven Ministers and
Parliaments. All the efforts of Sir John Forrest, as
Minister of Defence, should be to get the Parliament to
grant a voluntary and dutiful vote of money—say, half or
a million of pounds per annum—in aid of Imperial naval
defence. •
An assumption of superiority on the part of the
British fighting people in view of recent S’African
affairs is too obviously humorous to need com-
ment. But about Australians’ “dutiful” vote!
Is her duty to herself or to the English Jingoes ?
If the former, she had better keep her own money
for her own defence.
In dealing with the Budget, the Victorian
leader of Opposition (Irvine) was a truly
miserable failure. Irvine had been filled to the
brim with figures by Shiels, the croaking crow of
Victorian finance. The Commonwealth Govt., he
reckons, is going to spend every penny it can lay
its hands upon, with the result that the Victorian
State Treasurer will find himself, at the end of
next financial year, with a deficit of between
£500,000 and £600,000. According to Irvine, the
State can bear no additional taxation, and the
only ray of hope he sees is in the direction of
cutting down the charity and old age pensions
vote. Such a suggestion is only what was to be
expected from a bowelless equity lawyer. In face
of the fact that the Govt, bought land from one of
the Chirnsides the other day at £lO 10s. an acre,
which, for land-tax purposes, was valued at £2 an
acre, Irvine’s argument that the wealthy classes
cannot bear any further taxation is a beautiful
piece of political lying. The Vic. land-tax is very
small and only applies.to a fraction of the country,
and now it appears (unless the Government has
been shamefully taken in over its recent purchase),
that one of the country’s wealthiest men has only
been paying one-fifth of even this microscopic
impost. And probably he is only a fair sample of
the other rich men.


Bad Blood; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Wj
2*
i|
“ While in West Australia one of us had what is known as ‘ Barcoo Sick-
ness,’ due to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be stire you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla—“Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Builds up the Whole System.
AYiiR’S PILLS acton the liver; they cure biliousness.
I*s
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
4
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
yj Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-%
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AH ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prevared by
W.T.OWBRIDBE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at, Is lid., 2s. 9 d„ 4* 6d., & 11s.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
OOPTEIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
EE®A M S
-n OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pam m the Stomach, Sick Headache
iks. eelieS? rr™v T ss«n
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOR^H
G a taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system, bor a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
thev act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
tz
'have o the^Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and tis 9d each,
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIA I.TIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
ISIS
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A POLICY for me
COMMONWEALTH-
Beipg a scries of articles rcpriptgd
fron) “The BOlletii),” Witb ap
appcpdix dcalipg witb tbc Fiscal
QOgStioi).
PRICE 6d. *, posted, Bd.
m
:
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DBNMEFORDS
E
Sold Throu
EFORD’S
MAGNESIA.
FOR
DIN
K
O
<t>9^
■
BOMNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
■SSWJSgriMtSK
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


PERDRIAU « GO.,
Rubber Manufacturers
(Established over 20 Years),
ARE STILL TO BE FOUND AT
Their OLD and ONLY Address:
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE
•W. O- lEBI.DDI&IIDG-ZES &c CO.,
DYERS ft CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended, to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
The Bulletin Booklets, No. 111.
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS.
A New Collection of Verses by Rodkrio Quinn.
Enveloped; Is. 9d. post-free.
B3T Only 500 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion booklet by the same author, was
eoki out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Rost-free for postal note or stamps of any province.
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
Tft3 Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street;- Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edward 3, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
.v : .v„-s<Si
trade mark.
#
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pomps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
ATTBE
soaowmooMa,
<She JJbbot
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.
Also at
SYDNEY.
“THIS BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
THROAT PASTILLES.
XI-
Sb ox
rg
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating: and refreshing* influence.
SOAP
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVL
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
b
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL. AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- 4. 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
COMPRESSORS.
n
.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most -work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
PARKE &
: ? • ' ?h '■[ : t .
ROC K
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.”
LACY C°. Y . L T . D .
S-X"X>3XT3E3TKr, 3V.5.-W.
G-ORT &c, CO
-3
B\
%
ir
74 Clarence Street SYOPJIEV
r—UHNEI 435 Bourke Street
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Giovernors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeecl Water Heat©**
W.V*
; •* ■MsQf, 1
VsiWfiOTTK. jF-. I
U; u: -? ; "-- f '
• * -:-. •••-•*
zm
